24-08-2020||First Edit||NRA will save time, resources ||The Union Cabinet’s decision to create a National Recruitment Agency (NRA) is a timely measure which deserves commendation. The proposal was made in the Union budget though the idea had been discussed before that. The NRA will streamline the hiring process for non-gazetted government jobs by holding a single test instead of the many separate examinations which are held now for jobs in different departments and undertakings. Undertakings like the Railways and other PSUs hold tests for candidates and they are the same candidates who appear for these different examinations. Conducting a single screening test for all of them is similar to the holding of a single central test for admissions to medical or engineering courses which is in vogue now. The NRA will also hold preparatory tests which will be of use to many job aspirants, especially those from less privileged backgrounds, who may need guidance and even training to take the test.  The biggest advantage of the new recruitment system is that it saves time and resources of candidates who otherwise have to take different examinations in different places. Advanced online testing infrastructure will be put in place in selected districts which are considered socially and educationally backward. The examinations will now be held in district centres and in regional languages, and the scores secured by the candidates will have validity for three years. The test will be conducted for three levels: graduate, higher secondary and matriculate candidates. A preliminary examination is proposed to shortlist candidates for Group B and C non-technical posts. These are all details which may even change in due course of time with the experience gained from the tests. The most important feature is that it is a simpler and more efficient screening process which will help both job aspirants and the government undertakings.  The implementation of the new system is especially beneficial now when large numbers of people have lost their jobs and livelihood because of the Covid-caused disruption and economic crisis. Unemployment rates were even otherwise high and it is estimated that about one-third of  young people under 25 may be unemployed. The NRA will not solve the unemployment problem. It will make about 1.25 lakh recruitments in a year whereas there are about 2.5 crore people seeking jobs. State governments also must step up the process of recruitments for vacancies existing in their departments and undertakings. The real solution to the unemployment problem  will come from creation of more jobs both in the government sector and the private sector. That can happen only when economic growth picks up. That will be the real challenge for the governments at the Centre and in the states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/nra-will-save-time-resources-876963.html
24-08-2020||First Edit||Cong does what it does best||The letter written by 23 senior Congress leaders to party president Sonia Gandhi calling for changes in the functioning of the party does not have many precedents. It is a challenge, though not couched in rebellious terms, and has served the purpose of telling the leadership that it has to reform or the party will perish. The nearest parallel is the challenge posed by Indira Gandhi to the leadership in1969, though this is much less aggressive and the circumstances are different. The letter is especially important because most of the leaders are close to the top leadership and they have made the pitch out of concern for the party. These voices have been heard in the party before but they were stray or lonely. It has been clear to the country that the Congress was going through an existential crisis with two successive defeats in Lok Sabha elections, losses in state Assembly elections, inability to retain governments and the desertion of leaders and workers from the party. It has even given the impression that it was not sure of what it stood for.  The test of any party leadership’s viability in a democracy lies in its ability to win elections. The Congress leadership, which has been limited to the Nehru-Gandhi family for long now, has proved time and again in recent years that it is unable to win elections, and wherever it won it could not claim genuine and emphatic victories. The letter has now shown that the leadership is unable to hold the party together, too. In the Congress environment, writing such a letter amounted to bombarding the headquarters and demanding a change of leadership, though some of the signatories have maintained that they have not targeted the leadership as such. But by demanding a change in the way the party is led, they have sought a change in the leadership, and the party would only be wise to listen to it. But what is the party? Is it the family or the leaders who have held positions in it for decades, without an election and without moral and political legitimacy?  Sonia Gandhi did well to express her desire to step down as the interim president of the party at the working committee meeting held on Monday. But in the well-known Congress tradition, she was requested to continue, and she accepted the request. A committee will be set up to assist her and an AICC session has been promised to decide on a possible change of leadership. So, at the end of the meeting, the party remains more or less where it was, without any sign of a roadmap, at least for now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/cong-does-what-it-does-best-877329.html
24-08-2020||In Perspective||Will policy on current accounts help PSBs?||Leading private banks are well ahead in technology adoption and marketing, and are good in venturing into new businesses to provide value-added services to their clients.  Many corporates prefer to avail these services and maintain current accounts (CAs) with them. A lot of CAs have moved away from the Public Sector Banks (PSBs) to the private banks. Certainly, private banks welcome CAs. While lending, they focus on retail segment and are very choosy/unwilling to lend to corporates with mid and low rating.  Over the years, a pattern has developed in banking where corporates avail loans from PSBs and also maintain CAs with private banks, mainly for availing Cash Management Services (CMS, both for collections and payments), integrating MIS from banks with their accounts, investment of surplus amount etc.  When CAs are maintained with non-lending banks, lending banks do not get full/timely information on the collections and payments that can result in lack of discipline among the borrowers and providing room for syphoning of funds.  Earlier, forensic audit of some large borrowers (Rs 50 crore and above) revealed fund diversion and consequently reporting these accounts as frauds. On August 6, the RBI revised guidelines for opening of CAs to bring discipline among the corporates availing credit in the form of cash credit (CC)/overdraft (OD). The banking transactions need to be routed through CC/OD so that the lending bank gets holistic information for monitoring and initiating prompt corrective action, if required.  Generally, non-lending banks shall not open CAs for customers who have availed CC/OD facilities from the banking system.  Where the loans are availed from more than one bank, the disbursal/debits should be from the account with the bank having 10% or above exposure. If there are more number of such banks, borrowers and banks can mutually decide on the bank. Banks having exposure of less than 10% are permitted to accept credits for remittance, at frequency agreed between the banks, to the CC/OD account.   Where CC/OD facility is not availed from any bank, banks may open CAs. When the borrowers have Rs 50 crore and above exposure (fund and non-fund) from banking system, an escrow mechanism is to be put in place and CAs of such borrowers can only be opened/maintained by the escrow managing bank.  Other lending banks can open ‘collection accounts’ and funds are to be remitted to the escrow account at the frequency agreed between the bank and the borrower. Debits in these current accounts shall be only for remitting the proceeds to the escrow account. Non-lending banks shall not open any current account for such borrowers.  For borrowers with exposure of Rs 5 crore to less than Rs 50 crore, lending banks can open CAs and non-lending banks may open only “collection accounts”. For borrowers with exposure of less than Rs 5 crore, banks may open CAs and the customers are required to inform the bank when the customers avail Rs 5 crore and above credit facilities. Banks should not route disbursements of term loans through CAs - the funds are to be remitted directly to the supplier of goods/services. Similarly, expenses incurred by the borrower for day to day operations should be routed through CC/OD account or in the absence of CC/OD account, through CA.  In respect of existing accounts, banks are required to ensure compliance within three months. Consequently, full implications of the guidelines will be known only after three months. Data on borrowers using multiple banks – one for enjoying credit facilities and another for maintaining CAs is not readily available to measure the impact of the guidelines. Trade-off Many large corporates do maintain multiple CAs with private banks to avail value-added services. Often, there is a trade-off between fee and float, and to save charges under CMS, corporates keep reasonably good balances in CAs. Prompt transfer of balance from CAs to CC/OD can result in marginal reduction in interest amount in OD/CC. Sometimes, diversion of funds happens through these CAs and the lender banks may not have full/timely information. The present RBI direction will result in private banks losing a small portion of their CAs. The loss of CAs may not be a gain to the lending PSBs as the borrowers will park the amount in CC/OD to save cost of borrowing.  The present move will also pressurise PSBs to invest in technology and provide better CMS (as provided by private banks). More importantly, the lending banks can have comprehensive/timely information of account transactions – especially on debits - and this can help in identifying fund diversion, if any, at early stages. Borrowers will also be kept on caution.  The revised guidelines in opening CAs may change the way business is done by large corporates. The impact may be marginal in minimising diversion of funds by borrowers, reducing borrowing cost to borrowers and bringing down the CA float of foreign and private banks.  The greater impact will be in bringing overall discipline among the borrowers having large exposure in the banking system. One can expect further tightening of guidelines once the transition period of three months are over, operational issues are resolved and banking system gets aligned to the new guidelines.  (The writer teaches banking at ICICI Manipal Academy, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/will-policy-on-current-accounts-help-psbs-876965.html
24-08-2020||In Perspective||Rejuvenate Anganwadi for children to start school early||The New Education Policy (NEP) has many angles that are being heatedly discussed. The introduction of regional language in schools, allowing foreign universities to open campuses in the country and many other topics have been highly contested. However, there is one initiative that may be a silver lining. One of the proposals of the NEP is to restructure schooling into a 5+3+3+4 model. This implies starting formal or structured schooling early, at three years rather than at 5-6 years, which is the normal in India currently. The average starting age for children across the world is a little over six years and it varies between five to seven years. What is the correct age for children to start school? Currently, there is a larger policy debate surrounding this but it is centered in the developed world. Europe, North America and Oceania have arguments and trends going in both directions. Australia and New Zealand are debating the idea of starting formal education at the age of four, whereas England is trying to delay the start of formal education. Finland, said to have one of the best educational models in the world, starts formal schooling at age seven for its children. The evidence in favour of a late start suggests that children learn many lessons at home from engaging with parents and other caregivers. The cognitive development and imagination of the child is not bound by the constraints of the curriculum. David Whitebread at Cambridge University shows that constructive play builds intellectual and emotional skills that are crucial in early learning and development of the child. On the other hand, the arguments in favour of starting school early include that children who start early will also complete school early and so will have more earning years. Further, in a recent study, Cornelissen and Dustmann have shown that children who start early have better language and math skills, more so for children from disadvantaged family backgrounds. In this context, what works best for a developing country? Are the challenges faced here different from those in the developed world? The difficulties faced in developed countries about formalized curriculum need to be weighed with the developing country challenges, including not having parents who have formal education, low nutritional outcomes and no access to daycare. For India, first, we have a population where adult literacy and formal education are low, with more than 50% of the parents themselves not having gone to school. Second, the nutritional outcomes for children in India are adverse, with child stunting (a long-term measure of malnourishment that shows the age-appropriate height) rate of 37.9%. Finally, most of the Indian workforce is engaged in informal labour or in agriculture, with no access to day care. So, if the parents are working, the children are either seen sitting around in hazardous conditions in the parents’ workplace or the older girlchild is held back from school to take care of the younger ones. These pose hurdles to cognitive development of children as proposed by intellectuals arguing for a late start. Additionally, starting school early may be one way of increasing inter-generational mobility, by ensuring that all children learn at school and so the parent’s socio-economic background does not affect the outcomes of their children. Such a policy has the potential to reduce inherent inequalities based on caste and other social markers that have plagued growth in India. On the second issue of nutrition, for most of India that still resides in rural parts of the country, the Anganwadi has been the main location where a child’s health is monitored and improved. The Anganwadi system in India was started in 1975 under the Integrated Child Development Services programme to fight child hunger and malnutrition. Since then, the responsibilities of the Anganwadi have increased manifold. The Anganwadi worker has been solely responsible for monitoring pre-natal and post-natal care, tracking the immunisation programme and providing nutritional supplements. For rural India, low-income areas and urban slums, the Anganwadi is the only functional daycare centre when all adults in the household are in the fields or at work. In this current set-up, the Anaganwadi then is also the place where the children are picking up their early cognitive skills. In recent times, Anganwadi workers have protested due to the overburdening of the system as the one-stop shop for nutrition and welfare of women and children in India. The NEP initiative may further burden this overstretched system. However, if the government is serious about early start, implementation has to be seriously looked into. First, they will have to allocate a substantial budget to the Anganwadis. Second, they will have to focus on upskilling existing workers and hiring and training many more new workers. The demand on existing infrastructure will also increase extensively. If executed efficiently, the new policy of starting school early may also result in the formalisation of the crucial institution of the Anganwadis. So, there may be multiple advantages to an early start. But all this will depend on how much support is provided to the Anganwadis and how it links to other policies like universal access to education. We can also compare this initiative with an earlier policy of the Government of India. The mid-day meal, a nutritional policy, is one of the most successful tools used by the government to increase enrolment into primary schools. Our experience tells us that nutrition and enrolment are linked in India. The NEP’s early start may be able to achieve the opposite, an enrolment programme that will improve the nourishment and development of children in India. (The writer is with the Centre for Public Policy, IIM-B)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/rejuvenate-anganwadi-for-children-to-start-school-early-877332.html
24-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Dakshina Kannada sees slight dip in fresh Covid-19 cases||There was a slight dip in Covid-19 cases recorded in Dakshina Kannada on Sunday. The district recorded 193 fresh cases as against 228 cases on Saturday. According to DC Dr Rajendra K V, of the fresh cases, Mangaluru taluk recorded the highest of 130 cases followed by 21 in Bantwal, 19 in Sullia, nine from other districts, eight from Belthangady and six from Puttur. Patients with Influenza Like Illness (ILI) accounted for 105 of the fresh cases while eight persons were suffering from SARI. The contact tracing of 34 infected are underway. A total of 45 infected are the primary contacts of already infected persons. While one has interstate travel history. The DC said that the district has recorded five more Covid-19 fatalities, thus taking the tally to 310. Total cases- 10,330 Total discharges- 7,677 Total active cases- 2,343||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dakshina-kannada-sees-slight-dip-in-fresh-covid-19-cases-877004.html
24-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Ganeshotsava: Food kits distributed to labourers||The decennial year of Sarvajanika Ganeshotsava Samithi in Belthangady observed Ganesh Chathurti in a meaningful manner by helping those labourers from unorganised sector who have been hit hard due to Covid-19. The labourers engaged in decorating the temples, pandals for Ganeshotsava, supplying shamiyana and other required materials for the celebrations are in doldrums without any events due to the Covid-19 restrictions, said Samithi President and MLC Harish Kumar. On account of Gowri Ganesha festival, ganahoma was organised at Asha Salian hall in Belthangady and food kits were distributed to 185 unorganised labourers engaged in decorating the lights and arranging mikes for the festivals in different parts of the taluk. Further, additional gas cylinders were handed over to five families of physically challenged persons identified by the Samithi along with extending financial assistance for the treatment of a child from Koyyur. Meritorious students who have excelled in SSLC exams were also felicitated. Puja rituals On account of Ganesh Chathurti, puja rituals were held at Muneeshwara Mahaganapathi Temple at Police Lane, Kadri Temple, Kudroli Temple, Sharavu Mahaganapathi Temple, Bikarnakatte Balamuri Siddivinayaka Temple, Mahathobhara Mangaladevi temple and other places. Various organisations too had observed Ganeshotsava celebrations by holding bhajans, homa, and mahapuja. No cultural programmes were held as a part of the celebrations. On account of Ganeshotsava, Dhanvantari homa was held at Pumpwell Ganeshotsava Samithi on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ganeshotsava-food-kits-distributed-to-labourers-877005.html
24-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Suffering from financial crisis, man takes his own life||A 26-year-old man allegedly took his own life by hanging due to a financial crisis, in the city on Monday. Dinesh of Vontikoppal has been identified as the deceased. According to the Police, he was running a photocopy shop and was under financial crisis following the outbreak of Covid-19. The police said Dinesh had taken a loan from moneylenders and was under pressure. V V Puram Police visited the spot and sent the dead body for postmortem.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/suffering-from-financial-crisis-man-takes-his-own-life-877036.html
24-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||65-year-old taxi driver hacked to death in Mangaluru||A 65-year-old taxi driver was hacked to death by unidentified miscreants, while he was on a morning walk, at Belthangady on Monday. The deceased is Vasu Sapalya. He was staying in a rented house near Government PU College in Belthangady. Three miscreants attacked him with lethal weapons while he was on a morning walk. Though he was rushed to the hospital in Mangaluru, he succumbed to his injuries. The police are suspecting his second son as the culprit behind the murder. It was said the victim’s son Dayanand was unemployed and frequently engaged in scuffles with his father. He was missing after the incident. The police are on the lookout for him. The victim used to drive a car to eke out a living for the last 40 years. Initially, he operated a taxi between Mangaluru and Ujire.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/65-year-old-taxi-driver-hacked-to-death-in-mangaluru-877132.html
24-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Dr Eshwar in-charge THO for Nanjangud||Dr Eshwar has been appointed as Nanjangud Taluk Health Officer In-charge. Eshwar is appointed in place of Dr S R Nagaendra, who ended his life, recently. Dr Eshwar was working at Mooguru in T Narasipur taluk. He took charge on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dr-eshwar-in-charge-tho-for-nanjangud-877300.html
24-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||RC commences probe into THO’s suicide||Mysuru Regional Commissioner (RC) G C Prakash has commenced a probe in connection with the suicide of Nanjangud Taluk Health Officer (In-charge) Dr S R Nagendra, who died on August 20. The state government has ordered a probe, as it was alleged that Dr Nagendra killed himself due to harassment by IAS officer Prashanth Kumar Mishra, also then chief executive officer of Mysuru Zilla Panchayat. The RC said that he will do his best to submit an investigation report within seven days from the date of the order. I will conduct the probe from all possible angles, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rc-commences-probe-into-tho-s-suicide-877302.html
24-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||UoM campus under intelligent video surveillance system||Now, monitoring activities across the University of Mysore (UoM) campus is effortless, with the state-of- art CCTV cameras, an intelligent video surveillance system. The varsity campus is equipped with 700 plus CCTV cameras to keep a tab on the activities, particularly in public areas. The UoM campus is said to be the the first one in the state to be completely under video surveillance system.     The varsity installed surveillance system to ensure safety, to monitor and to regulate anti-social activities inside the campus. The authorities decided to install CCTV cameras after an alumna of the varsity displayed a ‘Free Kashmir’ placard, during a protest against the attack on students and teachers on the campus of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), in Delhi, in January. The CCTV cameras are equipped with the latest technology, wide angle and long distance coverage, and essential night vision mode. A total of 730 cameras are installed across the campus and the project cost is Rs 3.5 crore. A data centre to monitor the activities, is established at the Computer Science department. The cameras are in such a way that each and every corner of the varsity is under surveillance. The CCTV cameras are installed to cover corridors, roads, entrance and exit gates. There are seven hostels, including three for women, on the campus and it is necessary to ensure the safety of the inmates. The varsity campus was also a place for illegal activities, such as consumption of liquor. However, such activities were in control from a few years as security measures were increased. Now, the campus will be 100% free from illegal activities, the authorities hope. The students welcomed the new security system and said that it helps to curb illegal activities in the campus. The authorities must ensure that the system will work efficiently and it needs to be maintained in a proper way, round the clock. A few CCTV cameras in the campus are defunct, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/uom-campus-under-intelligent-video-surveillance-system-877304.html
24-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Simple Dasara: Hopes of revival of economy||Finally, some good news for Mysuru, which is largely dependent on tourism and tourists, for its economy, but battered due to the Covid-19 crisis. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa announced in Bengaluru, on Friday morning, that the government has decided to celebrate Dasara festival in a simple way, in the wake of Covid crisis. Simple or grand, Dasara celebration is a synonym to Mysuru. Thus, it is expected to bring cheers among those related to both tourism and hospitality sectors. However, president of Mysuru Hotel Owners' Association C Narayana Gowda said that he has no great expectations about a revival of the economy, with the celebration of Dasara. “The tourism and hospitality sectors have already lost a long season of summer, amounting to a cumulative loss of over Rs 1,000 crore. We were eager to open hotels and restaurants, soon after lockdown. We also exerted pressure on the government to facilitate their opening. However, most of the restaurants closed soon after, on their own will, due to poor business, which is actually bigger loss,” he said. Narayana Gowda said, "Dasara is the peak tourist season, even though it is not a longer one like summer. For any given day, the largest density of tourists in Mysuru is on Ayudha Puja and Vijayadashami." "This year, even if the government celebrates Dasara, people are not in a mood to take a risk. Of late, traffic looks normal on Mysuru streets, as if normal life has resumed. But, the people do not venture into hotels. People are on the streets, only for basic needs, not for luxuries or entertainment. We can expect around 20% of the crowd, compared to normal Dasara seasons,” he said. Adding to the woes of the stakeholders of tourism and hospitality sectors, Dasara is delayed by a month. The beginning of Navaratri is on October 17 and Vijayadashami on October 26. Astrologer Muguru Madhu Dixit said, "Ashwija month should start after Mahalaya Amavasye (September 17), but in view of calender correction, an Adhika (additional) Ashwija Masa (month) is added, up to October 16. This correction is done once in three years. This time, it is the turn of Ashwija Masa.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/simple-dasara-hopes-of-revival-of-economy-877306.html
24-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Simple Dasara not new phenomenon||Simple Dasara or cancellation of Dasara is not a new phenomenon, since its introduction by the Wadiyar kings of Yadu Dynasty, in 1610. Mysuru Dasara celebrations, a continuation of tradition, was started by Raja Wadiyar in Srirangapatna, then capital of the erstwhile Mysore state, in 1610. Only he celebrated the maiden Dasara despite the death of his only surviving son Narasaraja Wadiyar, on the eve of Navaratri. It is believed that Dasara celebrations were allowed as a low-key affair when Hyder Ali (1761-1782) was a dictator. However, during Tipu Sultan’s term (1782-1799), it is learnt that there were no such festivities. In 1816, when Mummadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar was the ruler, Mysore State experienced severe famine. So there was no celebration. Even during the World War II, when Nalvadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar and Jayachamaraja Wadiyar were the rulers, there were no celebrations, as there used to be ‘blackouts’. After Independence, Dasara festivities were skipped due to various reasons. With the withdrawal of privy purse to Jayachamaraja Wadiyar in 1970, his public celebration of Dasara was stopped. Thus, in 1970, a group of like-minded citizens like D Jayadevaraja Urs, industrialist F K Irani of Ideal Jawa, Na Nagalingaswamy and B C Lingaiah continued the celebrations, on their own. In 1971, a delegation of citizens apprised then chief minister D Devaraja Urs about the significance of the festival and got government support. Immediately, in 1972, the procession was not held, due to drought. It was drought in 1973 also. In 1974 Jayachamaraja Wadiyar died on September 23. However, his supporters took out simple processions in 1973 and 1974. The state government sponsored the Dasara celebrations, limited to Jamboo Savari, for the first time in 1975. Again in 1977, there was no Dasara celebration, due to a students’ agitation. Similarly, in 1983, 1992 and 1997 there was austere celebration, due to famine. In 1997, MLA S A Ramadass organised a people’s Dasara, by mobilising funds from people and also voluntary participation of artistes. In 2000, kidnap of actor Dr Rajkumar by forest brigand Veerappan affected Dasara. Dasara was a simple affair in 2001 and 2002 due to earthquake in Gujarat and drought in Karnataka respectively. In 2011 and 2012 also, it was celebrated in a simple manner, due to drought. Again in 2015 and 2016, the celebrations were scaled down, in view of drought and a spate of farmers’ suicide. After a long gap, in 2017, Dasara celebrations became normal. Covid-19 has cast a shadow again, in 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/simple-dasara-not-new-phenomenon-877307.html
24-08-2020||Main Article||Make anti-defection law stringent, effective||Politicians changing and defecting from their political allegiances has been part of India’s democratic process since the first elections in 1952. However, such practices reached its epitome in the 1960s and 1970s, forcing Parliament to amend the Constitution by bringing the Anti-Defection Law (ADL) in 1985.  At a time when the Government of Karnataka is revisiting the ADL, it is appropriate to analyse anti-defection and the reforms that could streamline it.  On May 28, 2020, the state government invited suggestions/recommendations to the ADL as a move to bring reforms in the existing law which has proved to be a failure in curbing defections across the country, and Karnataka per se. Karnataka’s three-party political setup provides conducive environment for defections, and all the three major parties in the state seem to have been taking advantage of the setup.  Political parties have become an ubiquitous feature of parliamentary democracy since they are associations of people with similar political ideologies and goals. However, defections in the past have shown that political ideologies often come only second to the aspirations of the political representatives. Thus, parties become supreme instead of the people.  In the recent past, the polity has witnessed formation of state governments being dependent on coalitions. Such a scenario makes the government vulnerable, considering there is a scope of the defection of MPs/MLAs. As a result of this, the Speaker, who is from the ruling party, is entrusted with the power to decide the fate of his/her party’s power. Thus, entrusting a partisan role to supposedly a non-partisan office. The ADL, which was implemented to curb defections, utterly diminishes the scope and relevance of deliberations and debates in the House, especially when a single party has a significant majority.  A Bill will pass in the House irrespective individual views of the representatives of the ruling party and interests of the constituents since abstention or voting against party’s direction (whip) will amount to defection. This also adversely affects the attendance in the House and increases disruptions and walkouts. In a parliamentary system, the goal of the representative is to achieve the maximum possible interest of his/her people through effective negotiation and compromise, and to that end, internal party democracy becomes crucial, which is witnessing a steep decline in our system across parties.    The ADL shifts the centrality of democracy from people to party, and to the supreme authorities within the party. The ADL per se is a yellow flag on democracy and an ADL which fails to curb defections is a red flag. This calls for an urgent need for reforms in the ADL to save democracy from evils of defection. Many MLAs and MPs who defect are disgruntled and see no incentive to serve their party, and the ADL worsens the matter by preventing the MLAs/MPs from voicing anti-party opinions in the House or before the public.  The law needs to recognise the thin line of difference between defection and dissent. The law must be limited to matters concerning budget, money Bill or confidence motion.  An independent committee chaired by the President/Governor and consisting of two judges of the Supreme Court/ High Court, Speaker of the House, and Chief Election Commissioner must be set up to decide defection matters. A permanent and independent Commission must be set up with an aim to strengthen intra-party democracy. A voice within the party will provide the MLAs/MPs with an incentive to remain with the party, and more importantly, put forth the needs of his/her constituents. The Commission, to remain independent, must consist of members from judiciary, legislature and the executive.  Politicians are one of the quickest to respond to incentives and are best at avoiding disincentives. Thus, the member who defects must be prohibited from occupying ministerial position not just for the current term but also the next term of the House. Viable option With the 2019 Supreme Court decision on Karnataka defections, resignation has become a viable option of MLAs/MPs to avoid penalties under ADL. Thus, resignation’s scope must be limited. However, it is important to distinguish between bona fide vs mala fide reasons for resignation and defection – that is, ideological vis-à-vis money or power as the reason, respectively.  The issue of defection must not be seen in isolation. It is coupled with several other issues such as the lack of the right to reject in elections. The voters are forced to choose the least undesirable candidate among the lot, which might be a reason why defecting politicians are winning re-elections. The issue is also connected to corruption and identity politics.  Political parties might be reluctant to accept the reforms suggested to ADL, especially those reforms which suggest increased penalty for defection. Arguably, political parties, especially in Karnataka and similar states, see a scope for securing power by poaching MLAs/MPs. Power-hungry political parties without a firm political ideology will not miss the opportunity to secure power and supremacy. Defection is a problem which requires a systemic and systematic solution. Government of Karnataka’s attempt to curb defection, even though appreciable, will be successful if only the government makes continued efforts across the political and electoral spectrum.  It is not an issue which can be resolved with a single legislation; it requires incessant measures from the government and people’s eternal vigilance.  To this end, the current attempt to reform the ADL in Karnataka is critical to make the role of the Speaker, the House and defection more stringent and effective, in order to save our democracy which is fast declining. (Singai is Associate Professor, Ramaiah University of Applied Sciences, Bengaluru; Erinjingat and Manoj are students, Ramaiah College of Law, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/make-anti-defection-law-stringent-effective-876964.html
24-08-2020||Main Article||Modi’s hour of reckoning||The year 2020 will unquestionably be recalled by posterity as one of the worst in history. Whether the virus that originated in Wuhan was inadvertently released or consciously unleashed by China upon an unsuspecting world could well remain a mystery. But tackling the still vastly spreading Covid-19 pandemic remains the world’s, and India’s, foremost challenge.   India, located in one of the most geopolitically stressed regions of the world, while also confronting the raging pandemic, found itself taken by utter surprise by the Chinese army’s serious transgressions at many points across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Eastern Ladakh region. Notwithstanding the Indian government’s reluctance to share the details of the exact ground situation and clarifying the exactitude of the Chinese transgressions, according to widespread media reports, the aggressive Chinese are sitting on the Indian side of the LAC in the Depsang Plateau area, the Galwan Valley high ground, and Fingers 5 to 8 in the Pangong Tso area. The Chinese have not displayed any intention to withdraw to the pre-19 April 2020 dispositions. Indian and Chinese forces may now be in for a long-haul deployment facing each other, but New Delhi will have to take some punitive measures to thwart China’s aggression. Mere political rhetoric will not suffice against the overly assertive and hegemonistic orientation of the Chinese. The majority of global opinion is against China currently for its role in spreading the Covid-19 pandemic globally and causing untold misery to the entire world. In addition, its aggressive intentions in not only Eastern Ladakh but also in the South and East China Seas, its cruel handling of protesters in Hong Kong and the new national security law there, its aggressiveness against tiny Taiwan and its inhuman handling of the Uighurs in the restive Xinjiang province have all attracted global opprobrium. As regards India, China has been making regular efforts at the United Nations Security Council and with the Organisation of Islamic Countries (OIC) to discuss and internationalise the Kashmir situation, though in vain. India will have to use its good offices with Saudi Arabia, in particular, and with as many Muslim nations, in general, to keep at bay the Pakistan-Iran-China mischief at the OIC. A dispassionate look around India’s immediate neighbourhood clearly reveals that New Delhi’s current relations with its neighbours lacks the degree of warmth and cooperation that was seen in the past. With a traditionally anti-India Pakistan, it appears to be a zero-sum game for India-Pakistan relations in the foreseeable future. Pakistan, in collusion with China, will endeavour to keep India occupied over Jammu and Kashmir whilst stepping up its terrorist activities in the Valley. Thus, India has to ensure hawk-like vigilance and an adequately responsive counter-insurgency grid inside J&K. Some out-of-the-box people-friendly measures have to be implemented in the restive Valley. A recent worrisome development has been the unexpected hardening of the NSCN-IM’s stand in its dealings with Nagaland Governor and Delhi’s interlocutor in the Naga peace talks, N Ravi. Asking for a separate flag and Nagalim once again appears to be the handiwork of hidden forces inimical to India. For decades, China has been playing mischief with our tribes in the North-East. The Modi government must now come down with a heavy hand on NSCN-IM leader Thiungaleng Muviah and his band of insurgents. India cannot have one rule for national integration for the Kashmiris, where Delhi scrapped J&K’s special status, and another for the Nagas. Consistency in our principled stand, genuine compassion in our dealings, coupled with unflinching resolve on sovereignty issues, should underscore our internal policies. With the Rajapaksa brothers back in the driving seat in Sri Lanka, now with a huge majority, India will have to use all its diplomatic acumen, embellished with substantial economic largesse, to keep Sri Lanka from falling totally into China’s sphere of influence. The Rajapaksa brothers are reportedly close to China, but they nevertheless do comprehend the need for adequate sensitivity to Indian interests. India’s security establishment will have to remain ever vigilant about China’s machinations and ensure that the latter’s growing footprint in the tiny island is not at India’s expense. Nepal, bound to India not only by geography but by religious and cultural affinity, has under Prime Minister KP Oli, displayed intransigence towards India like never before. Its recent cartographic provocation, by showing some Indian territory as Nepalese, could not have been imagined ever before. Recent reports of China trying to entice Gurkhas for service in the People’s Liberation Army have rightly rung alarm bells in the Indian establishment. India has over 40,000 Gurkhas in its army, and any such Chinese machinations will have serious adverse repercussions.  The emerging unpredictable future of Afghanistan presents another geo-political challenge for India. With the fundamentalist Taliban on the ascendant,  a weary United States in a quandary over having to make its inevitable exit, and a wily Pakistan waiting in the wings to reignite its machinations, Afghanistan displays all the potential to be drawn into the throes of political instability and unending violence. India must reinvigorate its soft power forays into that impoverished, hapless country. India must continue supporting, along with the US, the democratically-elected Ashraf Ghani government whilst also endeavouring to get Russia on board to counter any China-Pakistan-Iran axis in the region.    The prevalent geopolitical scenario in the region distinctively points at an overly ambitious China and its collusive stratagems, along with its surrogate state, Pakistan, to harm Indian interests. India must shed its diffidence in dealing with the wily Chinese and determinedly give it a taste of its own medicine. This is thus India’s and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s hour of reckoning. (The writer was the first chief, Defence Intelligence Agency and deputy chief, Integrated Defence Staff)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/modi-s-hour-of-reckoning-877331.html
24-08-2020||National||India should pressurise Pak for Dawood's handover: Athawale||Union minister Ramdas Athawale on Sunday said the Centre should exert pressure on the Pakistan government for the extradition of wanted terrorist Dawood Ibrahim to India. Athawale said that criminals like Ibrahim "deserve to be hanged". "The Indian government should pressurise the Pakistan government for handing over of Dawood Ibrahim as he was the mastermind behind the 1993 serial blasts in Mumbai," the Union Minister of State for Social Justice said in a statement. "Until now, Pakistan had never admitted that it has been sheltering him for so many years," he added "I am going to write a letter to the Union Ministry of Home Affairs about it. Criminals like Dawood deserve to be hanged," he said. Pakistan had on Friday imposed tough financial sanctions on 88 banned terror groups and their leaders, including Dawood Ibrahim, 26/11 Mumbai attack mastermind and Jamaat-ud-Dawa (JuD) chief Hafiz Saeed and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) chief Masood Azhar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-should-pressurise-pak-for-dawoods-handover-athawale-876946.html
24-08-2020||National||strict check on movement of people on Jammu-Srinagar NH||Jammu and Kashmir Chief Secretary B V R Subrahmanyam on Sunday asked officials to ensure that there is tight checking on Jammu-Srinagar national highway so that only the people with required permissions and negative Covid-19 test report are allowed to travel. He also asked the authorities not to allow any person without a Covid-19 negative test report to perform the pilgrimage to the shrine of Mata Vaishno Devi shrine which was opened for the devotees along with other religious places on August 16 after remaining closed for nearly five months due to the coronavirus pandemic. Reviewing the Covid-19 mitigation measures in Jammu division at a meeting here, the chief secretary asked the deputy commissioner, Ramban to consider random testing of truck drivers. In view of resumption of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi pilgrimage, Chief Secretary asked Deputy Commissioner, Reasi and Chief Executive Officer, Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board, to ensure that no person without a negative test report is allowed to perform the pilgrimage, the chief secretary said. He stressed on ensuring a tight check at the designated check points so that no such person is allowed to pass, an official spokesperson said. The Health department was asked to reserve bed capacities for more serious cases and to rationalise testing capacity, the spokesperson said. Subrahmanyam also directed preparation of a strategic plan for a massive testing exercise in Jammu, Udhampur and Rajouri districts. The chief secretary took a detailed review of the Covid-19 case load, sample collection, positivity and hospital bed capacities in Jammu, Udhampur, Rajouri, Reasi and Ramban districts, the spokesperson said. "Each of these districts have a specific vulnerability issue and is required to be dealt with accordingly," the chief secretary said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/strict-check-on-movement-of-people-on-jammu-srinagar-nh-876954.html
24-08-2020||National||DH Toon | Bloomsbury India withdraws from publishing book on Delhi riots||A leading publication house on Saturday announced the withdrawal of a book on Delhi riots in February authored by three right-wing writers, after a controversy erupted over the participation of BJP leader Kapil Mishra in the launch ceremony which the publisher said they would not have approved.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-bloomsbury-india-withdraws-from-publishing-book-on-delhi-riots-876976.html
24-08-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on August 24||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 29 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 31,64,273 as of August 24 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 58,479   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 19,19,842  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-august-24-876980.html
24-08-2020||National||I miss my friend a lot: PM Narendra Modi on Arun Jaitley's death anniversary||The BJP paid rich tributes to party stalwart Arun Jaitley on his first death anniversary on Monday, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying that he misses his friend a lot and that his late Cabinet colleague diligently served India. Top BJP leaders, including Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and party president J P Nadda, fondly remembered Jaitley, who was the voice of the party on various issues for decades and was seen as its main trouble shooter. The prime minister tweeted, "On this day, last year, we lost Shri Arun Jaitley Ji. I miss my friend a lot. Arun Ji diligently served India. His wit, intellect, legal acumen and warm personality were legendary. Here is what I had said during a prayer meeting in his memory." On this day, last year, we lost Shri Arun Jaitley Ji. I miss my friend a lot. Arun Ji diligently served India. His wit, intellect, legal acumen and warm personality were legendary. He posted a video of his speech at the condolence meeting held here for Jaitley last year. Remembering Jaitley, Shah said he was an outstanding politician, prolific orator and a great human being who had "no parallels" in Indian polity. He was multifaceted and a friend of friends, who will always be remembered for his towering legacy, transformative vision and devotion to the nation, the former BJP president added. Remembering Arun Jaitley ji, an outstanding politician, prolific orator and a great human being who had no parallels in Indian polity. He was multifaceted and a friend of friends, who will always be remembered for his towering legacy, transformative vision and devotion to nation. Nadda said Jaitley's huge contribution in nation-building will always be remembered. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh tweeted, "Remembering Arun Jaitley ji on his punyatithi. Jaitleyji was a stalwart who made a big contribution towards BJP's growth and rise to power." "He made a mark as a successful lawyer, seasoned parliamentarian and effective administrator. I offer my heartfelt tributes to him," Singh said. Remembering Arun Jaitley ji on his punyatithi. Jaitleyji was a stalwart who made a big contribution towards BJP’s growth and rise to power. He made a mark as a successful lawyer, seasoned parliamentarian and effective administrator. I offer my heartfelt tributes to him. A key BJP leader and a crucial member of the party's brain trust for decades, Jaitley was an articulate champion of the saffron party's policies and ideology, and his warm personality and affable manners won him friends across the political spectrum. He served as the Union finance minister in the first Modi government and wore many hats in public life, from that of a lawyer to a politician and a cricket administrator. He died at 66 years of age last year after battling prolonged illness.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-miss-my-friend-a-lot-pm-narendra-modi-on-arun-jaitleys-death-anniversary-877015.html
24-08-2020||National||Nirmala Sitharaman remembers Arun Jaitley; recounts GST benefits||Stating that the introduction of GST was a major reform that the Indian economy had waited for over a decade, Sitharaman said that "with his affable nature, Jaitley built on the mutual trust, so required in the critical years, when the decades-long efforts were reaching a crescendo." The GST subsumed 17 different taxes and 13 cesses, ensuring that India became one market, interstate barriers disappeared, double taxation was eliminated, and the cascading effect of taxes got mitigated. Sitharaman penned down the journey of the GST and stated that a Reserve Bank of India (RBI) analysis observed that since its roll-out, the rate changes have brought down the GST incidence from 14 per cent to 11.6 per cent. The Finance Minister noted that several other concessions were brought in including taxation threshold for goods being increased to Rs 40 lakh, the composition limit being increased from Rs 75 lakh to Rs 1.5 crore. Remembering Jaitley as a vital part of the GST implementation, Sitharaman recalled how he had described the Council as “the first experiment with the federal institution”. She noted that he rightly had felt that “it is a body that has behaved with utmost responsibility.” Until now, the Council has had 40 meetings and the 41st is slated to be held on August 27. The Finance Minister recalled that in the Council meeting held on January 3-4, 2017, Jaitley as the chairperson “assured that compensation to states shall be paid for 5 years in full within the stipulated period of 5 years and, in case the amount in the GST Compensation Fund fell short of the compensation payable in any bimonthly period, the GST Council shall decide the mode of raising additional resources including borrowing from the market which could be repaid by collection of cess in the sixth year, or subsequent years.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nirmala-sitharaman-remembers-arun-jaitley-recounts-gst-benefits-877018.html
24-08-2020||National||Reserve Bank of Kailasa, Kailashian Dollar: All you need to know about Nithyananda's ‘central bank and currency'||Godman Nithyananda, who was arrested for rape charges and for kidnapping children, chose the ‘auspicious’ occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi to release the currencies, economic policies and strategies of ‘The Reserve Bank of Kailasa’ via YouTube on August 22. Kailasa is the ‘Hindu sovereign nation’ founded by the self-proclaimed godman, and the new currency introduced in this world is called ‘Kailashian dollar’, an offering to be given to Lord Ganesh during a puja. Here’s all you need to know about Kailasa, The Reserve bank of Kailasa and the new currency: What is Kailasa? The ‘nation’ has its own flag and passport. Nityananda is the ‘Supreme Pontiff’ of Kailasa, and one can become a citizen by being a “practising Hindu” or “Hindu who would like to deepen their practice”. The website also adds that Kailasa offers a “safe haven to all the world’s practising, aspiring or persecuted Hindus…where they can peacefully live and express their spirituality, arts, and culture free from denigration, interference and violence”.  What is the Reserve Bank of Kailasa? The central bank was launched by Nityananda and would “very soon” be functioning in Kailasa, the godman said in the YouTube video. The governing body of this institution will include a governor and directors from Kailasa’s Sanyasis. A press release uploaded on Kailasa’s website claims that the bank is a “legitimately incorporated body”. The statement also adds that a ‘team of monastic members’ at Kailasa poured over “100 books” and “360 articles and research papers” on “Hindu economics policy” while developing the economic policy and currencies. “Kailasa today is honoured to be presenting the currencies inspired purely from the currencies and policies of the ancient 56 Hindu nations which were Hindu nations in the past,” the statement read. These ancient 56 nations - Cambodia, Sri Lanka, Nepal etc - are supposedly the ‘most favoured for bilateral and trade relations” with Kailasa. He has also drafted a 300-page economic policy, which lays down the nation’s economic functions and strategies. What is Kailasa’s new currency? Called ‘Kailashian Dollars’ the new currency will be available in at least eight different denominations, says Nithyananda. It will range from one Kailashian dollar, one-fourth Kailashian dollar, half Kailashian dollar, three-fourth Kailashian dollar, till ten Kailashian dollars. The coins were created based on various designs inspired by the currency used in the “the ancient 56 Hindu nations”. What is the controversy surrounding Nithyananda? Nityananda has been charged with rape and also accused of kidnapping children in his Ahmedabad ashram. In 2010, a video of the godman, who claims he is impotent, was in the news as he was found engaging in sexual acts with a female Tamil star. He denied the allegation and said he was practising a yoga asana. A case was filed against him in Bengaluru and he was released on bail soon after. Another sexual abuse claim by a US-based woman surfaced two years after, wherein she was abused by him for five years. He has also been accused of kidnapping and detaining children in his Ahemdabad ashram. Nityananda managed to flee the country, escaping over 50 court hearings, according to the Gujarat police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/reserve-bank-of-kailasa-kailashian-dollar-all-you-need-to-know-about-nithyanandas-central-bank-and-currency-877027.html
24-08-2020||National||69 lakh registered for jobs on government portal but few received employment||Within a week, between August 14 and 21, approximately 7 lakh had already registered on the application portal. Out of these, only 691 received jobs.  According to data collated by the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship on its ASEEM (Atmanirbhar Skilled Employee Employer Mapping) portal, 2 percent of the 3.7 lakh candidates looking for jobs have actually got one.  Of the 69 lakh registered, 1.49 lakh were offered jobs, out of which  7,700 were able to accept those offers.   Those registered on the portal are not only migrant workers. Tailors, electricians, field-technicians, sewing machine operators, nurses, accounts executives and manual cleaners are amongst the many professionals who listed themselves.  Certain states that witnessed a mass-migration of workers, as they left for home as the pandemic set-off, are Karnataka, Delhi, Haryana, Telangana and Tamil Nadu.  The rate of increase in people seeking jobs through the portal shot up sharply during one week, to 3.78 lakh from 2.97 lakh during August 14 to August 21.  However, the number of candidates who managed to secure jobs was much lower, only 7,009 to 7,700.  According to data available through ASEEM, women make up only 5.4 percent of the people looking for jobs under Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyan.  There are 514 companies registered on the portal that have posted nearly 2.92 lakh jobs.  Nearly 42.3 percent of all those seeking skilled jobs are from Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Haryana, Tamil Nadu and Delhi.  77 percent of all the jobs on the portal are concentrated in five states - Karnataka, Delhi, Haryana, Telangana and Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/69-lakh-registered-for-jobs-on-government-portal-but-few-received-employment-877039.html
24-08-2020||National||India's Covid-19 tally crosses 31-lakh mark; recovery rate tops 75%||A single-day spike of 61,408 Covid-19 cases took India's virus caseload past the 31-lakh mark on Monday, a day after it crossed 30 lakh, while recoveries surged to 23,38,035 pushing the recovery rate to over 75 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data. India's Covid-19 caseload mounted to 31,06,348, while the death toll climbed to 57,542 with 836 fatalities being reported in a span of 24-hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate has declined to 1.85 per cent, while the recovery rate has risen to 75.27 per cent. There are 7,10,771 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 22.88 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7.   According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 3,59,02,137 samples have been tested up to August 23  with 6,09,917 samples being tested on Sunday. Of the 836 fresh deaths, 258 are from Maharashtra, 97 from Tamil Nadu, 93 from Andhra Pradesh, 68 from Karnataka, 59 from Uttar Pradesh, 57 from West Bengal, 50 from Punjab, 23 from Madhya Pradesh, 16 from Delhi, 14 from Gujarat, 11 from Rajasthan and 10 from Odisha. Nine fatalities have been reported from Jammu and Kashmir, eight each from Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh and Puducherry, six each from Haryana and Telangana, five each from Kerala and Uttarakhand, four each from Chandigarh, Jharkhand and Goa, two from Ladakh, while Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Meghalaya and Tripura have registered one fatality each. Of the total 57,542 deaths, Maharashtra has reported the maximum at 22,253 followed by 6,517 in Tamil Nadu, 4,683 in Karnataka, 4,300 in Delhi, 3,282 in Andhra Pradesh, 2,895 in Gujarat, 2,926 in Uttar Pradesh, 2,794 in West Bengal and 1,229 in Madhya Pradesh. So far, 1,086 people have died of Covid-19  in Punjab, 955 in Rajasthan, 761 in Telangana, 617 in Jammu and Kashmir, 603 in Haryana, 511 in Bihar, 409 in Odisha, 312 in Jharkhand, 242 in Assam, 223 in Kerala and 200 in Uttarakhand. Chhattisgarh has registered 197 deaths, Puducherry 159, Goa 144, Tripura 73, Chandigarh 37, Andaman and Nicobar Islands 33, Himachal Pradesh 29,  Ladakh 23,  Manipur 22, Nagaland nine, Meghalaya eight, Arunachal Pradesh five, Sikkim three and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu  two.  The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its  website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-tally-crosses-31-lakh-mark-recovery-rate-tops-75-877041.html
24-08-2020||National||Congress Working Committee meet underway, to discuss leadership issue||A crucial meeting of the Congress Working Committee started here on Monday amid divisions in the party over the leadership issue and indications that Sonia Gandhi may offer to resign. The party is divided on the leadership matter with a section demanding collective leadership and another reposing faith in the Gandhi family. Top Congress leaders are expected to deliberate on the issue during the meeting of the party's top decision-making body that is being held virtually. Sources said Sonia Gandhi may offer to resign at the meeting after around 20 leaders wrote to her demanding a full-time, visible president and overhauling of the organisational structure including elections to the CWC and reconstitution of the Parliamentary board. After the start of the meeting with remarks by K C Venugopal, Sonia Gandhi will make her introductory remarks kicking off the deliberations. Massive support poured for the Gandhis on Sunday after the "pro-reform" leaders went public, with Congress chief ministers leading the calls for Sonia Gandhi to stay until Rahul Gandhi takes charge. Almost all Lok Sabha MPs of the party have written to Sonia Gandhi expressing solidarity and urging her to continue in her post or instal Rahul Gandhi. Several state units including Delhi and Rajasthan passed resolutions favouring the leadership of Gandhis after a letter from a section of senior party leaders demanded sweeping reforms in the party, going to the extent of questioning the current CWC's ability to guide the party in the fight against the BJP. Ironically, at least three of the dissenters are themselves part of the same CWC. These include Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma and Mukul Wasnik. Several party leaders, while supporting the continuation of Gandhis at the helm, accused those behind the letter of playing into the hands of the BJP and attempting to weaken the party at a time when there was a need to close ranks against the NDA government. Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja said, "we stand firmly behind Sonia Gandhi. This is the time to close ranks against the BJP and not the time to show cracks." The dissenting leaders, meanwhile, also said that the party has failed to conduct an honest introspection of its losses in 2014 and 2019, adding that the uncertainty over leadership has demoralised workers. This is the second challenge to Sonia Gandhi's leadership after the one in 1999 when the then leader of Opposition in Lok Sabha Sharad Pawar challenged her foreign origins in order to keep her from being named the party's prime ministerial face in the general elections that year. Sonia Gandhi had resigned in the CWC, which rejected her move unanimously bringing her back as party president. While Sonia went on to become the longest serving Congress president, Pawar and rebels had to quit to form the NCP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-working-committee-meet-underway-to-discuss-leadership-issue-877063.html
24-08-2020||National||No change in Pranab Mukherjee's health condition, says hospital||There was no change in the condition of former President Pranab Mukherjee and his vital parameters are stable and he continues to be on ventilatory support, the hospital said on Monday. Doctors said the 84-year-old "is deeply comatose" and he is being treated for a respiratory infection. He continues to be on ventilatory support. "The condition of former President Pranab Mukherjee remains unchanged this morning. He is deeply comatose and is being treated for respiratory infection. His vital parameters are stable and he continues to be on ventilatory support, " Army Hospital (R&R) Hospital said in a statement.  Mukherjee was admitted to the Army's Research and Referral Hospital in Delhi Cantonment on August 10 and was operated for removal of a clot in the brain.He also tested positive for Covid-19. Thereafter, he developed a lung infection and is being treated for it. His health parameters are being closely monitored by a team of specialists at the hospital. Pranab Mukherjee was the 13th President of India from 2012 to 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-change-in-pranab-mukherjees-health-condition-says-hospital-877064.html
24-08-2020||National||Sonia Gandhi offers to quit, asks Congress to look for new President||Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Monday offered to step down from her post as the interim party chief at the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting that got underway amid divisions in the party over the leadership issue. The meeting comes in the wake of a letter by 23 leaders to the Congress President seeking sweeping changes in the party even as Chief Ministers and state Congress units expressed solidarity with the Gandhi family. About 50 Congress leaders were attending the meeting conducted through video conferencing that began shortly after 11:00 a.m. The letter by 23 leaders shares a sentiment held by a large section that the party was adrift and called for a more visible and hands-on leadership to take on the Modi-Shah juggernaut. A large section of the CWC, including Manmohan Singh, A K Antony, Rahul Gandhi, are learnt to have questioned the timing of the letter and terming its leak to the media as unfortunate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sonia-gandhi-offers-to-quit-asks-congress-to-look-for-new-president-877077.html
24-08-2020||National||Retailers ask for permission to travel in local trains||Five months into the lockdown and the unfolding of the unlocking process, the association of retailers has requested for permission to travel in local trains in the Mumbai metropolitan region. According to them, bus travel is strenuous and there is a greater threat of contracting Covid-19 during the journey. Retail store owners and workers should be treated as part of essential services, Federation of Retail Traders Welfare Association ( FRTWA) president Viren Shah said. In a letter addressed to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, he said since the last few months, kirana, medical stores and essential service providers are coming to work and giving service to Mumbaikars relentlessly. “Due to strain, there is a huge queue and crowd on best buses whereby social distancing is not maintained and there is a fear of Covid-19 spread by not maintaining social distance. Ideally all essential service providers should be treated at par with government and municipal staff and should be allowed to use local trains on essential pass,” Shah said. Since the Maharashtra government is opening services in a phased manner,  retailers should also be allowed to travel by train.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/retailers-ask-for-permission-to-travel-in-local-trains-877088.html
24-08-2020||National||Bhushan declines to offer apology for tweets in SC, says insincere apology contempt of conscience||Advocate Prashant Bhushan on Monday declined to tender an apology to the Supreme Court for his tweets, saying it would amount to "contempt of conscience". Bhushan, who had been convicted for contempt of court on August 14, said an apology for expression of bona fide beliefs would be insincere. "If I retract a statement before this court that I otherwise believe to be true or offer an insincere apology, that in my eyes would amount to the contempt of my conscience and of an institution that I hold in highest esteem," he added. The advocate termed his statements "constructive criticism". "I expressed myself in good faith, not to malign the Supreme Court or any particular Chief Justice, but to offer constructive criticism so that the court can arrest any drift away from its long-standing role as a guardian of the Constitution and custodian of peoples’ rights," he said. The advocate filed his supplementary statement on Thursday before the court, which had asked him to offer an "unconditional apology" by August 24 after he was held guilty of contempt for "false, malicious and scurrilous" tweets made on June 27 and June 29. The court had observed that if he offered an unconditional apology, the matter would be taken up on August 25 or the bench would pronounce its order on the sentence. Such an order is likely to be pronounced by September 2 when Justice Arun Mishra, who presided over the three-judge bench demits office. The top court will hold a hearing on "the effect of supplementary statement" by Bhushan on August 25. The order is likely to be pronounced by September 2 when Justice Arun Mishra, who presided over the three-judge bench, would demit office.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bhushan-declines-to-offer-apology-for-tweets-in-sc-says-insincere-apology-contempt-of-conscience-877102.html
24-08-2020||National||SC refuses to entertain plea for policy for compensation to Covid-19 victims||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to consider a plea by a Kerala resident, asking for the Centre and state governments to be directed to formulate guidelines to provide ex-gratia compensation to the next of kin of those who died fighting Covid-19 pandemic.  A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and R Subhash Reddy said it was not inclined to entertain the petition as different states may frame their own policies in this regard. The plea was subsequently withdrawn. Advocate Deepak Prakash, representing the petitioner and social activist Hashik Thayikandi, contended that there were numerous instances where doctors, para-medical staff, government servants and sanitation workers have lost their lives while protecting the lives of other citizens. The outbreak of the disease has already been notified as a disaster under the Disaster Management Act. It has been increasing with each passing day, taking the lives of diligent taxpayers and adversely affecting other citizens, the petition added. "It is the need of the hour to invoke public law remedy as citizens are sacrificing their daily lives and the state must safeguard and provide relief to citizens who succumbed to Covid-19 while discharging their duties," the plea filed by advocate Prakash said.  The petitioner also sought directions to the Centre and States to file a detailed status report before the court highlighting the total number of Covid-19 related-deaths and measures taken by the authorities for the compensation of the loss of life due to the pandemic. He said that, in the past, compensations ranging from Rs 15 lakhs to Rs 1 crore has been announced for disasters like tornado, earthquake, tsunami and even the recent Vizag gas leak||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-refuses-to-entertain-plea-for-policy-for-compensation-to-covid-19-victims-877107.html
24-08-2020||National||SPB’s publicist says the singer tested negative for Covid-19; his son calls it 'rumour'||Legendary playback singer S P Balasubrahmanyam, who is receiving treatment for Covid-19, continues to be on life support, his son and producer S P Charan said, terming as 'rumours' his own publicist’s statement that his father has tested negative for coronavirus. "Today, unfortunately, there has been a rumour going around that dad has tested negative for Covid-19. Regardless of whether it is Covid negative or positive, the status is still the same. Clinically he is on life support, on EMO ventilator and he is stable, fortunately,” Charan said in a video message posted on his Facebook page. “And we are hoping that the stability will help him recover his lungs as early as possible. Kindly refrain from rumour-mongering. I will put up a post in the evening after discussion with doctors,” he added. His video message came within half-hour of his publicist Nikil Murukan sending out text messages to journalists and posting on his verified Twitter page that SPB has tested negative for Coronavirus. “My father is fine and stable, and his Corona test has become Negative,” Murukan quoted SPB’s son and producer Charan as saying in the tweet, which has now been deleted. However, after the tweet went viral, Charan posted a video in which he said he was the only one who gets information about SPB and all updates on his health come to him first.  74-year-old Balasubrahmanyam, who has sung over 40,000 songs in 16 languages, was moved to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of a private hospital here and put on life support on August 13. He tested positive for Covid-19 on August 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/spb-s-publicist-says-the-singer-tested-negative-for-covid-19-his-son-calls-it-rumour-877109.html
24-08-2020||National||Man man arrested after he kills and consumes rat snake, tries to sell a portion as python meat||The forest officials in Kerala arrested one person after he killed a rat snake, cooked and consumed a portion of the meat and then tried to sell the remaining portion as python meat. The incident occurred at Neriyamangalam, in a rural area of Ernakulam district on Saturday night. The accused, identified as Biju V, a local native, was involved in similar cases earlier also and was known as 'Marapatti' (civet) Biju. Rat snakes are protected species and the accused can attract a sentence of five to seven years, forest department sources said. Python meat, which is fat-rich, is believed to have medicinal values and is in high demand in illegal trade, which iis why the accused tried to sell the rat snake meat as python meat. Biju reportedly caught the rat snake from his residential premises on Saturday. He cooked a portion of it and consumed it along with liquor. Later, he approached some locals and tried to sell it as python meat to them for Rs 500. A forest team received the tip-off and nabbed him. Neriyamangalam range officer Arun K Nair said that the remains of the rat snake were also recovered from the premises of his house. The case was registered at Kothamangalam range as the offence happened in the limits of that office.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-man-arrested-after-he-kills-and-consumes-rat-snake-tries-to-sell-a-portion-as-python-meat-877121.html
24-08-2020||National||Covid-19 recoveries more than 3 times the active cases in India||India's Covid-19 recoveries have crossed 23 lakh and are more than three times the number of active cases of the infection in the country, while the case fatality rate, maintaining a steady downward trajectory, has further dropped to 1.85 per cent, the Union health ministry said on Monday. With 57,469 patients having recuperated in a day, total recoveries have surged to 23,38,035, pushing the recovery rate to 75.27 per cent as on date. They exceeded the active cases by 16,27,264. This has been made possible because of effective implementation of the policy of testing aggressively, tracking comprehensively through surveillance and contact-tracing and treating efficiently, the ministry underlined. Focus on standard of care protocol, including use of non-invasive oxygen, better skilled doctors in the ICUs and hospitals, and improved ambulance services have led to improved recovery rate among the severe and critical Covid patients.  "Those in home isolation, being medically supervised and monitored, are also recovering at a fast pace," the ministry said. The record high recoveries have ensured that 7,10,771 active cases, which is the "actual caseload" currently, comprise only 22.88 per cent of the total cases. "Effective clinical management of the patients in the ICUs has been instrumental in keeping the case fatality rate low and on a steady downward trajectory. It has further dipped to 1.85 per cent today," the ministry said. A major role in India's substantial rate of recovery and a declining case fatality rate has been played by the 'National e-ICU on Covid-19 Management' exercise being conducted by AIIMS, New Delhi, in active collaboration with the Ministry of Health, it mentioned. The National e-ICU is held twice a week -- on Tuesdays and Fridays -- and covers ICU doctors of Covid hospitals in states, and answers their queries related to Covid-19 treatment. So far, 14 such National e-ICUs have been held, covering 117 hospitals from 22 states across the country, it added. With a single-day spike of 61,408 infections, India's Covid-19 tally mounted to 31,06,348, while the death toll climbed to 57,542 with 836 fatalities being reported in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-recoveries-more-than-3-times-the-active-cases-in-india-877122.html
24-08-2020||National||Covid-19: UGC asks higher education, research institutes to deploy RT-PCR machines in district hospitals, labs||The University Grants Commission (UGC) has asked higher education and research institutions to facilitate deployment of RT-PCR test machines available with them at nearby district hospitals and government labs conducting Covid-19 tests to aid the fight against the pandemic, officials said on Monday. The higher education regulator has noted that temporary deployment of such machines can create additional facilities for around 60,000 tests per day. "In order to address the increasing demand for Covid-19 testing, it is essential that the test centres are strengthened further by addition of more RT-PCR machines. There are large number of machines available with educational and research institutions under various departments and are capable of performing RT-PCR tests and currently, not being used in any critical area," UGC Secretary Rajnish Jain said. "It has been elucidated that by temporarily deploying such machines in district hospitals and government laboratories, additional testing facilities of about 60,000 tests per day can be created. "In view of this, all higher education institutions and research institutions are requested to facilitate temporary deployment of machines from the institutes in consultation with the department of health research in district hospitals and government labs performing Covid-19 tests by August 31," he added. A single-day spike of 61,408 new cases took India's virus caseload past the 31-lakh mark on Monday, a day after it crossed 30 lakh, while recoveries surged to 23,38,035, pushing the recovery rate to over 75 per cent, according to the Union health ministry data. India's Covid-19 death toll climbed to 57,542 with 836 more fatalities being reported in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 3,59,02,137 samples have been tested up to August 23, with 6,09,917 samples being tested on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-ugc-asks-higher-education-research-institutes-to-deploy-rt-pcr-machines-in-district-hospitals-labs-877138.html
24-08-2020||National||FAITH urges govt to address negative travel advisory with US||The Federation of Associations in Indian Tourism and Hospitality (FAITH) has urged the government to address the negative travel advisory for India issued by the US government. The US currently issued a travel advisory, rating level 4 for India. On a scale of 1-4, this is the highest level of risk rating, carrying with it the advice of 'do not travel', FAITH said in a statement. "FAITH Associations together are hopeful and look forward to this being taken up on a high priority on a government to government level quickly to prevent negative perception of India, as India kick-starts the revival of its highly stressed tourism industry reeling from the disastrous impact of Covid-19," the industry body said. Apart from restrictive Covid-19 protocols, the rating highlights terrorism, crimes against women and insurgency among other reasons for the advisory, the statement said. Some of the other countries that have been placed in this category as on Aug 23, 2020, include Syria, Iran, Pakistan, Iraq and Yemen among others, it added. The US is one of the most important long-haul source markets for India for most segments of travel. The travellers from the US also have one of the highest average stays in India of over 29 days as against the average of over 22 days for all source markets, FAITH said. The favourable revision of the travel advisory would be a big boost in beginning the process of creating a positive sentiment for travel, which will slowly put in motion revival for the inbound tourism industry, FAITH said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/faith-urges-govt-to-address-negative-travel-advisory-with-us-877147.html
24-08-2020||National||Hasn't said a word of this nature: Congress denies Rahul Gandhi's 'colluding with BJP' remark||The Congress on Monday denied that Rahul Gandhi had accused any party leader of "colluding with the BJP", saying he "has not said" a word of that nature nor alluded to it. At a Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting, Rahul Gandhi lashed out at the party leaders who had written to Sonia Gandhi seeking several organisational reforms, including a collective leadership and dissolution of powers to the party's state units. Sources present at the meeting said Gandhi was furious about the timing of the letter and it being leaked to the media, and appeared to suggest whether these leaders were "colluding with the BJP". Soon after senior leader Kapil Sibal tweeted about any such insinuation, Congress's chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said, "Rahul Gandhi hasn't said a word of this nature nor alluded to it. Please don't be misled by false media discourse or misinformation being spread." "But yes, we all need to work together in fighting the draconian Modi rule rather than fighting & hurting each other and the Congress," Surjewala tweeted, tagging Sibal's earlier tweet hitting out at Rahul Gandhi. Deleting his tweet aimed at Rahul Gandhi, Sibal later said, "Was informed by Rahul Gandhi personally that he never said what was attributed to him. I, therefore, withdraw my tweet."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hasnt-said-a-word-of-this-nature-congress-denies-rahul-gandhis-colluding-with-bjp-remark-877182.html
24-08-2020||National||SC asks NTA, MCI to consider holding NEET online next year||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the National Testing Agency and the Medical Council of India to organise NEET online next year for admission to medical colleges across the country. A bench presided over by Justice L Nageswara Rao asked the authorities to think about holding online examinations like the IIT JEE. The Court broached the idea while refusing to issue any direction for setting up NEET 2020 examinations in centres across the Middle East and other gulf countries to facilitate students from foreign countries. The Court, however, allowed the students to approach the state government for relaxing 14 days quarantine norms for students coming from abroad. A petition by Abdul Azeez questioned the validity of the Kerala High Court's order of June 30, that dismissed the plea for direction to the Centre to establish examinations centre abroad. The petitioner said the students studying abroad would be adversely affected by the decision. The central government's decision to conduct the NEET 2020 examination on September 13 amidst the Covid-19 pandemic was a risky decision with the future of expatriate students. The NTA, which provided examination centres abroad for the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) for an engineering course, ought to provide centres for conducting NEET 2020 as well, his plea stated. Refusal to allot examination centres abroad for NEET 2020 was "arbitrary" and would cause "severe mental stress" to students preparing for it for years, the plea contended. The High Court had said the NTA and MCI, being expert bodies, could only decide about the matter and it could not issue any such direction in view of Covid-19 pandemic. In a special leave petition, the petitioner contended the right of students to education was being jeopardised by the state action as they were being unfairly discriminated only on the ground that they had studied abroad. It said the High Court should have considered the future of the students in light of the current extraordinary situation and directed the NTA or the MCI to sanction exam centres in the Middle East and other Gulf Countries. It also claimed that the High Court erred egregiously in not setting aside the decision of the NTA and the MCI to conduct NEET until the normalcy was restored.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-nta-mci-to-consider-holding-neet-online-next-year-877188.html
24-08-2020||National||Here's how Dalai Lama traced his teacher Khunu Lama in India||Soon after the Dalai Lama escaped to India in 1959, he made several efforts to locate his teacher Khunu Lama, who was rumoured to be in the country at that time, and finally managed to find him living incognito in a Shiva temple in Varanasi, says a new book. "Running Toward Mystery: The Adventure of an Unconventional Life", released on Monday, is an account by Tenzin Priyadarshi, president and CEO of The Dalai Lama Center for Ethics and Transformative Values at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, of his lifelong journey as a seeker. Co-written with Iranian American author and literary translator Zara Houshmand, Priyadarshi talks about the teachers who have influenced his life, among them the Dalai Lama, former Archbishop of Cape Town Desmond Tutu, and Mother Teresa. The Dalai Lama found it difficult to locate Khunu Lama as the latter kept a low profile and shunned attention and had a habit of disappearing whenever his reputation caught up with him. "When people came to pay their respects, he would have an assistant place a huge padlock on the outside of his door as a deterrent, and slide the key under the door to him. Hours later he would slide the key back out again and knock quietly to be let out," the book, published by Penguin Random House, said. The Dalai Lama sent emissaries to all the Buddhist pilgrimage sites, to all the places where Khunu Lama was known to have taught, and found no trace of him. Finally, he was accidentally discovered, living incognito in a Shiva temple in the middle of Varanasi. "When the emissary knocked on the door of his small closet of a room and asked if he would meet with the Dalai Lama, he said no, he wasn't feeling well. "His Holiness was actually waiting downstairs and would not be put off, so then Khunu Lama demurred again because he didn't have a chair to offer his guest - an old blanket was his only furnishing," the book says. But the Dalai Lama insisted and they met standing up in the tiny room. The Dalai Lama asked Khunu Lama to teach the younger 'tulkus' (reincarnated Tibetan Buddhist masters) who had accompanied him into exile, and to teach him personally as well. Khunu Lama was not recognised as a tulku himself. Nor was he ever initiated into a monastic community, in spite of the fact that he spent many years studying and teaching at several different monasteries. He was born in the late 1800s. He came from Kinnaur, in the foot-hills of the Himalayas, from a prosperous farming and trading family who were devout Buddhists but opposed his desire to travel for study. He left home around the age of 18 so suddenly that he didn't stop to put on his shoes, and he never really stopped travelling from that point on. He made a point of learning the languages deeply - both Tibetan and Sanskrit - as a prerequisite to the study of the religious texts, and gained a reputation for extraordinary scholarship. His expertise in Tibetan grammar and poetics was famous, to the point of inciting dangerous jealousies among native Tibetans. When the Dalai Lama asked Khunu Lama to teach him personally, one theme among others that he specially requested was Khunu Lama's dearest, most constant preoccupation. 'Bodhicitta' was the subject he taught most eagerly and on which he wrote a poem of praise every day. He embodied bodhicitta with all his being. It didn't matter how great a scholar he was, how his knowledge of Sanskrit could unlock nuances of Shantideva's and Nagarjuna's writing that few others could fathom, the teaching was never just theoretical, the book says. "When the Dalai Lama once asked Khunu Lama to pray for the people of Tibet, Khunu Lama was reluctant. He couldn't possibly do that, he said, as it was His Holiness who was their leader and should pray for them. He could, however, pray for Mao Zedong to experience 'bodhicitta' and be moved to change his policies toward Tibet," it says. In "Running Toward Mystery, Priyadarshi shares his thoughts on science and technology, meditation and spiritual disillusionment, and the relationship between Buddhism and the modern world. He also describes his work at MIT, including how the 2008 financial crisis gave critical momentum to the formation of The Dalai Lama Center for Ethics and Transformative Values.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/heres-how-dalai-lama-traced-his-teacher-khunu-lama-in-india-877194.html
24-08-2020||National||Pakistan's ISI trying to attack India using local gangsters: Report||The intelligence unit gave names of five gangsters who have allegedly been given tasks by Pakistan’s ISI and terror organisations to target a few leaders in India. Two of the gangsters are absconding, while the other three are in jail, the report said. Regardless of being locked up, these gangsters are involved in dozens of murders, robbery, narcotic cases and running rackets from inside. The local police have been asked to keep track of other such local gangsters and keep an eye on their movement, even if they are in jail.  A senior government official said that there is a possibility that ISI might try to contact or is already in touch with these local but highly influential gangsters, the report said. The reason for this latest strategy is that ISI’s sleeper cells have been almost eliminated or they refuse to work for fear of being killed by security forces which has stepped up its vigilance, an official said. Also, there is hardly any top-level commander to control local sleeper cells, hence, terror organisations might be turning to local gangsters to execute attacks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistans-isi-trying-to-attack-india-using-local-gangsters-report-877200.html
24-08-2020||National||Future Group no longer part of IPL's central pool of sponsorship||Retail conglomerate Future Group, which is currently going through a restructuring phase, has pulled out of BCCI's central sponsorship list for the Indian Premier League. Future Group has been forced to pull out as the company is reportedly on the verge of a takeover and has suffered losses due to the prevailing hostile economic climate in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. "Yes, Future Group has pulled out of IPL central sponsorship and that's the reason their logo has been removed from the IPL website. At this point in time, I won't like to elaborate on the development," said a BCCI veteran who confirmed the development to PTI. When a Future Group official was contacted, he refused to comment but industry insiders confirmed that the pullout was on the cards because of the financial health of the company. "Right now, the Future Group is going through a restructuring phase and there are talks with multi-national conglomerates about its potential takeover in the next few weeks. So sponsoring sporting events at the moment wasn't a top priority for Future Group," he added. It is learnt that education-technology company Unacademy, which lost the IPL title sponsorship bid to fantasy gaming firm Dream11, is in line to become one of the official sponsors along with credit card payment app Cred. As of now, the IPL website shows only four sponsors. They are Dream11 as title sponsors along with Tata Motors (Altroz), PayTM and Ceat tyres. The BCCI normally shares half of its central sponsorship kitty with the franchises. However, with the title sponsorship amount reduced to nearly half (from Rs 440 crore from Vivo to Rs 222 crore of Dream11) and the subsequent pull-outs, the teams are set to get lesser than what they were earning earlier. "We know it's not an ideal situation but you can't blame BCCI for this. There is a financial crisis. If franchises have earned and made gains during good times, they understand and stand by BCCI during troubled times," a senior official of a franchise said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/future-group-no-longer-part-of-ipls-central-pool-of-sponsorship-877202.html
24-08-2020||National||Govt mulls 'Mission COVID Suraksha' with Rs 3,000-crore corpus||To accelerate the process of developing and manufacturing safe and effective Covid-19 vaccines in the country that can be easily accessible and affordable for the public, a 'Mission COVID Suraksha' has been proposed to be set up with a corpus of nearly Rs 3,000 crore, sources said. Piloted by the Department of Biotechnology, the proposed mission will focus on end-to-end vaccine development from clinical trial stage to regulatory facilitation to manufacturing, sources added. The aim of the mission is to accelerate the development of at least six vaccine candidates and ensure that they are licensed and introduced in market for emergency use at the earliest, they said. While there is no official word on the proposed mission as yet, multiple officials confirmed that a proposal has been made. A senior official said this is still in "a proposal stage". According to the draft proposal, the mission has been proposed to have a timeline of 12-18 months and a budget of approximately Rs 3,000 crore. The proposed mission will also look to ensure that sufficient volumes are manufactured to meet India's Covid-19 vaccine requirement and to introduce it in public health systems of the Ministry of Health post the approval by the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI), to combat further spread of Covid-19 infection. While several efforts already underway have helped in quickly putting together best groups and for encouraging them to accelerate the Covid-19 vaccine development, it is now imperative that the vaccine development and manufacturing is taken up "in a mission mode and not in a project mode", the draft proposal said. "Efforts till now for a vaccine development have been fragmented," it noted. "Therefore, to ensure a steady supply of vaccines in the next 12-15 months, there is a need to establish a mission with an end-to end focus from pre-clinical development through clinical trials, manufacturing and scale-up development of the prioritised vaccine candidates that would consolidate all available and funded resources towards a warpath for accelerated product development," it said. Accordingly, it is proposed to launch the Indian Covid-19 vaccine development programme -- 'Mission COVID Suraksha', it said. According to the draft, the national mission will work towards bringing to the citizens of the country a safe, efficacious, affordable and accessible COVID vaccine at the earliest with a focus on 'AatmaNirbhar Bharat' and also fulfil the commitment of serving not just the country but the entire globe. The proposed mission will work on an "aggressive integrated plan of action" for timely availability of resources, facilities and capabilities to avoid delays in development pathway, availability of expertise and technologies required for market entry and meeting the demand, the draft proposal said. It will also support multiple vaccine candidates in the pipeline to increase the probability of a successful vaccine entering the market, pre-planning to avoid bottlenecks and delays and ensuring safety and efficacy is not compromised during acceleration. The proposed mission also aims to make available clinical trial sites, immunoassay laboratories, ensure all vaccine candidates being introduced through this programme have preferred characteristics applicable for India. It also aims to support manufacturing capacity in the country for different vaccine platforms and ensure vaccine deployment and its uptake by the National Immunisation Programme. Besides, it aims to work with indigenous and global candidates to ensure their successful trial and manufacture in the country. The government has been ramping up efforts to manufacture a vaccine to combat the deadly infection that has so far infected over 31 lakh people and claimed the lives of over 55,000 people in the country. India has nearly 30 vaccine candidates at different stages of vaccine development for coronavirus. Currently, the two vaccine candidates indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with ICMR and Zydus Cadila Ltd have moved to the phase-2 of human clinical trials, ICMR Director General Dr Balram Bhargava recently said at a press briefing. Pune-based Serum Institute of India, which has partnered with AstraZeneca for manufacturing a Covid-19 vaccine candidate developed by the Oxford University, has been permitted for conducting Phase 2 and 3 human clinical trials of the candidate in India. It is likely to start the trials soon. In collaboration with HDT Biotech Corporation, USA, Gennova Biopharmaceuticals has also developed an mRNA vaccine candidate (HGCO19) and seed funding for it has been proposed by the Department of Biotechnology. The department had said last month that it is likely to enter clinical trials later this year. The national expert group on vaccine administration for Covid-19 met leading domestic vaccine manufactures including Serum Institute of India, Bharat Biotech and Zydus Cadila last Monday to take inputs about the present stage of various vaccine candidates as well as their expectations from the Centre, the Health ministry had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-mulls-mission-covid-suraksha-with-rs-3000-crore-corpus-877208.html
24-08-2020||National||M.V. Shreyams Kumar takes his father's Rajya Sabha seat||Loktantrik Janata Dal leader M.V. Shreyams Kumar was on Monday elected as Rajya Sabha member to the seat that became vacant following the death of his father and former union minister of state M P Veerendrakumar. Shreyams, who is a former MLA and current managing director of Mathrubhumi publications, was CPM-led Left Democratic Front's candidate, while Lal Varghese Kalpakavady was Congress-led United Democratic Front candidate. Of the 130 votes polled, Shreyams secured 88 votes, while Lal Varghese got 41 votes. One vote was declared invalid. The polling was held at the state legislature complex.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mv-shreyams-kumar-takes-his-fathers-rajya-sabha-seat-877212.html
24-08-2020||National||Metro services likely to start in September but schools, colleges to remain shut||The government is likely to further open up the country in September and ease Covid-19 restrictions by allowing resumption of Metro services but educational institutions are unlikely to reopen anytime soon. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) will be soon issuing guidelines for Unlock 4.0 from September 1 as the existing guidelines will be expiring on August 30. Metro services, which were suspended in March this year, are likely to start functioning from early September but with restrictions. The number of passengers in a Metro coach will be restricted while access to stations will be controlled, officials said. Once the services start, officials said, social distancing will be ensured in metro stations. Sanitisation drives will be regularly conducted. A Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) is also likely to be put in place. There have been demands from state governments like Delhi to restart Metro services. Delhi Metro on Sunday said it is prepared to resume operations whenever directed by the government, hours after Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal demanded resumption of services on a trial basis as the Covid-19 situation is improving in the capital. However, schools and colleges are unlikely to be re-opened in September with several states still not enthusiastic about the proposal, amid concerns that it would result in an increase in the number of cases among the young population. Concerns were also raised about how social distancing norms can be enforced in educational institutions. According to a survey by LocalCircles, 62 per cent of around 25,000 respondents said that they would not be sending their children to schools. With states continuing to complain about dip in revenues, the Centre may also allow re-opening of bars across the country. However, the proposal is only for allowing take away. It is also to be seen whether cinema halls and multiplexes will be allowed to open in September. There has been demand from cinema hall and multiplex owners for re-starting operations even as the government on Sunday announced SOPs for resuming shooting of films and TV programmes. In Unlock 3.0 guidelines for August, the government had lifted the night curfew, besides allowing yoga schools and gymnasiums to start functioning from August 5. Besides cinema halls and bars, the government had also not allowed the re-opening of swimming pools, entertainment parks, auditoriums and assembly halls in the guidelines. A national lockdown was put in place on March 25 to contain the Covid-19 pandemic and since June 1, the Centre has been unlocking the country to lift restrictions imposed till May 31 in a staggered manner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/metro-services-likely-to-start-in-september-but-schools-colleges-to-remain-shut-877213.html
24-08-2020||National||From The Newsroom: All about today’s Congress Working Committee meeting||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Advocate Prashant Bhushan on Monday declines to tender an apology for his tweets; S P Balasubrahmanyam continues to be on life support and get to know what transpired at the Congress Working Committee meeting.  Here is the top news of today, Monday: August 24, 2020: Advocate Prashant Bhushan on Monday declines to tender an apology for his tweets which led to his conviction for contempt of court by the Supreme Court on August 14. He said an apology for expression of bona fide beliefs would be insincere and would amount to the contempt of his conscience and of an institution. "I expressed myself in good faith, not to malign the Supreme Court or any particular Chief Justice, but to  offer constructive criticism so that the court can arrest any drift  away from its long-standing role as a guardian of the Constitution and custodian of peoples’ rights," he said. He filed his supplementary statement in response to the time given by the court on Thursday to offer "unconditional apology" by August 24 for "false, malicious and scurrilous" tweets made on June 27 and 29 on "distorted facts", to scandalise the entire institution of judiciary. The court had then said if he offered an unconditional apology, the matter would be taken up on August 25 for considering it or the bench would pronounce its order on sentence. Now, coming to the top story of the day: The Congress Working Committee meeting today had all the elements of drama. Joining us in our correspondent from Delhi, Sagar Kulkarni, with all the updates: Listen to the conversation in the podcast... Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-all-about-today-s-congress-working-committee-meeting-877215.html
24-08-2020||National||ICAR's entrance exam for UG programmes in agriculture to be held on Sep 7-8||Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) on Monday said all India entrance exam for undergraduate programmes in agriculture will be conducted by the National Testing Agency on September 7-8 this year. The dates for the post-graduate and PhD programmes are yet to be announced, it said. "Due to COVID-19 pandemic, the examination has been planned in shifts on 2 days so that applicants can maintain the social distancing during online examination and avoid long travels," the ICAR said in a statement. The dates for downloading of admit cards and declaration of result will soon be declared by the NTA on its official websites, www.nta.ac.in and/or https://icar.nta.nic.in. About 1,97,837 students are appearing for undergraduate programmes in agriculture in various universities, and the National Testing Agency (NTA) has fixed about 178 examination Centres for the CBT (Computer Based Test), it said. The ICAR annually conducts all India entrance exam (AIEEs) for admission to Bachelor's, Master's and Doctoral degree programmes in the Agricultural Universities (AUs) accredited by it. Admissions are conducted for 15 per cent seats of UG degree programmes and 25 per cent seats each of Master's and Doctoral degree programmes of AUs under the ICAR-AU system. At present, there are 74 AUs comprising 63 State Agricultural Universities, three Central Agricultural Universities, four ICAR-Deemed-to-be Universities and four Central Universities with agriculture faculty. According to ICAR, the candidates having passed with 10+2 Senior Secondary or equivalent examination of a recognised Indian Board/university can apply for appearing in the examination for admission to an undergraduate degree programme. Based on their merit rank, the candidates will get admission to the university of their choice through the online counselling to be conducted by ICAR after the examination. The undergraduate students, based upon prescribed criteria, will be eligible to receive a National Talent Scholarship (NTS) of Rs 3,000 per month. However, for admission to Master's and Doctoral degree programmes, ICAR said that AIEE dates will be shortly announced. The ICAR awards 600 ICAR-PG Scholarships and 300 JRF/SRF, it added. Those candidates who are not able to secure ICAR-PG Scholarship, based upon prescribed criteria, will be eligible to receive NTS (PG) amounting to Rs 5,000 per month, while the amount of ICAR PG scholarship is Rs 12,640 per month, JRF/SRF is awarded @ Rs 31,000 for the first two years of study (JRF) and Rs 35,000 for the final year of study (SRF). ICAR Deputy Director General (Agricultural Education) R C Agarwal informed that there are tremendous opportunities for employment/self-employment of graduates in agriculture and allied disciplines in public and private sectors in the country as well as abroad. The ICAR is focusing on imparting inclusive and equitable quality education to nurture graduates and postgraduates who are job providers rather than being the job seekers, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icars-entrance-exam-for-ug-programmes-in-agriculture-to-be-held-on-sep-7-8-877220.html
24-08-2020||National||Government extends validity of motor vehicle documents||The Centre on Monday announced that all motor vehicle documents including driving license and fitness certificate, whose validity expired on February 1 will be treated as valid till December 31. Various documents related to the Motor Vehicle Act 1988 and Central Motor Vehicle rules 1989 whose validity expires on February 1, 2020, will be treated as valid till December 31, said the government.  To reduce inconvenience due to the following of social distancing norms during COVID-19 outbreak, MoRTH has issued an advisory to all state governments to further extend the validity of the documents related to Motor Vehicles Act 1988 and Central Motor Vehicle Rules 1989, "To reduce inconvenience due to the following of social distancing norms during COVID-19 outbreak, Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has issued an advisory to all state governments to further extend the validity of the documents related to Motor Vehicles Act 1988 and Central Motor Vehicle Rules 1989," Union Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-extends-validity-of-motor-vehicle-documents-877222.html
24-08-2020||National||Covid-19 positive murder accused escapes from hospital in Ambala||A murder accused who had tested positive for Covid-19 escaped from the isolation ward of a hospital in Haryana's Ambala, police said on Monday. The accused, Lucky Kumar, a resident of Rohtak, escaped from Mission Hospital on Sunday by breaking the grille of a window in the ward, they said. Kumar was arrested from Panchkula district on August 7, Baldevnagar police station SHO Satya Narayan told reporters. He was produced before a court which sent him to judicial custody to Ambala Central Jail, he said. The accused was tested for Covid-19 in jail and his report came back positive. Later, the jail authorities got him admitted to the hospital, the police said. They said he was kept in a separate ward along with another jail inmate who had also tested positive for the disease. A police team was also deployed there to keep a watch on the accused. On Sunday, hospital authorities informed the police that Kumar was missing from his bed. It was found that he had escaped from the ward by breaking the grille of the window in the ward, they added. A case has been registered against the accused. There is no clue about his whereabouts so far, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-positive-murder-accused-escapes-from-hospital-in-ambala-877228.html
24-08-2020||National||India prepared to look at any military option if no result from talks on border standoff with China, says CDS Rawat||India's armed forces are prepared to look at any military option if the extensive talks to restore status quo ante along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) did not yield any positive result, Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat has said on the prolonged border standoff with China in eastern Ladakh. General Rawat, who has been part of the top military brass strategising on the Sino-India border issue, said a "whole of government" approach is being followed to peacefully resolve the row. The armed forces are always prepared for military actions if all efforts to restore status quo ante along the LAC don't "fructify," the CDS said when asked about the over three-month-long border row. General Rawat, who was the Chief of Army Staff from December 2016 to December 2019, said the transgressions take place along the LAC because of varying perceptions about it by the two countries. India and China have held several rounds of military and diplomatic talks in the last two-and-half months but no significant headway has been made for a resolution to the border standoff. On Thursday, the two sides held another round of diplomatic parleys following which the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said they had agreed to resolve outstanding issues in an "expeditious manner" and in accordance with the existing agreements and protocols. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, General Rawat and the three service chiefs are regularly meeting to review India's military preparedness in eastern Ladakh as well as to take measures in sync with the evolving situation in the region. At the military talks, the Indian Army has been strongly insisting that restoration of the status quo ante of April this year by China is the only way to resolve the row, according to government sources. There is a growing view in the Army that the Chinese military is not serious about the resolution of the border conflict as it is resorting to "back and forth" negotiations while the Indian side has very clearly conveyed about its position on the matter. Sources said notwithstanding the border row, India has been carrying on with the work on laying new roads in the Ladakh region besides developing other key infrastructure. "Our road construction is not in response to PLA infrastructure development but based on our requirements and those of our people," said a source. The formal process of disengagement of troops began on July 6, a day after a nearly two-hour telephonic conversation between National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on ways to bring down tensions in the area. However, the process has not moved forward since mid-July. The PLA has pulled back from Galwan Valley and certain other friction points but the withdrawal of troops has not moved forward in Pangong Tso, Depsang and a couple of other areas, sources said. In the five rounds of Corps commander-level talks, the Indian side has been insisting on complete disengagement of Chinese troops at the earliest, and immediate restoration of status quo ante in all areas of eastern Ladakh prior to April. Even as both sides are engaged in diplomatic and military talks, the Indian army is making elaborate preparations to maintain its current strength of troops in all key areas in eastern Ladakh in the harsh winter months. Chief of Army Staff General MM Naravane has already conveyed to all the senior commanders of the Army, overseeing operation of the frontline formations along the LAC, to maintain a significantly high state of alertness to deal with any Chinese "misadventure", the sources said. The Army is also in the process of procuring a number of weapons, ammunition and winter gears for the frontline troops, they added. The temperature in some of the high-altitude areas along the LAC drops to minus 25 degree celsius in the winter months. The tension between the two sides escalated manifold after the violent clashes in Galwan Valley on June 15 in which 20 Indian Army personnel were killed. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details. According to an American intelligence report, the number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-prepared-to-look-at-any-military-option-if-no-result-from-talks-on-border-standoff-with-china-says-cds-rawat-877234.html
24-08-2020||National||Bring Dawood Ibrahim to justice in India: Rohit Pawar to PM Modi||NCP MLA and party chief Sharad Pawar's grand nephew Rohit Pawar has asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to bring wanted terrorist Dawood Ibrahim back to India from Pakistan. "Now that Pakistan has accepted Dawood Ibrahim is indeed in Karachi, I would request Hon'ble PM @narendramodiji to do everything possible for bringing him to justice. Let's get him on Indian Soil at any cost," tweeted Rohit Pawar, the MLA from Karjat-Jamkhed in Ahmednagar district, on Sunday. His tweet came against the backdrop of Pakistan acknowledging the presence of Ibrahim, the mastermind of the 1993 Mumbai serial blasts, in Karachi. Pakistan had on Friday imposed tough financial sanctions on 88 banned terror groups and their leaders, including Ibrahim, 26/11 Mumbai attack mastermind and Jamaat-ud-Dawa (JuD) chief Hafiz Saeed and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) chief Masood Azhar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bring-dawood-ibrahim-to-justice-in-india-rohit-pawar-to-pm-modi-877237.html
24-08-2020||National||Sushant Singh Rajput met drug dealer hours before death, claims Subramanian Swamy||Amid hectic ongoing investigations by the CBI, senior BJP leader Subramanian Swamy on Monday came out with a sensational claim. He said that hours before his death, Sushant Singh Rajput met with a Dubai-linked drug dealer. “In Sushant case, a Dubai compliant drug dealer Ayash Khan had met Sushant on the day of Sushant’s murder. Why?”, Swamy asked in a tweet.  Like in Sunanda Pushkar case the real give away was what was found in her stomach during post mortem by AIIMS doctors. This was not done for Sridevi or Sushant. In Sushant case a Dubai compliant drug dealer Ayash Khan had met Sushant on the day of Sushant’s murder. Why? Swamy, a senior politician, said in the tweet, “Like in Sunanda Pushkar case the real give away was what was found in her stomach during post mortem by AIIMS doctors. This was not done for Sridevi or Sushant.” On the investigations, he said, “If Rhea Chakravarty keeps giving evidence which contradicts her conversation with Mahesh Bhatt then CBI will have no alternative but to arrest her and subject her to  custodial interrogation to get at the truth.” If Rhea Chakravarty keeps giving evidence which contradicts her conversation with Mahesh Bhatt then CBI will have no alternative but to arrest her and subject her to custodial interrogation to get at the truth. Meanwhile, the CBI has grilled Sushant’s roommate Siddharth Pithani, cook Neeraj Singh and househelp Dipesh Sawant. Rhea Chakraborty is yet to be summoned by the apex investigative agency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sushant-singh-rajput-met-drug-dealer-hours-before-death-claims-subramanian-swamy-877242.html
24-08-2020||National||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar tests positive for Covid-19||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday tested positive for COVID-19, six days after he had attended a meeting with Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, who was later found infected with the virus. "I was tested for novel coronavirus today. My test report has returned positive," Khattar tweeted. He appealed to his colleagues and associates "who came in my contact over the last week to get themselves tested. I request my close contacts to move into strict quarantine immediately". Khattar's earlier test report came negative for COVID-19 on Thursday, two days after he had attended the meeting with Shekhawat over the Sutlej Yamuna Link canal issue in New Delhi. Khattar had on Thursday decided to go into home quarantine for three days as a precautionary measure. Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta and two BJP MLAs also tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday, two days before the monsoon session is set to begin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/haryana-chief-minister-manohar-lal-khattar-tests-positive-for-covid-19-877245.html
24-08-2020||National||IAF launches mobile app to provide career-related information to aspirants||Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadauria on Monday launched a mobile application, "MY IAF", that will provide career-related information to those who want to join the Indian Air Force, an official statement said. The app was launched by the chief of the Air Staff at Vayu Bhawan as part of the 'Digital India' initiative, it said. "The user-friendly format of the app serves as a single digital platform interfacing the users with the details of selection procedure, training curriculum, pay and perks etc for both officers and airmen in the IAF," the statement said. "The application, developed in association with Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC), provides career-related information and details for those desirous of joining the IAF," it said. It is available on Google Play store for android phones and is linked to the IAF's social media platforms. It also provides glimpses into the history and stories of valour in the IAF, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iaf-launches-mobile-app-to-provide-career-related-information-to-aspirants-877259.html
24-08-2020||National||Union education minister calls for exam reforms in National Institute of Open Schooling||The National Institute of Open Schooling needs to introduce reforms in its examination process so that the integrity of the institution cannot be questioned, Union Minister of Education Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' said on Monday. He made the comments at a review meeting with officials of the open school. The meeting was also attended by School Education Secretary Anita Karwal. "During the meeting, the minister discussed on strengthening the examination mechanism. He said if we found some irregularities within the institution, we should take tough action against the culprit. He directed the National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) officials that if they received any complaint against NIOS examination centres, they should resolve the complaint as soon as possible," the Ministry of Education (MOE) said in a statement. "The minister also directed the NIOS officials to reform the examination process so that no one can question the integrity of the prestigious institution. It was suggested that a dashboard must be created containing detailed information and contacts of all centres across the country. “It will have all the information and suggestions from stakeholders so that transparency will be increased in the system," it said. During the meeting, suggestions were made about drafting NIOS syllabus on the lines of NCERT so that students can get better understanding of the subject. "The minister also reviewed the work of NIOS during Covid-19 crisis. NIOS officials briefed him that they are running four channels for their students, out of which, two are dedicated for secondary and higher secondary level. “The NIOS officials also informed that they are now providing six hours fresh content daily to their students, including weekends, which were only for two hours before the Covid-19 crisis," the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-education-minister-calls-for-exam-reforms-in-national-institute-of-open-schooling-877276.html
24-08-2020||National||48% spike in stress levels due to Covid-19, lockdowns: Study||The Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdowns that followed triggered a 37% rise in stress levels among Bengalureans, but Mumbaikars were even worse off with a 48% spike, a psychological impact study by emotional wellness platform, YourDOST has revealed. The nationwide trend showed students to be most affected with a 39% increase in stress levels. Postponement of examinations at multiple levels was a key contributor. Driven by pay cuts and job losses, stress among working professionals rose by 35%. The majority (53.9%) of the study’s respondents was in the age group of 21-30 years, and a fifth was in the 31-40 age group. "For this study, YourDOST compiled and analysed data from multiple sources to understand the mental health landscape among Indian citizens during and post nationwide lockdown," the platform cofounder Puneet Manuja explained. The objective, he said, was to showcase "a concrete picture of the impact on the collective mental health of the country’s population as well as individual segments of the population such as college students, working professionals and entrepreneurs.” When the nationwide lockdown began, the worrying factors were the uncertainty over how long the phase would last, fear of self or loved one contracting Covid-19, and fear of job stability and layoffs. Three months after the lockdown, the top stress factors were fall in work-life balance, postponement of exams and job losses, the study found. These led to a significant rise in feelings of anxiety, anger and loneliness. "Lockdown fatigue led to a 22% net increase in emotional outbursts and 11% deterioration in sleep." So, how did people cope up? A disturbing trend was that due to the associated stigma, counselling was the least used coping mechanism. The preferred options were more frequent interactions with friends and family, more frequent exercises, reduced news consumption, reduced use of social media use and an increase in meditation. YourDOST is an emotional wellness platform of over 900 experts (psychologists, career coaches and counsellors), open for guidance on Covid-19 related anxiety and other issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/48-spike-in-stress-levels-due-to-covid-19-lockdowns-study-877279.html
24-08-2020||National||Take serious efforts to audit implementation of Facebook's hate speech policy in India, ex-bureaucrats tell Zuckerberg||Over 50 former bureaucrats, including Wajahat Habibullah, Aruna Roy and Harsh Mander, on Monday, shot off an open letter to Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg asking him to make “serious efforts” to audit the implementation of the social media giant’s hate speech policy in India. Accusing Facebook of failing to implement its own policy of discouraging hate speech in India or has implemented it in a clearly “partisan manner”, the former civil servants also demanded that Zuckerberg should ensure that Facebook’s Public Policy Head Ankhi Das is not in a position to influence the process. The letter came against the backdrop of a report in the Wall Street Journal, which said Facebook turned its face against hate posts by at least four Hindutva supporters with Das pointing out that taking action against those who are with the ruling BJP would have a detrimental effect on their business interests in the country. They said this has been done to protect its commercial interests which is “even more reprehensible... Commercial interests at the cost of human lives?” “We fervently hope that in future, you will not let your company’s business prospects stand in the way of implementing your own policy against hate speech and posts which can lead to hate crimes. This is a sure way of demonising minorities and inflicting violence upon them while undermining the democratic and secular basis of the Indian Constitution,” the letter said. The 54 ex-bureaucrats, who signed the letter that also included Vappala Balachandran and Julio Ribeiro, said they have written to the government and government institutions whenever they felt the democratic rights of the citizens were being violated and it was for the first time they were writing to a non-Indian body. They said they were writing to Zuckerberg because “certain actions (or the absence of certain actions) by Facebook in their operations in India have thrown into danger” some of the fundamental rights of the people of India. The letter noted that Facebook defined hate speech as a direct attack on people for characteristics such as 'race, ethnicity, national origin, religious affiliation, sexual orientation, sex, gender or gender identity and serious disabilities or diseases'. "Given this clear definition in your own policy, we are surprised that Facebook did not take action against some clear and serial offenders in India -- persons like T Raja Singh and a few others -- for their derogatory comments against people belonging to a different religion, accusing Muslims of spreading Covid-19, indulging in 'love jihad' and various other misdemeanours," they said. "What is striking about Facebook's leniency towards these persons is that all of them happen to be members of the political party in power. That Facebook did consider the posts to be offensive is apparent from the fact that these posts were deleted on August 17, after the WSJ wrote to Facebook seeking its comments," they added. The letter also referred to Delhi riots and cow vigilantism among others and said many of these crimes have been instigated through hate speech spread through Facebook, WhatsApp and Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/take-serious-efforts-to-audit-implementation-of-facebooks-hate-speech-policy-in-india-ex-bureaucrats-tell-zuckerberg-877286.html
24-08-2020||National||Bengal Assembly session in September amid Covid-19 protocols||A session of the West Bengal Assembly will be held next month with all Covid-19 safety norms in place, government and assembly sources said on Monday. The state government sent a proposal to convene the assembly either from the first or the second week of September, a senior government official said, adding due precautionary measures will be ensured for conduct of the session keeping in mind spread of coronavirus in the state. Assembly Speaker Biman Banerjee confirmed it and said plans are being chalked out for convening the house. "The session will start either in the first or the second week of the next month. We are working on how to have the session by maintaining Covid-19 protocols," he told PTI. This will be a short session, a source in the assembly said. He said organising the session in the open instead of the legislative complex is also under consideration. He, however, said for this "we have to keep in mind that its rainy season."  Asked if it would be monsoon session of the house, he said, "We will not be able to call it a monsoon session since it will not be possible to hold a long session like what we usually have during this time." West Bengal has a 295-member assembly, including one nominated member from the Anglo-Indian community. The chamber of the house of the legislative building measuresing 4300 sq ft is round shaped with a capacity to accommodate 300 members. The session will be important since the polls are likely in the state early next year. Trinamool Congress headed by Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has an overwhelming majority in the house. BJP, which has emerged as the main opposition in Bengal leaving CPM and Congress behind, is vying for power in the state after its stupendous performance in the 2019 general elections when it won 18 out of total 42 Lok Sabha seats in the state, only four less than TMC which came out victorious in 22 constituencies. The assembly source said they were aware of the challenges of holding the session amid raging Covid-19 situation so necessary precautions will be taken. "We have to plan the session keeping in mind that an MLA has succumbed to Covid-19 and there are other members who are down with the contagion. We have so many members and cannot afford taking any risk," he said.  Talking further about the arrangements, the source said that presence of media during the session will also be regulated keeping in mind the ongoing pandemic. "We are planning how to include media during the session. We will seek cooperation from press persons. "There is a need to regulate their presence since huge presence of people cannot be allowed amid pandemic," the source said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengal-assembly-session-in-september-amid-covid-19-protocols-877287.html
24-08-2020||National||Microsoft to train 900 teachers to help develop quantum computing workforce in India||Tech giant Microsoft on Monday said it is launching a new programme to build quantum computing skills and capabilities in the academic community in India and will train 900 faculty members from top Indian institutes. As part of this initiative, Microsoft Garage is organising a 'Train the Trainer' programme in collaboration with Electronics and ICT Academies at Malaviya National Institute of Technology (MNIT), Jaipur and National Institute of Technology, Patna, a statement said. This programme will train 900 faculty members from universities and institutes across India through E&ICT Academies at institutes of national importance such as IIT Kanpur, IIT Guwahati, IIT Roorkee, MNIT Jaipur, NIT Patna, IIIT-D Jabalpur, and NIT Warangal, equipping academics with the required skills to start building their quantum future, it added. Quantum computing applies the properties of quantum physics to process information. Quantum computers will enable new discoveries in the areas of healthcare, energy, environmental systems, smart materials, and beyond. Microsoft is bringing the capabilities to develop for this quantum future to the cloud with Azure Quantum. Azure Quantum is an open cloud ecosystem enabling developers to access diverse quantum software, hardware, and solutions from Microsoft and its partners. It is built on Microsoft's Azure cloud platform, and will continue to adapt to Microsoft's rapidly evolving cloud future. The quantum training program, through the E&ICT Academies, supports an initiative by the Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology (MeitY) to enhance the skills of the academicians in imparting next level technological skills for future generations. Key themes that will be covered include an introduction to quantum information, quantum concepts such as superposition and entanglement, processing of information using qubits and quantum gates, as well as an introduction to quantum machine learning and quantum programming, the statement said. "India is renowned across the world for its science, technology, engineering, mathematics and computing (STEM+C) workforce, and a tech-capable citizenry. "Through this initiative in India, we aim to develop skills in quantum at scale, which has the potential to trigger the new frontier of innovation, shaping the future of the IT industry in this part of the world," Rajiv Kumar, Managing Director, Microsoft India Development Center, and Corporate Vice President, Enterprise+Devices India, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/microsoft-to-train-900-teachers-to-help-develop-quantum-computing-workforce-in-india-877290.html
24-08-2020||National||SC orders release of 84-year-old accused of raping minor girl||The Supreme Court on Monday allowed bail to an 84-year-old man from West Bengal after the DNA report refuted the charge made against him of raping a 14-year-old girl, resulting into birth of a child. A bench of Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Ajay Rastogi noted that the DNA report does not show that the appellant is a father of the child born. "We have no hesitation in saying that the appellant should be enlarged on bail on the terms and conditions to the satisfaction of the Trial Court," the Court said. The petitioner's counsel that the case was made out of a landlord-tenant dispute and he should be given appropriate compensation. The Court said he can seek appropriate remedy available in law in this regard. It had earlier allowed his plea for the DNA test to ascertain if the accused was capable of performing sexual acts. The victim had delivered a female child on July 5. His counsel said the man suffered from various ailments and was incapable of performing sexual acts. He also expressed the willingness of the client to undergone DNA and paternity test.  The man is in jail since May 12. He challenged the validity of the Calcutta High Court's order of June 5 rejecting his bail plea in view of the gravity of charges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-orders-release-of-84-year-old-accused-of-raping-minor-girl-877294.html
24-08-2020||National||Centre planning to set up bus ports in major cities: Nitin Gadkari||Union Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari on Monday said the Centre is planning to fund to states set up bus ports in major cities to encourage public use public transport system. The bus ports will have all modern facilities including bus servicing centres, Gadkari said while addressing a seminar on public transport. The bus ports are nothing but modern bus-terminal to be set up major cities to provide modern facilities to bus travellers. The terminal will have a restroom, wi-fi facility and other infrastructure.  Bus operators may consider providing better services like good attendants, provision for entertainment tools like audio music, films, etc which can fetch better returns. Double-decker buses will also improve the efficiency of public transport, he said. Gadkari suggested the public transport operators use biofuels, CNG and electricity as fuel as an alternative fuel was cheaper. Most of the State Road Transport Undertakings (SRTUs) are incurring huge expenditure on conventional fuels which are expensive, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-planning-to-set-up-bus-ports-in-major-cities-nitin-gadkari-877309.html
24-08-2020||National||Tribal woman gang-raped, then 'fined' by kangaroo court in Bengal||A 32-year-old tribal woman and her boyfriend were allegedly captured, kept in confinement for a day, and then she was gang-raped in West Bengal's Birbhum district, police said on Monday. Later, a kangaroo court asked the woman and her boyfriend, who is a non-tribal, to pay a "fine" of Rs 10,000 and Rs 50,000, respectively, she alleged. Police said they have arrested five persons in connection with the incident. The woman, a widow with three children, was returning home in the Mohammadbazar area on her boyfriend's bike on the evening of August 18 when they were stopped by a few men, she alleged in the police complaint that was filed on Saturday. They were kept confined in a room that night and next day she was taken to a nearby forest area and allegedly gang- raped by five men, police said. "All the five accused have been arrested," Subimal Paul, additional superintendent of police of Birbhum district, said. They were then fined by the kangaroo court that was held in the woman's village, as per the police complaint. "Investigation has also been initiated into the alleged kangaroo court," the officer said. The local media reported that she was allegedly raped and fined as she was dating a non-tribal but there was no official confirmation on this. Police said they are investigating the matter and a case has been registered. All the five accused have been accused of gang rape, wrongful confinement and criminal intimidation in the FIR registered by police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tribal-woman-gang-raped-then-fined-by-kangaroo-court-in-bengal-877313.html
24-08-2020||National||Gujarat: Rain wreaks havoc in many areas; 9 dead, 1,900 shifted||Nine persons died and 1,900 people were shifted to safer places in Gujarat on Monday as heavy rains lashed several parts of the state, especially the Saurashtra region, causing flooding in low-lying areas and disrupting normal life. Aji dam in Rajkot and Kadi dam in Mehsana were among other dams that received a large inflow of water, officials said, adding that many rivers are in spate in the state. Many low-lying areas were marooned as gates of overflowing dams were opened. About 1,900 people were shifted to safer places in Ahmedabad, Mehsana, Sabarkantha, Patan, and Mehsana districts, officials of the State Emergency Operation Centre (SEOC) said. Gujarat received more than 102 per cent of the annual average rainfall till Monday morning. Of the nine deaths, two were caused due to collapse of houses in Junagadh and Tapi districts, while seven others drowned in separate incidents in Mehsana, Bhavnagar, Junagadh, Tapi, Narmada and Morbi, officials said. In Morbi district, a father and his son, going to attend a state competitive exam, were swept away in the strong current of water near Raisangpar village, officials said, adding that a search is on to trace them. Abdasa taluka in Kutch district and Gondal in Rajkot each received 179 mm rainfall in 12 hours from 6 am on Monday, the SEOC said. Bhanvad in Devbhumi Dwarka district and Jam Jodhpur in Jamnagar district received 165 mm rainfall during the 12-hour period. Similarly, Lakhpat in Kutch received 129 mm rainfall, followed by Santalpur in Patan at 100 mm. As on Monday morning, the state received 102.73 per cent of the annual average rainfall, with Kutch recording the highest rainfall of 188.04 per cent so far, as per the government data. The east-central zone recorded the lowest rainfall so far at 79 mm. In 24 hours ending Monday morning, 251 talukas in 33 districts received rains, including seven talukas that received over 200 mm rainfall in Jamnagar, Mehsana, Morbi, and Patan districts, it said. The Met department said Gujarat is very likely to receive an "active wet spell" during August 24 and August 25. It predicted heavy to very heavy rains in isolated places in Gujarat region on Tuesday and issued an advisory for fishermen in north and south Gujarat coasts till Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-rain-wreaks-havoc-in-many-areas-9-dead-1900-shifted-877317.html
24-08-2020||National||HM Amit Shah asks NDRF to help rescue people trapped in Raigad building collapse||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday directed the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) to provide all assistance in the rescue of those trapped following the collapse of a building at Raigad in Maharashtra. Seventeen persons were injured after a five-storeyed residential building collapsed in Raigad district on Monday, police said. Around 70 people are feared trapped in the debris after the building, which was around 10 years old, collapsed at Kajalpura in Mahad tehsil around 7 pm, an official said. "The collapse of a building in Raigad, Maharashtra is very tragic. Have spoken to DG @NDRFHQ to provide all possible assistance, teams are on the way and will be assisting with the rescue operations as soon as possible. Praying for everyone's safety," Shah tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hm-amit-shah-asks-ndrf-to-help-rescue-people-trapped-in-raigad-building-collapse-877321.html
24-08-2020||National||Some of 23 Congress leaders who wrote to Sonia Gandhi meet after CWC||Some senior Congress leaders, including Kapil Sibal and Shashi Tharoor, met at their senior colleague Ghulam Nabi Azad's house here on Monday evening after the Congress Working Committee debated their letter to the party's interim chief Sonia Gandhi seeking urgent organisational reforms. The meeting was also attended by Mukul Wasnik and Manish Tewari, along with some other signatories to the letter who was present in the national capital, sources said. The leaders discussed the resolution passed at the CWC meeting, which urged Sonia Gandhi to continue as its interim chief till an AICC session can be convened and authorised her to effect necessary organisational changes to deal with the challenges facing the party. None of the leaders agreed to comment on their deliberations, which took place soon after the CWC meet ended. Only a few of the 23 signatories are part of the CWC. After the seven-hour meeting of the party's top decision-making body, the CWC unanimously resolved to strengthen the hands of Sonia and Rahul Gandhi in every possible way, while it also made it clear no one will be permitted to undermine or weaken the party and its leadership. The CWC also resolved that inner-party issues cannot be deliberated through the media or in public fora and all such issues must be raised within the party "in the interest of propriety and discipline". Having a "full time" leadership that is active in the field and "visible" in party offices, devolution of powers to state units and revamping the CWC in line with the party constitution are some of the far-reaching suggestions made by 23 senior Congress leaders in a letter to party chief Sonia Gandhi to revive the organisation, sources said on Sunday. The signatories to the letter include Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Azad; former Union ministers Sibal, Tharoor, Tewari, Anand Sharma, P J Kurian, Renuka Chaudhary, Milind Deora, and Ajay Singh. Also among them are MP Vivek Tankha; CWC members Mukul Wasnik and Jitin Prasada; former chief ministers Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Rajender Kaur Bhattal, M Veerappa Moily and Prithviraj Chavan. Former PCC chiefs Raj Babbar (UP), Arvinder Singh Lovely (Delhi) and Kaul Singh Thakur (Himachal); current Bihar campaign chief Akhilesh Singh, former Haryana Speaker Kuldeep Sharma; former Delhi Speaker Yoganand Shastri and former MP Sandeep Dixit are also among the signatories to the letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/some-of-23-congress-leaders-who-wrote-to-sonia-gandhi-meet-after-cwc-877334.html
24-08-2020||National||Did not flout any norms: EC after getting accused of sharing electoral data with Delhi police||An activist on Monday accused the Election Commission (EC) of flouting the norms set by itself by allowing police to check photo electoral rolls of a parliamentary constituency of Delhi in order to match with the pictures of people involved in the communal clashes in the National Capital Territory last February. The EC, however, dismissed the allegation, stating that it had not “deviated” from its December 2008 order, which laid down the guideline for sharing of electoral rolls and the database related to Electoral Photo Identity Cards with police or any other department of the state and the central governments. The activist Saket Gokhale posted on Twitter a March 12, 2020 letter from the EC to the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) of Delhi, stating that the “prevailing policy and practice” of the commission did not allow sharing of the electoral database of an entire district or an entire assembly constituency. The 1st line of the order itself admits that voter lists shared with police CANNOT contain photos. ECI broke these rules & made these full voter lists WITH PHOTOS available to police after the Delhi pogrom. This is an easy way to identify minorities living in any area. (2/3) The letter was written in response to a query from the CEO, who had apparently sought instruction from the commission after the Delhi Police approached him seeking access to the electoral database of North East Delhi, East Delhi and Shahdara districts of the National Capital Territory so that the investigating cops could march the pictures of the rioters collected from the CCTV recordings and other videos. The EC allowed the CEO to display the electoral roll along with the images of the electors in his office before the Delhi Police officers investigating the clashes.     Scores of young Muslim innocent men were picked up by police arbitrarily. Are voter lists with photos being shared in other places too for building a “facial recognition” database? THIS IS SERIOUS! (3/3) Scores of young Muslim innocent men were picked up by police arbitrarily. Are voter lists with photos being shared in other places too for building a “facial recognition” database? THIS IS SERIOUS! (3/3) “Election Commission of India broke its own rules & (and) shared photos & (and) addresses of all residents of NE (North-East) Delhi with the police after the February 2020 pogrom,” tweeted Gokhale. “Entire voter lists with photos were handed over illegally to enable ‘identification’ of people.” The EC, however, stated that the allegation was not based on facts. “It is hereby clarified in view of the anecdotal reports which are not based on empirical facts that the Commission has not in any way deviated from the original guidelines of 2008 and clarificatory orders of 2020 in any manner,” the poll-panel stated in a press release issued on Monday.  The 2008 guidelines stated that the electoral database along with photographs of electors could be shared with the government departments on special permissions from the EC case-by-case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/did-not-flout-any-norms-ec-after-getting-accused-of-sharing-electoral-data-with-delhi-police-877336.html
24-08-2020||National Politics||Several Congress leaders throw weight behind Gandhi family on CWC eve||Several Congress leaders on Sunday threw their weight behind the Gandhi family amidst a growing tumult with the party deeply divided on the leadership issue on the eve of the crucial Congress Working Committee(CWC) meeting. After 23 party leaders wrote to Sonia Gandhi seeking revamp of major bodies, sources close to her said she might offer to step down in the CWC and ask the party to look for a full-time president. AICC media chief Randeep Surjewala, however, denied it. Having a "full time" leadership that is active in the field and "visible" in party offices, dissolution of powers to state units and revamping the CWC in line with the party constitution are some of the far-reaching suggestions made by 23 senior Congress leaders in the letter to Sonia Gandhi, sources said. As the news of the letter spread, several leaders, including many MPs, wrote to Sonia Gandhi, either calling for her to continue or urging Rahul Gandhi to take charge. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy, Congress leader in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and former ministers Ashwani Kumar, Salman Khurshid and KK Tewary, among others, backed the Gandhis. Opposing the bid to challenge the Gandhi family leadership, Amarinder Singh said this was not the time to raise such an issue. "The move by these Congress leaders to demand a rehaul of the party at this critical juncture would be detrimental to its interests, and the interests of the nation," he said in a statement. Gehlot said Sonia Gandhi should continue to lead the party and if she has made up her mind, then Rahul Gandhi should come ahead and be the Congress president as the "country faces the biggest challenge to save its democracy". Congress leader Sachin Pilot, who recently rebelled against Gehlot and later called off his rebellion against the state government after the intervention of Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, said, "Mrs Gandhi and Rahul ji have shown what it means to sacrifice for the greater good of the people and the party." "It's now time to build consensus and consolidate. Our future is stronger when we’re united. Most Congress workers would like to see Rahul ji take over and lead the party," he said. Baghel wrote a letter to Rahul Gandhi, urging him to return as the president of the party. "Hon'ble Sonia ji and Rahul ji are the ray of hope for us in every challenge. We are all with you. Millions of party workers and people of Chhattisgarh and the entire nation are with you..," he tweeted. Former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath said any suggestion or criticism of the leadership of Sonia Gandhi is absurd. "I appeal to Mrs. Sonia Gandhi to strengthen the Congress Party as the President and continue to lead the Congress," he said in a tweet in Hindi. Delhi Congress also passed a resolution calling for Rahul Gandhi to be made the party chief. The Indian Youth Congress also passed a resolution that Rahul Gandhi must be made party's president. In their tweet carrying the resolution, the IYC used the hashtag 'My Leader Rahul Gandhi' which was used by several Congress leaders. Senior party leader Digvijaya Singh said it is a time for the Congress to be united and asserted that he cannot imagine a Congress without the Nehru- Gandhi family. Rajya Sabha MP Rajeev Satav also wrote to Sonia Gandhi, saying the Congress is "safe only in your hands or that of Rahul Gandhi". Karnataka Congress chief D K Shivakumar, in a letter to Sonia Gandhi, expressed support for the leadership of the Gandhis. "Entire Congress Party in Karnataka stands by the leadership of Smt. Sonia Gandhi and the Gandhi family. Mrs. Gandhi has led the Congress during times of crisis and saved our party," he said in a tweet. "Anything that has to be discussed must be done so in the party forum and not in the media," Shivakumar tweeted. Lok Sabha MP Manickam Tagore too demanded Rahul Gandhi's return as Congress president. Shashi Tharoor, who was among the 23 leaders who wrote the letter expressing concerns over the party's situation, put out a cryptic tweet quoting Jawaharlal Nehru that said "we have become prisoners of the past". "Without passion and urge, there is a gradual oozing out of hope and vitality, a settling down on lower levels of existence, a slow merging into non-existence. We have become prisoners of the past and some part of its immobility sticks to us," he tweeted, quoting Nehru. Former Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah tweeted, "It is unfortunate that the leadership of Gandhi family is being questioned by few. In these difficult times of undeclared emergency and attack on democracy by BJP, we should collectively strive to strengthen Congress and not weaken it." Ashwani Kumar and Khurshid both argued that elections would be divisive and consensus should be given a chance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/several-congress-leaders-throw-weight-behind-gandhi-family-on-cwc-eve-876938.html
24-08-2020||National Politics||Maharashtra Congress leaders want Sonia Gandhi to continue as party chief||Maharashtra Congress leaders on Sunday passed a resolution, stating that Sonia Gandhi should continue as the party president. The resolution said that in case she refuses to do so, Rahul Gandhi should take over as the Congress chief. The resolution was passed during a virtual meeting presided over by AICC general secretary Mallikarjun Kharge and hosted by party secretary Sampath Kumar. "Senior Congress leaders of Maharashtra have hereby unanimously resolved that madam Sonia ji Gandhi should continue as the Congress President as it is only because of her leadership our party came to power," the resolution read. "She has made several sacrifices to rebuild the party and is still very actively involved in all the decisions pertaining to the party," it said. "After taking charge, she got the Congress in power and in spite of the requests from the all the elected MPs to take up the Prime Minister's role, she refused and handed it over to Shri Manmohan Singh ji, an eminent economist and a very able senior leader," the resolution read. "Even now, we desire that she should lead the party in the future as well. And in case she refuses our request, we would seek Shri Rahulji Gandhi to immediately take over as the AICC president. "Under his dynamic leadership, the Congress party will regain confidence and faith of the public of this country and his valuable leadership will help party workers strengthen the organisation. Not only the Congress party but the entire country needs Rahul Gandhi's leadership," it added. The resolution was proposed by state Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat and seconded by PWD minister Ashok Chavan. The resolution comes in wake of reports that Sonia Gandhi has expressed desire to step down as the interim president. However, the report has been denied by the AICC. The Congress Working Committee meeting is scheduled to be held on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/maharashtra-congress-leaders-want-sonia-gandhi-to-continue-as-party-chief-876941.html
24-08-2020||National Politics||Have to work in planned manner for 'bigger score' in 2022 Assembly polls: UP BJP chief||Uttar Pradesh BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh on Sunday held a virtual meeting with the newly appointed office-bearers of the party's state unit and said they have to work in a planned manner to achieve a "bigger score" in the 2022 Assembly elections. BJP's UP unit General Secretary (Organisation) Sunil Bansal was present at the meeting. The new team of office-bearers was announced on Saturday. At the meeting, Singh said all the office-bearers have to work to strengthen the organisation and fulfil the aspirations of the people. "In the 2022 Assembly elections, we have to achieve a bigger score. For that, we have to work in a planned manner," he said. In the 2017 state elections, the BJP won 312 of the 403 seats, while the Apna Dal (Sonelal) got nine seats and Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) bagged four seats. Later, the Om Prakash Rajbhar-led SBSP parted ways with the BJP. In a statement issued here, the UP BJP said that similar virtual meetings will also be held with the district units of the party. Singh said that names of 16 vice presidents of the BJP's UP unit have been announced, which included Noida MLA Pankaj Singh, and MLCs Laxman Acharya and Vijay Bahadur Pathak. J P S Rathore, Amarpal Maurya and five others have been made general secretaries while Manish Kapoor and Sanjeev Agarwal have been made treasurers, according to the statement. Meanwhile, Defence Minister and Lok Sabha MP from Lucknow Rajnath Singh held a virtual meeting with party workers of Lucknow East Assembly constituency. "The country is facing Covid-19 pandemic in a united manner. The Centre and the state government has taken a number of steps. At the onset of the global pandemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi took a historic decision of giving free foodgrains to 80 crore people. This scheme will continue till November," he said. Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma also took part in the virtual meeting with Rajnath Singh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/have-to-work-in-planned-manner-for-bigger-score-in-2022-assembly-polls-up-bjp-chief-876956.html
24-08-2020||National Politics||Call for sweeping changes: The way ahead for Congress||The call for “sweeping changes” in the way the Congress is run including the demand for “full-time and effective leadership” is perhaps the best thing that has happened for the Congress. With the demand now in the public domain, this may become the appropriate time for the senior leadership to effect changes. Will the party grab the opportunity and make the changes suggested? This is a question the party will now have to take, and at the moment, it looks likely that this will indeed happen. In what shape it takes place and the process that would be involved may be known in the days and perhaps weeks to come. A striking feature of the call for reforms is the possible leadership change and one from outside the Gandhi family taking over the reins. However, this is easier said than done. There will be resistance from the Gandhi family loyalists. This is already happening. Three party chief ministers—Ashok Gehlot of Rajasthan, Amrinder Singh of Punjab and Bhupesh Bhagel of Chhattisgarh want the Gandhis to continue leading the party. While choosing its president, the party is likely to spend considerable time, and once he/she is chosen, starts the second phase of consolidation of that dispensation. In Congress, it would be difficult for anyone other than the `family’ to command loyalty. It would be a Herculean task for anyone who takes over the leadership—unless it is a collective one—to summon allegiance from the party leaders or the rank and file. These are the two crucial phases that the party will be called upon to face. These stages may not be smooth for the party as knives may be out for many from their bete noirs. There will be efforts engineered to cut others to size and to ensure that only the Gandhis will remain at the helm. The tussle between the young elements and the veterans will continue even after the leadership issue is resolved. It is possible that a leader chosen by the Gandhis, someone like Mallikarjun Kharge, though aged, may find acceptance of all. That he is comfortable in many languages including Hindi would be a plus point for him. Kharge effectively steered the party as floor leader in the last Lok Sabha. However, that he was defeated in the Lok Sabha polls last year may go against him. The century-old party is passing through its most difficult phase in terms of leadership, campaign strategy in elections, finding proper candidates or even effectively analysing the government’s policies as an opposition party, although it must be said that often, Rahul Gandhi tried his best in this regard. However, the public seem to be far from being convinced that Congress would give an effective alternative to the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/call-for-sweeping-changes-the-way-ahead-for-congress-876984.html
24-08-2020||National Politics||Aam Aadmi Party starts preparations for BMC polls||The Aam Aadmi Party has started preparations for the 2022 polls to the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), one of the biggest civic bodies of Asia. The AAP last week announced its task force which will oversee the party's electoral preparedness and organisation building for the BMC polls in 2022. Along with the task force, campaign secretaries across Mumbai's 6 Lok Sabha seats and 36 Assembly segments, whose sole task would be to build the party at the grassroots so as to reach out to every Mumbaikar and hold the civic administration responsible. Like Mumbai, the BMC task force and the team of campaign secretaries is a cross-section of the cosmopolitan city and has members from all walks of life. "Politics is for the brightest and best and we are privileged to have students, youth, women, young professionals, homemakers, doctors, architects, journalists, academicians, lawyers, entrepreneurs and social workers," according to a statement by AAP. “Mumbaikars have suffered under misgovernance and civic administrative apathy for far too long. We appeal to all Mumbaikars to join the AAP and strengthen this people's movement of honest politics and good governance. In 2022, Mumbaikars will be able to vote for the greater good that AAP represents and not the lesser evil. AAP is not just a viable alternative, but the solution," said AAP leader Preeti Sharma Menon. The task force comprises of Aditya Paul, Dwijendra Tiwari, Imtiaz Mogul, Kashinath K, Manu Pillai, Mithila Naik-Satam, Radhika Nair, Ruben Mascarenhas, Sahil Parsekar, Sumitra Srivastava and Vice Admiral (Retd) IC Rao.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aam-aadmi-party-starts-preparations-for-bmc-polls-877022.html
24-08-2020||National Politics||Kerala Assembly to discuss no-confidence motion against Pinarayi Vijayan-led government||A one-day session of Kerala Assembly that began at 9 am on Monday will discuss a no-confidence motion against the Pinarayi Vijayan led left-front government in the wake of the alleged nexus of Chief Minister's office with the accused in the gold smuggling case. Since the left-front is having a comfortable majority of about 90 seats in the 140 member Assembly, the no-confidence motion did not pose any threat to the government's existence. However, the house may witness heated debates over the gold smuggling row and alleged irregularities in construction of housing scheme for the homeless using assistance for the UAE's Red Crescent voluntary organisation. Five-hours have been allotted for the discussion on the no-confidence motion notice moved by Congress MLA V D Satheesan. The special session was convened mainly to pass the Finance Bill. The session is being held by following social distancing norms. All members and staff were subjected to Covid test ahead of the session. Election to a Rajya Sabha seat that became vacant following death of Loktantrik Janata Dal leader M P Veerendrakumar will be also held on Monday. His son M V Shreyam's Kumar is the left-front candidate while Lal Varghese Kalpakavadi is Congress-led UDF candidate. A resolution protesting against Thiruvananthapuram airport's privatisation is also likely to be passed in the house. The Congress might back the resolution by expressing dissent over the state government's decision to engage law firm Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas, which has links with the Adani group, for preparing the bids for taking over airport management. The  state had lost to the Adani group in the bidding. Though the Opposition sought permission for moving a notice seeking removal of speaker P Sreeramakrishnan in view of his links with the accused in the gold smuggling case, it was denied permission citing technical reasons. The opposition raised banners and placards in protest against the government in the house.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/kerala-assembly-to-discuss-no-confidence-motion-against-pinarayi-vijayan-led-government-877024.html
24-08-2020||National Politics||Ahead of Congress Working Committee meeting meet, here's all you need to know||After Congress leader Rahul Gandhi resigned as the party's president following defeats in two consecutive General Elections, Sonia Gandhi took over as the party's interim president. However, now, she too has expressed concerns in occupying that space. Congress Working Committee (CWC) is scheduled to meet on Monday likely to discuss the leadership crisis the party has once again entangled itself into. Here are all the significant developments leading up to the meeting: Letter of Dissent The Congress party's failure to capture the voter's attention in elections and their inability to form a coherent and consistent stand against the Narendra Modi-led BJP has long prompted criticism from people within and outside parties. The consecutive losses have led to several Congresspersons to flag dissent and point out the leadership crisis the party has been suffering from.  Former Congress leader Sanjay Jha on Twitter pointed out the letter written to Sonia Gandhi, signed by over 300 Congress members including some close associates of Rahul Gandhi, point towards the long visible leadership crisis. The letter criticises Rahul Gandhi for his ways of functioning and despite stepping down from the president position, he continues to dictate Congress' stand on various issues, which has not been working well for the party. The CWC meeting is likely to involve discussions on the differences Congress members have with the leadership.  Letter's demand The need for collective decision-making is evident in the party and the letter further proposes the decentralization of power and having a full-time party president. It also suggested polls for the apex decision-making body, the CWC, and revival of the parliamentary board. Divide within The letter also received flak from several party members including Karnataka state chief DK Shivakumar, former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah and CMs of Punjab, Rajasthan, Puducherry among others.  They counter-argued that the Gandhis were integral to the party and it was necessary that they remain in control. The CWC meeting is likely to involve debating the 'loyalist' sentiment and the signatories of the letter who demand reform for the betterment. Rahul Dilemma The 'loyalists' demand his return and then there are the ones demanding reform. The CWC meeting may shed some light on the development of Rahul's position in the party. The way forward With Sonia Gandhi expressing reservations on being the party's president and uncertainty over Rahul's return, the party's top position still remains devoid of any closure.  With Sonia's health complications and an unlikely chance of Rahul's return, the CWC meeting is crucial in determining the leadership of the party. Various solutions including having four vice-presidents, appointing another interim president and, some Congress leaders have also suggested passing on the baton to Priyanka Gandhi Vadra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ahead-of-congress-working-committee-meeting-meet-heres-all-you-need-to-know-877028.html
24-08-2020||National Politics||Congress set for stormy CWC meet to discuss leadership issue||The Congress is set for a stormy meeting of its working committee on Monday as it stands divided on the leadership issue with a section demanding collective leadership and another reposing faith in the Gandhi family. Top Congress leaders are expected to deliberate on the issue of leadership during the meeting of the party's top decision-making body that will be held virtually. Sources said Sonia Gandhi may offer to resign at the meeting after around 20 leaders wrote to her demanding a full-time, visible president and overhauling of the organisational structure including elections to the CWC and reconstitution of the Parliamentary board. Massive support poured for the Gandhis on Sunday after the "pro-reform" leaders went public, with Congress chief ministers leading the calls for Sonia Gandhi to stay until Rahul Gandhi takes charge. Almost all Lok Sabha MPs of the party have written to Sonia Gandhi expressing solidarity and urging her to continue in her post or instal Rahul Gandhi. Several state units including Delhi and Rajasthan passed resolutions favouring the leadership of Gandhis after a letter from a section of senior party leaders demanded sweeping reforms in the party, going to the extent of questioning the current CWC's ability to guide the party in the fight against the BJP. Ironically, at least three of the dissenters are themselves part of the same CWC. These include Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma and Mukul Wasnik. Several party leaders, while supporting the continuation of Gandhis at the helm, accused those behind the letter of playing into the hands of the BJP and attempting to weaken the party at a time when there was a need to close ranks against the NDA government. Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja said, "we stand firmly behind Sonia Gandhi. This is the time to close ranks against the BJP and not the time to show cracks." The dissenting leaders, meanwhile, also said that the party has failed to conduct an honest introspection of its losses in 2014 and 2019, adding that the uncertainty over leadership has demoralised workers. This is the second challenge to Sonia Gandhi's leadership after the one in 1999 when the then leader of Opposition in Lok Sabha Sharad Pawar challenged her foreign origins in order to keep her from being named the party's prime ministerial face in the general elections that year. Sonia Gandhi had resigned in the CWC, which rejected her move unanimously bringing her back as party president. While Sonia went on to become the longest serving Congress president, Pawar and rebels had to quit to form the NCP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-set-for-stormy-cwc-meet-to-discuss-leadership-issue-877030.html
24-08-2020||National Politics||Kamal Nath, Digvijaya Singh express faith in Sonia Gandhi's leadership; ask her to stay on as party President||Ahead of the Congress Working Committee meeting on Monday, party veterans Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh have come out in support of the Gandhi family and expressed faith in the leadership of Sonia Gandhi. Former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath has urged Sonia Gandhi to continue as the Congress president. "We must not forget that in spite of the canard against Smt. Sonia Gandhi, she led the Congress Party to victory in 2004 and made Atal Bihari Vajpayee sit at home," Nath, who is the Madhya Pradesh Congress chief, tweeted late Sunday night. "Any suggestion or insinuation that Mrs. Sonia Gandhis leadership is in question is absurd. I appeal to Mrs. Sonia Gandhi to give strength to the Congress Party by continuing as President and lead the Congress," he added. Any suggestion or insinuation that Mrs. Sonia Gandhi’s leadership is in question is absurd. I appeal to Mrs. Sonia Gandhi to give strength to the Congress Party by continuing as President and lead the Congress. Digvijaya Singh said it is time for the Congress to unite. "The family that has sacrificed for the country's independence and thereafter is well known. I do not agree with what is coming in the media. I cannot even imagine a Congress without Nehru-Gandhi family," Singh said in a tweet. "Soniaji's leadership is well accepted. If Sonia ji wants to leave the post of president, then Rahul ji should leave his stubbornness and accept the post of president. The common Congress worker of the country will not accept anyone else," the Rajya Sabha member added. यह समय कॉंग्रेस को एक मत होने का है। मत भिन्नता का नहीं। जिस परिवार ने देश की आज़ादी और उसके बाद जो देश के लिए त्याग और बलिदान किया है वह सर्व विदित है। मीडिया में जो कुछ आ रहा है मैं उस से सहमत नहीं हूँ। नेहरू गॉंधी परिवार के बिना कॉंग्रेस की मैं कल्पना भी नहीं कर सकता।१/२ Several Congress leaders on Sunday threw their weight behind the Gandhi family amidst a growing tumult with the party deeply divided on the leadership issue ahead of the crucial Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting. Top Congress leaders are expected to deliberate on the issue of leadership during the meeting of the party's top decision-making body that will be held virtually. After 23 party leaders wrote to Sonia Gandhi seeking revamp of major bodies, sources close to her said on Sunday that she might offer to step down in the CWC and ask the party to look for a full-time president. AICC media chief Randeep Surjewala, however, denied it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/kamal-nath-digvijaya-singh-express-faith-in-sonia-gandhis-leadership-ask-her-to-stay-on-as-party-president-877037.html
24-08-2020||National Politics||Pondy Minister urges Rahul Gandhi to take over AICC leadership||Puducherry PWD Minister and former PCC chief A Namassivayam on Monday appealed to Rahul Gandhi to take over leadership of the Congress party. "Rahul Gandhi has the unparalleled efficiency and capability to guide the destiny of the party and also to effectively question the anti-people rule by the Bharatiya Janata party-led NDA government at the Centre," he said in a press release. He said Rahul Gandhi should become the AICC leader once again in the larger interest of promoting the well-being of the people. Namassivayam said Rahul Gandhi possessed all the leadership qualities and is an embodiment of the proficiency of great stalwarts of the party who had guided its destiny. "Rahul Gandhi should don the leadership of AICC so that the anti-people style of functioning of the NDA government could be effectively tackled. Rahul Gandhi is an unparalleled and dedicated leader who can run the party with utmost dedication and hence he should don the leadership of the party," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pondy-minister-urges-rahul-gandhi-to-take-over-aicc-leadership-877055.html
24-08-2020||National Politics||APCC urges Sonia Gandhi to continue as Congress president||The Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee on Monday requested Sonia Gandhi to continue as the AICC president as "there is no other leader in the Congress to give a strong leadership." In case Sonia Gandhi made up her mind otherwise, the APCC wanted Rahul Gandhi to come forward and take up the responsibility as Congress president. "The APCC unanimously resolved and holds a strong belief that you should continue to lead the party as Congress President at this crucial juncture," APCC president Sake Sailajanath said. "But if you have made up your mind otherwise and a change is inevitable, I believe that Rahul Gandhi ji should come forward and take up the responsibility of Congress president since the party needs him to lead the struggle from the front as the country faces the biggest challenge ever to its secular democracy and the Constitution," he added. He wrote a letter to Sonia Gandhi in this regard, referring to media reports of her possible resignation and "controversial letter" purportedly written by some senior Congress leaders. "I wish to strongly reiterate the fact that currently no other leader in the Congress can give the party a strong leadership and any move to deprive the party of an able, visionary and courageous leadership would give advantage to the divisive and dictatorial forces," Sailajanath said. Rahul Gandhi has already proved that he "had guts and the commitment" to take on the treacherous enemy with courage and conviction. "He is fully competent to lead the party to success," Sailajanath added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/apcc-urges-sonia-gandhi-to-continue-as-congress-president-877070.html
24-08-2020||National Politics||Kapil Sibal slams Rahul Gandhi for 'colluding with BJP' remark; withdraws it later||Senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal hit out at Rahul Gandhi on Monday over his reported remarks that the leaders who have written to Sonia Gandhi for organisational overhaul were "colluding with the BJP" and said he has never made a statement in favour of the saffron party on any issue in the last 30 years.  He later withdrew that tweet saying, "Was informed by Rahul Gandhi personally that he never said what was attributed to him. I withdraw my tweet", on "collusion with BJP" remark. Was informed by Rahul Gandhi personally that he never said what was attributed to him . I therefore withdraw my tweet . Sibal is among the 23 party leaders who have written to Sonia Gandhi seeking a "full-time" leadership that is active in the field and "visible" in party offices, dissolution of powers to state units and revamping the Congress Working Committee (CWC) in line with the party constitution, among other changes. As the CWC meeting is underway and it was reported that Rahul Gandhi had lashed out at the leaders who had written to Sonia Gandhi, Sibal tweeted. "Rahul says 'we are colluding with BJP'. Succeeded in Rajasthan High Court defending the Congress Party. Defending party in Manipur to bring down BJP government," he said. "Last 30 years have never made a statement in favour of BJP on any issue. Yet 'we are colluding with the BJP'!" Sibal tweeted. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/kapil-sibal-slams-rahul-gandhi-for-colluding-with-bjp-remark-withdraws-it-later-877097.html
24-08-2020||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi questions timing of letter to Sonia, says it was written in cahoots with BJP||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday attacked a section of the party for going public against the leadership, and charged that the letter seeking leadership changes was written in cahoots with the BJP. The charge invited sharp rebuttals from former ministers Ghulam Nabi Azad and Kapil Sibal. Azad said he would resign if any such link is established. In his brief speech at the CWC, Rahul Gandhi also questioned the timing of the letter, which was sent when Sonia Gandhi was hospitalised. Azad, who is one of the signatories read out the contents of the letter, saying the leaders are not questioning Sonia Gandhi and only wanted organisational reform in the larger interest of the party. Echoes of the fiery CWC meeting which is underway, were also heard outside with former minister Kapil Sibal, another signatory to the letter, publicly questioning Rahul's accusations of a BJP link to the letter seeking sweeping changes to party organisation and elections to the CWC. "Rahul Gandhi says 'we are colluding with BJP'. Succeeded in Rajasthan High Court defending the Congress Party. Defending party in Manipur to bring down BJP Government. "Last 30 years have never made a statement in favour of BJP on any issue. Yet 'we are colluding with the BJP'!,"he tweeted. Earlier addressing the CWC, Rahul Gandhi said Sonia Gandhi had accepted the party presidentship only after the committee last year urged her to take responsibility. He took on the leaders who went public with their complaints saying, "it is the CWC where we discuss our differences and put out our thoughts, not the media,". Questioning the timing of Azad's letter, the former Congress chief said the letter was sent when Sonia Gandhi was unwell and was admitted to a hospital and at a time when the Congress was fighting the crisis in Rajasthan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-questions-timing-of-letter-to-sonia-says-it-was-written-in-cahoots-with-bjp-877114.html
24-08-2020||National Politics||Convince Rahul to become Congress President if your health does not permit full-fledged dedication: Siddaramaiah to Sonia||Former Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah on Monday said that Congress must be led by either Sonia Gandhi or Rahul Gandhi, adding that it is “imperative” for the party to be led by the Gandhi family. “I humbly request you to continue as the president of All India Congress Committee, and if you feel that your health may not permit for full-fledged dedication, I urge you to convince Rahul Gandhi to take up the position,” Siddaramaiah said in a letter addressed to Sonia. “We, as a party, should be united to be effective in our relentless fight to make our country better. This is possible only if the Gandhi family leads the party and this is the opinion of all the leaders, supporters and party workers. Hence, it is imperative that the party should be led by the Gandhi family,” Siddaramaiah asserted. Siddaramaiah, who is Karnataka’s leader of the Opposition, is known to enjoy the trust of Rahul Gandhi. It is said that Rahul was impressed with Siddaramaiah who managed to get 80 seats for the Congress despite the anti-incumbency factor in the 2018 assembly elections. Siddaramaiah was rewarded with a seat in the Congress Working Committee and made the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader. “This is not the first time Congress is facing difficulties, and every time the party has made sure to come back,” Siddaramaiah said. “We should always remember that Gandhi family held the party together during all difficult times, and their contribution shall always be etched in the memories of all Indians and Congressmen,” he said, citing the examples of how Indira Gandhi ensured the party’s victory after the 1977 defeat and how Sonia Gandhi took the reins after the death of Rajiv Gandhi. “We very well know the troubles and hindrances you had to face to build this party between 1998 to 2004. You led the party to victory in 2004 when no other leaders had the confidence in Congress. You sacrificed the position of Prime Minister even when you were the obvious choice,” Siddaramaiah said. “Congress is in a similar situation today as it was in 1977 and 1998...India is under undeclared emergency and the democratic pillars are constantly attacked by BJP,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/convince-rahul-to-become-congress-president-if-your-health-does-not-permit-full-fledged-dedication-siddaramaiah-to-sonia-877135.html
24-08-2020||National Politics||Mayawati slams Uttar Pradesh government over law and order situation||BSP president Mayawati on Monday lashed out at the Uttar Pradesh government over the law and order situation in the state and asked if this was 'Ram Rajya'.  Citing recent cases of crime in some parts of the state, Mayawati demanded strict action against those involved in them "There is a spurt of crime in the state like rape of a Dalit minor in Sitapur, murder of a young man and breaking his son's hand for refusing to do bonded labour in Chitrakoot, and double murder in Gorakhpur. Is this the Ram rajya of the government? Strict action should be taken against culprits, this is the demand of BSP,” she said in the tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mayawati-slams-uttar-pradesh-government-over-law-and-order-situation-877156.html
24-08-2020||National Politics||I am ready to resign if I have helped BJP in any manner, says Ghulam Nabi Azad||Amid the tumultuous crisis that has engulfed Congress after 23 party leaders sent a letter to Sonia Gandhi expressing their disgruntlement at the way the party is functioning, Ghulam Nabi Azad said that he is ready to offer his resignation if he has helped BJP in any manner, according to reports. Azad, one of the 23 leaders, reportedly gave the statement during the Congress Working Committee meeting. He said it after a rumour surfaced that Rahul had accused the complainers of 'colluding with BJP'. However, the rumour has been quashed by Congress, and Azad also dismissed the claims that Rahul Gandhi had said any such thing. He cleared the air and said, "Rahul Gandhi never said it, neither in CWC or outside, that this letter (to Sonia Gandhi about party leadership) was written in collusion with BJP." Earlier addressing the CWC, Rahul Gandhi said Sonia Gandhi had accepted the party presidentship only after the committee last year urged her to take responsibility. He took on the leaders who went public with their complaints saying, "it is the CWC where we discuss our differences and put out our thoughts, not the media,". Questioning the timing of the letter, the former Congress chief said the letter was sent when Sonia Gandhi was unwell and was admitted to a hospital and at a time when the Congress was fighting the crisis in Rajasthan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/i-am-ready-to-resign-if-i-have-helped-bjp-in-any-manner-says-ghulam-nabi-azad-877169.html
24-08-2020||National Politics||Congress crisis: Rahul Gandhi pacifies 'hurt' Kapil Sibal||The meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) witnessed a high-voltage drama with Rahul Gandhi questioning the timing of the letter written by the 23 leaders, claiming that it has helped the BJP. As Rahul sought to link the letter writers with the BJP, one of the signatories, Kapil Sibal, took exception to the insinuation and tweeted that he was hurt by the former Congress president's remarks. Soon after Sibal had made his dejection public, Rahul reached out to him to clarify that he had not made the remarks that are being reported by a section of the media. “Rahul says 'we are colluding with BJP'. Succeeded in Rajasthan High Court defending the Congress Party. Defending party in Manipur to bring down BJP government. Last 30 years have never made a statement in favour of BJP on any issue. Yet 'we are colluding with the BJP',” said Sibal, who is not a member of the CWC. Minutes later, the former Law Minister deleted the tweet after Rahul spoke with him. “Was informed by Rahul Gandhi personally that he never said what was attributed to him. I, therefore, withdraw my tweet,” Sibal said. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala also said that Rahul has never made any such remarks. “Rahul Gandhi hasn't said a word of this nature nor alluded to it. Please don't be misled by false media discourse or misinformation being spread. But yes, we all need to work together in fighting the draconian Modi rule rather than fighting & hurting each other and the Congress,” Surjewala said. Congress leaders close to Rahul have targeted Sibal, accusing him of reacting to hearsay. “You are NOT inside the CWC. You are reacting to a leak that is false. It does not reflect well on a leader as senior as you are, to react to hearsay,” Manickam Tagore, Lok Sabha member from Virudhunagar, Tamil Nadu, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-crisis-rahul-gandhi-pacifies-hurt-kapil-sibal-877179.html
24-08-2020||National Politics||Sonia Gandhi to continue as Congress interim chief||After a seven-hour long meeting of its top decision-making body, Congress on Monday once again fell back on Sonia Gandhi to settle the leadership issue and asked her to continue as party chief till a session of the AICC can be convened to elect her successor. Sparks flew at the meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), convened to discuss issues raised by 23 leaders in their letter to the Congress President seeking sweeping changes in the party, as chief ministers, young and veteran leaders alike slammed them for going public with their grievances and expressed confidence in the leadership of the Gandhi family. “The CWC makes it clear that no one will be or can be permitted to undermine or weaken the party and its leadership at this juncture... that inner-party issues cannot be deliberated through the media or in public forum,” the CWC said in a statement issued after the meeting. Congress also decided to set up a committee to assist the party chief in day-to-day functioning of the party, after the 23 leaders, including CWC members Ghulam Nabi Azad, Mukul Wasnik and Anand Sharma, sought sweeping changes in the party to make it more “visible” and “active”. The stage appeared to be set for CWC endorsing the continuation of Sonia Gandhi as the party chief as leaders beginning from former Prime Minster Manmohan Singh to young leader Rajiv Satav attacking the 23 leaders for writing the letter, virtually questioning the leadership of the Congress President. A majority of the members attending the meeting either asked Sonia Gandhi to continue or called for Rahul Gandhi to step in as her successor. The meeting witnessed dramatic moments as Rahul accused the 23 leaders of “insulting” the Congress President for timing the letter when she was keeping ill-health and handling the political crisis in Rajasthan. He also took exception to making the letter public, which he said gave a handle to the BJP to target the Congress. After Rahul's allusion to the BJP, Azad turned emotional and recalled his long association with the Congress and offered to quit if any links with the BJP were proved. Senior leader Kapil Sibal, who is not a member of the CWC, also took to Twitter to express his hurt feelings and reminded the Congress how he had defended the party for years together. Rahul swung into action and reached out to Sibal over phone to clarify that he had not said that the letter to the Congress President was written at the behest of the BJP. During the meeting, Azad tried to reason out that the letter was not meant to embarrass the leadership, but only to draw attention to pressing organisational matters, but his attempts fell on deaf ears. “Azad sahab, you are a senior leader. Don't try to defend yourself,” Adhir Ranjan Chowdhary, the leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha said. It fell upon the Congress President to let bygones be bygones and urge the party to move ahead. “We are a large family, we have differences on many occasions but in the end, we come together as one,” Sonia Gandhi said adding that she does not hold any ill will or any other thought of any other nature against any colleague as she treated them as "part of the family": Gandhi was learnt to be reluctant to continue as Congress President, but agreed to the overwhelming view expressed in the CWC. “The CWC unanimously requests Smt. Sonia Gandhi to continue to lead the Indian National Congress until such time as circumstances will permit an AICC session to be convened,” read the statement of the CWC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sonia-gandhi-to-continue-as-congress-interim-chief-877221.html
24-08-2020||National Politics||Once bitten, twice shy: Will Mallikarjun Kharge become AICC president this time?||After Congress's disastrous performance in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and Rahul Gandhi's subsequent resignation as the party president, former Union Minister Mallikarjun Kharge was deemed as the one to take over the post. He did not succeed eventually, but it seems that a second chance can knock at his door this time if a non-Gandhi leader is chosen to helm the organisation. Kharge, who was recently elected to the Rajya Sabha, had a 45-minute meeting with Congress President Sonia Gandhi last week, which is seen as an indication of a prominent central role for him in the party. Though what transpired between them is unknown, the meeting triggered speculation about Kharge being in contention for the post of AICC president as it took place soon after the letter by 23 leaders was delivered to Sonia Gandhi. Gandhi has expressed her desire to give up the post of party chief and apparently, Kharge was being sounded out for a central role. His name is also doing the rounds as the Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, as the tenure of incumbent Ghulam Nabi Azad ends in February next year. Kharge, who will arrive in the national capital on Tuesday to attend a Parliamentary Committee meeting, is likely to meet Sonia. Last year, soon after Rahul Gandhi resigned as the party president, Kharge's name was doing the rounds as the possible successor. Apart from being a Dalit leader, Sonia was keen on him as he is considered loyal to the party and had impressed with his performance as the party leader in Lok Sabha from 2014 to 2019. Kharge had also consented for the new assignment. The veteran leader's candidature was endorsed in the zonal consultations that took place during the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting last year by a large section of leaders, next only to Rahul Gandhi. Only a handful backed AICC General Secretary Mukul Wasnik. However, when the party was about to finalise Kharge's name, former Congress leader Jyotiraditya Scindia raised a red flag and convened a meeting of young leaders. In the meeting, the young brigade questioned why only the elders in the CWC shortlist the names and demanded that young leaders should also be engaged in the consultation. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh also tweeted saying that a young leader should be made the AICC president, virtually batting for Scindia or the then Rajasthan Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot. Meanwhile, some senior members of the CWC put a spanner in the works by saying that Kharge is too old and it will be difficult for him to travel all over the country. And the same group of leaders batted for Wasnik aggressively. However, the latter candidate failed to garner support from a large number of leaders in the CWC. Once again, Kharge's name is doing the rounds, and one has to see whether he will be lucky this time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/once-bitten-twice-shy-will-mallikarjun-kharge-become-aicc-president-this-time-877260.html
24-08-2020||National Politics||5 Congress presidents from Nehru-Gandhi family, 13 from outside since independence||As a leadership crisis grips the Congress, experts having chronicled the country's oldest political party said on Monday that it may be theoretically possible for the party to have a president outside the Nehru-Gandhi family, but not practically. The party's history shows that it has had at least 13 presidents from outside the Nehru-Gandhi clan since independence as against five from its first family. However, the family members have been at the helm for a much longer period of time as against the others. Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi, Rajiv Gandhi, Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi have headed the party for the majority of the period since independence. Sonia Gandhi, who has been its longest-serving president, offered to quit at a stormy CWC meeting on Monday after a letter from more than 20 party leaders sought organisational reforms and a collective leadership, but she was urged to stay on as the interim chief till a full-time president is appointed. Among the leaders outside the Nehru-Gandhi family, J B Kripalani, B. Pattabhi Sitaramayya, Purushottam Das Tandon, U N Dhebar, N Sanjiva Reddy, K Kamaraj, S. Nijalingappa, Jagjivan Ram, Shankar Dayal Sharma, D.K. Barooah, K B Reddy, P V Narasimha Rao and Sitaram Kesri have headed the party. The debate over whether a person from outside the Gandhi family was re-ignited last week when Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, in a year-old but recently published interview, endorsed her brother Rahul Gandhi's stand on a non-Gandhi president for the Congress, saying there are plenty of people capable of leading the party. Rasheed Kidwai, senior journalist and writer of the book "24 Akbar Road", said the key issue before the party today is about the political leadership which has always been with the Nehru-Gandhi family. "In the first general election, the slogan was 'A vote for Nehru is a vote for the Congress'. Even 2004 onwards, Sonia Gandhi wielded the political leadership that now resides with Sonia, Rahul and Priyanka. So the political leadership of the Congress has by and large always been with the Gandhis and even non-Gandhi presidents have owed allegiance to them," he told PTI. Asked if a non-Gandhi can run the party with the Gandhi family retaining the overall leadership, he said, "Theoretically yes, practically no." Sanjay Kumar, Director at the Centre for the Study of Developing Societies, said the tenure of Gandhi family presidents cannot be compared with non-Gandhi family presidents as there would be stark difference in the quantum of tenures. "A person from the Gandhi family is both an asset and a liability for the party.  The person would be an asset as he/she acts as a glue for the party which keeps the party together. They are also a liability and that liability is coming to the fore more prominently now as the Gandhi family has not been able to inspire voters and leaders of the party," Kumar told PTI. He opined that it is going to be very difficult for a non-Gandhi president to function in the prevailing situation as various factions could emerge and the pulls and pressures would be very high. Sanjay K Pandey, a political commentator and a professor at the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), echoed similar views, saying it will be very difficult for a non-Gandhi president to work with the family having a dominant imprint on the party. "Unless the Congress devises a mechanism to deal with such a scenario, the future of the party is not very bright," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/5-congress-presidents-from-nehru-gandhi-family-13-from-outside-since-independence-877266.html
24-08-2020||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi 'obsessed' with BJP, leaders who wrote letter 'more' committed than him to Congress: BJP leaders||The BJP on Monday took aim at Rahul Gandhi over his purported remarks that the letter by over 20 Congress leaders seeking changes in the organisation will help the ruling party, saying he is "obsessed" with the saffron party and that "one's destruction is near when one stops using his own mind". "So obsessed is Rahul Gandhi with the BJP that he is beginning to see Congress’ veteran leaders as those working in 'collusion' with BJP. Someone rightly said when one's destruction is near, one stops using his own mind," BJP general secretary Bhupender Yadav said. The Congress has denied that Rahul Gandhi, its former president, had accused any party leader of "colluding" with the BJP during the CWC meeting on Monday. Senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal, not a member of the Congress Working Committee, had referred to the purported remarks in a tweet. The former Union minister, however, withdrew it later saying Gandhi had told him that he had never made such comments. BJP's Tom Vadakkan, who was in the Congress for decades and was considered close to the Gandhi family before he joined the saffron party last year, said the opposition party's internal politics is being played out as a result of their "misdeeds". "Mirror has cracked. When a mirror cracks, there is no way to put it together. You have to throw it out," he said in a swipe at the Congress leadership over the letter. Vadakkan also said the commitment of the leaders, who are signatories to the letter and include veterans like Bhupinder Singh Hooda and Ghulam Nabi Azad, to the Congress is "definitely much more" than Rahul Gandhi. "They are not born in the party. They have lived in the party. They have only suggested a course correction and free and fair elections and a leader who is available to lead the party round the clock," he said. Vadakkan claimed that the denial by the Congress that Rahul Gandhi made any statement linking the letter's signatories to the BJP was an "afterthought". "He (Rahul) believes if you are not with him, then you are with the BJP, not even the Trinamool Congress or any other party," the BJP leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-obsessed-with-bjp-leaders-who-wrote-letter-more-committed-than-him-to-congress-bjp-leaders-877272.html
24-08-2020||National Politics||My name for AICC chief’s post is speculation: Mallikarjun Kharge||Rajya Sabha member Mallikarjun Kharge on Monday dismissed as a “speculation” his candidature for the Congress president’s post, while batting for the Gandhi family to hold the reins of the beleaguered party. “That my name is in the race is just speculation,” Kharge told reporters after the Congress Working Committee meeting in which he participated via video conference from his residence here. “You don’t know what happened (in the meeting), and I’m telling you.” Kharge said he sought Sonia Gandhi’s continuation as the party’s president. “It was under her leadership the Congress came to power and she led the UPA for many years. Her struggle, sacrifice and experience have greatly helped the party. I said she should continue. If she doesn’t accept the responsibility for whatever reasons, Rahul Gandhi should take over. This is my personal opinion,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/my-name-for-aicc-chief-s-post-is-speculation-mallikarjun-kharge-877297.html
24-08-2020||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi crucial for Congress ahead of Kerala Assembly polls: Ramesh Chennithala||As the leadership crisis looms large over Congress, the party leaders in states like Kerala, where Assembly polls are due in 2021 are keeping their fingers crossed. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala wants Rahul Gandhi to return as party president and strengthen it to face elections, which are due in five states over the next year. A recent survey in Kerala revealed that the ruling CPM-led Left Front may retain power, unlike the usual trend in the state of Congress and CPM coming to power alternately. But Chennithala tells DH’s Arjun Raghunath that Congress is confident of winning in Kerala by focusing on the “rampant corruption” and “autocratic style of functioning” of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. What should the Congress do to regain party’s strength? If Madam (Sonia Gandhi) is stepping down, Rahul Gandhi has to take over as party president. Madam has been doing her best, but her health is a concern. Being a young and sharp leader with pan-India acceptance, Rahul will be able to take on the BJP effectively. He can fight Prime Minister Narendra Modi. I think he is the only choice to regain people’s confidence in India’s Grand Old Party. His decision to step down taking moral responsibility for Congress’ setback in Lok Sabha polls was highly appreciated. But now, the people and party workers want Rahul back as president as early as possible. I had recently written a letter to Rahul Gandhi in this regard. Do you feel a total revamp at the top is required to give more prominence to young leaders? I do feel that young leaders should be  given more prominence in the party leadership. But senior and old leaders should not be sidelined as their experience is very valuable for the party. What are Congress’ prospects in the upcoming Assembly elections? Among the states going for polls over the coming months, the Congress-led UDF has very high chance of winning in Kerala as the people are disillusioned with the CPM-led Left Democratic Front. They promised big things, but nothing happened. Rampant corruption, backdoor appointments, the autocratic way of functioning of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, and the present gold smuggling case involving the CM’s office have exposed the Left Front government. The government initially tried to be evasive about the allegations raised by the Opposition. But now, the people have started realising the facts and there is no chance that the Left Front will retain power. Will BJP eat into Congress’ vote bank in Kerala, too? The BJP has been sabotaging democracy and misusing power (at the Centre) to grab power (in the states). In states like Karnataka, Goa, Manipur and Madhya Pradesh, the BJP grabbed power by sabotaging people’s mandate. These were states in which the people’s mandate was in favour of Congress and its coalition partners. The BJP is resorting to all undemocratic ways to hijack power through the backdoor. Definitely, the people will react to this. In Kerala, there is little scope for BJP. They may even lose the one seat they got for the first time in the last elections. The main reason is that the people badly want to vote out the Left Front. The Congress-led United Democratic Front is the only option. The BJP will never get the numbers to form a government in Kerala. Won’t the Ram temple issue affect Congress’ minority vote bank? Congress never preached Hindutva, but only respected the Supreme Court order on the Ram temple issue. Rahul Gandhi had clearly pointed out that Lord Ram is the ultimate embodiment of love and can never appear in hatred. The BJP is practising the politics of meddling (in religious issues). What was the need for the Prime Minister to go for the Ram temple bhoomi puja ceremony? The Indian Union Muslim League, which is a key coalition partner of the Congress in Kerala, expressed their views on the issue openly as it is an independent political party. But they clearly understand Congress’ stand and will continue to remain firmly with us. Does the pro-Congress wave Kerala witnessed during the Lok Sabha polls still persist? Of course. The people desperately want to vote out the CPM-led government and hence the Congress-led UDF will come back to power. Though Assembly bypolls generally favour the ruling front, out of the six recent bypolls, Congress-led UDF won three. A pro-Congress political situation still prevails in Kerala. Despite you being Opposition leader, there seems to be some confusion over who will be the CM if Congress wins? Congress never projects CM candidate prior to election. Such decisions are taken only by the leadership after reviewing the election results and taking the opinions of the elected members. Hence, there are no such concerns now. The party will unitedly fight the elections. What will be your priority in candidate selection in polls? Will there be a bar on those who have been contesting for years? We prefer more young people to contest the elections. They would be more acceptable to the voters. Similarly, women will be also given enough prominence in candidate selection. We have already started the groundwork for the elections as the local body polls are also approaching.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-crucial-for-congress-ahead-of-kerala-assembly-polls-ramesh-chennithala-877326.html
24-08-2020||National Politics||Once again, it is back to square one for Congress||It is back to square one for the Congress on the leadership issue with interim party chief Sonia Gandhi made to stay as the president for at least six more months, even as the epistolary crisis unfolding ahead of key Congress Working Committee meeting showed that the party is divided over who should be at the helm in future. Sonia Gandhi has repeatedly made it clear that a replacement has to be found out sooner and Rahul has not expressed any desire to come back again as Congress president, but there has been no attempt so far in the party to build consensus for the top job around anybody not belonging to the Gandhi family. The letter by 23 Congress leaders, mostly who have served the party quite long, reflected the desperation at this confusion. Post the CWC meeting, it was decided to set up a committee to look into the issues raised in the letter. The dissenters hoped this would end the ‘ad hocism' in the party. Though the CWC unanimously adopted a resolution after “extensively deliberating” over the contents of the letter, decided to “unanimously resolve to strengthen the hands of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi”, the letter, written by leaders hailing from different regions and belonging to different age groups, points to a serious lack of trust within the party’s hierarchy and the confusion over its fate. More than being an old guard versus young Turks fight, the CWC on Monday was divided between the signatories to the letter and the loyalists, who debunked the attempt of sending the letter. This time the divide appears to be among all age groups, with leaders choosing for Sonia, Rahul and even a new leadership. The range of the signatories is interesting: P J Kurien (79) from Kerala in South to Jitin Prasada (46) from UP, from the old guards--two-term Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda to Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad (71) to those handpicked by Rahul Gandhi like Milind Deora. Deora and others were disparagingly called 'babalog' by some of the veterans in private conversations, a term used to deride the English-speaking social media-savvy young leaders and professionals close to Rahul. A letter war was also witnessed in 2014 when 14 young AICC secretaries protested the remarks of some senior leaders against Rahul, then party vice-president. They shot off a strongly- worded letter accusing the seniors of hurting the party's interests by publicly criticising Rahul’s ‘silence on critical issues’. This time the concern over the functioning of the party (from the top) has again been raised but among those critical, even some from Rahul's camp have joined and the expressions used by members in this new ginger group are definitely not palatable to the leadership. Though the CWC resolution makes a categorical assertion that “no one will be or can be permitted to undermine or weaken the party and its leadership at this juncture”, that realities have changed much was evident. In 2013, Rahul Gandhi in an open press conference tore an ordinance brought in by the Manmohan Singh government calling it complete nonsense. This time, the same Rahul chose to personally call up former Union Minister Kapil Sibal and clear the air about his remarks after the latter reacted sharply on Twitter to reports that Rahul Gandhi felt the letter writers were playing into the hands of the BJP. Sibal later withdrew the tweet since he “was informed by Rahul Gandhi personally that he never said what was attributed to him.” Rahul’s “hurt” and the timing of the letter when Sonia was “ill” was defended by some as a son's genuine concern for mother. But politics goes beyond these niceties. After the CWC meeting, the letter writers had a meeting at Azad’s residence. A crisis seems inevitable in the party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/once-again-it-is-back-to-square-one-for-congress-877340.html
24-08-2020||North and Central||Prepared to resume operations whenever directed by govt: DMRC||The Delhi Metro shall be prepared to resume operations whenever directed by the government, the DMRC said on Sunday. The statement from the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) came on a day Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said metro train services in Delhi should be resumed on a trial basis as the Covid-19 situation was improving in the city, and hoped the Centre would soon take a decision on it. "The DMRC shall be prepared to commence operations whenever directed by the government. All necessary guidelines in place to combat the spread of Covid-19 shall be implemented, and all efforts shall be made to make travel safe for our valued commuters," DMRC Executive Director Anuj Dayal was quoted as saying in a statement. According to sources, the Delhi Metro has suffered loss of nearly Rs 1,300 crore since the closure of services since late March due to Covid-19 situation. The Delhi Metro has been closed since March 22 when the Janata Curfew was imposed in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, and subsequently the nation-wide lockdown. While the economy has slowly opened up in phase-wise manner in the unlock period since June, the DMRC has not received a nod from the Centre to resume operations. Meanwhile, from thermal scanners to test temperature of commuters to stickers on social distancing norms pasted on seats and platform floors, Delhi Metro has been preparing to handle commuters as per safety guidelines, whenever the services are ordered to be resumed. On regular days, the average daily ridership of DMRC is over 26 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/prepared-to-resume-operations-whenever-directed-by-govt-dmrc-876947.html
24-08-2020||North and Central||Suspended BSP MLA meets UP CM, triggers speculation||Former Uttar Pradesh minister Ramveer Upadhyay has had a meeting with Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, triggering speculation that he may join the ruling BJP ahead of the 2022 state Assembly polls. Confirming the development, an aide of the legislator from the Sadabad Assembly constituency in Hathras district said on Sunday, "Ramveer Upadhyay met the chief minister at the latter's official residence on Saturday." Asked whether Upadhyay is planning to join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), he said, "Not at all. It was a meeting to convey the problems people face in his constituency." Meanwhile, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) general secretary Satish Chandra Misra said, "Ramveer Upadhyay was elected as an MLA on a BSP ticket (in 2017). But during last year's Lok Sabha polls, he indulged in anti-party activities by helping the candidates of rival parties. The BSP had suspended him from the party then itself. "If he joins the BJP, it will have no impact on the BSP. The BSP is surging ahead strongly. Law and order has collapsed in Uttar Pradesh. There have been incidents of atrocities on Brahmins and they are now looking towards the BSP, as they know that it is the only party which has taken the community along and worked for its interest in the past."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/suspended-bsp-mla-meets-up-cm-triggers-speculation-876955.html
24-08-2020||North and Central||Chhattisgarh man kills four-year-old after rape; held||A four-year-old girl was raped and smothered to death allegedly by a 28-year-old man in her village in Chhattisgarh's Rajnandgaon district, police said on Sunday. The accused, Shekhar Korram, was arrested after the incident on Saturday, an official said. "On Saturday evening, the victim's family members informed the police that she was missing since afternoon," the official said. During the investigation it came to light that the girl was last seen in front of Korram's house. The accused was found hiding in an under-construction house in the village, he said. "Korram told police that he picked up the girl while she was playing in front of his house, took her inside, and sexually assaulted her. When she tried to scream, he covered her face with a cloth while committing the crime, resulting in the victim's death due to suffocation," he said. The body of the girl was recovered from the house of Korram, he said. He was booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-man-kills-four-year-old-after-rape-held-876957.html
24-08-2020||North and Central||NHRC notice to Uttar Pradesh govt over death of girl due to starvation, illness||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Sunday issued a notice to the Uttar Pradesh government over the reported death of a five-year-old girl due to starvation and illness in Agra. The commission has issued a notice to the chief secretary of Uttar Pradesh calling for a detailed report within four weeks, including that on the relief and rehabilitation provided to the family by the administration and the action taken against the delinquent officials.  The chief secretary is also expected to issue instructions to all the district authorities to ensure that such incidents of cruelty and negligence do not recur in future, the NHRC said. The commission said it has taken suo motu cognizance of a media report that the girl allegedly died due to starvation and ill health as the family was not able to get food and medical care for her.   The NHRC observed that "a five-year-old innocent girl has apparently died due to starvation and illness while a number of social welfare schemes run by the central and the state government do exist." During the period of lockdown, the government agencies have specifically introduced a number of schemes for the poor, migrant labourers and other vulnerable sections of the society, the commission said.  "The state government has made several statements that they are committed to ensure Right to Food, Shelter and Livelihood for the poor people and have been working on issues relating to labourers and labour laws but this heart-wrenching incident shows a different picture," the NHRC said. A poor girl has lost her life, the breadwinner of the family is suffering from tuberculosis and is bedridden. The family is not only financially poor but also belongs to the scheduled caste for which special schemes have been announced by the central and state governments, the commission said. Calling it "a serious issue of violation of human rights due to gross negligence by the local administration", the NHRC said it is for the local public servants to honestly implement the schemes, "so that the poor and needy can avail the benefits which, apparently was not done in this case".  Had the authorities been sincere and vigilant, loss of a precious human life could have been averted, the NHRC said.  According to the media report, the girl was living with her parents and sister at Nagla Vidhichand village in Agra’s Baroli Ahir block. The family was without any work for about a month and in recent weeks went without food, it said. Reportedly, many families in the locality do not have a ration card. The girl had become weak and had a fever for three days. She could not bear the pain and succumbed to illness and hunger on Friday night, according to the report. "The local authorities reportedly did nothing to help the family-like securing food in the lockdown-induced crisis. The District Administration has said it will find out where things went wrong and they have taken cognisance of the matter and an investigation has been ordered into the child’s death," the NHRC said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nhrc-notice-to-uttar-pradesh-govt-over-death-of-girl-due-to-starvation-illness-876985.html
24-08-2020||North and Central||Chhattisgarh: Train facility soon in Naxal-hit Antagarh||Residents of Chhattisgarh's Antagarh town, a Naxal-affected area which did not have rail connectivity till now, will soon have access to trains on the newly laid railway line there and this would also allow transportation of iron ore from mines in the region. The project, which is a joint venture between the Chhattisgarh government, National Mineral Development Corporation (NMDC), Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL) and the Railways, will open doors for economic development in the Bastar region, a railway official said. As part of the 235-km-long Dallirajhara-Rowghat-Jagdalpur railway project, the Antagarh nagar panchayat in Kanker district has now been connected to rail route, he said. Under the first phase of the project, a 95-km-long track is being laid from Dallirajhara to Rowghat and work has been completed on 59-km stretch till Antagarh, Raipur railway division's senior publicity inspector Shiv Prasad told PTI. The 42-km track on this route up to Kevti village has already been commissioned for passenger train traffic and the service will soon be expanded up to Antagarh, which is 17 km away from Kevti, he said. On August 21, a successful trial run of a railway diesel engine at the speed of 100 to 110 km per hour was carried out from Kevti to Antagarh in the presence of the railway safety commissioner, who was conducting an inspection of the rail line that day, he said. On completion of the project, Narayanpur and Kondagaon districts of Bastar region will be directly connected to Raipur via Durg and other major cities of the state through rail route, he said. This railway project would allow transportation of iron ore from the Rowghat mines, located in the Maoist stronghold of north Bastar. It will also ensure transportation facility for people living in the Naxal hotbed. According to police, Maoists have been opposing this project since its inception, fearing that construction of the rail route will speed up development works in Bastar, thereby uprooting them from the region. Two battalions of the Sashtra Seema Bal (SSB) have been deployed exclusively for guarding the project since 2016. "We have not only been fighting the Naxal menace to safeguard the project, but have also won the confidence of villagers during four years of our deployment, said Awaneesh Chaubey, Deputy Commandant of SSBs 28th battalion stationed in Antagarh. "Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs) planted by Naxals pose a huge challenge in the area. We have recovered several IEDs in the last four years from the route adopted by us during patrolling or near construction areas, he said. Three civilians were killed in September last year, when a diesel tanker which was engaged in railway track laying work was blown up by Naxals with an IED. Meanwhile, residents of Antagarh have hailed the project, saying it means a lot to them. But some locals also sought adequate facilities for families affected by the project. "The rail line is being mainly laid to extract iron ore and other minerals from the area. We will only consider it as a development for us when we will be a part of it," Antagarh resident Anil Chandel said. Villagers whose lands were acquired for the project were assured they will be provided employment opportunities in the Railways and Bhilai Steel Plant (BSP) of SAIL, but several affected families are still waiting for it, he claimed. The project involves extensive deforestation due to which several people, like minor forest produce collectors, are indirectly affected. Therefore, steps should be taken for their welfare, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-train-facility-soon-in-naxal-hit-antagarh-877023.html
24-08-2020||North and Central||Two killed as car falls into gorge in Jammu and Kashmir's Reasi||A woman was among two persons killed, while her husband and two minor daughters were injured when a car skidded off the road and plunged into a deep gorge in Reasi district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said on Monday. The accident took place at Daggan top when the driver of the car lost control due to dense fog late Sunday evening while moving from Gool to Judda Arnas, a police official said. He said the car fell into a 60-feet gorge, resulting in the death of its driver Reyaz Ahmad (24) and Sameena Akhter (28). Akhter's husband Mohammad Shakeel and daughters -- six-year-old Myra and eight month-old Mehar -- were rescued in an injured condition and rushed to hospital, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-killed-as-car-falls-into-gorge-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-reasi-877065.html
24-08-2020||North and Central||Merger of BSP MLAs with Congress: Rajasthan HC asks speaker to hear complaint filed by BJP MLA||The Rajasthan High Court on Monday disposed of a writ application filed by BJP MLA Madan Dilawar against the merger of six BSP MLAs with the Congress and asked the assembly speaker to hear the complaint filed by the saffron party legislator. The court asked the speaker to decide the matter on merit within three months “The court disposed Madan Dilawar's writ petition and has asked the assembly speaker to conduct hearing in the complaint filed on March 16 and decide the matter on merit within three months,” a counsel for the speaker said. Dilawar had challenged the merger of six MLAs--Sandeep Yadav, Wajib Ali, Deepchand Kheria, Lakhan Meena, Jogendra Awana and Rajendra Gudha--with the Congress. Further details of the court order are awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/merger-of-bsp-mlas-with-congress-rajasthan-hc-asks-speaker-to-hear-complaint-filed-by-bjp-mla-877072.html
24-08-2020||North and Central||22-year-old woman kills infant son, hangs herself following harassment over dowry||A 22-year-old woman allegedly killed her 14-month-old son and then hanged herself at her home here after being harassed over dowry, police said on Monday. The incident took place in the Dataganj Kotwali police station area on Sunday night, Superintendent of Police (SP), City, Praveen Singh Chauhan said According to a complaint lodged by the father of the deceased, identified only as Fatima, her in-laws had been harassing her for dowry and on Sunday afternoon, they also beat her up, the SP said. An FIR was lodged and the husband of the victim taken into custody, Chauhan said. Further investigations are underway, the SP added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/22-year-old-woman-kills-infant-son-hangs-herself-following-harassment-over-dowry-877090.html
24-08-2020||North and Central||HC seeks Centre, RBI response on plea alleging guidelines violation by Google Pay||The Delhi High Court Monday sought response of the Centre and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on a plea seeking action against ‘Google Pay’ for allegedly violating the central bank’s guidelines related to data localisation, storage and sharing norms. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan issued notices to the authorities and also Google India Digital Service Pvt Ltd on the petition and listed the matter for further hearing on September 24. The petition sought direction to Google India Digital Service to give an undertaking to not store data on its app under UPI ecosystem and further not to share it with any third party, including its holding or parent company. Petitioner and advocate Abhishek Sharma sought direction to the company not to share any data from UPI switch with any other party. The plea further sought to direct the RBI to take action and impose penalty on the company for its alleged serious violations of applicable laws. “Respondent number. 3 (Google India) launched, ‘Tez’, a mobile payments service targeted at users in India which later folded into the new ‘Google Pay’ app . ‘Google pay’ is a third party app which facilitates payment in the UPI ecosystem and is able to do the same by partnering with various PSP/acquirer banks," the plea said. "Further, ‘Google Pay’ is regulated by respondent number 2 (National Payment Corporation of India) which is responsible for granting permission to Payment Service Provider (PSP) as Banks and to Third Party Apps (TPAs) to operate under the UPI network," it said. The plea claimed that the company was storing personal sensitive data in contravention of UPI procedural guidelines of October 2019, which allows such data to be stored only by PSP bank systems and not by any third party application. However, ‘Google Pay’ being a third party application, despite strong mandate against storing personal sensitive data, is storing the same in utter disregard to the binding UPI procedural guidelines. The plea sought direction to the RBI to take appropriate punitive action against the NPCI and revoke its authorisation to operate and regulate the UPI payment system, on account of risking customer payments data, its failure to audit Google India Digital Service Pvt Ltd and take any steps against it despite its acts of flagrant and serious non-compliance of applicable laws. It said Google pay by way of "Combined Google Pay Terms" is openly sharing it with its own group companies as well third parties and is also monetising the same. The plea also claimed that Google India Digital Service pvt Ltd, vide its product ‘Google Pay’, seeks to access the location of the users in the name of security and uses the same to gain revenue from offering highly targeted or personalised advertising opportunities to advertisers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-seeks-centre-rbi-response-on-plea-alleging-guidelines-violation-by-google-pay-877106.html
24-08-2020||North and Central||SC disposes of plea against merger of 6 BSP MLAs of Rajasthan Assembly with Congress||The Supreme Court Monday disposed of as "infructuous" a BJP MLA's plea seeking stay on Rajasthan Speaker’s decision, which allowed six BSP MLAs to merge with the Congress, in view of the High Court order. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, Vineet Saran and M R Shah was informed by senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for the Speaker, that earlier in the day that the Rajasthan High Court has passed an order on the plea filed by BJP MLA Madan Dilawar.   He said the high court has asked the Speaker to decide on merit, the plea against the merger of six BSP MLAs with the ruling Congress. Sibal said the high court had also asked the speaker to decide on the matter within three months. The bench said the plea before it was against an interim order of the high court, and has now become infructuous.   On August 17, the top court had deferred the hearing on Dilawar's plea after it was informed that the Chief Justice of the High Court has reportedly tested positive for COVID-19 and the functioning was postponed till August 19. Earlier, the top court had refused to pass any interim order on the plea after it was informed that the high court has been dealing with the case. The BJP lawmaker said the six Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLAs have been wrongly allowed by the Speaker to merge with the ruling Congress party. Dilawar challenged the high court order which had refused to stay the functioning of these six MLAs as Congress legislators. Earlier, the apex court had allowed the withdrawal of a petition filed by six Rajasthan MLAs of BSP seeking transfer of the plea pending against them in the high court to the apex court. Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for Dilawar, had said that the matter can go on before the high court but the issue is what is to be done in the meantime. Salve, while referring to the September last year order of merger passed by the Speaker, had said there is a “curious situation” as the BSP is saying that they have not merged. He had said that the apex court should stay the Speaker's order of September last year. Senior advocate S C Mishra, appearing for the BSP, had said the six MLAs had gone to the Speaker saying they want to merge and the order for the merger was passed "straight away". He had said in the Rajasthan Assembly also, these MLAs are not following the whip of the BSP; moreover, it is a national party and split, if any, has to be at the national level. Dilawar has challenged in the apex court the August 6 order of a division bench of high court which disposed of his plea against the order of a single judge, who had refused to stay the functioning of these six MLAs as Congress legislators.   The single judge of the high court had earlier not granted any interim relief and refused to put a stay on the participation of six MLAs in the proceedings of the House as Congress legislators. On July 30, the high court had sought response of the Assembly Speaker and its secretary on the pleas challenging the induction of the six MLAs into the Congress. Two petitions have been filed in the high court, one by Dilawar and the other by BSP National Secretary S C Mishra. Sandeep Yadav, Wajib Ali, Deepchand Kheria, Lakhan Meena, Jogendra Awana and Rajendra Gudha contested and won the 2018 assembly election on a BSP ticket but they defected to Congress in September 2019. They had submitted an application for the merger on September 16 last year and the Speaker allowed their induction into the Congress two days later. The merger was a boost to the Ashok Gehlot-led government as the tally of the Congress increased to 107 in the house of 200. Dilawar has challenged the merger of the BSP MLAs into Congress, questioning Assembly Speaker CP Joshi's order dismissing his complaint without allowing him to have his say. Mishra has challenged in the high court the defection of the MLAs, but these legislators had not sought transfer of his plea to the Supreme Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-disposes-of-plea-against-merger-of-6-bsp-mlas-of-rajasthan-assembly-with-congress-877113.html
24-08-2020||North and Central||Yamuna's water level rises in Delhi||The water level of the Yamuna river has risen and was recorded at 204.38 metres at the Old Railway Bridge here after more than 5,800 cusec water was discharged from the Hathinikund Barrage in Haryana's Yamunanagar district, officials said on Monday. The water level was recorded at 8 am, and it was below the danger mark of 205.33 metres, an official said. It has gone up as 5,883 cusec water was released from the Hathinikund Barrage, he said. Water Minister Satyendar Jain said the government was prepared to deal with the situation. A control room has been planned, and it will be activated soon, he said. A plan has been prepared for the areas along the Yamuna river in Delhi, Jain said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yamunas-water-level-rises-in-delhi-877123.html
24-08-2020||North and Central||Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, 2 MLAs test positive for Covid-19: Health Minister||Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, Health Minister Anil Vij confirmed. "The Assembly Speaker and two other MLAs have tested positive for coronavirus," Vij, who is also the state's Home Minister, told PTI. Notably, the Speaker has tested positive two days before the monsoon session of the Assembly starts here on August 26. As a result, Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwa will be presiding over the House proceedings. It had been made mandatory for all MLAs of the Haryana Assembly, including the Speaker, Chief Minister, Deputy Chief Minister, and ministers to get their COVID-19 tests conducted and only those who turn out negative will be allowed to attend the session. A Covid-19 negative certificate, not older than three days before the start of the session, will also be mandatory for anyone entering the Vidhan Sabha complex during the session, including officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-speaker-gian-chand-gupta-2-mlas-test-positive-for-covid-19-health-minister-877125.html
24-08-2020||North and Central||Three earth-moving machine operators killed in landslide on Uttarakhand highway||Three heavy earth moving machine operators were killed after being hit by rocks and boulders during a landslide on the Rishikesh-Badrinath National Highway-58 in Uttarakhand early Monday, officials said. The three men were working at a construction site of the Chardham all-weather road project between Kaudilaya and Vyasi, Narendranagar Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM) Yukta Mishra said. The vehicles fell into a deep gorge and the bodies are being recovered from under the debris, she said. The area has been witnessing heavy rains for the past few days and landslides are common during this time of the year in the hill state. One of the earth movers was being operated by two persons and the other had one operator, Mishra said, adding that they died on the spot. The Ganga river, which flows below the gorge, is also in spate, the officer said. Several highways, including sections of the NH-58, are part of the under-construction Chardham road project in the state. Prabhat and Rajesh, who were operating one of the earthmovers, and Sanjiv Kumar, who was in the other vehicle, were killed in the landslide. They were from Pathankot in Punjab, Mishra said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-earth-moving-machine-operators-killed-in-landslide-on-uttarakhand-highway-877126.html
24-08-2020||North and Central||National Green Tribunal raps Haryana pollution control board over dyeing industries||The National Green Tribunal has rapped the Haryana Pollution Control Board (HPCB) for failing to check violation of environmental norms by dyeing industries in Faridabad saying it is not performing its statutory obligation. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel directed that the PCB be suitably revamped by setting up necessary vigilance squads and shortening the procedure of taking action against violators. A committee comprising officials from Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), District Magistrate, Faridabad and state PCB apprised the NGT that violations were found during inspection and necessary action has been taken by way of closure, assessment and recovery of environmental compensation and initiating prosecution. “It is clear from the report filed by state pollution control board that except for initiating some action on directions of this Tribunal, violation of environmental norms remains unchecked and the State PCB is not performing its statutory obligation of taking action, against violation of environmental laws, of its own,” the bench said. The green panel directed HPCB to ensure that assessed compensation is recovered and polluting units are not allowed to operate without complying with the norms and without paying the assessed compensation.  “Further vigilance may be maintained and status of compliance as on November 30, 2020, may be placed on record by the same joint Committee before the next date by e-mail,” the bench said. The matter is listed for next hearing on January 15 next year. The NGT directions came while hearing a plea by Faridabad residents Varun Sheokand and Navneet Gumber who alleged that more than 150 jeans dyeing industries were running without the consent of HPCB.  The petitioners have claimed that the dyeing industries, which have been categorised as "seriously" polluting by HPCB, were directly discharging effluents into drains without any treatment and have also not installed any effluent treatment plant in their premises.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/national-green-tribunal-raps-haryana-pollution-control-board-over-dyeing-industries-877144.html
24-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi High Court extends all interim orders till October 31 amid coronavirus pandemic||A special bench, headed by Chief Justice D N Patel, also extended the relief in cases related to those who were enlarged on interim bail or parole and may carry the Covid-19 infection. If those whose interim bail is ending are required to surrender to the already congested and over-crowded jails, which may not be in a position to strictly maintain physical distancing amongst inmates, it may pose the risk of unchecked spread of the virus, the court said. The bench, also comprising Justices Siddharth Mridul and Talwant Singh, considered the inherent vulnerability of the jails owing to serious space constraints, to effectively control, check and prevent the spread of Covid-19. It directed that the interim bail or parole granted to undertrials or convicts by the high court or trial courts, either before or after March 16, are being extended till October 31 or further orders except where the Supreme Court may have passed any contrary orders in any such matter during the period. On March 25, the high court had extended till May 15 the interim orders in all matters pending before it and subordinate courts, in view of the coronavirus lockdown. Thereafter, the relief was extended from time to time. Presently, the hearings in the high court and district courts are being done through video conferencing due to the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-high-court-extends-all-interim-orders-till-october-31-amid-coronavirus-pandemic-877145.html
24-08-2020||North and Central||Two senior IPS officers suspended in Uttar Pradesh over irregularities||The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday suspended two senior IPS officers Dinesh Chandra Dubey and Arvind Sen on complaints of alleged irregularities. On the directives of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, the government has suspended DIG (Rules and Manuals) Dinesh Chandra Dubey and DIG, PAC Agra, Arvind Sen, a home department spokesman said. There were complaints of Dubey getting tenders awarded for certain benefits in connection with the construction of Kasturba hostels in Shivgarhand Bachhrawan in Rae Bareli district and Sadabad besides bus stands in Bareilly and Kaushambi and a building for the physically challenged in Lucknow, home department sources said. With regard to Arvind Sen, there were complaints in connection with cheating and forgery in the Animal Husbandry department, the sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-senior-ips-officers-suspended-in-uttar-pradesh-over-irregularities-877150.html
24-08-2020||North and Central||BJP revokes suspension of Uttarakhand MLA seen in viral video dancing with guns||The Uttarakhand BJP on Monday revoked the suspension of controversial Khanpur MLA Kunwar Pranav Singh Champion from the party 13 months after the action was taken against him when a video purportedly showing him dancing with guns in hand went viral. The decision was taken by the party's core committee based on the legislator's "good conduct" during the last 13 months of his suspension and his repeated apologies to the party leadership, Uttarakhand BJP chief Bansidhar Bhagat told reporters. After welcoming Champion back into the party fold at his residence, Bhagat said the MLA had apologised to him, to the party's core committee and to the media for his "misconduct" which had led to his suspension in June last year. Champion was suspended from the BJP initially for three months on charges of breach of party discipline, for engaging in a public spat with Jhabreda MLA Deshraj Karnawal and challenging him to a wrestling bout at a Roorkee stadium. When the action was taken against him, he was also facing the charge of abusing an electronic media reporter at Uttarakhand Bhawan in Delhi. His suspension was extended indefinitely just a month later after a video in which he was seen dancing with guns in hand to popular Bollywood songs went viral, leaving the party red-faced. After being welcomed back into the party, Champion said he remained loyal to the BJP even during his suspension period. The Khanpur legislator also offered an apology before the press for his misconduct which had led to his suspension. "I was sorry then and I apologise again today with folded hands for what I did. But even during the 13-month period of my suspension, I worked for the policies and programmes of the BJP," Champion said. Champion is a fitness enthusiast and known for his love for guns. He was among three other MLAs who had been summoned by the BJP's state unit leadership recently to offer their explanation. The party's decisions on the three other legislators including Dwarahat MLA Mahesh Negi who has been accused of rape by a woman, Jhabreda MLA Deshraj Karnawal and Lohaghat MLA Pooran Singh Fartyal who face breach of discipline charges are not known yet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-revokes-suspension-of-uttarakhand-mla-seen-in-viral-video-dancing-with-guns-877183.html
24-08-2020||North and Central||HC seeks Delhi govt’s reply on PETA’s plea to take steps to prevent spread of glanders||The Delhi High Court Monday sought response of the AAP government on a plea by PETA seeking to implement the Prevention and Control of Infectious and Contagious Diseases in Animals Act, 2009 to prevent spread of the equine disease - Glanders - in the national capital. Justice Najmi Waziri issued notice to the Delhi government on the application by the People for Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) India, also seeking implementation of the National Action Plan for Control and Eradication of Glanders and immediate testing of all the horses, mules, ponies, donkeys in Delhi. The high court listed the matter for further hearing on October 6. PETA, in its application filed through advocates Rohit Jain and Swati Sumbly, has submitted that glanders is a zoonotic disease which can be transmitted from equines to humans if preventive measures are not taken. It has also contended that that disease may be fatal for humans. The application further claimed that despite repeated alerts by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) and National Research Centre on Equines with respect to spread of glanders among animals, no preventive measures are being taken by Delhi government. ICAR had sent the alerts after a horse serum sample tested by it in June indicated presence of glanders, the application has claimed and added that the agency had told the Delhi government to immediately implement the Act and regularly monitor the equines in the national capital. "Astonishingly and surprisingly no steps have been taken by the Delhi government in implementing provisions of the Act and further till date Delhi government has not issued any notification declaring area where equine was found to be positive as controlled area... "... as such Delhi government is deliberately and intentionally ignoring statutory provision and is not implementing the act stricto-sensu," the application has said. The application has been filed in a pending writ petition moved by PETA in January for enforcement of a resolution dated January 4, 2020 passed by the municipal corporations banning plying of horse drawn carts or 'tongas' on the roads of the national capital. The main petition, in which the high court issued notice to the Centre, the three corporations, police and Delhi government in February, has claimed that the animals hitched to tongas are made to work in extreme heat and cold in a highly polluted environment. "They're often overloaded, exceeding the legal limits on the quantity of goods and the number of passengers that they can bear, and forced to work for prolonged hours," the petition has said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-seeks-delhi-govt-s-reply-on-peta-s-plea-to-take-steps-to-prevent-spread-of-glanders-877193.html
24-08-2020||North and Central||SC disposes of plea on merger of Rajasthan BSP MLAs into Congress||The Supreme Court on Monday disposed of a plea related to the merger of six Rajasthan BSP MLAs into the ruling Congress party. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari said the petition before the court by the BJP MLA Madan Dilawar against the HC's interim order of August 6 has now become infructuous. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for the Speaker, submitted that the final decision has been passed in the matter on Monday. "It is submitted that the matter has been decided by the High Court. The remedy is to question the final order. In view of the final order passed by the High Court, this special leave petition has been rendered infructuous as it arises out of an interim order," the bench said in its order. The matter has arisen out Speaker C P Joshi's decision of September 18, 2019. Dilwar challenged the validity of the High Court's interim order of August 6, 2020. He claimed that HC had failed to appreciate that the Speaker straight away "illegally" accepted the request of six MLAs and allowed the merger of their party, i.e. BSP, into the Congress. He claimed the Speaker had no jurisdiction to record a finding of the so-called merger, without giving notice to the Bahujan Samaj Party and without holding an enquiry as to whether the party has actually merged into the Congress or not.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-disposes-of-plea-on-merger-of-rajasthan-bsp-mlas-into-congress-877227.html
24-08-2020||North and Central||Man kills employer following argument over pay cut amid pandemic, arrested||A 21-year-old man was arrested from west Delhi's Jharoda Kalan area for allegedly killing his employer, who had slapped him during an argument over salary reduction as his business was severely hit due to the Covid-19 pandemic, police said on Monday. Tasleem, who worked as servant at a dairy owned by 45-year-old Om Prakash, hit his employer on the head with a wooden stick, slit his neck with a knife, put it in a gunny bag and threw it in a well nearby, police said. Tasleem, a native of Shamli in Uttar Pradesh, was earlier working at a hotel in Bahadurgarh and was introduced to Prakash in June by a relative. The monthly salary of the accused was fixed at Rs 15,000 after which he started working as a servant at the dairy, police said.  A missing person report was registered on August 12 by the victim's nephew. In the report, the nephew said his uncle had been missing since the intervening night of August 10 and 11 and was last seen with the servant, police said. A few days later, the decomposed body of the victim was recovered from a well after which a murder case was registered at Baba Haridas Nagar police station. When the police initiated the investigation, it found that the accused had disappeared, taking with him the victim's motorcycle and mobile. Raids were conducted at various places in Shamli, Panipat and other areas in Haryana but Tasleem was not found, police said. The police finally arrested Tasleem on Sunday after receiving information that he was seen in Jharoda Kalan area, said Anto Alphonse, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Dwarka). During interrogation, Tasleem confessed that he had killed Prakash following an argument over salary. He told police that his salary was fixed at Rs 15,000 per month but as the business was hit due to the coronavirus-triggered lockdown, Prakash had asked him to work on a lower salary which led to an argument. Prakash had then slapped him, Tasleem told police. Tasleem told the police that after Prakash went to sleep, he hit him on his head with a wooden stick and slit his neck with a knife. He then packed the body in a gunny bag and threw it in a well nearby. The police have recovered two mobile phones along with the knife used in the crime, the DCP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-kills-employer-following-argument-over-pay-cut-amid-pandemic-arrested-877248.html
24-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi panel to initiate proceedings on Facebook's 'inaction on hateful content' on Tuesday||A Delhi Assembly committee on peace and harmony will initiate on Tuesday proceedings in connection with complaints about Facebook's alleged "deliberate and intentional inaction to contain hateful content" in India, according to an official statement issued on Monday. The development comes in the backdrop of a report published in the Wall Street Journal recently, citing interviews with unnamed Facebook insiders to claim that one of its senior India policy executives intervened in internal communication to stop a permanent ban on a BJP MLA from Telangana after he allegedly made communally charged posts. According to the statement, after careful deliberation on allegations levelled in the complaints received, the panel, chaired by AAP MLA Raghav Chadha, has decided to take immediate cognisance of this issue. "Summons have been sent necessitating the appearance of certain expert witnesses, specifically Paranjoy Guha Thakurta and Nikhil Pahwa along with other witnesses for participating in the relevant proceedings," it stated. It added that the committee aims to redress the issue at the earliest and therefore, the proceedings shall be expedited in order to put this issue to its logical conclusion. Earlier, Facebook had said its social media platform prohibits hate speech and content that incites violence and these policies are enforced globally without regard to political affiliation. "We prohibit hate speech and content that incites violence and we enforce these policies globally without regard to anyone's political position or party affiliation. "While we know there is more to do, we're making progress on enforcement and conduct regular audits of our process to ensure fairness and accuracy," a Facebook spokesperson had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-panel-to-initiate-proceedings-on-facebooks-inaction-on-hateful-content-on-tuesday-877251.html
24-08-2020||North and Central||CM Arvind Kejriwal launches online OPD registration system for Delhi maternity hospital||Work is underway on the Delhi government's hospital management information system, and it will be completed within a year, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday. Launching a mobile application and a web-based online OPD registration and appointment system of the Dada Dev maternity hospital through video-conferencing, the chief minister said other hospitals should also adopt the system. "Women patients will no longer need to wait in long queues and now, can register and get doctors' appointment through this app. There should be no crowding in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, and social distancing needs to be maintained," he said. Kejriwal said the Delhi government was integrating its hospitals, Mohalla clinics and polyclinics through the hospital management information system (HMIS), and the process will be completed within a year. Once established, the HMIS will do away with long queues and crowds at the government hospitals, he said. The chief minister also said the bed capacity at the Dada Dev hospital was being increased from 106 to 281, and this would be completed soon. "If two-three women are being treated on a single bed, this is not right, especially in Delhi, which is the national capital. This issue will be solved with the expansion of the hospital that will be done in the coming days," he said. Dada Dev hospital conducts close to 10,000 deliveries in a year, and it is very important for the people of the area, the chief minister said. He said the app will be a convenient solution especially for pregnant women in the time of the Covid-19 pandemic as they would no longer be required to stand in long queues for registration. "The app has various features, and we will integrate all those features with our hospital management information system to improve the system's efficiency," Kejriwal said. The app can be used for OPD as well as flu registration. Registration numbers will be sent via SMS to the given mobile phone number, a government statement said. A simple and secure process, queue-less appointment, no waiting time, minimal contact with all healthcare provider and other patients are some of the benefits of the app, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cm-arvind-kejriwal-launches-online-opd-registration-system-for-delhi-maternity-hospital-877256.html
24-08-2020||North and Central||Congress not ready to listen to truth, terms those indulging in sycophancy as loyal: Chouhan||Attacking the Congress over bickering on leadership issue, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Monday said the Sonia Gandhi-led party will not be able to save itself now as whosoever raises voice against the family will be shown the door. Chouhan's attack on the Congress came in the backdrop of a raging debate on leadership in the national party triggered by a letter written to Sonia Gandhi by more than 20 leaders demanding an "active, full-time and visible" president. This is a party which is not ready to listen to truth, which terms persons speaking truth as traitors, which terms those indulging in sycophancy as loyal...no one can save such a party, Chouhan told reporters in Gwalior. On one hand there is BJP where every three years the president gets changed and on the other is Congress where since 1998, maa-beta (a reference to Sonia Gandhi and her son Rahul) are holding the post (of president)...And whenever anyone tries to raise voice against this encroachment, they are shown the door," he said. "Nobody can save such a Congress, the BJP leader remarked and referred to a Hindi maxim, 'vinash kale vipreet buddhi' (when one's destruction time approaches, the persons intellect works against his/her best interest) to paint a grim picture of the Congress. "It is heading towards destruction. If anyone speaks truth in the party, then it is alleged that they have colluded with the BJP," he said. "Twenty-five leaders like Azad and Sibal (senior Congress leaders Ghulam Nabi Azad and Kapil Sibal) wrote a letter seeking a full-time president, but instead of pondering over it, their leader Yuvraj (Rahul) says that they have colluded with the BJP. "When Scindia (BJP Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia) had raised his voice, it was alleged that time also that he was associated with the BJP, Chouhan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-not-ready-to-listen-to-truth-terms-those-indulging-in-sycophancy-as-loyal-chouhan-877261.html
24-08-2020||North and Central||Son and brother-in-law held in Sanjay Khokhar killing case||Police have arrested the son and brother-in-law of a former chairperson of the Chhaprauli Nagar Palika in connection with the killing of BJP leader Sanjay Khokhar earlier this month, an official said. He attributed the killing to a political rivalry. Sanjay Khokhar (52), former district chief of the BJP, was out for a morning walk on August 11 when he was shot dead. In a joint operation by the Special Operation Group and police force from the Chhaprauli police station, Sanjeev Khokhar and his nephew Shravan Khokhar were arrested from a bridge near Rathauda canal, Superintendent of Police Abhishek Singh said. Police recovered a country-made pistol and two live cartridges from Shravan Khokhar, he said. "During interrogation, Sanjeev Khokhar said that his sister-in-law Sushila was the chairperson of the Chhaprauli Nagar Palika from 2006 to 2011. After this, with the support of Sanjay Khokhar, only his family members have been occupying the chairperson's post," the SP said. He said the accused considered the BJP leader a hurdle. An Special Investigation Team has been constituted under the Inspector General, Meerut, the police said. Three other accused are still absconding, the police said, adding that efforts are on to arrest them. Sanjay Khokhar was hit by bullets on the head and in the chest. He was the district president of the BJP for three years and was removed from the post before the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/son-and-brother-in-law-held-in-sanjay-khokhar-killing-case-877267.html
24-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi BJP asks Anna Hazare to join its 'mass movement' against AAP government||Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta on Monday wrote to social activist Anna Hazare, urging him to join his party's "mass movement" against the government led by AAP, which he alleged was the "new name of social, political and economic corruption". In his letter, Gupta alleged that the AAP government has demolished all parameters of "political purity" and also accused it of "planning" the northeast Delhi riots in February, which had left at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured. "The Aam Aadmi Party, which came to the government in the name of clean and fair politics, has demolished all the parameters of political purity," Gupta wrote in his letter to Hazare. No immediate reaction on Gupta's letter was available from the AAP. The AAP has launched a sustained attack on the BJP, levelling allegations of corruption in the three municipal corporations ruled by the party and also in connection with the riots in the city. The two sides have been hitting out at each other on a range of issues, including corruption, waterlogging and civic amenities in the city along with the riots, in the run up to the civic body polls due in 2022.  "The people of Delhi have suffered the communal riots planned by the AAP," Gupta said in his letter. Senior AAP leader Saurabh Bhardwaj had recently hit out at the BJP, accusing it of "orchestrating" the riots in Delhi. "Aam Aadmi Party is the new name of social, political and economic corruption and we are constantly fighting against them. Therefore, we request Anna Hazare to come to Delhi and raise voice against corruption and support us in the movement. "The voice of Anna Hazare will have to be raised again for the relief of the youth and for people of Delhi who feel betrayed by the the Kejriwal government," Gupta said.  Kejriwal was a frontline leader of the anti-corruption movement launched by Anna Hazare from Ramleela ground in Delhi in 2011. Later, Kejriwal and his supporters joined active politics and formed the AAP which formed government thrice in Delhi and also emerged as the main opposition party in Punjab Assembly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-bjp-asks-anna-hazare-to-join-its-mass-movement-against-aap-government-877283.html
24-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi court frames charges against 36 foreigners, discharges 8 for attending Tablighi Jamaat||A Delhi court Monday framed charges against 36 foreigners from 14 countries for attending Tablighi Jamaat congregation here by allegedly being negligent and disobeying the government guidelines issued in wake of Covid-19 pandemic in the country. The court, however, said there was no iota of evidence to suggest that the present accused had in any manner professed or propagated the principles and doctrines of the Tablighi Jamaat or had indulged in tablighi work as alleged and discharged eight foreigners of all charges. While framing charges to start trial against 36 foreigners, the court said the statements of the witnesses, especially the health officials prima facie, showed that there was no social distancing being followed. "It has been further been mentioned in the chargesheet that around 1300 devotees from various states and foreign countries were found residing at the Markaz premises without maintaining any social distancing or using facial mask, hand sanitizers etc, even though there was invocation of order under Section 144 (power to issue order in urgent cases of nuisance of apprehended danger) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPc) in that area whereby, a curfew had been imposed and of the nationwide lockdown commencing from March 25," the court said in its order. It, however, said prima facie no act can be imputed on them to show that they had malignantly done anything which was likely to spread the coronavirus disease and discharged them for the offences of malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life and disobedience to quarantine rule. The court said that documents placed before it merely signified their presence at the Nizamuddin Markaz. "The statements of the witnesses relied upon by the prosecution are either on the basis of the alleged disclosures purportedly made by the accused during investigation or are general conjunctures not specifically providing as to the tabligh work done by accused. In the present case, beyond the above discussed bald statements there is no other credible material brought forth on record to prima facie suggest the profession and propagation of Tablighi work by the accused. Merely attending or participating in Tablighi Jamaat Markaz is not restricted as per the Visa Manual, 2019. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Gurmohina Kaur framed charges against 36 foreigners under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3 (disobeying regulation) of Epidemic Act, 1897. The charges were also framed under section 51 (obstruction) Disaster Management Act, 2005. However, they were discharged for the offences under section 14 (1) (b) (violation of visa norms) of Foreigners Act, sections 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 271 (Disobedience to quarantine rule) of IPC. The punishment for the offences for which they have been charged ranges from six months to eight years of imprisonment. The court discharged eight foreign nationals from six countries of all charges under which they were charge sheeted in the absence of any record or any credible material against them. The foreigners were chargesheeted for attending Tablighi Jamaat congregation here allegedly in violation of visa norms, indulging in missionary activities illegally and violating government guidelines issued in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak. "Perusal of documents and statements prima facie reflect that the accused and other persons including foreign nationals were negligent and did not take due care precautions by not following the directions and guidelines of the authorities, thereby leading to the spread of Coronavirus disease amongst themselves and others," the court said. While discharging two foreigners from Indonesia, one from Kyrgyzstan, two from Thailand, one from Nigeria, one from Kazakhstan and one from Jordan, the court said perusal of the entire chargesheet and other documents placed on record showed that they were not present or participated at the Makaz during the period. Special Public Prosecutor Atul Srivastava, appearing for the state, argued that the accused persons who were foreign nationals had arrived in India on the strength of tourist visa and were allegedly involved in Tablighi work which was not permitted under Visa rules unless they were granted special permission by the concerned authorities. The public prosecutor further said that a large gathering was held without following social distancing and other guidelines, which was specifically directed by the Assistant Commissioner of Police Lajpat Nagar under Section 144 of CrPc. Senior Counsel Rebecca John, appearing for the foreigners, argued the chargesheet was silent as to the role of any of the accused persons and also does not provide any specific act done by them to invoke provisions of any of the sections alleged against them. Advocates Ashima Mandla, Mandakini Singh, also the accused said as per the visa guidelines available on the Ministry of Home Affairs website, the accused were not barred from visiting and attending any religious place including the Tablighi jamaat. Advocates Megha Bahl, Fahim Khan and Ahmed Khan, said there was no evidence to show that any of the accused persons had preached or professed or was involved in any Tablighi work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-court-frames-charges-against-36-foreigners-discharges-8-for-attending-tablighi-jamaat-877319.html
24-08-2020||North and Central||Journalist shot dead in Uttar Pradesh||A journalist working with a Hindi news channel was on Monday night shot dead in Ballia district of Uttar Pradesh, police said. He has been identified as Ratan Singh (45), they said. "Ratan Singh, a journalist working with a Hindi news channel was shot dead on Monday night in Phephana. He has been identified as Ratan Singh (45). We are investigating the case,” Additional Superintendent of Police Sanjay Yadav said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/journalist-shot-dead-in-uttar-pradesh-877345.html
24-08-2020||Panorama||Milestones in our higher education system||After the US and China, India has the largest number of higher education institutions (HEIs) comprising more than 975 universities, 51,600 colleges and stand-alone establishments, with about 12.85 lakh teachers having an annual enrolment exceeding 37 million amounting to a GER (gross enrolment ratio) of 26.4%.  The system generates about 30 lakh graduates annually. Against this phenomenal quantitative scale, an attempt is made here to highlight the major policy interventions of the Central government in developing this sector.  It is held that Thakshashila (700-400 BCE) was the oldest HEI in India providing for studies in religion, mathematics, philosophy and astronomy. It is indeed a matter of pride that this ancient citadel of higher education with a milieu for universality of learning had a true character of an university (unlike the present day regional and monofaculty universities) in having students from China, Indonesia, Korea, Japan, Persia (Iran), Burma (Mymnar) and Turkey.  Some of the other ancient Indian universities were the Valabhi, Vikramshila, Nalanda, Somapura and Odantopuri. Unfortunately, the solid intellectual foundation laid by our scholars of yesteryears was dismantled by the ruthless Mughal invaders in the 12th century.  In the pre-independence era, Lord Macaulay in 1857, based on the recommendations of Charles Woods (1854 - the so-called Woods Dispatch) also known as the “magna carta of Indian education”, established the first three universities -  Bombay, Calcutta and Madras with the objective of producing English–knowing graduates badly needed for administrative work of the then British Raj.  William Hunter was the Chairman of the first Indian Education Commission. Lord Curzon in 1904 formulated the Indian Education Policy. In 1938, the Wardha Education Scheme suggested to the then provincial government to have a National Education Policy. In 1944, the Central Advisory Board on Education (CABE) advocated the idea of ‘Indianising’ education. Some of the other old universities of 19th and early 20th centuries were: Aligarh Muslim (1875), Punjab (1882), Allahabad (1887), Banaras Hindu (1916), Mysore (1916), Patna (1917), Osmania (1918) and Lucknow(1921). At the time of Independence, the country had about 18 universities, 590 colleges with an enrolment of two lakhs and GER of 3%. In 1950, the Radhakrishnan Committee recommended that “education must be free from the government control” and that “affiliated colleges should develop into unitary universities”.  This led to the establishment of the University Grants Commission (UGC) in 1956 through an Act of Parliament with the mandate for coordinating academic activities and maintaining certain standards of higher education and research in the country. The D S Kothari Committee/Commission (1964-1966) dealt with setting up of model Acts for universities and suggested that “affiliating system should be dispensed with to provide for academic freedom and to promote innovation and research”. It was the Kothari Commission that recommended that education per se should receive annual grants equal to 6% of GDP – a quantum of financial support that no Central government hitherto was able to fulfil.  Secondly, this Commission’s report paved the way for formulating the New Policy on Education in 1968. The policy advocated ‘radical restructuring’ of the entire education system starting from the primary level. The National Education Policy-1986 stressed the importance of knowledge, skills and values and  conceived them as instruments of social change and economic prosperity. In 1990, the UGC set up the Gnanam Committee to examine educational management issues. In 1992, Acharya Ramamurthy Committee and Janardhan Reddy Committee reviewed the recommendations of NEP-1986. In 1994, the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) was set up as an autonomous body of UGC to evaluate and grade HEIs based on a set of quality parameters pertaining to teaching and research. The National Knowledge Commission was set up in 2005 headed by Sam Pitroda. This Commission recommended further expansion of higher education with focus on quality, relevance, equity and affordability.  The Yashpal Committee formed in 2009, with the objective of ‘renovating and rejuvenating’ HEIs, strongly emphasised the importance of autonomy and disfavoured permitting monofaculty deemed-to be universities.  In 2012, the Thyagarajan Committee, while advocating more autonomous colleges, suggested that not more than 100 colleges be affiliated to an university and that groups of colleges can form ‘cluster universities’ – an idea yet to be functionality effective although tried by the UGC.  The National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF-2015) was designed to assess and rank HEIs on comparative basis in respect of certain performance parameters. Thereafter, the Karnataka government launched its own NIRF scheme for ranking different categories (general, professional, public, private, young, established and deemed-to-be) of HEIs. In 2018, an ‘empowered expert committee’ was set up to identify 20 HEIs (10 each from public and private sector) to be designated as ‘National Institutions of Eminence’ with greater autonomy and considerable financial support (restricted only to public institutions) in order to elevate them to the elite group of world class universities in 10 years. Apart from these, the Central government also established to coordinate and regulate education and research in Agriculture (ICAR – originally founded in 1929 but renamed in 1969), Veterinary Science (IVC-1984), Medicine (MCI-1956), Education (NCTE-1993), Dental Science (DCI-1948), Pharmacy (Pharmacy Council-1948), Nursing (Nursing Council-1961), Architecture (Council of Architecture-1972) and a host of other Statutory Apex Bodies to regulate education and research in areas such as Ayurveda, Homeopathy, Forestry and Yoga. NEP 2020 First conceived in January 2015, the highly acclaimed reformative venture had a long gestation period of more than five years. The Kasturirangan Committee submitted the final report in mid-2019 and the policy was announced in July 2020. Indeed, it is a laudable policy statement and vision document spanning primary, secondary and higher education.  Major recommendations include spending 6% of GDP, setting up National Higher Education Commission and National Research Foundation, a four-year degree programme with multiple entry and exists, encouragement to private participation, phased discontinuation of affiliation, the National Testing Agency to conduct a single test for admission to universities, etc.  However, the toughest challenge is implementation within a defined time frame encouraging states to participate in right earnestness in true spirit of federalism  (The writer is former Vice Chancellor, University of Mysore)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/milestones-in-our-higher-education-system-876967.html
24-08-2020||Panorama||We are what we believe||There is no human being, however remote from civilised society, who has absolutely no beliefs. These are basic to life and whether lettered or unlettered, everyone has some values in life. Even a caveman has some values, but there is no value which is not derived from some belief knowingly or unknowingly. So, we should be clear in our mind what we mean when we talk of a particular value. In other words, we should be aware of the particular ‘belief system’ that is in the background of that value. For example, when Mahatma Gandhi, the apostle of Ahimsa talked of non-violence, he included Brahmacharya also in his concept of Ahimsa. He said that a person, who aspires Ahimsa as a value in his life, must follow celibacy. So, his understanding of the value of non-violence was different from what many others professing the observance of these values would say because his beliefs, doctrines and ideals differed from those of others. Similarly, if we were to ascertain what ‘tolerance’ as a value meant to different communities, we would have to know their religious beliefs. In some religions, the concept or definition of tolerance does not include tolerance to the condemnation of, or even adverse comment on their sacred book or a derogatory remark about a revered person in the history of their religion. In such matters, they feel that they are under attack and hence they feel highly provoked and throw tolerance to the winds. So, tolerance, as a value, has a very limited scope in their value-system because they think that their beliefs are such. The above-mentioned examples should make it clear that everyone does not hold the same value systems and do not imply the same virtue because their belief systems are different. So, if we now wish to transform the world and have moral values in all sections of society, we will have to work to educate people to have the right beliefs. Because, without transforming the beliefs, you cannot have a changed value system and, without the latter, you cannot have a better world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/we-are-what-we-believe-877324.html
24-08-2020||Panorama||Being sustainable after Covid-19||As per 2020’s Environmental Performance Index (EPI), Scandinavian countries continue to lead the global effort towards sustainability. India, despite the current dispensation’s proclaimed ambitions to lead the sustainability movement, was positioned at the 168th rank amongst 180 countries. Though a multitude of factors affect these rankings, the adoption of eco-institutionalism to incorporate long term ecological vision in short term economic planning has played a definitive part in helping Scandinavian countries stay at the top. It is understandably difficult for developing countries like India to balance economic and ecological imperatives in their national priorities. However, if we are to stay true to our stated policy of becoming a world leader in sustainability, we must not allow our situation to become our excuse but translate them into our opportunities. During the crash of 2008, global emissions decreased by 1% only to rise by a ghastly 5% during the recovery period beginning in 2010. As of now, it has been estimated that the pandemic induced reduction in greenhouse gases (GHG) emissions would amount to a 5-8% reduction. However, if the post-2008 financial crisis recovery is anything to go by, the post-Covid-19 recovery may upset the grand strategic plans adopted during the Paris Agreement.  Underlying the decision to have national lockdowns, was an evidence-driven study produced by Imperial College (London). This illustrated how even in the post-truth world, institutional decision making continues to rely on data more than hysteria or political aspirations of the ruling dispensation.  Unfortunately, the recent spate of events in the energy sector shows the avolition of our government to use data and evidence in policy formulation. Offshore wind has registered a 49% decline in financing, creating the need to increase solar power capacity addition. However, by providing a customs duty exemption on solar imports from China for projects allocated before 1st August, the government is repressing investment opportunities worth Rs.50,000 Crore for domestic manufacturers. According to the IEA, 40% of renewable energy (RE) capacity addition projects for 2022 RE commitments have been allotted to states with below-average rating DISCOMS. To make these 40% capacity additions projects tenable for 2022 targets focus should be laid on installing prepaid smart meters. Smart meters can help in reducing collection inefficiency with DISCOMS and further improve demand data which will help in better management of grid and reduce AT&C losses. It is well established that coal will remain a part of India’s energy mix to cushion the production variability impact of RE. By opening coal mining to the private sector and deregulating quality control of procured coal, India risks increasing emissions intensity of its GDP. Instead incentivizing widespread installation of Carbon Capture Utilization Storage (CCUS) technology by introducing regulatory framework which provides tax credits to power plants and increasing the rate of biomass cofiring could improve coal power fleets performance. It is estimated that until 2030, an annual drop of 6-7% would be required in the global carbon emissions to limit our exposure to climate anomalies. If developing countries continue to avoid prioritizing their short-term needs over their long-term needs, things may escalate to a point of no return.  We need to adopt ecological institutionalism to explore norms and policies opined by leading global experts and punch above weight by planning over a longer time horizon in a limited resource endowment. The shift to long-term policy planning would require standardising data on environmental monitoring and institutionalization of climate risk assessment. Creating a social laboratory of alternatives in economic and sustainable policy-making, the government could explore ideas such as a social impact stock exchange for developmental organizations and NGOs to standardize impact data and funnel funding into high-impact green initiatives. Green investments will not just create more jobs but also help with quicker and sustained recovery of the economy post-Covid. Beyond tangible capital returns, green investments could also limit future climate risk exposure by nurturing a more resilient economy. (The writer is a student at Jindal School of International Affairs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/being-sustainable-after-covid-19-877325.html
24-08-2020||Panorama||Europe tried to limit layoffs, but cuts are coming anyway||At BP, 10,000 jobs. At Lufthansa, 22,000. At Renault, 14,600. When European countries ordered businesses to shutter and employees to stay home as the coronavirus spread, governments took radical steps to shield workers from the prospect of mass joblessness, extending billions to businesses to keep people employed. The layoffs are coming anyway. A tsunami of job cuts is about to hit Europe as companies prepare to carry out sweeping downsizing plans to offset a collapse in business from the outbreak. Government-backed furlough schemes that have helped keep around one-third of Europe’s workforce financially secure are set to unwind in the coming months. As many as 59 million jobs are at risk of cuts in hours or pay, temporary furloughs, or permanent layoffs, especially in industries like transportation and retail, according to a study by McKinsey & Co. Governments are warning that millions will soon lose paychecks, and the European Central Bank last week said unemployment was likely to surge and stay high even when a recovery from the pandemic unfolds. “Europe has been successful at dampening the initial effects of the crisis,” said John Hurley, senior research manager at Eurofound, the research arm of the European Union. “But in all likelihood, unemployment is going to come home to roost, especially when the generous furlough programs start to ease off,” he said. “There’s going to be a shakeout,” he added, “and it’s going to be fairly ugly.” Compared with the United States, which lost more than 20 million jobs in April alone, the furlough programs in the EU have prevented unemployment from going off the charts. Germany, France, Denmark and Britain are among countries that have employed so-called short-work schemes, effectively nationalizing the paychecks of about 60 million private-sector employees. But even before a recent resurgence of coronavirus cases, the pandemic’s economic damage was growing, and it now appears those expensive government programs only postponed the pain for some workers. Corporate giants and retail companies operating well below capacity since the start of the crisis will now pivot to slashing tens of thousands of positions in autumn and through next year. Some companies figure the disruption is the best time to move forward on long-contemplated downsizing. Airbus, BP, Renault, Lufthansa, Air France, Debenhams department store chain, Bank of Ireland, retailer W.H. Smith and even McLaren Group, which includes the Formula One racing team, along with countless smaller businesses, are among those planning cuts that will sweep factory workers, retail employees and high-paid white-collar workers into the ranks of the unemployed. The layoffs are mounting even as Europe has flashed signs of recovery amid a historic contraction in growth rates. In Germany, business and consumer confidence is growing, while manufacturing activity across the eurozone bounced back to growth in July. The euro is strengthening against the dollar as investment flows into Europe. The scale and speed of the cutbacks underscores the challenge facing leaders as they recalibrate their approach to limiting the pandemic’s damage. For one thing, the cost of Europe’s support programs has been mounting. European leaders recently agreed to a landmark 750 billion euro stimulus package on top of hundreds of billions spent since the start of the crisis, ballooning national debts and deficits. And many of the jobs being subsidized are in industries facing potentially irreversible damage from the pandemic. About 9 million European workers, up to one-fifth of those currently enrolled in the short-work programs, are in what German bank Allianz has dubbed “zombie jobs” — positions in the auto and airline industries, restaurants, shops and hotels and other sectors ill-equipped to confront shifting consumer behavior. Many of these jobs are still on the books almost solely because of government subsidies, the bank said. “The programs in Europe are more generous than in the United States, but they won’t last forever,” said Simon Tilford, an author of a Center for European Reform report on the economic risks of the pandemic. “Lots of companies will lay off workers irrespective of whether they can continue to access wage subsidy schemes because they can’t see demand recovering anytime soon,” he said. In the meantime, governments “are going to face a difficult choice about continuing to subsidize workers in sectors where there is a question about the long-term future,” including autos and aerospace, he added. Employers will soon face other financial pressures as emergency benefits adopted when the virus was raging in the spring come to a close. In Britain, a moratorium on forfeiture of commercial properties because of unpaid rent — effectively allowing firms to delay rent payments — ends in September. In Germany, a rule allowing companies in distress to avoid filing for bankruptcy will also begin phasing out in September. Among the U.K. businesses that have already announced cuts, British Airways, easyJet and Virgin Atlantic will shed a total of nearly 20,000 jobs. Boots, Pret a Manger and a phalanx of other high street retailers and food shops will lay off at least 15,000 in the coming weeks and months. At BP, 10,000 office-based positions will go, most by the end of the year. Millions of others on precarious temporary and “on-call” contracts are also at risk. Governments are moving to ensure that rising joblessness doesn’t turn into a quagmire of long-term unemployment. Britain and other countries are expanding access to benefits and investing billions in programs to train workers in industries that are hiring, whether in chemical engineering, truck driving or home care. Britain will invest 800 million pounds ($1 billion) into job centers and double the number of work coaches to 27,000 to help benefit claimants back into work. France is recruiting thousands of new counselors to give job seekers what the government says will be more personalized direction. Adecco, Europe’s largest temporary employment agency, whose main business includes working with companies and labor unions to carry out restructuring plans, has been amping up its retraining. “We see a huge wave of restructuring coming, especially in Germany, France and the United States,” said Christophe Catoir, Adecco’s president for France and Northern Europe. “In September, October and November we will probably register an additional 1 million unemployed in France alone — not just people in short-term work, but high-skilled people.” Yet there are opportunities, he said. Engineers will be laid off at Airbus, which is cutting 15,000 jobs in Europe. But job vacancies currently abound for industrial and technical engineers, as well as in the pharmaceutical and agro-food industry, Catoir said. “Creating a mobility of skills will be the basis of a rebound,” he said. “Without it you will have continued unemployment.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/europe-tried-to-limit-layoffs-but-cuts-are-coming-anyway-877327.html
24-08-2020||Right in the Middle||Familiarity breeds contempt ||“Familiarity breeds contempt,” I have observed this saying, which plays tricks on our minds, testify its veracity very many times in my life. For instance, a well-loved bedtime story is reduced to a recitation. Learning by rote becomes mindless repetition after a while. A beaten path to a regular destination makes us wear blinders to the surroundings. A regular visitor loses his status as a guest.  Well, I did not expect the adage to come alive when I was in one of the most exotic destinations on my bucket list. When I flew into Milan, the fashion capital of the world, I was quite dazed. The well lit, decorated space, the length of the queue at immigration coupled with long wait, travel and the jet lag lent it a very ethereal quality. I stepped out, to be warmly greeted by a young cousin and later on joined by a very dear friend of mine. I enjoyed my train ride to Milano Centrale taking in everything that I could see from the window. The place unfolded its magnetic charm in bits and pieces and culminated in the railway station which looked surreal with its archaic looks. I must confess, I spent more time looking up than watching my steps as I walked in the station towards the metro station. We checked into a hostel and spent the next three days taking a metro train to Milano Centrale and seeing the cynosures of the city before buzzing back to our nest. Over time, the station became familiar. This was proved by the fact that instead of looking at the classical looking staircases and sculptures, I started spending a few minutes listening to random violinists and artists performing on the platform. The shops, advertisements, the railway tracks, cobwebs and a mixture of old and new trains caught my attention by the sixth time. When we went there for the eighth time, we indulged in window shopping to avoid stepping out into the rain. I remember crinkling my nose up in the air when I had to use a dirty washroom in the station.  On the day we left the place to our next destination, I recollect that I was making calls and looking at the digital notice board for information on arrivals and departures. It was only in retrospection I realized that that the truism had been rendered true. As William Hazlitt had put it, “Though familiarity may not breed contempt, it certainly takes off the edge of admiration!”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/familiarity-breeds-contempt-876966.html
24-08-2020||Right in the Middle||A stitch in another time||This lockdown has become an opportunity for us to relish in nostalgia. I too slipped into a reverie, remembering my school and college days when I was studying at Vittal, a small town in Dakshina Kannada. Branded, readymade dresses were not very accessible then. Most people would get their dresses stitched. To attract customers, tailors used to advertise that they were ‘Bombay Tailors’ below their shop name. We would throng to such tailors, as they were known to stitch fashionable dresses. Those days, Bombay (now Mumbai) was the first choice for all unemployed youth and as everyone remembers, it was known as the fashion capital of the country. Similarly, even Mangalore was known to be fashionable and people would say whatever new fashion arrived in Bombay, in 24 hours the same would land in Mangalore. Incidentally, the bus journey from Bombay to Mangalore would take only 24 hours.  Such tailoring shops provided employment to no less than 7-8 youths, and most of the time they would be school dropouts.  In a tailoring shop, the owner would only take measurements. The employees would busy themselves in cutting cloth, stitching, fixing buttons, ironing and so on. It was not uncommon for these tailors would often extend the deadline, saying, ”it's ready, only the button is to be fixed!"  I remember the sound of rotation that a number of sewing machines made, it was worth listening to. In between the tailors would often put oil, change the thread and continue. My friends and I used to visit tailoring shops daily, befriending tailors, and would read various daily newspapers to see which movie was running in which theatre.  On Fridays and Sundays, we used to feast on film advertisements. Not that we were not browsing through the other pages. In fact, we also used to read in detail about Sunny Gavaskar’s batting or Kapil Dev’s heroic efforts. The tailors would also often switch on transistors, which was a source of daily news, film songs and cricket commentary. We used to listen to it with rapt attention. Now every shop has a portable TV, and one can often hear ‘breaking news’.  These days, I have not come across boards of any Bombay Tailors.  With the advent of internet, and other quick media, is there any need to depend on Mumbai returned tailors for the latest fashion?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-stitch-in-another-time-877333.html
24-08-2020||Second Edit||Address Bangla issues quickly||Bangladesh could become the next country in India’s neighbourhood to slip into China’s orbit if India does not act swiftly to address outstanding issues. Dhaka is reported to be in discussions with Beijing regarding a $1 billion loan for a river basin project that will help it better manage the River Teesta water to control floods and prevent water shortages. Sharing the Teesta water has been a contentious issue between India and Bangladesh for decades. The two sides were on the verge of signing a pact to settle the dispute in 2011 and again in 2014. However, domestic politics in India – West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has opposed the pact – had prevented successive governments in New Delhi from signing an agreement with Bangladesh. As a result, the dispute festers providing the Bangladeshi opposition with a weapon to attack the Sheikh Hasina government for failing to address an important problem. Dhaka seems to be running out of patience with New Delhi and is looking to China to help it resolve the Teesta problem by providing it with funds and expertise to better manage the river water. India’s relations with Bangladesh have been generally warm and the present government has gone the extra mile to address India’s security concerns. The Hasina government has, for instance, shut down training camps of anti-India terror groups operating from Bangladeshi territory and extradited ULFA militants back to India. Importantly, although Bangladesh is part of China’s Belt and Road Initiative, it has avoided involving the Chinese in projects that have security implications for India. It is therefore unfortunate that New Delhi has been rather careless in dealing with Bangladesh. While Banerjee’s obstructionist politics is to blame for Delhi’s failure to seal a deal on the Teesta, the Narendra Modi government cannot escape responsibility for fraying ties with Dhaka. Its National Register of Citizens and the Citizenship Amendment Act have serious implications for Bangladesh but the Modi government has pressed ahead without consulting the Hasina government or heeding its concerns. Understandably, Bangladesh is upset with India. India’s Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla is likely to have raised the issue of the Chinese loan with the Bangladeshis during his last week’s visit. He is said to have discussed development projects and promised Dhaka access to the Covid-19 vaccine on priority. While these steps are welcome, these are fire-fighting measures. Shringla had visited Dhaka in March also. Repeated visits and assurances will not ease Dhaka’s concerns if these are not backed by substantial progress on the ground.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/address-bangla-issues-quickly-876962.html
24-08-2020||Second Edit||Madhya Pradesh’s jobs for locals untenable||The Madhya Pradesh government’s decision, announced by Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, that all government jobs in the state would henceforth be set apart for locals is unwise and is a poor response to the challenges it is facing. The Covid-19 pandemic has done much damage to the state’s fragile economy and has created widespread uncertainties and anxieties. Reservation of any kind has an emotive value for its beneficiaries and so the government’s decision may bring comfort to some people. The government may also have a political purpose, as a number of Assembly by-elections resulting from the resignations of Jyotiraditya Scindia’s supporters, will have to be held soon, and they are important for the BJP. Reservations have always been linked to politics in every state and at the Centre and it is unfortunate that political parties do not see the disadvantages of stretching the idea too far. Governments announce reservations fully knowing that the decision cannot be implemented, believing that the mere announcement will fetch political dividends.  The previous Kamal Nath government had ruled that 70% of private-sector jobs should be reserved for the people of the state. Other states have also tried different forms of reservation for ‘sons of the soil’ and for some sections of population who have agitated for it. Early this month, Telangana decided to reserve 60% of skilled jobs and 80% of unskilled jobs for locals in the state’s industries. Haryana has ordered 70% reservation for locals in the private sector. Other states like Karnataka have tried different kinds of reservations for locals. Some decisions were struck down by the courts and many others were not implemented, especially when they mandated reservations in the private sector. Industries want to recruit people with the requisite skills, not on the basis of where they come from.  Reservations for locals is not legally sound because it violates the right to equality and the right to work anywhere in the country. It also harms national integration. There should not be restrictions on people of one state studying, working or living in other states. The country should be considered as a single labour market. Migration of labour has helped the host state, the home state and the workers who migrate. Shortages of workmen or of skilled and qualified personnel in one state are filled by migrant personnel. It is surprising that national parties like the BJP and the Congress are championing ‘sons of the soil’ policies. It is a sign of an unhealthy culture of nativism and parochialism gaining strength in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/madhya-pradesh-s-jobs-for-locals-untenable-877330.html
24-08-2020||South||52 new Covid-19 cases in Andaman & Nicobar Islands||Fifty-two more people have tested positive for Covid-19 in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, taking the union territory's coronavirus caseload to 2,860, officials said on Monday. Of the 52 new cases, 45 were detected during local contact tracing and seven at the airport, they said. At least 110 people recovered from Covid-19 in the last 24-hours, taking the total number of recoveries to 1,963. Of the total 2,860 Covid-19 cases, 864 are active, 1,963 people have recovered from the disease and 33 have died, officials said. To ramp up the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, the Union territory administration has made Rapid Antigen Test mandatory for all incoming passengers from the mainland at Port Blair Airport from August 22. Passengers testing positive at the airport are shifted immediately to Covid care facility and those who test negative will have to follow home or institutional quarantine for seven days, the officials added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/52-new-covid-19-cases-in-andaman-nicobar-islands-877021.html
24-08-2020||South||S P Balasubrahmanyam still on life support, tests negative for Covid-19||Legendary playback singer S P Balasubrahmanyam, who is receiving treatment at the ICU of a private hospital here after being infected with Covid-19, has tested negative for the virus. “My father is fine and stable, and his Corona test has come Negative,” publicist Nikil Murukan quoted SPB’s son and producer Charan as saying. The playback singer is still on ventilator and Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO) support in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU), the hospital said on Saturday. 74-year-old Balasubrahmanyam, who has sung over 40,000 songs in 16 languages, was moved to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of a private hospital here and put on life support on August 13. He tested positive for Covid-19 on August 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/s-p-balasubrahmanyam-still-on-life-support-tests-negative-for-covid-19-877058.html
24-08-2020||South||Kerala Assembly passes 'unanimous resolution' against privatisation of Trivandrum airport||The Kerala Assembly on Monday passed a resolution urging the Centre to reconsider the decision to hand over Thiruvananthapuram International Airport operation, management and development to the Adani group and demanded that a special purpose vehicle with Kerala government equity participation shall be handed over the airport at the rate quoted by Adani group. While speaker maintained that the resolution was passed unanimously, BJP leaders alleged that the lone BJP member O Rajagopal was not even allowed to speak. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said in the resolution that the Centre did not even consider state’s suggestion that SPV with state government’s equity participation would pay the fee quoted by Adani group, which was Rs 162 per passenger. The land for the airport worth crores of rupees was acquired by the state government. Hence the value of the land could be converted as state government’s equity in the proposed SPV. The opposition Congress-led UDF backed the resolution with strong protests against the state government involving Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas, a law firm that has links with the Adani group, for the preparation of the initial tender for the airport. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala alleged that the left-front government was openly opposing Adani group, but secretly supporting them and it was a criminal conspiracy. He also said that the opposition was backing the resolution considering public opinion. Responding to Opposition's allegations, CM Vijayan said that the law firm had no role in finalising the rates for the tender. The government is very transparent on all such matters, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-assembly-passes-unanimous-resolution-against-privatisation-of-trivandrum-airport-877096.html
24-08-2020||South||Telangana reports 1,842 new Covid-19 cases, six deaths||Telangana reported 1,842 new Covid-19 cases, pushing the state's tallyto 1,06,091 while the death toll rose to 761 with six more fatalities. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) recorded 373 fresh infections, followed by Nizamabad (158), Karimnagar (134),Suryapet (113) and Ranga Reddy (109) districts, a state government bulletin said on Monday, providing data as of 8 pm on August 23. According to the bulletin, the case fatality rate in the state was 0.71 per cent, while it was 1.86 per cent at the national level. The total number of people who recovered from the infectious disease so far was82,411, while 22,919 were under treatment. The recovery rate in the state rose further to 77.67 per cent in the state, while it was 74.90 per cent in the country. The number of individuals in home/institutional isolation was 16,482. The bulletin said 36,282 samples were tested on August 23. Cumulatively, the number of samples tested was 9,68,121. The samples tested per million population was 26,076, it said. It said RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TRUENAT testing facilities in the government were 16 and 31 in the private sector. It also said 1,076 rapid antigen testing centres have been set up by the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-reports-1842-new-covid-19-cases-six-deaths-877103.html
24-08-2020||South||Puducherry reports 345 fresh Covid-19 cases, 5 deaths||The 345 fresh cases were identified after examination of 1,192 samples and 285 patients were discharged during the last 24 hours, Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao told a virtual press conference. Of the overall tally of 10,859 coronavirus cases in the Union Territory 3,753 were active and 6,942 patients have recovered and have been discharged so far, he added. The five deaths in the last 24 hours pushed the toll to 164. Most of the deceased had co-morbidities and they were in the age group of 56 to 61 years, the minister said. The Department of Health and Family Welfare has so far tested 64,652 samples and found 52,169 of them to be negative. Results of examination of remaining specimens were awaited. Malladi Krishna Rao batted for two-day weekend total lockdown so that the number of infections could be reduced. He said he would suggest to the Chief Minister V Narayanasamy at a meeting of the State level Disaster Management Authority later in the day that the two-day lockdown be announced. He also appealed to the people to adhere to safety protocols.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-reports-345-fresh-covid-19-cases-5-deaths-877151.html
24-08-2020||South||Tamil Nadu: Pvt hospitals shut door on pregnant women, says CPI(M) MP||Many private hospitals here are refusing to admit pregnant women for delivery, saying they had not taken prior treatment in healthcare facilities, CPI(M) MP, P R Natarajan said on Monday. In a letter to the district collector K Rajamani, the MP said he has been receiving lots of complaints about some hospitals refusing to admit the women whose deliveries were due soon. The reason they were giving was that these women had not taken treatment from the beginning, and, therefore, without knowing the condition, the hospitals may not be in a position to take a risk, he said. Stating that if pressured to treat such women, the hospitals would say there was non-availability of beds, he said the real reason was that there was no facility to treat coronavirus-infected people in those hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-pvt-hospitals-shut-door-on-pregnant-women-says-cpim-mp-877158.html
24-08-2020||South||J P Nadda lashes out at DMK; says it incites people, shelters those not working for national interest||BJP national president J P Nadda on Monday assailed the opposition DMK in Tamil Nadu accusing it of being a "sheltering ground for people not working in the interest of the nation" and "always inciting feelings against national spirit." He appealed to his party members to give a befitting reply to the Dravidian party in the Assembly election due next year. Attacking the M K Stalin-led party, Nadda said DMK has always been "inciting feelings against national spirit" and on a lookout to see to it that "national mainstream assimilation formation is always disrupted." Addressing the state BJP's executive meeting via video conferencing from New Delhi, Nadda alleged the DMK was always "anti-development" and against the interest of the nation. "In Tamil Nadu, the DMK has been a sheltering ground for people not working in the interest of the nation. You should see to it that we give a befitting reply to the people who are working against the interest of the nation," he said. Others too should ensure that the divisive forces do not get strengthened in Tamil Nadu, Nadda added. Referring to YouTube channel Karuppar Kootam allegedly denigrating 'Kanda Shashti Kavacham,' sung in praise of Lord Murugan, Nadda said the enlightened people of Tamil Nadu agitated against the outfit. The saffron party's national president exuded confidence that in the coming times, the BJP will have a substantial share in municipal and Assembly elections in the state, and appealed to the party members to increase the vote share in Tamil Nadu. "Tamil Nadu is a land of temples, very rich culture, architectural beauty, full of revolutionaries, freedom fighters, legendary administrators and worldwide known entrepreneurs. I bow to the people of Tamil Nadu for the rich culture they have," he said. Without mentioning anyone, he said Tamil Nadu which has been talking about Tamil language "for long" should realise that the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 aims to encourage education through one's mother tongue. The NEP 2020 has come under attack from political parties including DMK for alleged "imposition of Hindi," even as the ruling AIADMK has made it clear the state will only follow the two-language system in vogue for years, and not the three-language policy, which includes Hindi, as suggested in the NEP. "I request you to talk about NEP...in independent India, under Prime Minister Narendra Modi's dynamic rule, for the first time the government introduced an education policy which is Bharat Education Policy, reflecting the spirit of India. Do a deeper study of the NEP and see that the people of Tamil Nadu are brought into the national mainstream," Nadda urged the senior office-bearers. As per the NEP, the medium of instruction will be in the regional language, endorsing the spirit of Bharat, so that the base of education is stronger. Exams in the current system are subjective and students memorise things and write them down. But in the NEP, a conceptual and analytical approach will be put in place, he said. Both the rich and poor will get qualitative and affordable education. Acceptability has also been improved as local languages are set to be used as a mode of education till class VIII, he said. "The previous education policy came in 1986 and prior to it in 1968. The last time, the policy was just changed in figures and not in terms of content, policy and spirit. Now, we can say, it is for the first time that India has an independent education policy," Nadda said. Urging party members to put in place a mechanism to win elections, Nadda advised them to form a WhatsApp group at booth committee level and further strengthen the IT site. The speeches of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other leaders of the party and BJP's achievements could be shared in the WhatsApp and IT groups in the regional language. Further, the state unit of the BJP should develop good content to counter elements like Karuppar Kootam and disseminate information on the NEP in Tamil. Thirdly, these groups should discuss national, regional and local issues, the BJP national president said. "We should emphasise on youth, women, tribal people, Dalits and people at the grassroots and try and bring them to the mainstream," he said, adding, there should be special efforts and drives for empowering them. With a grand temple for Lord Ram coming up in Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh and revocation of special status for Jammu and Kashmir, the party members could now highlight that India is one from Kashmir to Kanyakumari, he said. Recalling the efforts of Modi in leading the nation in the fight against Covid-19, he said the PM took a bold and timely decision to prepare the nation and 130 crore Indians to fight the pandemic, apparently referring to the lockdown in March. He ensured that 50,000 ventilators were manufactured in India and are in service today. As a result of Modis initiatives, India, today has over 1,500 dedicated Covid-19 hospitals, from zero when the pandemic started. Over 12.5 lakh Covid-19 dedicated beds are also available today. "India had no facility to make PPE kits and by encouraging local entrepreneurs, we are producing five lakh PPE kits daily," he said. He claimed that the lockdown was practically a lockdown for political parties but for the BJP in Tamil Nadu it continued to work for the needy and ensured that everyone got what they needed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/j-p-nadda-lashes-out-at-dmk-says-it-incites-people-shelters-those-not-working-for-national-interest-877203.html
24-08-2020||South||Online classes for Telangana school students to begin from Sep 1||Online classes for students in Telangana will begin from September 1, the school education department said in its order on Monday. It noted that the cabinet meeting on August 5 had approved commencement of admissions and given the green signal for starting distance education and e-learning for schools. "The government, after careful examination, hereby permit as part of e-learning and distance education, online classes on various digital/Tv/T-SAT platforms from September 1, 2020 in all schools. All teachers shall attend schools regularly from August 27 onwards and shall prepare e-content lessons," the order said. The schools will remain 'physically' closed for students until further orders, it added. The director of school education has been requested to follow an alternative calendar prepared by the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) and issue detailed operational guidelines, it further said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/online-classes-for-telangana-school-students-to-begin-from-sep-1-877258.html
24-08-2020||South||Shreyams Kumar wins Rajya Sabha bypoll from Kerala||M V Shreyams Kumar, state president of the ruling LDF ally Loktantrik Janata Party, was elected to the Rajya Sabha from Kerala in the bypoll held here on Monday to fill the vacancy caused by the death of his father and media baron M P Veerendra Kumar. Kumar polled 88 votes while the Congress-UDF candidate, Lal Varghese Kalpakavadi got 41 votes, Kerala Legislative Assembly Secretary S V Unnikrishnan, who was the Returning Officer, said. The RS bypoll, necessitated following the death of 83-year-old veteran socialist M P Veerendra Kumar on May 28, was held in the state assembly premises here. The lone BJP MLA O Rajagopal kept away, while the vote of P C George was declared invalid. Of the total of 136 votes, 130 were polled and six were not present. From the Left Democratic Front, nonagenarian and former Chief Minister V S Achutanandan and George M Thomas did not cast their votes, while from the UDF camp, Kerala Congress Jose K Mani faction members--Roshi Augustine and N Jeyaraj were not present. Kerala Congress Joseph faction leader C F Thomas also did not vote. Karat Razak of the LDF and K M Shaji of the UDF could not vote as their appeals against the Kerala High Court order, declaring their elections void, are pending before the Supreme Court. Higher Education minister K T Jaleel, who is in quarantine, cast his franchise, but did not participate in the assembly proceedings, which debated the opposition UDF's no confidence motion against the Pinarayi Vijayan government. In the 140-member Assembly, the LDF has 93 members, while the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) has 45. Besides, one member is nominated from the Anglo Indian community, but he does not have voting rights. BJP has one member, while P C George is an Independent. Two seats are vacant following the death of two members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/shreyams-kumar-wins-rajya-sabha-bypoll-from-kerala-877269.html
24-08-2020||South||Udhayanidhi’s Ganesha picture on Twitter leads to a political storm||The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), which was founded on the principles of rationalism, faced some embarrassing moments on Monday when its youth wing chief Udhayanidhi Stalin posted a picture of his daughter holding a clay-made idol of Lord Ganesha on his verified Twitter account. The caption-less picture uploaded in the wee hours of Monday led to a major political storm with Udhayanidhi being attacked vehemently for “deviating from the party’s founding principles” on Twitter and other social media platforms. And the attack was led by none other than known supporters and sympathisers of the DMK, who even questioned the leader’s meteoric rise in the party – his father M K Stalin, the Twitter users reminded him, had to wait for over four decades to helm the DMK, which was founded in 1949.  Political analysts said the tweet was “unwanted” and it amounted to “walking straight into the trap” laid by the BJP, which has been flaunting the “Hindu pride” off late in a state that has never voted on religious lines in the past. BJP has been projecting DMK as “anti-Hindu.” Under fire, Udhayanidhi released a statement in the evening clarifying that the idol was installed at his home by his mother, Durga Stalin, on the occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi. “My daughter wanted to pose for a picture with the idol before it was taken for immersion. I posted the picture on Twitter to fulfil the wishes of my daughter who loved the picture,” he said. DMK leaders never wish for Hindu festivals like Deepavali and Ganesh Chaturthi but greet people on Pongal as it is widely known as the festival of the Tamil race irrespective of their religion. And this is not the first time the DMK has landed itself in a controversy over Ganesh Chaturthi – in 2014, Stalin had wished people on the occasion on his verified Twitter page, but the tweet was soon deleted. Though the party said the wishes were posted by “enthusiastic” social media handlers of Stalin without his approval, it was widely believed it irked his father and then DMK chief M Karunanidhi. Udhayanidhi’s tweet came a day after questions were raised on why a “particular party leader” does not wish people on the occasion of Hindi festivals. The DMK’s youth wing leader might have posted the picture as a direct reply to the taunts from the party’s detractors, it did not go quite well with the supporters. He was not spared either by the AIADMK leaders who accused the DMK of seeking “divine intervention” due to fear of losing the “Hindu votes.” Prof. Ramu Manivannan, Head of Department of Politics and Public Administration, University of Madras, told DH that DMK did not have to walk into such traps. “It (posting the picture) not just displays DMK’s insecurities but also shows how increasingly DMK realises that the threat to it comes from the BJP and not the AIADMK. It senses the indication of the direction of the threat. DMK did not have to walk into such things,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/udhayanidhi-s-ganesha-picture-on-twitter-leads-to-a-political-storm-877274.html
24-08-2020||South||Kerala CM hits out at Congress after it moves a vote of no confidence||Congress was in a 'pathetic' situation and most of its leaders were waiting for a call to join the BJP, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Monday, taking a jibe at the party during the debate in the state assembly on a no-confidence motion moved by it against his government. The Congress was not able to elect its leader while seniors were describing each other as "BJP agents", he said and claimed most of the leaders were waiting for a call from the BJP to joinit. He was referring to the leadership issue faced by the national party with a section demanding collective leadership and another reposing faith in the Gandhi family. "While they have moved a no-confidence motion here, another no-trust motion is ensuing in Delhi. There, their leaders are describing each other as BJP agents. Senior leader Kapil Sibal had to openly say he was not one. However, later he withdrew the statement," Vijayan said. Earlier in the day, Sibal withdrew his tweet in which he hit out at Rahul Gandhi, and said the former party chief had informed him personally that he had never made the "colluding with the BJP" remark during the Congress Working Committee meeting. Vijayan also said the Congress had said in the 1980s that the Left front will not come in power in Kerala ever again. But, it "came to power four times after that." "Congress party does not have the ability to select a leader on its own. The senior leaders have shot off a letter seeking a leadership change. Sonia Gandhi agreed to resign following this. Rahul Gandhi has already refused to take charge. Have they ever taken a stand together as a political party?" he asked. "Even on the Ayodhya issue, they had double standards. Some supported while some opposed," Vijayan said. The Marxist veteran said the Congress was facing a "pathetic situation" and yet bringing a no-confidence motion against the Left front government. "Most of the Congress leaders are waiting for the BJP to call them. They are ready to join the saffron party anytime. Just waiting for a phone call," Vijayan said. Congress member V D Satheeshan moved the no-trust motion, the first against the four-year old LDF government, levelling a slew of allegations with specific reference to the gold smuggling case in which Vijayan's former principal secretary M Sivasankar has come under a cloud.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-hits-out-at-congress-after-it-moves-a-vote-of-no-confidence-877291.html
24-08-2020||South||No-confidence motion against LDF government in Kerala defeated by 87-40 votes||The no-confidence motion moved by Congress-led UDF against the LDF government in Kerala was defeated by 87-40 votes on Monday, Assembly Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan announced. After a marathon discussion lasting nine hours, the motion was defeated with 87 members opposing it and 40 supporting in the 140-member house with two vacancies. Two members of the UDF ally Kerala Congress Jose K Mani faction abstained themselves during the voting. BJP's lone member O Rajagopal also stayed away. The opposition combine brought the no-confidence motion levelling various allegations against the Pinarayi Vijayan government with specific reference to the gold smuggling case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/no-confidence-motion-against-ldf-government-in-kerala-defeated-by-87-40-votes-877314.html
24-08-2020||South||SC notice to Centre on plea by AIADMK to implement 50% OBC quota in medial college seats in Tamil Nadu||The Supreme Court on Monday issued notice to the Union Government on a plea by AIADMK to implement 50% quota for OBC in all India seats in Tamil Nadu medical colleges as per rules of reservation in the academic year 2020-21. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat sought a response from the Union Government by August 28. The plea by AIADMK was argued by advocate Balaji Srinivasan. The court tagged the plea along with the Tamil Nadu's petition filed earlier. The state government have challenged Madras HC's judgement of July 27. They have questioned the non-implementation of 50% reservation for Backward Classes, Most Backward Classes and denotified community in admission to the seats contributed by the state to all India quota in undergraduate, postgraduate and diploma seats in medical and dental courses.  In its order, the High Court decided to form a committee to examine the matter and declined to issue any direction to the Centre and the Medical Council of India to implement the quota as per the plea by the Tamil Nadu government.  The HC had concluded that the Medical Council of India Regulations are silent as to whether the all India quota seats would also attract the law of reservation as applicable in the respective states. According to the Medical Council of India’s Regulations, 1997, 15% of seats in all undergraduate medical colleges and 50% in all postgraduate medical colleges are surrendered to the all India quota.  The Tamil Nadu Backward Classes, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Reservation of Seats in Educational Institutions and of appointments or posts in the Services under the State) Act, 1993, provided for 50% reservation for OBCs, besides 18% for SCs and 1% for STs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sc-notice-to-centre-on-plea-by-aiadmk-to-implement-50-obc-quota-in-medial-college-seats-in-tamil-nadu-877315.html
24-08-2020||South||Kerala CM alleges of conspiracy against his office; says Congress hijacked by RSS's Hindutva agenda||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has alleged of a global conspiracy to link his government with gold smuggling case and also that the Congress was 'becoming Hindutva'. In an around four-hour-long reply to a no-confidence motion in the Assembly on Monday, the Chief Minister highlighted his government's achievements over the last four years. The opposition alleged that no clarification was given on many serious allegations against the government, including links with gold smuggling accused, consultancy appointments and bribery over housing scheme. On expected lines, the no-confidence motion got defeated as the left-front was having a clear majority of 93 seats in the 140 member house. Out of the 127 members present in the house, 40 opposition MLAs voted in favour of the motion while 87 members of the treasury benches voted against. Congress MLA V D Satheesan gave notice for the no-confidence motion in the wake of nexus of Chief Minister's former principal secretary M Sivasankar with gold smuggling case accused, allegations of backdoor appointments and corruption in appointing consultancies to various project. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala who alleged of rampant corruption demanded Pinarayi Vijayan to step down. Vijayan said that the Congress-led UDF lost confidence in themselves and hence they were trying to mislead the people by unleashing propaganda against the government. No one is willing to take the president post in Congress. Many Congress leaders were keenly awaiting offers from BJP. The Congress was being hijacked by RSS's Hindutva agenda, he alleged. Without going much in detail, he alleged of conspiracy to link his office with gold smuggling accused. He also said that there was nothing unusual in higher education minister K T Jaleel's direct deals with the UAE consulate. Referring to the alleged bribery in a Rs 20-crore housing project with UAE Red Crescent's financial assistance, he alleged of propaganda by the opposition. As the Chief Minister's reply extended for over three hours, the Opposition staged a protest by trooping into the well alleging that the Chief Minister was dragging his reply and not giving any reply to the specific allegations over nexus of CMO with gold smuggling case accused and bribery over a housing project with support of a UAE agency. Vijayan claimed that popularity of his government had only gone up.The government came to power in 91 MLAs. Now it has 93, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-alleges-of-conspiracy-against-his-office-says-congress-hijacked-by-rsss-hindutva-agenda-877339.html
24-08-2020||State||Karnataka to be the first state to implement NEP: Deputy CM Ashwath Narayan||Karnataka would become the first state in the country to implement the new National Education Policy, Deputy Chief Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan said on Monday. "The state government is making all preparations to bring in administrative reforms and amendments to the laws which are essential to implement the national education policy. The state would become the first state in the country to implement the policy," Narayan, who holds the portfolio of higher education, said while addressing the inaugural session of a five-day online workshop on "Highlights of the national education policy and its implementation." The workshop is being organised by the Bangalore University. The Deputy Chief Minister said the state government is going ahead with regard to this with specific goals and a clear agenda. "A high-level task force was constituted immediately after the draft of the policy reached us and this committee has already held several meetings," he added. According to him, the committee has already come out with suggestions to implement the policy in a phased manner and only the recommendations of the final stage are awaited. The administrative and legal steps would be taken as soon as the final recommendations are made, he explained. The new policy would make high-quality education available to all students benefitting the whole system with quality teaching, Narayan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-to-be-the-first-state-to-implement-nep-deputy-cm-ashwath-narayan-877166.html
24-08-2020||State||Karnataka issues new guidelines for inter-state travellers, discontinues mandatory 14-day quarantine||A day after the Union Home secretary directed all states to ensure no restriction imposed on the inter-state and intra-state movement of persons, goods and services, Karnataka on Monday ordered ‘discontinuation’ of several screening and surveillance procedures to contain Covid-19 at borders, bus-stands, railway stations and airports with immediate effect. In a fresh direction, the Health and Family Welfare Department stated that in the backdrop of Centre and state’s guidelines on Unlock 3.0, some of the aspects pertaining to inter-state travellers shall be discontinued henceforth. According to the order, a copy of which is with DH, earlier restrictions such as, “Registration on Seva Sindhu portal, entry and medical check-up at state borders, bus-station, railway station and airports, categorisation of passengers, hand stamping, 14-days of quarantine, isolation and testing and enforcement of home quarantine including poster on the house and information to neighbours and RWAs,” shall be discontinued henceforth.  Instead of the earlier stringent restrictions, the government has proposed that any traveller found to be asymptomatic on arrival ‘can report to work or perform their activities in the state without any requirement of 14-days home quarantine.’ The order further explained that if any traveller is found symptomatic on arrival with symptoms of Covid-19, shall immediately self-isolate and seek medical consultation without fail or call Apthamitra helpline 14410. The order further said, “Such patients shall observe standard Covid-19 precautions like face mask, physical distancing, frequent hand-washing with soap, use of sanitizers and follow cough etiquette at public areas and workplaces. The state government further stated that the new orders will be applicable to all Inter-state travelers arriving in Karnataka from all states, union territories including business travelers, students, labourers, transit-travelers irrespective of their purpose of visit or duration of stay in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-issues-new-guidelines-for-inter-state-travellers-discontinues-mandatory-14-day-quarantine-877275.html
24-08-2020||State||'Recovery' no promise of relief, health may remain compromised||The government now faces a new challenge in potentially treating thousands of discharged Covid-19 patients still reeling from its effects. Unfortunately, a policy of uniform, statewide post-Covid-care is lacking, although officials said they are starting to become aware of the issue. International studies have painted grim figures of 87% of Covid-19 patients still having some symptoms of the disease six weeks after being discharged from hospitals, while the US Centre for Disease Control and Prevention found that 35% of 270 patients analysed had not returned “to their usual state of health when interviewed 2–3 weeks after testing.”  Karnataka has discharged over 1.89 lakh Covid-19 patients to date. As per the research findings, some 1.6 lakh people could potentially require post-Covid-care.  Munish Moudgil, director of the Covid War Room, said the government was not yet tracking the cases. “Such patients can avail all regular medical help through 108 [or] by calling Aptha Mitra on 14410,” he said. Comorbidities risky Dr Trilok Chandra, head of the Critical Care Support Unit, said the numbers requiring post-care would not be high. “The data seems to show that the recovered patients who would continue to be most at risk of complications are people with comorbidities,” he said. Care areas “Data so far suggests that our post-Covid-care should be focused on cardiac care, followed by kidney and liver care,” Chandra said.  Thirty-two-year-old Sreedevi (name changed), a resident of Jayanagar, who was  “discharged” in the first week of August after coming down with heavy symptoms, said weeks later, she still has not recovered her full sense of smell and taste. The situation is more critical in the case of a 70-year-old Covid-19 patient with comorbidities, who is due to be discharged from a private hospital this week after testing negative. “He is still on ventilator support because the disease has impacted his heart and partly his kidney,” the patient's son said.  He said the government should consider a post-Covid-care programme to monitor and treat discharged patients. For Ramesh (name changed), 40, from Bengaluru South, the problem is not necessarily physiological but more psychological. He described an unexplained depression and inability to sleep.  Dr Rajani P, deputy director, Mental Health, Department of Health and Family Welfare, said clinical depression is rare among Covid-19 cases, but symptoms of depression are more common, due to stigma and other factors. “We have also encountered cases of mental fatigue, loss of appetite and sleep disturbance,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/recovery-no-promise-of-relief-health-may-remain-compromised-877280.html
24-08-2020||State||All women who've ever been pregnant can't give plasma||Contrary to the positive stories about the popular plasma therapy for Covid-19, not all women who have ever been pregnant are eligible for donation of plasma going by the donor eligibility criteria. As a result, out of the 21,384 women in Bengaluru who have recovered from Covid, only 12 women between the age group of 19 and 33-years were able to donate plasma.  Government sources told DH that out of the recovered women in Bengaluru, 56 registered for plasma donation with the state plasma bank. Only 12 were eligible for donation as the rest may have developed, during pregnancy, antibodies that would result in transfusion-related complications.  Dr Sachin Jadhav, group head of haematology and bone marrow transplant at HCG Hospital where the plasma bank is located, told DH, "When a woman becomes pregnant, she develops antibodies against the father’s (partner's) genetic material called Human Leucocyte Antigen (HLA). The HLA antibody can lead to Transfusion Related Acute Lung Injury (TRALI). As per current international guidelines, it is recommended not to take plasma from women who have ever been pregnant as there is a slightly higher risk of reaction in the recipient. Any woman who has carried a baby for four to six months and then miscarried will also have the antibodies."  Dr Shalini Thakur, head and neck cancer surgeon at HCG and coordinator for donor approval at the plasma bank, told DH, "It is not that women are not coming forward to donate plasma. Even doctors came forward to donate. Out of 300 recovered Covid patients registered with the plasma bank, 56 are women. But out of the 120 who have donated plasma, only 12 are women who donated 26 units of plasma (each donor donates two units, two women donated twice) because others are mothers. We cannot use plasma of parous mothers."  Women constitute 40% of Covid patients in the city and a significant percentage of recovered female patients have been pregnant. This has brought down the total available pool of recovered Covid patients whose plasma can be used to treat severely ill Covid patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/all-women-whove-ever-been-pregnant-cant-give-plasma-877281.html
24-08-2020||State||Now, obesity threat in kids weighs in on parents' minds||Parents who were struggling to manage children inside their homes due to the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown are now worried over the increasing body weight of the children. Due to lack of physical activity and near-complete halt to sports, children are gaining weight. Parents have now started approaching dieticians, fitness experts and paediatricians. Vijay Kumar R, fitness expert and personal weight management trainer, said that he was getting calls from parents seeking personal training for children at home. Speaking to DH, Kumar said, "No school and no activity has turned kids lazy." Srikanth K, who runs Apple fitness at Rajarajeshwari Nagar, said, "Parents are looking for separate training sessions for children and we are getting at least five enquiries every day. For five months, we have locked up our kids inside and it's high time to initiate them into physical activity. Parents should ensure that kids do simple activities at home like skipping and jumping." Since March, schools have been closed and indoor play areas are not functioning. Though parks are open, parents are not ready to take children there, fearing that they might contract Covid-19. Children are not allowed to go out and play with friends, forcing them to spend time with gadgets or in front of television.  Dr Harish Kumar H, Consultant - Paediatrics & Paediatric Intensive Care, Aster CMI Hospital, said, "Lockdown has resulted in complete cessation of physical activities for children. But worse than that is the replacement with screen time, comfort cooking, baking activities of high-calorie food with family, preparing refined products using sugar, maida and butter. This has made children to go into a spiral of emotional eating, digital toxicity, poor gut health and constipation. All these are sure to spoil the metabolic health of children." "Lockdown has disrupted diet, sleep and physical activity among children, making them overweight or obese," says Edwina Raj, a senior dietitian from Bengaluru. Obesity is associated with increased risk of diabetes, high blood pressure and heart disease among children of late, she said. Children’s food intake has increased rapidly, their biological clock is disturbed and sleep hours have been altered, the doctor said.  "They can easily access processed, junk, sugary foods and drinks. Staying indoors has increased the risk of vitamin 'D' deficiency, which affects their immunity and makes them susceptible to being overweight," Edwina said. Eating energy dense foods or junk makes them prone to nutritional deficiencies, impacting their academic performance and immunity. "Consuming too much sugar can contribute to weight gain and possibly obesity, which comes with a number of health complications, including tooth decay. Parents must keep a close watch on their child's eating and increase intake of vegetables and proteins. Avoid midnight snacking and ill-timed eating," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/now-obesity-threat-in-kids-weighs-in-on-parents-minds-877295.html
24-08-2020||State||Citizens, corporates pooled Rs 306cr for Karnataka CM relief fund||In a bid to help the state sail through the pandemic, individuals and corporates in Karnataka have together contributed a sum of Rs 306.46 crores to the CM relief fund (CMRF). As per information available with the chief minister’s office, between March 25 and July 23, a sum of Rs 306.46 crore was donated for the purpose of Covid-19 relief measures.  While individual donations stretched from Rs 100 to over a lakh, a significant sum was given by various cooperative societies in the state. “The cooperative societies themselves contributed about Rs 50 crore,” a source in the CMO said.  Of the funds donated, the state government has made use of more than 50% of the funds for various Covid-19 relief measures. Speaking to DH, CM’s Secretary S Selva Kumar said, “Majority of the funds have been utilised for creating infrastructure in taluk and district hospitals. For instance, ICU beds were increased and high oxygen flow beds were created. The maximum amount has been spent for these two purposes.” Of the sum, Rs 109.10 crore was given to Health department, Rs 43.74 crore to Medical Education department, Rs 9 crore for buying medical equipment in Dharwad district. “A sum of Rs 6 lakh was also used from this pool of funds to give compensation to the families of three weavers who took their lives owing to financial distress,” sources added.   As of now, the CMRF account has 144.56 crore remaining, which will be used for the purposes sanctioned by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/citizens-corporates-pooled-rs-306cr-for-karnataka-cm-relief-fund-877308.html
24-08-2020||State||Sports, food service allowed in social clubs: Karnataka||In a major relief for social clubs, Karnataka has clarified that they are permitted to operate their sports facilities and resume food service. The state government’s clarification came seeking to end confusion on the operation of sports facilities located inside social clubs. In May, Karnataka allowed sports complexes and sporting activities to resume without spectators. Dine-in services are also allowed. However, the guidelines state that places of large gatherings - theatres, swimming pools, entertainment parks, bars, auditoriums - and social, political, sports, entertainment, cultural, educational and other such congregations are prohibited. “It is clarified that subject to following of conditions laid out by national and state guidelines/orders, sporting activities and serving of food on tables in social clubs of the state are permitted,” revenue department’s principal secretary (disaster management) Anjum Parwez stated. However, social clubs are prohibited from supplying liquor, Parwez stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sports-food-service-allowed-in-social-clubs-karnataka-877312.html
24-08-2020||State||Karnataka sees marginal dip with 5,851 new Covid-19 cases||Karnataka on Monday recorded 5,851 new Covid-19 infections, a 13-day low in cases. Monday’s cases have taken the state tally past 2.83 lakh. With 130 new deaths in the last 24 hours, the toll in the state reached 4,810. Most of the deceased reported on Monday either had a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Influenza-like illness (ILI). The day also saw a whopping 8,061 discharges. So far, 197625 people have recovered from the novel coronavirus. As on August 24, the state has 81,211 active carriers. Bengaluru Urban saw a marginal dip in fresh infections on Monday with 1,918 cases. The state capital’s case count has jumped to 1,09,793. The day also saw 2034 discharges in Bengaluru in the last 24 hours. The city has 34,735 active cases. The virus-hit Ballari reported yet another spike with 306 infections. Ballari district’s Covid-19 tally is inching towards 18,000 mark. Belagavi district registered 319 new case followed by Koppal 271, Dharwad 221, Shivamogga 220 and Mysuru 202. As many as 17 districts have recorded fresh infections in three figures with eight of them going past 200 case-mark. Apart from Bengaluru, six districts have reported more than 10,000 Covid cases since the outbreak.   A total of 24,53,768 samples were tested so far, out of which 39,817 were tested on Monday alone. Among the samples tested in the day 11,586 were Rapid Antigen Tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-sees-marginal-dip-with-5851-new-covid-19-cases-877341.html
24-08-2020||State||Only 50% turn up for KPSC exam amid pandemic||The preliminary examination for the Gazetted Probatitioners’ posts, conducted by the Karnataka Public Service Commission (KPSC) on Monday, saw almost 50% of the candidates remaining absent.   Out of the 1,65,250 applicants for the 106 posts, only 83,716 (50.5%) appeared for the exam.  This included 45 Covid-positive patients, according to Divya Prabhu, Controller of Examination, KPSC. The preliminary exam was conducted in Bengaluru, Belagavi, Ballari, Davangere, Hubballi-Dharwad, Kalaburagi, Mangaluru, Mysuru, Raichur and Shivamogga. Special arrangements were made at all centres to allow Covid-positive candidates to write the exam. “In 2015, when exams were held for 428 posts, out of the 2,31,379 applicants, 1,31,110 candidates (56%) appeared for the preliminary exam. This time, there is no post of assistant commissioner. Further, the posts are concentrated in Kalyana Karnataka region. Hence, the number of applicants is less,” the official said.   KPSC had refused to consider the demand of the candidates that the exam must be deferred again, due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The exam was earlier scheduled on May 17.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/only-50-turn-up-for-kpsc-exam-amid-pandemic-877344.html
24-08-2020||West||17 Covid-19 hospitals in Thane overcharge Rs 1.82 crore||As many as 17 private hospitals in Maharashtra's Thane city overcharged Covid-19 patients to the tune of Rs 1.82 crore and are yet to refund Rs 1.40 crore out of it, civic officials said on Monday. Following several complaints from patients, Thane Municipal Commissioner Dr Vipin Sharma constituted audit teams to check the billings of 17 hospitals in the city. The audit teams checked 4,106 bills from July 10 to August 21 and found an excess amount totalling Rs 1.82 crore in 1,362 bills, the civic body said in a statement. The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) issued show cause notices to these hospitals following which they refunded Rs 26.68 lakh to the patients. The corporation accepted submissions by hospitals for the excess amount worth Rs 15.27 lakh, but these medical facilities are yet to refund Rs 1.40 crore, the TMC said. The civic body last month suspended the licence of a private hospital on Ghodbunder Road here and cancelled its classification as a Covid-19 facility after it allegedly overcharged patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/17-covid-19-hospitals-in-thane-overcharge-rs-182-crore-877087.html
24-08-2020||West||Maharashtra: Covid-19 cases in Thane cross 1.14 lakh||The Covid-19 tally in Thane reached 1,14,765 on Monday after 881 new cases were found in the Maharashtra district, officials said. The district also reported 28 more deaths due to Covid-19, taking the total number of fatalities to 3,268. So far, Kalyan town in the district has reported the highest number of 26,623 cases, followed by Thane city-24,459 and Navi Mumbai-23,321, an official release said. The Mira Bhayander civic limits have till now reported 11,596 cases while the remaining cases are from other parts of the district. Thane city has so far reported the highest number of 787 deaths, followed by Kalyan-556 and Navi Mumbai-542. For the last two days, no death has been reported from Bhiwandi and Badlapur townships, the release said. As of now, there are 12,484 active Covid-19 cases in the district while 99,013 patients have recovered from the viral infection, it said. The recovery rate in the district was 86.27 per cent and the mortality stood at 2.85 per cent. The neighbouring Palghar district has till now reported total 22,221 Covid-19 cases and 447 deaths due to the disease, a district official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-covid-19-cases-in-thane-cross-114-lakh-877098.html
24-08-2020||West||CBI team visits Mumbai resort for probe in Sushant Singh Rajput death case||CBI officials probing Sushant Singh Rajput's death case on Monday visited a Mumbai-based resort where the actor is said to have spent a couple of months, and also continued the questioning of the actor's friend and cook at the DRDO guest house here. Rajput's accountant Rajat Mewati was also called on Monday for questioning at the DRDO guest house at Kalina in Santacruz, where the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) sleuths probing the case are staying, an official said. A CBI team on Monday reached the Waterstone Resort in suburban Andheri, where Rajput is apparently spent about two months, for questioning its staff in connection with the probe into his death, according to the official. The probing team went to the resort on Sunday also, but left as its staff members were not there. Meanwhile, Rajput's accountant Mewati, flat-mate Siddharth Pithani and cook Neeraj Singh reached the DRDO guest house for questioning by the CBI, the official said. The CBI questioned Pithani, Neeraj and Rajput's domestic help Deepesh Sawant on Saturday and Sunday also. These three were present in Rajput's house at Mont Blanc Apartments in suburban Bandra when the 34-year-old actor was found hanging in his room on June 14. On Sunday, the CBI team questioned Pithani, Neeraj and Sawant at the DRDO guest house and later took them to the late actor's residence. After spending three hours there, the central agency team left the place along with Pithani, Neeraj and Sawant, who were then again taken to the DRDO guest house in the evening for questioning, the official said. Forensic science experts were also part of the CBI team which visited Rajput's residence, the official said. On Saturday also, the CBI team accompanied by Pithani, Neeraj and Sawant visited the late actor's house to reconstruct the sequence of events before he was found dead. On Friday, the CBI officials had recorded the statements of Pithani and Neeraj. The Supreme Court last week upheld the transfer of an FIR, lodged by Rajput's father in Patna against actor Rhea Chakraborty and others for allegedly abetting his suicide, to the CBI. After Rajput was found hanging in his apartment in June, the Mumbai Police registered a case of accidental death. Later, Rajput's father filed a police complaint in Patna, accusing Chakraborty and her family of abetting the actor's suicide and misappropriating his money.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cbi-team-visits-mumbai-resort-for-probe-in-sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-877133.html
24-08-2020||West||Ahmedabad starts denotifying designated Covid-19 hospitals||The Ahmedabad civic body on Monday said it has decided to denotify some designated Covid-19 hospitals in view of the number of coronavirus cases coming down in the city. In the first phase, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has denotified nine private hospitals so that beds reserved there for Covid-19 cases are released for the treatment of non-coronavirus patients, the civic body said in a release. These nine private hospitals were among 70-odd facilities which were roped in by the AMC since May to accommodate Covid-19 patients. The civic body has also decided to significantly reduce the beds reserved for Covid-19 patients in two other hospitals, the release said. The AMC said effective measures have "resulted in a drastic reduction in the number of positive cases and deaths" in the city. The positivity rate has also come down from 35 per cent to around 2.5 per cent, the release said. "Consequently, as against the reserved bed capacity in these designated hospitals, bed occupancy has come down to around 40 per cent," it said. As per the state government data, nearly 150 new cases are being reported in Ahmedabad city daily since the last couple of weeks, and as many patients are also recovering every day. The AMC had since May designated around 60 private hospitals to treat coronavirus patients in order to ease the burden on government-run facilities in the city. As per the agreement, each hospital can utilise 50 per cent of their beds for private quota patients, while the remaining 50 per cent beds should be reserved for patients sent by the civic body. While the government has already capped the treatment charges on private quota Covid-19 patients, the AMC pays a stipulated amount to these hospitals for each coronavirus patient sent by the civic body. Last month, the AMC designated 15 more private hospitals for Covid-19 care and these facilities were allowed to utilise 100 per cent of their beds to admit private quota patients. Among the nine hospitals which were denotified on Monday, four were having the 50:50 quota arrangement, while five were using all their beds to admit private quota patients, the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ahmedabad-starts-denotifying-designated-covid-19-hospitals-877190.html
24-08-2020||West||Burdened by poverty, 26/11 attack victim files petition seeking government home||A victim and star witness of the 26/11 Mumbai attacks case, Devika Rotawan is on the verge of being homeless. She has filed a petition in the Bombay High Court seeking a home under schemes meant for the economically weaker sections. Devika had testified against Pakistani fidayeen Mohammed Ajmal Kasab, the lone terrorist to be captured alive by the Mumbai Police during the attacks on 26-29 November 2008. Kasab was hanged to death on 21 November 2012. The petition is filed by counsel Utsav Bains and is expected to be listed for hearing this week. Devika, then aged 9, was waiting at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus on the 28 November, along with her father Natwarlal and brother Jayesh, to catch a train to Pune, when Kasab and Abu Ismail, the leader of the fidayeen group, fired from AK-47s and threw hand-grenades. She suffered gunshot wounds. Later, representatives of the Centre and Maharashtra government assured to provide them home under the EWS scheme on compassionate grounds. 12 years later, a 21-year-old Devika and her family are facing immense hardships. “Her father is now 60 while her mother had passed away before the incident. She has been diagnosed with tuberculosis while her brother has a problem in his backbone and has been operated upon thrice,” the petition states. Devika had passed 12th standard but could not pursue further education because of financial constraints. She is now staying in a chawl in Bandra. To add to the troubles, their landlord is now threatening to throw out the family for not paying the rent.  In the past, she made futile appeals to the Prime Minister, Chief Minister and only last month, on July 19, she made another representation to the Chief Secretary of Maharashtra, seeking a house under the EWS quota, but has got no response. “She went through 6 surgical operations and was bedridden for almost 6 months. During her time in the hospital, many government officials promised her and her family residential accommodation under EWS Scheme and provision for her educational expenses. During the trial of Mohammed Ajmal Kasab, she was the star eye-witness to testify against him and the same was heavily relied upon by the Sessions Judge in convicting him. The government officials assured the family of the EWS plot and educational expenditure once Mohammed Kasab was convicted,” Bains said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/burdened-by-poverty-26/11-attack-victim-files-petition-seeking-government-home-877197.html
24-08-2020||West||Recovered Covid-19 patients facing stigma in Goa: CM Pramod Sawant||The stigmatisation of patients who have recovered from Covid-19 is one of the biggest social issues faced by coronavirus survivors, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said on Monday. Sawant’s comments come a couple of days after the Chief Minister participated in an interactive session with nearly two dozen persons, who were among the 10,000 odd coronavirus survivors. “One thing which was shared by the recovered patients was that they continue to be victims of stigma. People still are cautious while approaching them, fearing whether they too will be Covid positive if they meet them,” Sawant told reporters. “People stay away from them, their own relatives do not visit them out of fear, as a result of the stigma,” the Chief Minister further said. Goa which was a zero Covid-19 state until May has witnessed a sustained hike in the number of coronavirus patients since. Till date, the state has reported 13,999 confirmed Covid-19 cases, out of which 10,472 have recovered, while 144 people have died. The state government has been consistently canvassing for the donation of plasma from the 10,000 odd recovered patients and the interaction with recovered patients was one of the outreach efforts. Sawant said that awareness needs to be created amongst people to get rid of the element of stigma vis a vis Covid-19 patients. “The purpose to have a meeting with them and share tea was to ensure that the stigma associated is rid off,” Sawant added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/recovered-covid-19-patients-facing-stigma-in-goa-cm-pramod-sawant-877201.html
24-08-2020||West||IRSDC invites RFQ bids for redevelopment of Mumbai's iconic Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus||The Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation (IRSDC) on Monday invited Request for Qualification (RFQ) for the redevelopment of the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CST) in Mumbai on PPP-mode. The pre-bid conference is scheduled to take place on September 22 and the application due date has been set on October 22.  The redevelopment cost (mandatory cost) of the station, which houses the headquarters of the Central Railway, including the cost of financing and contingency etc. comes up to at Rs. 1,642 crore. The investment opportunity for redevelopment is on DBFOT (Design, Build, Finance, Operate and Transfer) basis. The RFQ process has been initiated after the in-principle approval of the Public-Private Partnership Appraisal Committee (PPPAC),  a press statement issued here said. The two-stage bidding procedure consists an RFQ and Request for Proposal (RFP). The selected bidder at the RFP stage shall take up the redevelopment of the Railway station which is also a UNESCO World Heritage Site and commercial development of the surrounding railway land on leasehold basis up to 60 years for commercial development. The same would be extended up to 99 years for residential development on selected plots, along with operation and maintenance of the station for 60 years on concession basis. The user charge will also be another continuous source of revenue to the concessioner which will be available just after the Commercial Operation Date (COD) of the station. The IRSDC will be a single-window approver of the master plan and building plans in consultation with local authorities in terms of power conferred under Section 11 of Railway Act, 1989. The planning has been done by M/s AREP from France and discussions have been held with various stakeholders on a periodic basis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/irsdc-invites-rfq-bids-for-redevelopment-of-mumbais-iconic-chhatrapati-shivaji-maharaj-terminus-877264.html
24-08-2020||West||1 dead, over 80 feared trapped after five-storey building collapses in Maharashtra||One person was killed and 25 persons were rescued while 80 others are feared trapped as a five-storey building collapsed in Mahad in Raigad district on Monday night. The residential building, situated in Kajalpura area of the town, had around 45 to 50 flats with nearly 200 residents. The building is said to be six to eight years old and has been built by two Mumbai-based builders, local residents said. It suddenly came crashing down at 6.05 pm, Raigad police and district authorities said. Raigad district’s guardian minister Aditi Tatkare said that the building has around 200 to 250 occupants but it being evening hours, several may have been out of houses to marketplaces. She said that since the government hospitals are designated Covid-19 hospitals, the patients are being admitted to private hospitals. If needed, arrangements will be made to shift them to Panvel.   Mahad municipal council president Shehal Jadhav said that 22 to 24 persons have been rescued. “So far, no deaths have been reported,” she said. Raigad’s superintendent of police Anil Paraskar said that NDRF and SDRF teams are reaching the spot. “Local police, district officials are already there. Flood lights have been installed, JCBs of Public Works Department have been rushed,” he said, adding that we expect around 80-plus people to be feared trapped.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/1-dead-over-80-feared-trapped-after-five-storey-building-collapses-in-maharashtra-877265.html
24-08-2020||West||Relief to Pakistani youth stuck in Surat as Gujarat HC allows him to return home||In a relief to a 28-year-old Pakistani citizen, stuck in Surat since 2016 following his arrest in a fake currency case, the Gujarat High Court on Monday granted him permission to leave the country. The court while disposing of a petition moved by Pakistan High Commission issued direction to concerned authorities to complete the formality and allow him to travel back home. The division bench of justices Sonia Gokani and NV Anjaria passed the order directing the Surat Railway and Foreigners Regional Registration Office (FRRO) to issue a no-objection certificate and exit permit respectively to Sajjad Vora that will enable him to leave India. "The petition of Pakistan High commission is disposed by directing the DSP (District Superintendent of Police) Surat Railway to issue the NOC to Vora by 29 August to travel to his country and further direction is passed to Foreigners Regional Registration Office to issue the exit permit and waive all leviable fees of overstay etc within a period of 7 days from date of NOC. The original visa permit and exit permits to be given to the corpus (petitioner) and he is allowed to go back to his country the way he pleases," Bhatt said. Initially, Vora had moved a petition through advocate Aum Kotwal seeking permission to travel back home to Karachi and, later, Pakistan High Commission filed a habeas corpus petition through lawyer Jeet Bhatt to seek Vora's custody. In November 2016, Vora, belonging to Dawoodi Bohra community, had arrived in Surat to participate in religious functions. In December, he was arrested by Surat Railway Police with fake currencies. He was tried by a sessions court which acquitted him in August 2018. The state government challenged the order in the high court which also passed an order in July 2019 upholding the lower court's order. Vora made representations to local police and FRRO requesting for an exit permit to no avail.  Vora himself approached the high court seeking permission to be allowed to go back home. Later, the commission also filed a separate petition. The state government had responded that since it was to file an appeal in Supreme Court against Vora's acquittal. During the pendency of the petition, the government moved the apex court which on July 15 rejected the appeal and confirmed Vora's acquittal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/relief-to-pakistani-youth-stuck-in-surat-as-gujarat-hc-allows-him-to-return-home-877273.html
24-08-2020||West||Gujarat's Covid-19 condition frightening: HC||The Gujarat High Court has termed the coronavirus condition prevailing in the state as "frightening" and has directed the chief secretary to constitute a team of five senior IAS officers to inspect the government-run hospitals across the state where covid-19 patients are being treated. The court has sought a detailed report by September 4.   "The picture that emerges as regards the conditions prevailing as on date in the state of Gujarat is quite frightening. Although all the necessary steps are being taken to combat the Covid-19 pandemic, yet the machinery needs to be geared up and the state should be prepared to meet with the worst of the situation," the order mentions.   The cases of Covid-19 infection crossed 87,000 on Monday after the state recorded 1,067 new cases. The number of fatalities also increased to 2,910 with 13 fresh deaths in the last 24 hours. According to the state government data, the number of discharged persons stood at 70,250. The high court order states that  the report filed by the state government with regard to measures taken to control the virus in Surat, "reflects encouraging trends and facts." The order came on a set of petitions including suo motu public interest litigation on the state government's actions on dealing with the deadly virus. The court has been monitoring the situation for the past three months and has been passing directions to improve conditions.   "We all, at the end of the day, are working towards the common goal of battling this Covid 19 pandemic. From the report, we have been able to discern that the Chief Minister, the Health Minister and other officials of the Health Department have been regularly visiting the city of Surat and have also camped there. We appreciate this, but at the same time, we have now reached to the ultimate conclusion that such efforts need to be put in for all the major cities of Gujarat where the cases of Covid 19 are on the rise."   Saying that there is a lot of "hue and cry" at various civil hospitals, the division bench of chief justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala has directed the chief secretary, Anil Mukim, "to constitution a of five high ranking IAS Officers, not below the rank of Joint/Additional Secretary, at the earliest." The bench has directed the committee to visit all the government-run hospitals "to take stock of things prevailing over there."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarats-covid-19-condition-frightening-hc-877277.html
