25-08-2020||First Edit||Vindication for Tablighis||The order of the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay High Court quashing the FIRs against 36 members of the Tablighi Jamaat shows how baseless the slander and vilification campaign unleashed against that organisation and Muslims in general in the early stage of the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country, was. The court dismissed the charges against 29 foreigners under the Foreigners Act and the Epidemic Diseases Act and against six Indians for sheltering them. The court not only found the charges baseless but also observed that the accused had been unfairly targeted. It said that the government tried to make scapegoats of the Tablighis during the pandemic, even hinting that the intention could have been political. It also noted that there was “big propaganda” in print and electronic media against the foreign pilgrims. “There was virtually persecution against these foreigners,” it said while dismissing all the charges. There was a campaign in the country against the Tablighis and Muslims holding them responsible for the spread of Covid-19 and even charging that there was a deliberate attempt on their part to spread the disease. It was called ‘corona jihad’ and was dubbed as part of a plan to endanger and destabilise the country. The central government repeatedly mentioned the Tablighi Jamaat as a source of the disease and conventional and social media spread the canard, driven by malice and prejudice. The court said that the accused foreigners were the country’s guests but we should think whether we had acted “as per our great tradition and culture”. It also underlined the value of secularism and religious harmony and affirmed that social and religious tolerance was necessary to ensure the unity and integrity of the country. It censured the government and the police for their action. It said that the government “cannot give different treatment to citizens of different religions of different countries,” and that “for the limited purpose, this court is holding that the police action is based on such instructions probably of the executive, and apparently there is discrimination as mentioned above.” Two other high courts have also quashed charges against Tablighi members, though the reasoning and grounds are different. The central government has told the Supreme Court that foreign members of the Tablighi Jamaat could be allowed to leave the country if they tendered an apology for attending the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi in March. What is now clear is that the campaign against the Tablighis was wrong and motivated, though many of them, as courts have found, could be accused of visa rule violations. This is important because the campaign against the Tablighis continues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/vindication-for-tablighis-877813.html
25-08-2020||In Perspective||A mutiny muted||The Congress Working Committee meeting on Monday may have appeared to many as at best a cringe comedy. But it was, in fact, a cringe-worthy tragicomedy. Tragic for Indian democracy. A national political party hijacked by an effete dynasty propped up by self-serving, fawning courtiers. India’s Grand Old Party, which was in the vanguard of India’s freedom struggle, led by giants like Bal Gangadhar Tilak, Gopalkrishna Gokhale, Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, Sardar Patel, Subhas Chandra Bose, Lala Lajpat Rai, C Rajagopalachari, Jayaprakash Narayan and hundreds of others is now reduced to a vanguard of one -- one family of dwarfs, surrounded by a coterie of midgets. I had written some months ago that only a mutiny can save Congress. But it now seems the ‘letter bomb’ by 23 prominent and veteran Congress leaders, whose demand for “elections and a full time, visible, active president, with collective responsibility” -- all jabs at the ‘family’ controlling the party – is seen as raising a banner of revolt, has petered out and ended in a whimper. The CWC charade played out exactly as predicted and expected by many political commentators to a well-rehearsed and practised script. To most people, this is how it appeared: the ‘selfless’ leader made the great gesture of sacrifice by expressing the wish to resign forthwith, the devout followers were aghast at the treachery of those who owed their status and fortunes to the ‘family’ taking up arms against it, and they fell at the feet of the godmother not to abandon her children. Even the perennial crown prince with pretensions to cleaning up the Augean Stables of the moribund party, rallied behind the godmother, filial affection and duty overtaking loyalty to the party and its greater cause. She readily embraced the idea to save her flock from gloom and doom. Those who rebelled beat a retreat. How abject, how like a moth to the flame the party members are self-immolating themselves at the altar of the ‘family goddess’ and destroying a great party. Born often out of superstition or out of historic, religious and cultural events, most societies cling on to symbols and totems that are of special spiritual or personal significance much as ‘fertility totems’ of the aborigines. All of them have some origins and associations with natural phenomena, hoary rituals or ancestry. For Congress, it’s the ancestry – the Nehru-Gandhi family is its totem. Over the years, successive coteries of courtiers and sycophants have cast a spell of voodoo magic on Congress workers down the line, with those closest to the Nehru-Gandhis dancing around the ‘Gandhi Totem’ pole. The majority of these minions and hangers-on derived their power and pelf through the family and the Gandhi talisman was necessary for their survival, to keep the party together and hold on to power. They stood to gain by perpetuating the myth. Implicit in this act of worship was the message that discarding their lucky charm would spell doom for the party. And the ruling family readily embraced the idea. Nothing seems to have changed. The clique of old guard has hoisted the ailing Sonia Gandhi back on the throne as president of the party as an interim measure which now seems permanent. It’s not easy to dislodge royalty. It’s naive and foolish to expect those who rule you to step down of their own accord. They are always dethroned through rebellions, uprisings and coups. It’s the obligation and duty of the committed Congress party workers who cherish and believe in its great values, traditions and sacrifices to earn India’s freedom to introspect and rally behind the Congress leaders who wrote the letter demanding an elected leader and wrest it back from the ‘dynasty’ by removing the Nehru-Gandhi family from the leadership and ensuring that Congress is no longer the private limited company of the family. It’s the duty of the Congress worker to set it firmly on a course of internal party democracy. India needs a strong, vibrant opposition party. The Congress of the freedom struggle era is an idea and ideology that is entwined with the history of India, a country that was long suppressed and awoke to freedom obtained by the sacrifice of millions of Indians over 150 years of struggle against the British. It’s also a heritage. It belongs to all Indians, whether they are card-carrying Congress members, part of the opposition or totally apolitical citizens, and whether they vote for or against Congress. The Congress as a political party with a centrist, all-inclusive philosophy (though it may have strayed now and then from its noble ideals) is a legacy that must be preserved and is worth fighting for. It cannot be allowed by the lakhs of Congress workers across the country who cherish its ideals to be usurped by a few members of ‘a dynasty’. Many Congress men and women were not only great leaders of the freedom movement, they were also great reformers of society. They preserved the highest values and cultural essence of our ancient civilisation while bridging it with the dawn of a new era of science that opened our minds to assimilate the best thoughts of the emerging global order. But right now, the party is like a rudderless ship on the high seas and sooner than later will shipwreck against the ‘Modi rock.’ As Seneca said, “If one does not know to which port one is sailing, no wind is favourable.” The frail Congress ship is headed to the land of nowhere on the perilous seas. The rebels may have to seize control of it and steer it with purpose to victory at the hustings. (The writer is a soldier, farmer and entrepreneur)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/a-mutiny-muted-877816.html
25-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Farmers protest outside Belagavi airport; demand withdrawal of Land Reforms Act amendment||Farmers staged a protest outside the airport demanding withdrawal of Land Reforms Act and APMC Act during Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's visit to inspect the losses caused due to rains and flood-like situation in the district on Tuesday. Farmers staged a sit-in protest on the main road leading to the airport. They raised slogans in support of their demands and displayed placards. Police stopped farmers at the airport road entrance and prevented them from entering the premises. Farmers have been detained by police for blocking the road.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/farmers-protest-outside-belagavi-airport-demand-withdrawal-of-land-reforms-act-amendment-877512.html
25-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||CM B S Yediyurappa to conduct aerial inspection of flood affected areas, review situation||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa arrived at Belagavi airport on Tuesday to review losses caused due to rains and flood-like situation in Belagavi, Dharwad, Vijayapura, Bagalkot and Gadag districts. He will also hold a review meeting regarding the losses caused and later conduct an aerial inspection of the places affected. In the second half of the day, he will hold a review meeting regarding the losses suffered in Vijayapura, Bagalkot and Gadag districts. Elected representatives and officials will be present. Water Resources and District Incharge Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Revenue Minister R Ashok, Industries Minister Jagdish Shettar and other elected representatives and officials are present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cm-b-s-yediyurappa-to-conduct-aerial-inspection-of-flood-affected-areas-review-situation-877514.html
25-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||K-SET on Sept 20||The University of Mysore (UoM) Vice Chancellor G Hemantha Kumar said that the state government has fixed the Karnataka State Eligibility Test (K-SET), for recruiting assistant professors in colleges, on September 20. K-SET was already postponed twice, due to the Covid crisis. The UoM is the nodal agency for conducting K-SET. “The government has held talks with all related universities of the state, before fixing the date,” he said. “All formalities to fill vacancies in the UoM are completed. Only government permission is required. There is a delay due to Covid,” he said. Initially, the K-SET were scheduled for April 12. Later, it was rescheduled for June 21. As many as 1.06 lakh candidates have applied for K-SET. The exams will be held for 41 subjects at 11 centres across the state. Details are available on kset.uni-mysore.ac.in.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/k-set-on-sept-20-877777.html
25-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||People’s representatives oppose liquor shop||People’s representatives, corporators, ex-corporators and an ex-mayor, are opposing the opening of a liquor shop on Dr Rajkumar Road in the city. Ex-corporator K C Showkath Pasha, corporator Hajira Seema and ex-mayor and corporator Ayub Khan have written a letter to Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar, Deputy Commissioner for Excise K S Murali and City Police Commissioner Chandragupta in this regard. Showkath Pasha said, “It is shocking that one Y R Manjunath is granted CL2 license by the Excise department to open a retail liquor shop at HIG B10, KM Halli, 4th Main, Kalyangiri in the city. It is mostly a residential area and the shop was earlier closed following an altercation among its customers.” “A few months ago, local residents, residents from the neighbourhood, members of NGOs, various organisations, and a majority of corporators opposed a liquor shop in the locality and trade license was denied by the Mysuru City Corporation. A complaint was lodged before the then Deputy Commissioner for Excise M Roopa. After several representations, an order was passed for shifting of the premises, supported by a declaration by the Police department, stating that this area is sensitive,” Pasha said. “Now, again from the backdoor, this person is trying to open the liquor shop. On behalf of the local residents, we strongly object to the shop. Our resistance is in the interest of women, children, educational institutions, and religious institutions in the vicinity,” he said. Deputy Commissioner for Excise K S Murali said that the issue has come to his notice. "The shop was closed two years ago, due to some problem. The licensee got the revival of his license on an undertaking that he would shift the shop, if it is not possible to open on the present premises. So there should not be a problem,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/people-s-representatives-oppose-liquor-shop-877778.html
25-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Arsikere MLA Shivalingegowda tests +ve for Covid||MLA K M Shivalingegowda has tested positive for Covid-19. He is admitted to Manipal Hospital in Bengaluru, for treatment. A video clip of Shivalingegowda, addressing the people of his constituency, has gone viral on the social media. The MLA is seen telling the people that he is not under fear and is undergoing treatment for Covid. "As I have tested positive for Covid, I am getting treatment at Manipal Hospital in Bengaluru. Although I had no symptoms of the infection, I got tested as a precautionary measure. I would return to the constituency after recovering completely. Doctors have advised treatment for eight days. There is no need for the people to worry. Do not heed to rumours circulated by vested interests. Those who had come in contact with me in the last 10 days should get tested voluntarily," he says. It may be mentioned that Shivalingegowda's wife had tested positive a month ago and was treated at the Covid Hospital, in Hassan. Thus, the MLA had gone into self quarantine for a week. He did not meet any people and interacted only over phone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/arsikere-mla-shivalingegowda-tests-ve-for-covid-877779.html
25-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid times: Simple weddings picking up||The Mysuru region, especially Mandya district, is cited as an example for extravagant spending on weddings. However, the Covid-19 crisis has given rise to a new trend of simple weddings, in the region. Bojegowda, a marriage broker in Mandya, does not agree that weddings in either Mandya or Mysuru are extravagant. “The most expensive kalyana mantapa costs Rs 2.25 lakh per day in Mandya, and Rs 3.5 lakh is Mysuru. Their counterparts in Bengaluru costs Rs 20 lakh. Besides, the amount spent on the wedding sets on venues such as Palace Grounds run into crores of rupees. Due to systematic planning, involvement of relatives and friends, reasonable costs of materials and services and attendance of relatives make them grand,” he said. “The mindset of the people makes the difference. In general terms, dowry is a social evil. But, for some people of this region, pampering the groom is a show of magnanimity.” Bojegowda said. “I know an austere associate professor of a government college, who lead a simple life. He had invested his family and professional resources in a productive way. When he married off his only daughter, a postgraduate in medicine, to a high-ranking government official, he bought a high-end Audi car for the groom. All moveable and immovable assets belong to his only daughter. Still, he gave over one kg of gold jewels, registered residential sites, one each at Bengaluru, Mysuru and Mandya in his daughter’s name,” he added. Shreyas S Swamy of Mysuru, who married Bhavyashree of Nelamangala in Bengaluru Rural district, said he has no regrets for scaling-down his wedding ceremony. “Our wedding was fixed in February and was scheduled to be held at Nelamangala on May 18. Due to Covid, we conducted the wedding at the house of our relative Shivakumar, at Ballahalli of Mysuru taluk, on the same date. With only the first circle of relatives in attendance, it was a homely ceremony. The only problem was in getting permission for the bride’s family — from Bengaluru Rural and Mysuru districts — to travel. We had to visit the Taluk Office and Deputy Commissioner’s office several times,” he said. Shadakshari, a farmer of Agalahalli, Maddur taluk, Mandya district, was scheduled to marry Sandhya of Dyavapatna in Malavalli taluk, at a kalyana mantapa of KM Doddi on June 10. His parents booked a smaller hall at Chandupura. As the hall management was reluctant to lend for two days, the wedding was finally held at the groom’s house. “Initially also, it was decided that we, the groom’s family, will conduct the wedding. Finally, we had to conduct it at our house itself, due to Covid. My parents were determined to conduct the ceremony on the scheduled date, despite restrictions. There was not even an invitation card. We invited the guests only by making phone calls,” said Shadakshari. Anitha, mother of Shadakshari, said, “We had planned to spend around Rs 10 lakh for the wedding. But, we conducted a meaningful ceremony with around Rs 3 lakh. The grandeur of the ceremony is not important. How the couple lead their life should be a good example for the society,” she said. H G Giridhar of Sri Kalyana Lakshmi Venkataramana Swamy temple said that simple weddings are catching up due to Covid. “Since March 15, up to August end, 15 weddings were held in the Mangala Madira of the temple. We try to ease the burden of conducting a wedding. We offer a package, the highest being Rs 70,000. The wedding party can come with just a mangalsutra and a pair of garlands. We keep everything else ready, from puja materials, mangalavadya (music) to food — breakfast and lunch,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-times-simple-weddings-picking-up-877780.html
25-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Wedding business hit, but it is a culturally welcome development||Of the many effects of the Covid-19 crisis, the one on religious and spiritual ceremonies, including weddings, are significant. While those in the business of wedding say, it is an economic loss, as many people, providing materials and services, have lost jobs, since over five months, those representing religion and spirituality feel, this is how it should be. K R Sathyanarayana, president of Mysuru Kalyana Mantapa Owners’ Association, said, weddings are an industry in itself and the Covid crisis has crippled it. “Starting from astrologers to vegetable vendors, photographers, car drivers and menial workers, many traders, businessman, industries, service providers and individuals are dependent on family ceremonies and functions. Weddings are the foremost among them. With the cancellation, postponement or scaling-down of weddings, the entire chain and network is suffering a loss,” he said. According to him, there are around 85 kalyana mantapas in Mysuru city and their rent ranges up to Rs 3.5 lakh per day. “Each hall used to get a minimum of 60 bookings a year. However, of late, since mid-March when the Covid crisis set in, some halls have got four or five bookings, that too at reduced rates,” he said. Sathyanarayana further added, “Bigs halls have no takers, as there is a restriction on invitees for a wedding. Mid-size and small halls slashed the rent up to 50%. March, April, May and June is the peak wedding season as people prefer vacation and also post Ugadi muhurthas, up to monsoon. For mid-size halls, the average loss this year is around Rs 20 lakh. Besides, all those business related to wedding are at loss.” Bhramaramba Maheshwari, a woman purohit, said that she had around 10 assignments for April, as on March 15, but they were cancelled due to Covid. “Now, my assignments have been lined up from November, up to next March. I am not worried even though I lost work for almost six months. Weddings had become a show of grandeur. Weddings had lost meaning and sanctity. Simple marriages have highlighted the significance of human relationships and married life. I will be very happy, if this trend of simple weddings continue,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/wedding-business-hit-but-it-is-a-culturally-welcome-development-877781.html
25-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru top cop tests positive for Covid||Mysuru City Police Commissioner Chandragupta and KSRP ACP Bharat Raj have tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday night. They are under home isolation and treatment. As the commissioner had attended a meeting on Independence Day celebration at the Zilla Panchayat Hall, along with Superintendent of Police C B Ryshyanth, chaired by District In-charge Minister S T Somasekhar, Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar and district-level officers, he was on home quarantine and was subject to test, even though he was asymptomatic. It has to be recalled that Ryshyanth had tested positive on August 17. He too was asymptomatic. Besides, Abhiram G Sankar was under quarantine, as his driver had tested positive on August 15. It has to be recalled that 92 police officials, including Inspector General of Police Southern Range Vipul Kumar, SP Ryshyanth, and then Additional SP P V Sneha, were under quarantine as a police personnel had tested positive for Covid in the fourth week of June. Thus, the IGP, SP and ASP were under home quarantine, while other officers were in facility quarantine, since June 21. All the 92 policemen tested negative on June 26.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-top-cop-tests-positive-for-covid-877782.html
25-08-2020||Main Article||Reform panel, process first||The Ministry of Home Affairs recently constituted a five-member committee to look into the three important criminal law codes in the country— the Indian Penal Code, Evidence Act and the Code of Criminal Procedure — and suggest changes to them. All of these laws are colonial-era legislations drafted by the British in the late 19th century. These laws need to be reformed to keep up with modern social norms. The recent rulings against Section 377 and Section 497 of the IPC bear testament to this need. So, why does everybody seem to have a problem with the present reform committee? Why have many former judges, administrators and lawyers written against it? Why are students protesting against this committee? Lack of representation According to the 2011 Census, barely 10% of the Indian population speaks English. Most Indians live not in metropolitan cities but in villages and small towns. A majority of them don’t come from privileged backgrounds. The pandemic has upended their lives, decimated their livelihoods and made them more vulnerable than ever to unemployment, homelessness, and destitution. The huge migrant crisis that we saw at the start of the lockdown is but one example. In these circumstances, it is next to impossible to hold any sort of consultative process by October 10, the stated deadline for public consultation. To make matters worse, the consultation is happening exclusively online, with questionnaires being made available only in English. We need representation from lawyers and judges practicing in the trial courts, social welfare organisations working at the grassroots level, and other experts familiar with the workings of the law in rural areas, not just a few academics from Delhi. Unless this exercise is postponed, all these voices will go unheard and the views of only the most privileged, English-speaking, urban elite will be represented. The poor and vulnerable are most often the victims of violent crimes and face the full brunt of our legal system, too. Police brutality, torture, harassment, and discrimination are experienced more frequently by the most disadvantaged sections of society. The Evidence Act and the Code of Criminal Procedure are the sources of many civil liberties that protect and safeguard their rights. It would be a matter of grave injustice to change them without holding adequate consultations to properly understand and account for their lived experiences. The situation in New Delhi is completely different from that in Darbhanga, Mathura, or Udupi. Expecting a committee sitting and staffed with people from New Delhi to be able to effectively consider the requirements and demands of those across the entire nation, that too in just six months, is patently absurd. Another issue with the committee is that it has absolutely no diversity. It is 2020. How is it that there is not a single woman in a committee with such an important mandate? The committee will be considering issues such as the criminalisation of marital rape, the suitability of gender-neutral provisions, and several other provisions in the Evidence Act and the CrPC, and it is absolutely necessary that women’s perspectives be involved in the deliberations of the committee. The crime of adultery was recently struck down by the Supreme Court because it treated women as the property of their husbands and fathers. In the past, when women were completely excluded from the law-making process, regressive notions like this and others regarding the chastity of a woman and her personal autonomy were codified into the law. One might think that an expert panel would take into account the needs of all sections of society, but it is clear from our past experience that we cannot rely on these so-called experts. The Mathura rape case in 1972, for instance, is one example of the many times in recent history that women have been let down by institutions dominated by men. It’s not just women that have been excluded from this process, but also those from the scheduled castes and tribes, transgender persons, and those from religious minorities. The law affects every community differently. For instance, the weight of S.377, before it was struck down, was borne exclusively by those from the LGBTQIA community. Similarly, laws against caste harassment, police brutality, and religious sentiments are all experienced differently depending upon the socio-economic background of a person. Excluding these voices from the deliberations and discussions involved in the overhauling of our criminal system will result in the perpetuation of harmful societal attitudes and biases. Transparency The other major issue with the committee is that nobody knows why it has been constituted or what its goals are. In a substantial deviation from standard practice, the Ministry of Home Affairs has not published the terms of reference of this committee. It’s also quite surprising that the need to reforming our criminal law codes was felt only now, deep in the middle of a pandemic that has locked down most of the country. Should reform of our laws happen in such circumstances and in such an abrupt manner? The last time the government attempted an exercise of this sort was in 2000, with the Justice Malimath Committee, and that committee took three years to submit its report. In these circumstances, how can a five-member committee that cannot move out of their offices in Delhi be expected to hold effective consultations in six months? It becomes, therefore, all the more important for the citizens of the country to be informed of every step in the process, including the reasons behind the constitution of the committee, the manner in which its members were selected, and its objectives. Many academics, lawyers and former judges have already written to the committee pointing out similar issues, but there has been no response. The path forward is clear: First, this exercise must be postponed to a later time when more people can effectively participate in the consultation process; second, the committee must be reconstituted, with a more diverse set of members who represent a wide variety of interests; third, the terms of reference, the goals and objectives, and the reason for constituting the committee right now must be made public by the Ministry of Home Affairs. The members presently on the committee also have a moral duty towards their fellow citizens to recuse themselves from this process until the Ministry of Home Affairs fixes these glaring issues. As law students, we are taught about the power of the law to effect broad social changes. Our Constitution, for instance, guarantees equality, liberty, and freedom to live a life of dignity to every citizen. Unless the issues afflicting the committee are rectified, the constitutional mandate of substantive equality and justice will remain unfulfilled. It has been over 100 years since our criminal laws were enacted, and we are still fighting the prejudices and biases that were written into the law then. It would be a matter of grave injustice to both our fellow citizens and to posterity if we were to incorporate further inequities into the law. (The writer is a student at NLSIU, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/reform-panel-process-first-877814.html
25-08-2020||National||Phase 2 trial of Oxford Covid-19 vaccine candidate set to begin on August 25||The phase 2 human clinical trial of the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine candidate by Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) is set to begin from Tuesday. The observer-blind, randomised controlled study to determine the safety and immunogenicity of ''Covishield'' on healthy Indian adults will begin at Bharati Vidyapeeth Medical College and Hospital in Pune, sources said. Serum Institute of India has partnered with British-Swedish pharma company AstraZeneca for manufacturing the Covid-19 vaccine candidate, developed by the University of Oxford. "We have got all approvals from the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO). We are going to start the human clinical trial process at the Bharati Vidyapeeth (Deemed to be University)  Medical College and Hospital from August 25. "We are sure that in line with the philosophy of our group, we are going to make available a world class Covid-19 vaccine for people of our country and make our country 'AatmaNirbhar'," Prakash Kumar Singh, Additional Director, Government and Regulatory Affairs, Serum Institute of India (SII) said.   As a rapid regulatory response, the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on August 3 had given nod to the Pune Serum Institute of India (SII) for conducting phase 2 and 3 human clinical trials of the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine candidate in the country. The trials are to be conducted across 17 selected sites, including AIIMS Delhi, B J Medical College in Pune, Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences (RMRIMS) in Patna, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research in Chandigarh, AIIMS-Jodhpur, Nehru Hospital in Gorakhpur, Andhra Medical College in Visakhapatnam and JSS Academy of Higher Education and Research in Mysore, SII sources had said.  Around 1,600 people aged above 18 years are likely to participate in the trials.    To introduce the vaccine, SII, the world's largest vaccine maker by number of doses produced and sold, has signed an agreement to manufacture the potential vaccine developed by the Jenner Institute (Oxford University) in collaboration with British-Swedish pharma company AstraZeneca.   Initial results of the first two-phases of trials of the vaccine conducted in five trial sites in the UK showed it has an acceptable safety profile and homologous boosting increased antibody responses, sources had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/phase-2-trial-of-oxford-covid-19-vaccine-candidate-set-to-begin-on-august-25-877357.html
25-08-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on August 25||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 31 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.    On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):    3,223,621 as of August 25 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  59,385 61,879 703,823 5,444 391,303 197506 3059 33,776 638   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 19,19,842  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-august-25-877389.html
25-08-2020||National||DH Toon | Suspect timing of letter to Sonia Gandhi, says Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday attacked a section of the party for going public against the leadership, and charged that the letter seeking leadership changes was written in cahoots with the BJP. In his brief speech at the CWC, Rahul Gandhi also questioned the timing of the letter, which was sent when Sonia Gandhi was hospitalised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-suspect-timing-of-letter-to-sonia-gandhi-says-rahul-877390.html
25-08-2020||National||Flat buyers entitled to compensation for delayed possession, says Supreme Court||In a significant ruling, the Supreme Court on Monday rejected a view that flat purchasers who obtained possession or executed Deeds of Conveyance have lost their right to make a claim for compensation for the delayed handing over of the dwellings. The top court held that the flat buyers are entitled to compensation for delayed handing over of possession and for the failure of the real estate developer to provide assured amenities. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and K M Joseph said, “A developer who has breached a clear representation, made to the buyers of the amenities which will be provided to them should be held accountable to the process of law. To allow the developer to escape their obligation would put a premium on false assurances and representations made to the flat purchasers.” The court held that a failure of the developer to comply with the contractual obligation to provide the flat to a purchaser within a stipulated period amounts to a deficiency of service under the Consumer Protection Act. The court allowed an appeal filed by Wg Cdr Arifur Rahman Khan, Aleya Sultana and others against a judgement by the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission. The NCDRC had dismissed a consumer complaint filed by 339 flat buyers in Bengaluru, accepting the defence of DLF Southern Homes Pvt Ltd and Annabel Builders and Developers Pvt Ltd that there was no deficiency of service on their part in complying with their contractual obligations. The panel had agreed to a contention by the developers that despite a delay in handing over the possession of the residential flats, the purchasers were not entitled to compensation in excess of what was stipulated in the Apartment Buyers' Agreement. The court held that the reasoning of the NCDRC suffered from “a clear perversity and patent errors of law”. Advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for the appellants, pointed out that there was a gross delay ranging between two and four years in handing over possession. He said the flat buyers ought not to be constrained by the terms of the agreement which are one-sided and unreasonable. He added that the execution of conveyances or settlement deeds would not operate to preclude the flat buyers from claiming compensation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/flat-buyers-entitled-to-compensation-for-delayed-possession-says-supreme-court-877427.html
25-08-2020||National||Bhushan seeks recall of conviction||Advocate Prashant Bhushan on Monday asked the Supreme Court to recall Suo Motu (on its own) the August 14 judgement holding him guilty of contempt on the basis of tweets, saying similar comments were made by retired judges Justices Madan B Lokur, Kurian Joseph and A P Shah, and others in the public domain. In a detailed written submission, the advocate asked the court not to impose sentence in any event. "Bhushan’s comments were opinion made in good faith founded on true facts. There should not be any attempt to coerce the contemnor into making on apology on the basis that nothing else would be acceptable," the 39-page submission by senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan on behalf of Bhushan stated. He said a case was made out for recalling the conviction order and not inflicting or awarding punishment. Maintaining that his comments were made bona fide and devoid of malice, he pointed out Justices Lokur, Joseph and Shah and many jurists, journalists and others stood by Bhushan’s statement. "We need to ask whether they are also guilty of contempt as also others in the press because repeating or supporting a statement is also a publication. Justice R M Lodha has also criticised the court’s order," the submissions said. He said in Bhushan’s case, the court has assumed that what he said was contempt as interfering with justice. "This is a failure of the court’s obligation which goes towards denying the passage of any sentence." Among other grounds, Dhavan asserted that truth is an absolute defence in the public interest and the ‘truth value’ of the tweets must be assessed in the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bhushan-seeks-recall-of-conviction-877430.html
25-08-2020||National||Maharashtra building collapse: Government asks district authorities to book builder||A day after a five-storeyed building collapsed in Mahad, the Maharashtra government has asked the Raigad district authorities to book the builders. State higher and technical education minister Uday Samant said that Raigad collector Nidhi Choudhary and superintendent of police Anil Paraskar have been issued necessary instructions. So far one person has died in the incident. Around 80 are feated trapped. Meanwhile, state urban development minister Eknath Shinde and minister of state for industries Aditi Tatkare inspected the rescue and relief operations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-building-collapse-government-asks-district-authorities-to-book-builder-877443.html
25-08-2020||National||India's Covid-19 tally rises to 31,67, 323||With 60,975 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's Covid-19 tally rose to 31,67,323, while recoveries surged to 24,04,585 pushing the recovery rate over 75.92 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The death toll climbed to 58,390 with 848 fatalities being reported in a span of 24-hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate has declined to 1.84 per cent. There are 7,04,348 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 22.24 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7.   According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 3,68,27,520 samples have been tested up to August 24 with 9,25,383 samples being tested on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-tally-rises-to-3167-323-877475.html
25-08-2020||National||Women’s participation in NREGS dips in eight years||According to data from the NREGS portal till August 24, this is the lowest share since the year 2013-14, when participation rate was 52.82 percent.  There had been a steady increase from then to 2016 when registration of 56.16 percent by women was seen.  Out of the 13.34 crore NREGA workers in India, 6.58 crores or 49 percent are women.  While officials have not commented on the dip, one of the reasons behind this decline could be the exodus of workers from metropolitan areas to hometowns and villages due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdowns imposed to contain it.  While 18 states and union territories have seen a decline in the number of women participating in the scheme, 14 saw a marginal increase.  The country-wide rate of decline was 2.24 percent, with Andhra Pradesh witnessing a decline of 3.58 percent, the highest in the country. West Bengal was a close second with 3.32 percent and Telangana was next with 2.62 percent, followed by Himachal Pradesh at 2.44 percent.  Increase in participation was seen in Mizoram, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Gujarat, Kerala, Odisha, Maharashtra, Nagaland, Assam, Karnataka, Puducherry, Goa, Arunachal Pradesh and Tripura.  The highest share of women’s persondays within the span of this year, came from Kerala at 91.38 percent, followed by Puducherry at 87 percent, Tamil Nadu at 84.82 percent, and Goa at 75.75 percent.  States with the lowest participation shares were Jammu and Kashmir, which stood at 30.72 percent, followed by Uttar Pradesh at 33 percent, Nagaland at 36 percent, Arunachal Pradesh at 40 percent, Jharkhand at 40.77 percent, and  Madhya Pradesh at 41 percent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/women-s-participation-in-nregs-dips-in-eight-years-877493.html
25-08-2020||National||Andaman & Nicobar Islands Covid-19 tally rises to 2,904||Andaman and Nicobar Islands Covid-19 caseload rose to 2,904, with 44 more people testing positive for coronavirus, officials said on Tuesday. Of the 44 new cases, 43 were local people and one person tested positive at the airport after his arrival, the officials said. At least 129 people recovered from coronavirus during the last 24-hours in the union territory, taking the total number of recoveries to 2,092, they said. The number of active Covid-19 cases at present is 777, as 2,092 people have recovered from the disease and 35 have died, officials said. Total samples tested for Covid-19 so far is 30,513, they said. To ramp up the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, the Union territory administration has made Rapid Antigen Test mandatory for all incoming passengers from the mainland at Port Blair Airport from August 22. Passengers testing positive at the airport are shifted immediately to Covid care facility and those who test negative will have to follow home or institutional quarantine for seven days, the officials added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/andaman-nicobar-islands-covid-19-tally-rises-to-2904-877500.html
25-08-2020||National||Justice Mishra for separate SC bench to decide 2009 contempt case against Prashant Bhushan||A Supreme Court's bench led by Justice Arun Mishra on Tuesday ordered placing a 2009 contempt case against Prashant Bhushan before a separate bench to consider larger legal questions including its impact on right to free speech. Justice Mishra, who is to demit office on September 2, said due to paucity of time, the matter can't be decided by the instant bench. The bench, also comprising Justices B R Gavai and Krishna Murari, directed for placing the matter before the Chief Justice of India for assigning it to an appropriate bench. Senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan, appearing for Bhushan, sought a direction for referring it to the Constitution bench due to larger legal questions arising out of the case. He also sought a notice to the Attorney General in the case. The bench, however, said all these issues would be considered by the appropriate bench. The court fixed the matter for consideration on September 10. The 2009 contempt case against Bhushan and Tehelka magazine editor Tarun Tejpal arose out of the former's interview alleging corruption in half of 16 retired Chief Justices of India. During the hearing, Dhavan said the question whether Articles 129 and 215 of the Constitution enabling the court to take Suo Motu contempt action are powers independent of other provisions of the constitution, particularly Articles 19 and 21, goes to the very heart of Bhushan's defence. "How much of the court's free speech jurisprudence has to be read into Suo Motu contempt powers? This is an important question in this case," he said. Justice Mishra said let these issues be decided by an appropriate bench. The top court has convicted Bhushan of Suo Motu criminal contempt for two tweets made in June this year. It has concluded its hearing on sentence. Bhushan, for his part, declined to tender an apology in the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/justice-mishra-for-separate-sc-bench-to-decide-2009-contempt-case-against-prashant-bhushan-877538.html
25-08-2020||National||AstraZeneca starts trial of Covid-19 antibody treatment||AstraZeneca said on Tuesday it had begun testing an antibody-based treatment for the prevention and treatment of Covid-19, with the first participants dosed, adding to recent signs of progress on possible medical solutions to the disease. The British drugmaker, whose Covid-19 vaccine candidate is already among the most advanced, said the early-stage trial would evaluate if AZD7442, a combination of two monoclonal antibodies (mAbs), was safe and tolerable in up to 48 healthy participants between the ages of 18 and 55 years. If the UK-based trial has a positive readout, AstraZeneca said it would proceed with larger, mid-to-late-stage trials to test AZD7442 as both a preventative treatment for the disease and a medicine for patients who have it.  mAbs mimic natural antibodies generated in the body to fight off infection and can be synthesised in the laboratory to treat diseases in patients and has been endorsed by top scientists. Current uses include treatment of some types of cancers. London-listed AstraZeneca in June received $23.7 million in funding from US government agencies to advance development of antibody-based treatments for the novel coronavirus. US based companies Regeneron and ELi Lilly are also testing mAbs-based treatments for Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/astrazeneca-starts-trial-of-covid-19-antibody-treatment-877551.html
25-08-2020||National||Supreme Court seeks reply of Bihar government on plea for consolidation of trial against Tablighi members||The Supreme Court on Tuesday sought a response from the Bihar government on a plea of 13 foreign Tablighi Jamaat members, facing criminal cases for alleged violation of visa norms, that their trial be consolidated before one court in the state. A bench comprising justices A M Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna asked the state government to respond to the plea and posted the matter for hearing on Monday. In a hearing conducted through video conferencing, the bench suggested that the trial against these 13 Jamaat members can be conducted before one court in Patna. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, said that he does not have any objection and the trial can be consolidated as done in Delhi where a court at Saket is hearing all such cases Earlier, the Centre had told the Supreme Court that look out notices issued against some foreigners, who have challenged in the apex court the government's orders blacklisting several citizens of 35 countries for alleged involvement in Tablighi Jamaat activities, have been withdrawn. The Solicitor General had said that petitioners who are before the apex court would be "free to leave" India subject to any other pending proceedings including order passed by the court requiring their presence. "Solicitor General has also, in all fairness, submitted that if the concerned petitioners tender apology, as envisaged by the Madras High Court in the concerned criminal case, the said petitioners can be permitted to leave India despite the pendency of the criminal case but subject to such orders that may be passed by the concerned trial court," the bench had said in its order. As per the information available, 205 FIRs have been lodged against foreign Tablighi Jamaat members by 11 states and 2,765 such foreigners have been blacklisted so far, the Centre had said in its affidavit. Of these, visas of 2,679 foreigners (including 9 Overseas Citizen of India card holders) have been cancelled, it had said, adding that remaining 86 include Nepalese nationals who do not require visa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-seeks-reply-of-bihar-government-on-plea-for-consolidation-of-trial-against-tablighi-members-877553.html
25-08-2020||National||Microsoft introduces Hindi, Indian English to Neural Text-to-Speech service||Microsoft India has announced the addition of English (India) and Hindi to its Neural Text to Speech (Neural TTS) service language set, featuring the two languages among the 15 new dialects added to the service enabled with state-of-the-art AI audio quality. Neural TTS is a part of the Azure Cognitive Services and converts text to lifelike speech for a more natural interface. The service also provides customizable voices, fine-tuned auto control, and flexible deployment from cloud to edge, it said. Sundar Srinivasan, General Manager, Microsoft India (R&D) Pvt Ltd,said, "Our text-to-speech services have played a key role in democratizing information reach and empowering people and organizations. Through the inclusion of English (India) and Hindi in Neural TTS, we are demonstrating our continued commitment to refining speech and voice-based services for personal and business use in India." With natural-sounding speech that matches the stress patterns and intonation of human voices, Neural TTS significantly reduces listening fatigue when users are interacting with AI systems. It makes the service ideal for developing interfaces to communicate with the customers, Microsoft said. Microsoft's Neural TTS can be used to make interactions with chatbots and virtual assistants more natural and engaging. It is also being used to convert digital texts such as e-books into audio books and being deployed for in-car navigation systems. The service enables human-like natural and clear articulation and uses deep neural networks to overcome the limits of traditional text-to-speech systems in matching the patterns of stress and pitch in spoken language. Neural TTS offers these benefits while maintaining comprehensive privacy and enterprise-grade security through data encryption. The other new languages introduced are Arabic (Egypt and Saudi Arabia), Danish, Finnish, Catalan, Polish, Dutch, Portuguese, Russian, Thai, Swedish, and Chinese (Cantonese Traditional and Taiwanese Mandarin). Overall, Microsoft TTS supports 110 voices and over 45 languages and variants, the IT firm said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/microsoft-introduces-hindi-indian-english-to-neural-text-to-speech-service-877554.html
25-08-2020||National||India exposes Pakistan's 'lies' about terrorism remark made at UNSC||India on Tuesday poked holes into the claims of Pakistan’s envoy to the United Nations Munir Akram that his country had accused India of sponsoring terrorism before the UN Security Council. New Delhi not only exposed Akram's allegations about terrorism, but also dismissed the claims Pakistan had made against India in the statement he claimed to have made at a meeting of the UNSC. The UNSC had a virtual meeting on Monday, but Pakistan, which is not a member of the council at present, was not invited to take part in it. The permanent mission of Pakistan at the UN headquarters in New York, however, posted on its website a statement, claiming it was represented by Akram at the meeting. It accused New Delhi of sponsoring terror strikes in Pakistan, including the August 11, 2018 attack on a bus at Dalbadin in Balochistan that killed three workers from China and the one on the Consulate General of China in Karachi on November 23, 2018. It claimed that New Delhi had also orchestrated the terror attack on Pakistan Stock Exchange in Karachi on June 29 this year. Islamabad also alleged that a “terror syndicate” run by New Delhi had of late brought terror organisations Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) and its breakaway faction Jamat-ul-Ahrar (JuA) together.  India’s permanent mission at the UN in New York issued a statement to counter the allegations. It dismissed Pakistan’s claim that the country too was a victim of terrorism sponsored by India. “They claimed that Pakistan has decimated al-Qaeda from the region. Perhaps, the Permanent Representative of Pakistan is not aware that Osama bin Laden was hiding in their own country in plain sight, and it was the US forces which got him inside Pakistan,” it said.  New Delhi pointed out that Pakistan was home to the maximum number of terror groups proscribed by the UN and many of the terrorists and entities under UN sanctions continued to operate with impunity inside the country.  New Delhi also denounced Pakistan’s criticism against the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party and the alleged “Hindutva terrorism”. “Pakistan makes ridiculous assertions about the internal affairs of India. This is a country whose minority population has dropped drastically from 1947 to what it is today which is just about 3%, which is nothing short of systemic cleansing,” India's permanent mission at the UN stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-exposes-pakistans-lies-about-terrorism-remark-made-at-unsc-877556.html
25-08-2020||National||Vice President expresses grief at loss of lives in Raigad building collapse||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Tuesday expressed pain at the loss of lives in a building collapse in Maharashtra's Raigad and said authorities are extending all possible help. A five-storeyed building in Raigad district collapsed on Monday. Police said 19 people are missing. "Pained by the loss of lives in a building collapse in Raigad, Maharashtra. My condolences to the bereaved families & prayers for the speedy recovery of the injured," the Vice President Secretariat tweeted quoting Naidu.    Rescue efforts are underway and local authorities and National Disaster Response Force teams present there are providing all possible assistance, the vice president pointed out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vice-president-expresses-grief-at-loss-of-lives-in-raigad-building-collapse-877567.html
25-08-2020||National||Over 100 civil society bodies urge government to not increase women's minimum age of marriage||Over 100 civil society organisations have urged the government against increasing women's minimum age of marriage, claiming it will do little to improve the health of mothers and infants. In a joint statement, the rights organisations asked how increasing the minimum age of marriage is a step forward when it denies many more women matrimonial status and rights. They also asked how will it help to criminalise families whose survival needs and insecurity compel them to not just marry early, but to also enter the workforce early. The government is considering revising the age of marriage of women and for that a task force has been formed. Prime Minister Narendra Modi also touched upon the subject in his Independence Day address. However, the civil society organisations have urged the government against increasing the age of marriage, claiming "it will not further gender equality, women's rights or empowerment of girls, and will do little to improve the health of mothers and infants". "It is only in the most superficial sense that having 21 years for both men and women is a sign of gender equality, but somehow this idea has great appeal in liberal circles. "If legal equality should be implemented in the letter of law when it comes to age, it may be worth considering making it 18 years for both men and women, as is the case in most parts of the world," the statement endorsed by 2,500 young voices and over 100 civil society organisations said. They said raising the age at marriage through law will only criminalise, not prevent, early marriage.  "Over the last few years there have been moves to make laws more and more punitive as if all the answers can be achieved through legal change. Merely having a new minimum age of marriage law for women at 21 years without the presence of enabling opportunities in the form of access to higher education and decent job opportunities translates effectively into young women being even more trapped in their natal homes," it said. Parents in situations of disadvantage will feel constrained to marry them off by any means possible rather than wait till the age of 21 when dowry and marriage expenses would leave them debt ridden, the statement said. The civil society organisations recommended that instead of raising the age of marriage, the government must strengthen schooling from pre-school to higher secondary as a bridge to higher education is absolutely vital, along with job guarantees and learn while you earn opportunities for adolescents, especially for those from marginalised sections.  "Reinforcing nutritional programmes in anganwadis and schools to address nutritional deficit among adolescents, especially girls, widening access to reproductive health, contraception, and abortion services for all, including preventing unsafe abortion and medical practices." it said. The activists endorsing the statement include Enakshi Ganguly, independent activist and co-founder of HAQ: Centre for Child Rights, Madhu Mehra, executive director at  National Coalition Advocating for Adolescent Concerns (NCAAC), Mary E John, senior fellow at Centre for Women's Development Studies and Kavita Ratna, Director-Advocacy at Concerned for Working Children, a child rights non-profit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-100-civil-society-bodies-urge-government-to-not-increase-womens-minimum-age-of-marriage-877572.html
25-08-2020||National||Maharashtra building collapse: Rahul Gandhi appeals to state govt to provide all assistance||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday appealed to the Maharashtra government to provide all assistance to the people injured or trapped in the building collapse in Maharashtra's Raigad at the earliest. A five-storeyed building in Mahad, Raigad district, collapsed on Monday. Police said 19 people are missing. "I am distressed by the Mahad accident. Condolences to the families of the deceased," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. "Appeal to the state government is to provide assistance to the injured and those trapped at the earliest," he said. Congress colleagues should also help out in rescue efforts, he added. A day after a five-storeyed building in Maharashtra's Raigad district collapsed, rescue personnel continued to sift through the rubble in search of survivors, while police said 19 persons are still missing. A man died of cardiac arrest on Monday night after he was hit by a stone from the falling building, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-building-collapse-rahul-gandhi-appeals-to-state-govt-to-provide-all-assistance-877582.html
25-08-2020||National||SC gives 30 minutes to Prashant Bhushan to 'think over' his stand on tweets in contempt case||The Supreme Court Tuesday granted 30 minutes to activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan, convicted for contempt, to 'think over' his stand of not expressing regret over his tweets against the judiciary. Attorney General KK Venugopal has told the court that Bhushan may be allowed to go with a warning. However, he should withdraw all statements and express regret, the Attorney General added.  The top court granted another opportunity to Bhushan after Attorney General K K Venugopal sought forgiveness for the activist-lawyer. "He (Bhushan) should withdraw all statements and express regret," said the top law officer when the bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra sought his views on the 'defiant' statement of Bhushan. He has refused to offer an apology to the Supreme Court for his two tweets against the judiciary, saying what he expressed represented his bona fide belief which he continued to hold. "Bhushan says the Supreme Court has collapsed, is it not objectionable," asked the bench. The court can speak through orders only and even in his affidavit, Bhushan has made disparaging remarks against the judiciary, the bench said The court should warn him and take compassionate view, Venugopal told the bench, which also comprised Justices B R Gavai and Krishna Murari. When Bhushan does not think he did anything wrong then what is the point of giving him advice to not repeating it, the bench said. "A Person should be realize mistake, we gave Bhushan time but he says he will not apologize," it said. The bench will reassemble to know the views of Bhushan again. On August 20, the top court had granted time till August 24 to Bhushan to reconsider his “defiant statement” refusing to apologise and tender “unconditional apology” for contemptuous tweets against the judiciary and rejected his submission that quantum of punishment be decided by another bench.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-gives-30-minutes-to-prashant-bhushan-to-think-over-his-stand-on-tweets-in-contempt-case-877592.html
25-08-2020||National||Interpol issues red notice against Nirav Modi's wife Ami Modi||The Interpol has issued a global arrest warrant against diamantaire Nirav Modi's wife Ami in connection with the over Rs 14,000 crore Punjab National Bank scam, officials said on Tuesday. The Interpol Red Corner Notice has been issued following a request by the Enforcement Directorate, which had registered a case on the basis of a CBI FIR against Nirav, Ami, his brother Nehal and uncle Mehul Chokshi among others. In September last year, the Interpol had issued a red corner notice against Nehal in the case. A similar notice has been issued against Nirav's sister Purvi Modi also. Nirav, Ami, Nehal and their uncle Mehul Choksi had fled India in the first week of January 2018, just before the Punjab National Bank initiated the process to complain against them. In January-end 2018, the bank filed a complaint with the CBI following which an FIR was registered. According to the FIR, they had conspired with officials of the PNB for fraudulent issuance of Letters of Undertakings (LoU) that led to the scam. Nirav, who is lodged in a jail in the United Kingdom, is presently facing extradition proceedings in the United Kingdom where he is in custody.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/interpol-issues-red-notice-against-nirav-modis-wife-ami-modi-877595.html
25-08-2020||National||India-Bangladesh to hold DG-level border talks in Dhaka next month||India and Bangladesh will hold "important" Director General-level border talks in Dhaka next month to discuss a host of issues related to crimes on the front and other security challenges, officials said on Tuesday. The biannual talks will be held between the Border Security Force (BSF) and their counterpart Border Guard Bangladesh (BGB) from September 13-18 at Pilkhana, the headquarters of the Bangladeshi force in Dhaka. Newly appointed BSF DG Rakesh Asthana will lead a dozen officers strong Indian delegation that will have representatives from the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), the external affairs ministry and other government agencies. The Bangladeshi side will be led by BGB DG Maj Gen Md Shafeenul Islam. "The last time the two sides met was in December in Delhi. The next round of meeting in September is going to be important as a number of bilateral issues along the 4,096 km long front will be discussed and new protocols will be firmed up," a senior officer told PTI. The relations between the two sides are very good and at an all-time high and both the sides are expected to take it forward, he said. While the Indian side is expected to take up the issue of joint border security management, fencing of unfenced areas and undertaking effective steps to curb cross-border crimes, the Bangladeshi border force is expected to take up issues related to killing of its people along the front. New methods of enhancing cooperation and sharing of information while countering issues related to border criminals and illegal crossers are expected to be framed, the officer said. This is going to be the 50th round of DG-level talks between the two border guarding forces and a host of confidence building measures (CBM) to enhance cooperation between the two sides will be discussed and formalised after the signing of a joint record of discussion at the end of the talks, the officer said. The new paradigm of border management in the time of Covid-19 pandemic spread will also be charted during the talks where it is also expected that the Indian side will call on the top leadership of the Bangladesh government, he added. Issues like preparing better mechanisms to stop attacks and assault on BSF troops and Indian civilians by criminals of both the countries are also expected to be taken up, another officer in the security establishment said. Some other regular issues like cattle smuggling, smuggling of fake Indian currency notes, illegal migration and human trafficking, breaching or damage of the international border fence, action against Indian insurgent groups operating from the other side and illegal crossing by nationals of countries other than Bangladesh will also be taken up, the second officer said. The border guards DG-level talks between the two countries began in 1975 and they are held bianually, once in Delhi and once in Dhaka, post 1993. Early this month, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla had visited Bangladesh and held talks with his Bangladeshi counterpart Masud Bin Momen, a day after meeting Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-bangladesh-to-hold-dg-level-border-talks-in-dhaka-next-month-877616.html
25-08-2020||National||NGT directs installation of 175 air quality monitoring stations within 6 months||The National Green Tribunal has directed installation of 175 air quality monitoring stations across the country within six months. The green panel directed the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to monitor the work by holding periodical online meetings with the Chairman/Member Secretaries of state pollution control boards or other authorities. It said the work in this regard may commence within one month and the funds available under the 'consent mechanism'/'environmental compensation' may be utilised for the purpose by the state pollution control boards. “It will be preferable that out of the above, 25 stations are set up by CPCB/State PCBs/PCCs jointly (with CPCB financing out of its EC funds), following an appropriate procedure to ensure best price and quality,” a bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice A K Goel said. The tribunal passed the order after perusing a report filed by CPCB that 173 stations have already been set up. It also directed that Carrying Capacity and Source Apportionment studies may be simultaneously undertaken by the state pollution control boards utilising the 'environmental compensation' fund. The concept of "carrying capacity" addresses the question as to how many people can be permitted into any area without the risk of degrading the environment there. “Work in this regard may commence within one month and completed in six months. State PCBs/PCCs will be at liberty to either undertake the study in-house or by hiring any other agencies.  “However, as far as possible a uniform policy may be adopted in this regard which may be finalized by the CPCB in consultation with all State PCBs/PCCs,” the bench said. The tribunal also directs authorities to take steps dir prohibiting/shifting polluting activities which are found unsustainable/non conforming to other locations, in the interest of public health and protection of environment. Expressing disapproval over the timeline to reduce air pollution, the National Green Tribunal had earlier directed the Environment Ministry to modify the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) which proposes 20-30 per cent reduction of air pollution by 2024.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngt-directs-installation-of-175-air-quality-monitoring-stations-within-6-months-877631.html
25-08-2020||National||NGT slams Ministry of Environment and Forests over National Clean Air Programme||The National Green Tribunal has slammed the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) over its report on the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) which proposes 20-30 per cent reduction of air pollution by 2024. The NGT disapproved the submission of MoEF that a Committee upon further deliberation has concluded that 20-30 per cent pollutant reduction under NCAP seems realistic.  It said that MoEF's view is against the constitutional mandate under Article 21 of the Constitution. The Environment Ministry told the tribunal in order to assess impact of technological and policy interventions on air quality levels, a mid-term nationwide review with the help of identified technical experts may be conducted and targets can be updated, if required. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice A K Goel said the stand of the MoEF that pollution cannot be controlled except to the extent of certain per cent is directly hit by the Constitutional and statutory mandate.  “Right to clean air stands recognized as part of right to life and failure to address air pollution is denial of right to life,” the bench said. The tribunal said the enforcement of 'Sustainable Development' principle and 'Public Trust Doctrine' require stern measures to be adopted to give effect to the mandate of international obligations for which the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 and other laws have been enacted.  “Under the NCAP, target is to achieve norms in 10 years and reduce load to the extent of 35 per cent in first three years with further reduction of pollution later. “ It means for 10 years pollution will remain unaddressed which is too long period of tolerating violations when clean air is right to life. Further, it is not clear what type of pollutants or all pollutants will be reduced,” the bench said. It also said that Non-Attainment Cities cover cities where standards are not consecutively met for five years.  “What about other Cities. It is not clear as to what is monitoring mechanism for enforcement. There is no data how much pollution has been reduced in the last two years. Infact, in 2019, number of NACs has gone up from 102 to 122,” the bench said. The tribunal said that NCAP for reduction of air pollution does not fully meet the mandate of sustainable development. “ Violation of laid down air pollution levels resulting in large number of deaths and diseases needs to be addressed expeditiously.  “Targeted time of reduction of pollution loads needs to be reduced and planned steps need to be sternly implemented on the ground. MoEF may take further action as per law,” the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngt-slams-ministry-of-environment-and-forests-over-national-clean-air-programme-877633.html
25-08-2020||National||Former IPS officer Annamalai inducted into the BJP||Former IPS officer Kuppusamy Annamalai joined the BJP on Tuesday, asserting that he will work to strengthen party to bring changes in Tamil Nadu politics. He joined the saffron party in New Delhi at its national headquarters in the presence of BJP national general secretary P Muralidhar Rao, Tamil Nadu state unit president L Murugan and National spokesperson Sambit Patra. Later he met the BJP national president J P Nadda. While handing over primary membership receipt to Annamalai, Rao said that a large number of prominent persons are joining the BJP in Tamil Nadu. Later, speaking to media, Annamalai heaped praise on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying he embodies a leader's qualities of fearlessness, courage, knowledge and spirit. "I will work to strengthen what the BJP stands for and to bring that nationalist spirit to the state of Tamil Nadu," the 36-year-old former police officer, who has been involved in social work since quitting the IPS, said.  He explained that he has joined the party as a common worker, not expecting any post. "I will work as common man and be loyal to the party ideology," he said. "I am impressed with Prime Minister Narendra Modi's work. Everybody has to strengthen the Prime Minister's efforts in order to build a strong nation," he said. Praising the saffron party,  he said that the BJP is a nationalist party and stands for national security. "After resigning from IPS, I took a year to think about my future. After a lot of thinking I took the decision to join the BJP as I believe the party stands for the common man," he said. On how he would help BJP make a mark in Tamil Nadu where the party has little presence, he said, "Yes, I do agree that Dravidian politics play a major role in Tamil Nadu but the political situation in Tamil Nadu is changing and family politics is increasing." “There is a lot of misconception about the BJP in Tamil Nadu and work needs to be done to create awareness. I am a nationalist at heart and BJP is the only party that doesn't have nepotism or sycophancy, if I may use that word. I will work for the party relentlessly," he added. A native of Karur in Tamil Nadu, Annamalai belonged to the 2011 batch of IPS officers from the Karnataka cadre. He resigned for the service in 2019. He had served as Superintendent of Police in Udupi and Chikkamagalur and Deputy Commissioner of Police in Bengaluru city. Known as an upright officer, he was given the title 'Singham.'||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-ips-officer-annamalai-inducted-into-the-bjp-877635.html
25-08-2020||National||Muzaffarpur shelter home: CBI opposes Brajesh Thakur’s plea to suspend Rs 32 lakh fine||The CBI Tuesday opposed in the Delhi High Court a plea by Brajesh Thakur, sentenced to life imprisonment till his last breath for sexually assaulting several girls in a shelter home in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur district, seeking suspension of Rs 32.20 lakh fine imposed on him. The CBI said no prejudice will be caused to Thakur by imposition of fine as he has been convicted on multiple counts of aggravated penetrative sexual assault, conspiracy, abetment and sentenced to life imprisonment. The probe agency said in its reply that the fine imposed is just, fair and in the interest of justice and Thakur is liable and bound to pay the amount. The matter came up before a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rajnish Bhatnagar which noted that the CBI’s reply was not on record and directed the counsel to ensure that it is placed before it. The high court was hearing appeals filed by Thakur and co-convict Dilip Verma, then the Chairman of Child Welfare Committee, challenging the trial court’s verdict. Verma was also sentenced to imprisonment for the remainder of life by the trial court in the case. As the trial court record is bulky, consisting of 86,000 pages, the high court asked senior advocate Mohit Mathur, appearing for Verma, and lawyer Pramod Kumar Dubey, representing Thakur, to prepare a compilation of relevant documents and file it. The bench also directed that the latest nominal rolls of both the convicts be also called from the jail and listed the matter for further hearing on September 15. The CBI, in its reply through Special Public Prosecutor Rajesh Kumar, said the application for suspension of fine is devoid of merit and the trial court rightly convicted Thakur and there is no infirmity in the judgement. The CBI denied the claim of Thakur that all his assets are attached by the Enforcement Directorate. “No document has been placed on record by the applicant (Thakur) which shows that he ever tried for making the payment of fine from his assets and other properties. Further it is for the applicant to make arrangements for payment of fine,” it said. The high court had earlier issued notice to the CBI on the appeals seeking to set aside trial court’s January 20 judgment convicting him in the case and February 11 sentencing order. A trial court here had sentenced Thakur to "rigorous imprisonment till remainder of his life" and imposed a hefty fine of Rs 32.20 lakh on him, saying he was the "kingpin" of a "meticulously planned" conspiracy and "displayed extreme perversity". Besides Thakur, who once unsuccessfully contested assembly polls on Bihar People's Party (BPP) ticket, the trial court has also sent others to jail for life in the case. The appeal also raised the issue that potency of an accused is one of the foundational facts which the prosecution has to establish in a case related to rape and said neither the Bihar Police nor CBI had conducted the potency test of Thakur. “The trial court has failed to appreciate that there is no presumption under law that a person who is more than 50 years of age and admittedly suffering from high blood sugar has to be potent…. Without establishing the potency of the accused specially one who is more than 50 years of age the accused cannot be convicted of the offence of rape,” it contended. The trial court on January 20, had convicted Thakur of several offences including aggravated penetrative sexual assault under section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, and offences of rape and gang rape under the Indian Penal code (IPC). Besides Thakur and Verma, it had sentenced Child protection officer of District Child Protection Unit Ravi Roshan; member of Child Welfare Committee Vikas Kumar; Guddu Vijay; Kumar Tiwari; Guddu Patel; Kishan Kumar and Ramanuj Thakur to imprisonment for remainder of life in the case. It had also send three women -- Minu Devi, Kiran Kumari and Shaista Praveen -- to jail for life for abetment to rape. The trial court had sentenced Rama Shankar, Ashwani, Manju Devi, Chanda Devi, Neha Kumari and Hema Masih to 10 years in prison, and Indu Kumari to three years jail term. It had imposed varying fines on the convicts. It had also granted a compensation of Rs 5.50 lakh to three of the rape victims; Rs 6 lakh to one of the victims, Rs 9 lakh to another victim, Rs 40,000 each to two of the victims and Rs 25,000 to another victim. Former Bihar Social Welfare Minister and the then JD(U) leader Manju Verma had also faced flak when allegations surfaced that her husband had links with Brajesh Thakur. She resigned from her post on August 8, 2018. The case was transferred on February 7, 2019 from a local court in Muzaffarpur in Bihar to a POCSO court at Saket district court complex in Delhi on the Supreme Court's directions. The matter had come to light on May 26, 2018 after Tata Institute of Social Sciences submitted a report to the Bihar government highlighting the alleged sexual abuse of girls in the shelter home for the first time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/muzaffarpur-shelter-home-cbi-opposes-brajesh-thakur-s-plea-to-suspend-rs-32-lakh-fine-877639.html
25-08-2020||National||Covid-19: Majority of people against resumption of metro, local train services, says survey||About 51 per cent of people across the country are against the resumption of metro and local train services from September 1 as they feel these are risky in the current Covid-19 crisis, while 77 per cent are not in favour of visiting multiplexes, according to a survey. Conducted by a social media-based platform LocalCircles, the survey showed 51 per cent of the 25,000 respondents are not keen to avail metro and local trains, if these services restart in the 'Unlock 4' phase beginning September 1. Only 36 per cent are in favour of using the services, it said. According to the survey, 77 per cent of the respondents are not willing to visit multiplexes and cinema halls, if these facilities are allowed to reopen from next month. Experts said central air conditioning system in these places are extremely risky and can accelerate the spread of the coronavirus disease. When parents were posed with the query whether they would send their wards to schools if they are reopened from September 1, 62 per cent of them said 'no', while 23 per cent were in favour. With 60,975 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's Covid-19 tally rose to 31,67,323, while recoveries surged to 24,04,585 pushing the recovery rate over 75.92 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data issued on Tuesday. The death toll climbed to 58,390 with 848 fatalities being reported in a span of 24-hours, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-majority-of-people-against-resumption-of-metro-local-train-services-says-survey-877646.html
25-08-2020||National||Covid-19 tests per million in India touch 26,685 ||With India having tested nearly 3.7 crore cumulative Covid-19 samples so far, the tests per million have further risen to 26,685 while the positivity rate has come down to 8.60 per cent, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. India is focusing on the "test, track and treat" strategy to contain the spread of the infection. As the first step towards timely identification, prompt isolation and effective treatment, higher testing also results in limiting the spread of infection, it emphasised.  The total recoveries have surged to 24.04 lakh pushing the recovery rate to 75.92 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate has declined to 1.84 per cent as on date.  With India's resolve to rapidly increase the number of daily tests, the cumulative testing as on date has reached 3,68,27,520. "With 9,25,383 tests conducted on Monday, the tests per million have seen a sharp rise to 26,685," the ministry said. Starting from a single lab at Pune, India's testing lab network has seen a substantial widening with a total of 1524 labs. While there are 986 labs in the government sector, there are 538 private labs, it said. There are 7,04,348 active cases of coronavirus infection, the "actual caseload" of the country, comprising only 22.24% of the total cases. With 60,975 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's Covid-19 tally rose to 31,67,323, while the death toll climbed to 58,390 with 848 fatalities being reported in a span of 24-hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. 3||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-tests-per-million-in-india-touch-26685-877648.html
25-08-2020||National||SC reserves judgment in contempt case against Prashant Bhushan||The Supreme Court, on Tuesday, reserved its judgment in the 2020 suo motu criminal contempt case against lawyer Prashant Bhushan after he refused to apologise for his tweets. During the hearing, Attorney General KK Venugopal told the court that Bhushan may be allowed to go with a warning. However, he should withdraw all statements and express regret, the Attorney General added.  The top court granted another opportunity to Bhushan after Attorney General K K Venugopal sought forgiveness for the activist-lawyer. "He (Bhushan) should withdraw all statements and express regret," said the top law officer when the bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra sought his views on the 'defiant' statement of Bhushan. He has refused to offer an apology to the Supreme Court for his two tweets against the judiciary, saying what he expressed represented his bona fide belief which he continued to hold. On August 20, the top court had granted time till August 24 to Bhushan to reconsider his “defiant statement” refusing to apologise and tender “unconditional apology” for contemptuous tweets against the judiciary and rejected his submission that quantum of punishment be decided by another bench (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-reserves-judgment-in-contempt-case-against-prashant-bhushan-877649.html
25-08-2020||National||Covid-19: 'Weekend curfews, partial lockdowns hurting retail business'||Weekend curfews and partial lockdowns continue to hurt retail business and dampen consumer sentiment as many states still impose "irrational weekend lockdowns", the Retailers Association of India (RAI) said on Tuesday. For retailers, over 45 per cent of the week's entire business happens over the weekends, RAI said in a statement. It added that after facing losses for over four months due to lockdown, retailers are depending on the weekend business to help recover from the financial stress they have been facing. "However, local authorities in some states continue to impose strict lockdowns on weekends, which are becoming a huge setback in their path to recovery," it added. RAI said the Indian retail industry continues to struggle to get back to its feet with constant roadblocks being faced at the state and local levels with weekend curfews and partial lockdowns, which continue to hurt retail business and dampen consumer sentiment. "Over 10 states continue to impose irrational weekend lockdowns. These include Punjab, Haryana, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, and Nagaland, among others," the retailers' body said. RAI Chief Executive Officer Kumar Rajagopalan said, "These are knee-jerk reactions that are crippling the sector and gravely affecting the economy. We have urged the Centre and the state governments to collaboratively work towards supporting the revival of the retail industry." India will always be a consumption economy, and if the retail industry suffers, it will have a crippling effect on the entire value chain that involves manufacturing, entertainment, right down to artisans and other micro-enterprises, he added. For retailers, nearly 60-70 per cent of costs are fixed costs, such as rents, and salaries to employees make a large part of this cost. This, along with low margins, leaves businesses with limited flexibility that has already started leading to layoffs and downscaling or even shutting down operations widely, Rajagopalan said. "If the weekend business is lost then the hopeful recovery from the festive season will become a distant dream," he added. RAI also said it is also grossly inconvenient to customers, who after a busy workweek wait for the weekend to do their shopping, especially in cases where both partners are working. "Partial closures and keeping shops closed during weekends are detrimental to social distancing as customers have no choice but to throng stores during restricted hours," it added. In times like this when the business is inelastic, it is crucial to keep stores open on all days and for extended hours. Only this will help retailers crawl back from the financial distress they have been facing and encourage social distancing, RAI said. The association also claimed that weekend and partial lockdowns continue despite orders from the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) to keep retail open on all days, suggesting a lack of coordination between the Centre and states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-weekend-curfews-partial-lockdowns-hurting-retail-business-877651.html
25-08-2020||National||INS Viraat to be dismantled at Alang in Gujarat and sold as scrap||INS Viraat, the aircraft carrier that served the Indian Navy for 30 years before being decommissioned three years ago, is likely to be towed from Mumbai to Alang in Gujarat's Bhavnagar district next month to be dismantled and sold as scrap, an official said on Tuesday. The longest-serving warship, inducted into the Indian Navy in 1987, was bought by Shree Ram Group for Rs 38.54 crore at an auction conducted by the Metal Scrap Trade Corporation Limited last month. It will likely be towed from the Naval Dockyard in Mumbai to the ship-breaking yard at Alang next month, the company's chairman Mukesh Patel said. "We have made the entire payment and received a delivery order from the government. So, depending on the monsoon condition, it will be towed to Alang from the Naval Dockyard in Mumbai where it is stationed now, most likely by mid or end of September after receiving the required permission from the Directorate General of Shipping," Patel said. It will take around three days for the ship to be towed from Mumbai to Alang. It will be scrapped at the country's first certified eco-friendly ship recycling yard in nine to 12 months, he said. INS Viraat, the second Centaur-class aircraft carrier, was in service for 30 years before being decommissioned in March 2017. There were proposals in the past to preserve it as a maritime museum. In July last year, the central government said in Parliament that the decision to scrap INS Viraat was taken in due consultation with the Indian Navy. The aircraft carrier, in its earlier avatar, had won the Falklands War against Argentina in 1982 for the Royal British Navy. It weighs about 27,800 tonnes and served in the British Navy as HMS Hermes from November 1959 to April 1984 and after refurbishment, was commissioned into the Indian Navy. In the late 80s, the Indian Navy purchased it at a cost of $65 million and it was re-commissioned on May 12, 1987. INS Viraat is the second aircraft carrier to be broken down in India. In 2014, INS Vikrant was dismantled in Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ins-viraat-to-be-dismantled-at-alang-in-gujarat-and-sold-as-scrap-877656.html
25-08-2020||National||I am BJP worker, won't comment on Congress' affairs: Jyotiraditya Scindia||BJP MP and former Congress leader Jyotiraditya Scindia on Tuesday refused to comment on the current leadership churn in the grand old party. "It is the internal matter of the Congress and I would not like to comment on it. I am a BJP worker and commenting on internal affairs of any other political party would not be appropriate," the Guna royal told reporters after visiting the residence of RSS (Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh) founder K B Hedgewarin Mahal area here in Maharashtra. Scindia, who arrived in Nagpur this morning, said Hedgewar's residence is a place of inspiration for people. "Dr Hedgewar formed the organisation (RSS) which is dedicated to the nation. This residence is a place of inspiration for people who visit it. This place emits energy towards the cause of the nation," the Rajya Sabha MP said. Scindia's exit from the Congress in March this year with over 20 MLAs, led to the collapse of Kamal Nath government in Madhya Pradesh and enabled the BJP's return to power. The Congress is currently in turmoil over a letter written by some veterans demanding a "visible and full-time leadership". As the letter triggered speculations, the Congress Working Committee (CWC) on Monday decided that Sonia Gandhi will continue as the party's interim president and effect necessary organisational changes while an AICC session will be called at the earliest to start the process of electing a new chief.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-am-bjp-worker-wont-comment-on-congress-affairs-jyotiraditya-scindia-877659.html
25-08-2020||National||Greta Thunberg voices support to calls for postponement of NEET, JEE exams||Swedish teen climate change campaigner Greta Thunberg on Tuesday threw her weight behind postponing the NEET and the JEE exams in India in view of the coronavirus, saying it is “deeply unfair” that students are asked to appear in the tests during the pandemic. Voicing her support to the calls for the deferment of the key national examinations, Thunberg took to Twitter, saying it is deeply unfair for the students. “It’s deeply unfair that students of India are asked to sit national exams during the Covid-19 pandemic and while millions have also been impacted by the extreme floods. I stand with their call to #PostponeJEE_NEETinCOVID,” she said in a tweet. Thunberg, 17, has become a leading voice for action on climate change, inspiring millions of students to join protests around the world. She was named Time magazine's Person of the Year for 2019. Two years ago, she started missing lessons most Fridays to protest outside the Swedish Parliament building, in what turned out to be the beginning of a huge environmental movement. The chorus for postponing the various examinations, including NEET and JEE, grew louder on Sunday with over 4,000 students observing a day-long hunger strike to press for the demand in view of the rising COVID-19 cases. The protest came on a day Gandhi said the government must listen to the 'mann ki baat' of students and arrive at "an acceptable solution" and his party demanded that the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) be deferred. According to the leftist All India Students Association (AISA), over 4,200 students observed the day-long hunger strike at their respective home demanding that CBSE compartment exams of Classes 10 and 12 be cancelled and entrance exams such as the UGC-NET, CLAT, NEET and JEE be postponed. Aspirants appear in the JEE for admission into the premier engineering colleges and the NEET for undergraduate medical courses. The JEE (Main) is scheduled to be held between September 1 and 6, while the JEE (Advanced) on September 27. The NEET will be held on September 13. With 60,975 people testing positive for the coronavirus infection in a day, India's COVID-19 tally on Tuesday rose to 31,67,323, while recoveries surged to 24,04,585, pushing the recovery rate to 75.92 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The death toll climbed to 58,390 with 848 fatalities being reported in a span of 24-hours, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/greta-thunberg-voices-support-to-calls-for-postponement-of-neet-jee-exams-877667.html
25-08-2020||National||No change in Pranab Mukherjee's health||There was no change in the health condition of former President Pranab Mukherjee on Tuesday and he continues to be on ventilator support, the hospital treating him said. Doctors attending to the 84-year-old former President said his vital parameters were stable. Mukherjee was admitted to the Army's Research and Referral hospital in Delhi cantonment on August 10. "There is no change in the medical condition of Shri Pranab Mukherjee since yesterday. He continues to be on ventilator support and his vital parameters are stable," the hospital said in a statement. Mukherjee is being treated for respiratory infection, which he developed at the hospital. He was operated for removal of a clot in the brain. He had also tested positive for Covid-19 at the time of his admission. Mukherjee was the 13th President of India from 2012 to 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-change-in-pranab-mukherjees-health-877669.html
25-08-2020||National||Prashant Bhushan case: If you have hurt someone, why can't you apologise, asks SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday failed to extract any apology from advocate Prashant Bhushan for his statements against the top court and its judges, even as Attorney General K K Venugopal insisted on letting him go with a warning in a Suo Motu criminal contempt case for his tweets. The top court, which reserved its judgment on the quantum of sentence against Bhushan, rued that judges are condemned, their families humiliated and they can't even speak. "It is about the system. If we are going to destroy each other, who will have faith in this institution? You have to be tolerant, see what the court is doing and why. Don't just attack. Judges can't go to press to defend themselves or explain," a bench presided over by Justice Arun Mishra asked the counsel appearing in the matter. Bhushan, for his part, remained obstinate with his counsel Rajeev Dhavan asking the court to show large-heartedness in facing not just criticism but extreme criticism. He said the Court should close the matter without any punishment, warning or debarring him from practice, but with a general message, warning him to be a "little restrained" in future. "What is so bad in apologising, if someone has made a mistake? What is wrong in seeking an apology? If you have hurt someone, why can't you apologise," the bench asked Bhushan's counsel Dhavan and Attorney General Venugopal. The bench, also comprising Justices B R Gavai and Krishna Murari, noted some positive point in Bhushan's supplementary statement, furnished on Monday, that he had faith in the Institutions. The court had on August 20 given him an option to tender an unconditional apology for tweets posted on June 27 and 29. The court, which held Bhushan guilty of contempt on August 14, said he had gone to the extent of quoting Mahatma Gandhi but he could not apologise and his statement justified the tweets. Venugopal suggested to let Bhushan withdraw all his statements and that the court should close the matter by showing statesmanship if he expressed regret. The bench, however, asked him what is the purpose of it if the person does not realise his mistake and repeats it. In about four-hour-long hearing, the court gave 30 minutes time to Bhushan to think over his statement. However, he remained unmoved. During the hearing, the court cited Bhushan's comments against judges who decided Ayodhya dispute, saying except one (then CJI Ranjan Gogoi) four others, who were on the bench, are still sitting judges of the top court. "Which judge has been left out, sitting or retired, from his attack," the court asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prashant-bhushan-case-if-you-have-hurt-someone-why-cant-you-apologise-asks-sc-877684.html
25-08-2020||National||Defence Ministry suspends business dealings with Vectra company over Tatra case||The defence ministry has suspended all business dealings with Vectra Advanced Engineering Private Ltd for one year in view of a probe by the CBI into the allegations of wrongdoings against it in the Tatra Truck deal, officials said on Tuesday. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh approved the suspension of business dealings with M/s VAEPL for one year from August 14, they said. In 2012, the then Army chief General V K Singh had claimed that he was offered a bribe of Rs 14 crore to approve the procurement of a batch of 600 "sub-standard" Tatra trucks for the Indian Army. Vectra was the supplier of the Czech-origin all-terrain Tatra trucks to the armed forces through state-run Bharat Earth Movers Limited (BEML). In an official note, the defence ministry linked the suspension of the business dealings with M/s VAEPL to the CBI probe into the case as well as bribery allegations made by Singh, who is currently part of the union council of ministers. "It is requested that strict compliance of the above decision may be ensured by all wings in this ministry and services," the note issued by the vigilance department of the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/defence-ministry-suspends-business-dealings-with-vectra-company-over-tatra-case-877688.html
25-08-2020||National||CSIR conducting serosurvey in 38 labs to check presence of Covid-19 antibodies in its employees||The Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) is conducting a survey in its 38 laboratories and institutes across India to gauge the serological prevalence among its employees and also understand how long antibodies against Covid-19 remain active, officials said. The exercise aims to target 10,000 CSIR employees and their family members in the age group of 19-60 years, said Shantanu Sengupta, a scientist with CSIR's Institute for Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB) in Delhi, which is coordinating the serosurvey. Sengupta said the exercise has already begun and it is expected to get completed by September. The exercise, he said, will be repeated in the next six months. All people will be monitored using Omic technology, which involves the analysis of the entire set of molecules such as proteins, lipids or metabolites in a cell, organ or organism. "Different research talk about how long the antibodies stay in the body. Another serological survey in the next six months will help us understand this better," Sengupta added. IGIB director Anurag Agrawal told PTI that the CSIR through its network of constituent laboratories has the geographical diversity and scientific expertise to accelerate the generation of such knowledge. The 38 laboratories and institutes are located in east, west, south, north, northeast and central India. "As a first step, CSIR has started a national serosurvey amongst a cohort of its employees and their families, which will be continued in the future. Using this as a starting point, the scientists expect to be able to identify the infection trends in parts of the nation where CSIR labs are located, and to develop a better understanding of susceptibility to infections and its consequences," Agrawal said. Such work will greatly complement and enhance the national efforts of population-based cross-sectional serosurveys, Agrawal noted. "Serosurveys have been conducted in different cities but with the geographical diversity the CSIR offers, this pan-India serosurvey will give a better understanding of the antibodies present among people across the country," Sengupta said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/csir-conducting-serosurvey-in-38-labs-to-check-presence-of-covid-19-antibodies-in-its-employees-877691.html
25-08-2020||National||From The Newsroom: DK Shivakumar tests Covid-19 positive||In your evening news brief, From the Newsroom, Karnataka Congress leader D K Shivakumar has tested positive for Covid-19. Interpol has put out a red corner notice for Nirav Modi's wife Ami Modi at the request of the Enforcement Directorate in association with the PNB scam. NIA is set to file a 5000-page charge sheet in connection with the February 2019 Pulwama bombing.    Here is the top news of today, Tuesday: August 25, 2020: Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar has tested positive for Covid-19 and is currently in the hospital for treatment.  According to sources, Shivakumar was admitted to Suguna Hospital in Rajajinagar on Monday night.  On Sunday, Shivakumar decided to call off his visit to the flood-hit areas in Belagavi and Bagalkot districts. “On health grounds, postponing my visit by three days to the flood-affected regions of Belagavi and Bagalkot districts which were scheduled on August 24 and 25th,” he had tweeted.  An Interpol global arrest warrant has been issued against Ami Modi, wife of Nirav Modi, prime accused in the over USD 2 billion PNB bank fraud case, on charges of money laundering, officials said on Tuesday. They said the 'red notice' has been issued by the global police body on the request of the Enforcement Directorate (ED). Once such a notice issued against a fugitive, the Interpol asks its 192-member countries to arrest or detain the person if spotted in their countries after which extradition or deportation proceedings can begin. Ami Modi is stated to have left the country soon after the alleged bank fraud case came into light in 2018. The ED has charged Ami Modi for conspiring and money laundering with her husband and jeweller Nirav Modi apart from his uncle Mehul Choksi and others under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). Nirav Modi (49), is currently lodged in a UK jail after being arrested in London in March 2019 and is currently fighting extradition to India. He has been declared a fugitive economic offender by a Mumbai court early this year and the court had also ordered the confiscation of his assets. The ED has already confiscated about Rs 329 crore of his linked properties. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) is going to file a 5000-page charge-sheet on Pulwama attack that took place on 14 February 2019, in which 40 CRPF personnel were killed, in a special court in Jammu on Tuesday. Sources told DH that Pakistan-based chief of Jaish-e-Mohammad terror outfit Masood Azhar and his brother Rauf Asghar has been named as the masterminds of the Pulwama attack in the NIA charge-sheet. The charge-sheet details how the planning and execution of one of the deadliest terror attacks in Kashmir were executed from Pakistan, they said. “20 accused, including the Jaish conspirators, terrorists who were killed in various operations and half-a-dozen others accused of providing logistical support have been named in the charge-sheet,” sources said. Masood Azhar's video and audio recordings praising the Pulwama attack are also said to be part of the charge-sheet. 40 CRPF personnel, travelling in a convoy on south Kashmir highway in Pulwama district, were killed on 14 February 2019 when suicide-bomber Adil Ahmad Dar rammed a car loaded with explosives into the paramilitary bus at around 3.15 pm at Lethpora. The impact of the blast reduced the bus to a mangled heap. The Supreme Court, on Tuesday, reserved its judgement in the 2020 suo motu criminal contempt case against lawyer Prashant Bhushan after he refused to apologise for his tweets. During the hearing, Attorney General KK Venugopal told the court that Bhushan may be allowed to go with a warning. However, he should withdraw all statements and express regret, the Attorney General added.  The top court granted another opportunity to Bhushan after Attorney General K K Venugopal sought forgiveness for the activist-lawyer. "He (Bhushan) should withdraw all statements and express regret," said the top law officer when the bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra sought his views on the 'defiant' statement of Bhushan.  Fifty-one per cent of people across the country are against the resumption of metro and local train services from September 1 as they feel these are risky in the current COVID-19 crisis, while seventy-seven per cent are not in favour of visiting multiplexes, according to a survey. Conducted by a social media-based platform LocalCircles, the survey showed 51 per cent of the 25,000 respondents are not keen to avail metro and local trains, if these services restart in the 'Unlock 4' phase beginning September 1. Only 36 per cent are in favour of using the services, it said. According to the survey, 77 per cent of the respondents are not willing to visit multiplexes and cinema halls, if these facilities are allowed to reopen from next month. Experts said central air conditioning system in these places are extremely risky and can accelerate the spread of the coronavirus disease. Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-dk-shivakumar-tests-covid-19-positive-877693.html
25-08-2020||National||Monsoon 24% above average in August, heavy rain to continue||Monsoon rains, which picked up pace in August, are likely to be heavy for the rest of the month, the chief of the state-run India Meteorological Department (IMD) said, potentially benefiting summer crops such as rice, corn and cotton. After a patchy spell in the last two weeks of July, India received 24% above average rains so far in August, and the trend is likely to continue at least through this month, Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director general of the IMD, told Reuters. "There's no doubt that the quantity of rains has been excellent, but the other important feature of this year's monsoon is that the rainfall has been very well distributed across the country," Mohapatra said. "And that augurs well for our agricultural output this year." Of the 36 meteorological subdivisions in India, monsoon rains have been either average or above average in 32 so far this year, he said. The IMD defines average, or normal, rainfall as between 96% and 104% of a 50-year average of 88 cm for the entire four-month season beginning in June. India, where nearly half of the country's farmland lacks irrigation, has received 7% above average rains since June 1, when the monsoon arrived on the southernmost Kerala coast. Farmers have planted 106.3 million hectares with summer crops so far, the Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers' Welfare said, up 8.5% from last year as heavy monsoon rains in June spurred sowing in the world's leading producer of farm goods. Until last week, planting of rice, the key summer crop, was at 37.8 million hectares, against 33.9 million hectares at the same time last year. "Monsoon rains were rather robust in June and a little weak in July. Rains picked up in August, but we could again get to see a little bit of a weak spell in September," Mohapatra said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/monsoon-24-above-average-in-august-heavy-rain-to-continue-877695.html
25-08-2020||National||ED files charge sheet against HM chief Syed Salahuddin and others for terror funding||The Enforcement Directorate on Tuesday filed a charge sheet before Delhi court against Pakistan-based Hizb-ul-Mujahideen chief Syed Salahuddin and 11 others for allegedly laundering money for financing terror activities in Jammu and Kashmir. The prosecution complaint, ED's equivalent to charge sheet, has urged the court for confiscating attached assets totalling to ₹ 1.22 crores in the case, besides other punishment under Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The matter is likely to be taken up by the court soon. The central probe agency had filed a criminal case of money laundering in this instance after taking cognisance of a National Investigating Agency (NIA) charge sheet filed against Salahuddin, Shah and others under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Action (UAPA) and other sections of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-files-charge-sheet-against-hm-chief-syed-salahuddin-and-others-for-terror-funding-877703.html
25-08-2020||National||FDC launches 2 variants of Favipiravir in India at Rs 55 per tablet||Drug firm FDC Ltd on Tuesday said it has launched two variants of the Covid-19 drug Favipiravir under the brand names PiFLU  and Favenza. The Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) had earlier approved the use of Favipiravir, an off patent, oral antiviral drug that has been shown to quicken clinical recovery in Covid-19 patients with mild to moderate symptoms, FDC said in a statement. "Early diagnosis and treatment will help in arresting the deteriorating condition of patients, and we will be working with the government and healthcare fraternity to make Favenza and PiFLU available across the country” FDC spokesperson Mayank Tikkha said. Both the products are currently available across the country, the company said. The price per tablet is Rs 55 for both the variants, it added.  Shares of FDC Ltd closed at Rs 317.50 per scrip on BSE, down 1.17 per cent over previous close.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fdc-launches-2-variants-of-favipiravir-in-india-at-rs-55-per-tablet-877704.html
25-08-2020||National||Scrap metal from INS Viraat could be used to make motorbikes||Scrap metal from what was once the world's oldest serving aircraft carrier — and Britain's flagship during the 1982 Falklands war — could be used to make motorbikes, the firm charged with breaking it down said Tuesday. The Shree Ram Group at Asia's largest ship scrapyard in Alang, Gujarat state, said it had secured the giant vessel in an auction and would take up to a year to break down. The ship entered Britain's Royal Navy in 1959 as the HMS Hermes after being laid down in 1944. She was sold the Indian Navy in 1986 and renamed the INS Viraat before serving another 29 years. Viraat, which means "giant" in Sanskrit, was decommissioned finally in 2017 having sailed more than a million kilometres (700,000 miles) — roughly equivalent to circumnavigating the globe 28 times. After a solemn decommissioning ceremony in Mumbai in 2017, there were plans to turn the ship into a floating museum and hotel, but they fell through. Now the steel from the vessel could find another use. "Once the ship docks at Alang, it will take us around 9-12 months to dismantle it and then we shall sell it as scrap to recover the cost," Shree Ram Group chairman Mukesh Patel told AFP. "We have been approached by two motorcycle makers for using the steel from the warship to build bikes... But nothing has been finalised yet," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/scrap-metal-from-ins-viraat-could-be-used-to-make-motorbikes-877707.html
25-08-2020||National||India in talks with Russia on Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V||The Health Ministry on Tuesday said though testing for Covid-19 has been increased exponentially, there has been a steady decline in the positivity rate and highlighted that the number of active cases of the infection reduced by 6,423 for the first time within a span of 24 hours. Union Health Ministry Secretary Rajesh Bhushan also said that India and Russia are in communication regarding the later's Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine. The testing for the disease has been increased from 363 tests per million per day on August 1 to more than 600 tests per million per day at present, the ministry said. Addressing a press briefing, Union Health Ministry Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on the basis of 7-day rolling average the positivity rate of Covid-19 which was 11 percent during the first week of August has come down to 8 percent now. "While the tests for detection of Covid-19 have increased exponentially, there has been a steady decline in the positivity rate. For the first time, active cases of Covid-19 have reduced by 6,423 in a span of 24 hours," he said. Bhushan also said 2.70 percent of the active cases of coronavirus infection are on oxygen support while 1.92 percent are in ICU and 0.29 percent are on ventilators. He also said the recovered Covid-19 cases are 3.4 times the number of active cases. Presenting a mortality analysis on the basis of age and gender, Bhushan said 69 percent of Covid deaths have been reported in men and 31 percent in women. He said, "36 percent of the deaths reported in people with age group between 45-60 years and 51 percent deaths in people aged 60 and above. 11 percent deaths were reported in the age group of 26-44 years and 1 percent each among people aged 18-25 and those below 17". Responding to a question, Bhushan said as far as the Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V developed by Russia is concerned, both countries (India and Russia) are in communication. "Some initial information has been shared while some detailed information is awaited," he said. On augmentation of the testing capacity, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) DG Balram Bhargava said gradually the testing capacity was increased and on August 21 it finally reached the landmark of testing one million Covid samples in a day. "Covid-19 testing capacity has increased significantly -- from 10 tests per day on January 30 to touching 1 million tests per day on August 21," he said. "We have 1,524 Covid testing laboratories in India and as on 25th August 2020, 3,68,27,520 tests have been done," Bhargava said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-in-talks-with-russia-on-covid-19-vaccine-sputnik-v-877713.html
25-08-2020||National||Monsoon Session likely from Sept 14 to Oct 1||The monsoon session of Parliament is likely to begin from September 14 and continue till October 1 without a break, officials said on Tuesday. The Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha are expected to have four-hour sittings every day which would enable use of chambers of both the Houses for seating members with adequate physical distancing measures in place. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, his cabinet colleagues and some senior leaders will sit in the Lok Sabha chambers with other members occupying seats in the viewers gallery and Rajya Sabha chambers. Parliament secretariat has made elaborate arrangements to provide an infection free environment for members by installing ultraviolet irradiation systems in air conditioning ducts and polycarbonate sheets on benches to shield members. Four large (85 inches) display screens will be set up in the chambers and six smaller (40 inches) screens and audio consoles in the four galleries will be installed,Also, cables to transmit real-time audio-visual signals and communications consoles to enable members to participate in debates and discussions will be arranged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/monsoon-session-likely-from-sept-14-to-oct-1-877717.html
25-08-2020||National||Shipping Ministry facilitates over 1 lakh crew change during Covid-19 period||The Ministry of Shipping has facilitated more than 1 lakh crew change in Indian ports and charted flights during Covid-19 pandemic period, which is highest in the world. What is a crew change? The crew change consists of replacing one of the ship’s crew members with another one and involves sign-on the ships and sign-off the ship's procedures, said the Shipping Ministry in a statement. The maritime sector is among the worst-hit sectors due to coronavirus pandemic. Despite that, all the Indian Ports have been operational and provided essential services throughout the pandemic, said the statement.  Appreciating the continued efforts done by the Director-General of Shipping Amitabh Kumar in facilitating the stranded seafarer during this difficult time, Union Minister for Shipping, Mansukh Mandaviya asked officials to come up with robust grievance redress mechanism to facilitate the seafarers. To sustain the maritime transportation during the pandemic situation, DG Shipping has taken various initiatives like extensions of various certificates required for sailing, Online E-pass facility for travel etc. “An online utility has been created for verification of seafarers for charted flights and for uploading details of stranded seafarers along with online ship registrations and online charter licensing”, Amitabh Kumar said.                                  The DG Shipping received communications via emails, tweets, and letters from more than 2000 Maritime Stakeholders and took immediate responsive action to facilitate their needs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shipping-ministry-facilitates-over-1-lakh-crew-change-during-covid-19-period-877730.html
25-08-2020||National||Sex workers in Kolkata's Sonagachi begin preparations for Durga Puja||For the sex workers of Kolkata’s Sonagachi, life has always been a struggle. This year with the Covid-19 pandemic it has become even more difficult for them as their business has almost come to a stand still. They have decided to uphold their struggle to survive during the pandemic and nationwide lockdown with the theme of padlock. The padlock will symbolise the lockdown and the sex workers’ struggle to survive. At the very entrance of the pandal a giant padlock will greet the visitors. It symbolises the financial hardship and struggle not only of the sex workers during the lockdown but also of people engaged in other professions. Speaking to DH the Secretary of Durbar Mahila Samanwaya Committee, the largest organization of sex workers in West Bengal Kajol Bose said that this year’s Durga Puja in Sonagachi will represent the sex workers’ determination to survive against all odds. “ We were able to start this Durga Puja after a prolonged struggle. Why should we discontinue it this year? Financially the odds are stacked against us but the very struggle is the essence of this year’s theme,” said Bose. The sex workers of Sonagachi were able to scale up their Durga Puja in 2017 by holding it in a full fledged marquee and idol following a Calcutta High Court order. They started their Durga Puja in a small room in 2013. However, this year they have decided to scale down their Durga Puja due to the financial constraints arising from the nationwide lockdown. With a sharp decrease in budget the idol will be less than five feet in height and the pandal will also be smaller. The sex workers have also decided not to hold any cultural program due to the pandemic. Social distancing norms will be strictly followed the organizers said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sex-workers-in-kolkatas-sonagachi-begin-preparations-for-durga-puja-877737.html
25-08-2020||National||U’khand: BJP seeks apology as Cong MLA ‘abuses’ CM in viral video, 'threatens' official||The Uttarakhand BJP Tuesday demanded an apology from the Congress alleging that its Jaspur MLA "abused" Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and "threatened” an official over a colony being sealed following the detection of a coronavirus case. The sharp reaction from the BJP came after a video surfaced online which purportedly shows Congress MLA Adesh Chauhan “abusing” the chief minister. The MLA arrived after he came to know that the residents of a particular lane of the colony were complaining that it had been sealed wrongly and were protesting. The MLA entered into an argument with officials and in the heat of the moment allegedly “abused” the CM and threatened an official. Someone recorded a video of the incident which went viral. "The BJP strongly condemns the incident. The Jaspur MLA abused the CM, threatened an officer and tried to create hurdles in the ongoing battle against the pandemic," state BJP vice president Devendra Bhasin said in a statement. “We expect an apology from the Congress over the conduct of its legislator,” he said. "The Congress is digging its own grave through such actions," Bhasin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/u-khand-bjp-seeks-apology-as-cong-mla-abuses-cm-in-viral-video-threatens-official-877742.html
25-08-2020||National||SC refers 2009 contempt case against Prashant Bhushan to other bench||In a reprieve to Prashant Bhushan, the Supreme Court Tuesday decided to refer to another bench the 2009 contempt case against him and journalist Tarun Tejpal to deal with certain larger questions related to freedom of speech and levelling of corruption charges against the judiciary. The apex court in November 2009, had issued contempt notices to Bhushan and Tejpal for allegedly casting aspersions on some sitting and former top court judges in an interview to news magazine 'Tehelka'. Tejpal was the editor of the magazine. A bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra was told by senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan, appearing for the activist-lawyer, that 10 questions of constitutional importance have been raised by him and they needed to be dealt by a Constitution bench. The bench, which also comprised Justices B R Gavai and Krishna Murari, did not undertake the hearing due to paucity of time as Justice Mishra is demitting office on September 2. “There is paucity of time otherwise we would have heard the senior counsel (Dhavan) with respect to the questions which have been proposed. However, since the matter is pending for the last 10 years, as prayed for, we fix the date for hearing in the month of September, 2020. Let the matter be listed on September 10, before an appropriate Bench as may deem fit by Hon'ble the Chief Justice of India,” the bench noted in the order. "These are broader issues which need to be deliberated at length. We can have some amicus and it can be adjudicated by an appropriate bench," said the bench, which also comprised Justices B R Gavai and Krishna Murari. Justice Mishra, who is retiring on September 2, said the matter will need time and observed "let us leave this to an appropriate bench" . The court did not agree to the submissions of Dhavan that it should issue notice to the Attorney General K K Venugopal seeking his assistance and opinion to deal with the issues raised and said that 'it is best left to the appropriate Bench" which will be set up by the Chief Justice of India. Dhavan said the questions raised by Bhushan included the issue whether bona fide opinions of corruption also constitute contempt of court and "whether it is enough to show bona fide of opinion or it is necessary for the person to prove the allegation of corruption. They also included whether a complainant is barred from discussing in public domain the contents of his complaint if an in-house inquiry is started, among others, he said. On August 17, the top court had framed certain questions and asked senior advocates Dhavan, appearing for Bhushan, Shanti Bhushan and Kapil Sibal, to address it on three issues-- whether such statements about corruption against judges or judiciary can be made, in what circumstances they can be made and what is the procedure to be adopted with respect to sitting and retired judges. Then Bhushan, through her lawyer Kamini Jaiswal, filed 10 questions on his own and sought adjudication by a Constitution bench. "Whether the expression of a bona fide opinion about the extent of corruption in any section of the judiciary would amount to contempt of court," Bhushan's plea said. "If the answer to the question is in the affirmative, whether the person who expresses such an opinion about the extent of corruption in a section of judiciary is obliged to prove that his opinion is correct or whether it is enough to show that he bona fide held that opinion," the second question read. He also gave eight other questions related to freedom of speech and expression and the width and scope of contempt powers. The top court had earlier said that it would consider larger questions in 2009 contempt case against Bhushan and Tejpal on August 25, that is today. In response to the 2009 contempt case, Bhushan had told the apex court that making corruption charges against the judges would not amount to contempt of court and mere utterance of corruption charge could not be contempt of court. The top court, meanwhile, concluded the hearing in the another contempt case against Bhushan in which he has been convicted for his two tweets against the judiciary and has refused to apologise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-refers-2009-contempt-case-against-prashant-bhushan-to-other-bench-877748.html
25-08-2020||National||Gujarat: Jharkhand tribal activist behind bars for a month denied bail||A local court in Tapi district, south Gujarat, on Tuesday rejected bail plea of Jharkhand woman activist, said to be associated with "Pathalgadhi movement", booked for allegedly instigating the local tribals "to take violent means to overawe the elected government by means of criminal force in Gujarat state."  The activist Babita Kachhap was arrested by Gujarat ATS along with two other members- Samu and Birsa Oreya- both from Jharkhand, on August 26 and since then they are in jail. The trio have been booked for "conspiring" to "wage war against the nation," "sedition" and "promoting enmity between two groups" with the help of followers of Satipati community. It is widely believed that Pathalgadi movement is "inspired" from Satipati movement that denounces the government of India and doesn't believe in its laws. Satipati followers believe that they have the sovereign right over the forest and other natural resources. They are known for boycotting votes, government benefits, among others. The principal sessions court, Tapi pronounced the order on Tuesday rejecting the bail plea on the ground that the charges are serious in nature. The ATS officials had arrested the accused based on "intelligence inputs" that they were living in Tapi and Mahisagar districts and were conspiring to instigate followers of Satipati community in the localities for violent uprising against the state government. The FIR claims that "Babita Kachhap is involved in instigating the followers of Satipati cult to violent means in pursuit of their objectives. The intelligence input further indicated that her area of activity is Kevadia (seat of Statue of Unity), Dahod and Chhota-Udepur.” Samu and Birsa Oreya were active in Vyara in Tapi district. The FIR further alleged that “They are instigating the followers of Satipati cult by wrong interpretation of the Vth Schedule of the Constitution of India and Panchayats (Extension to Scheduled Areas) Act, 1996 (PESA)…" PESA provides for the rights to territorial integrity to tribal panchayats whose permission is required for any development on the land. This law prevents land transfer to non-tribals but there have been several instances of misuse of the law in the state. The FIR describes "Pathalgadhi movement" originating from "trial custom in which a stone is positioned on a dead person's tomb. "Contemporarily, drawing from the custom, Adivasi communities in Jharkhand display messages on large stones-known locally as Pathalgadhi-that are painted green and measure about 15 ft by 4ft. The movement seeks to replace the power of central and state governments with the local gram sabha." To achieve this, the FIR alleges, the movement uses violent means.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-jharkhand-tribal-activist-behind-bars-for-a-month-denied-bail-877760.html
25-08-2020||National||Rs 1.2 lakh crore to be spent on oil, gas projects in FY21: Government||State-owned oil firms plan to spend about Rs 1.2 lakh crore in the fiscal year to March 2021 on oil and gas exploration and production and refineries in a bid to boost economic activity in the nation that has been hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic. As much as Rs 5.88 lakh crore of spending is budgeted for 8,363 projects over the next few years, an official statement said. "Out of the total anticipated cost of these projects, approximately Rs 1.20 lakh crore is targeted to be incurred as capex in FY 2020-21," it said. Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan reviewed all ongoing projects of oil and gas companies in a bid to turn the crisis into an opportunity by scaling up work on the projects to create employment and revive growth. "These projects of oil and gas PSUs, their joint ventures and subsidiaries include refinery projects, bio-refineries, exploration and production (E&P) projects, marketing infrastructure projects, pipelines, city gas distribution projects, drilling/survey activities," it said. Oil and gas sector, it said, is a key driver of economic growth and these projects would boost the economy and will trigger job creation, material movement. "Out of the total anticipated cost of these projects, approximately Rs 1.20 lakh crore is targeted to be incurred as capex in FY 2020-21. In FY 2020-21 (as on August 15, 2020), around Rs 26,576 crore worth of capex has already been incurred. "Further, in FY 2020-21 (as on August 15, 2020), around Rs 3,258 crore has been reported to be payout accrued on labour account during this period," it said. A total of around 33.8 crore man-days (direct as well as indirect) of employment is expected to be generated towards the completion of these 8,363 projects, out of which more than 9.76 crore man-days of employment generation is targeted in FY 2020-21 itself. In FY 2020-21 (as on August 15, 2020), employment of more than 2.2 crore man-days have been generated through capital expenditure in the execution of these oil and gas projects. Oil and gas PSUs have planned an employment-oriented opex of around Rs 41,672 crore in FY21 which can generate direct/indirect employment. "Out of this, Rs 11,296 crore has already been spent," the statement said. This opex of Rs 41,672 crore has the potential to generate around 14.5 crore man-days (direct/indirect). In FY 2020-21 (as on August 15, 2020), direct/indirect employment of around 4.4 crore man-days has been generated through opex. In FY 2020-21, a total of around Rs 1.62 lakh crore (capex and employment-oriented opex) is targeted to be spent by oil and gas companies that have the potential to generate employment of around 24 crore man-days (direct/indirect). "This amount spent would create a virtuous cycle of investments and will certainly play a crucial role in the revival of the Indian economy and will also provide employment opportunities to people of our country," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rs-12-lakh-crore-to-be-spent-on-oil-gas-projects-in-fy21-government-877771.html
25-08-2020||National||Highway toll plazas: FASTag mandatory to get discount on return journey||To promote digital payments at toll plazas on the national highways, the government has decided that only those vehicles carry valid functional FASTag will get discount for users who make return journey within 24 hours and all other local exemptions. “In order to further promote digital payments at the fee plazas on the national highways, it is decided that discount for users who make return journey within 24 hours and all other local exemptions shall be provided only if the vehicle carries a valid functional FASTag," an official statement said. “For a discount on a return journey within 24 hours, it would be through FASTag or such other device and automatic and no requirement for a pass. For discounts on all other cases, having a valid FASTag is made necessary," it said. However, the vehicles without a valid functional FASTag will not get the benefit of the discount, said an official in the road ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/highway-toll-plazas-fastag-mandatory-to-get-discount-on-return-journey-877773.html
25-08-2020||National||India to participate in mega war game in Russia next month||China, Pakistan and a number of other member nations of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) are expected to participate in the strategic command-post exercise, they said. Around 150 Indian Army troops, 45 Indian Air Force personnel and a number of Navy officers will form the Indian contingent for the exercise scheduled to be held in the Astrakhan region in southern Russia from September 15 to 26, sources said. They said a meeting of representatives of the countries participating in the military drill took place in Volgograd on Tuesday to discuss various aspects of the exercise. Russia has been a major partner of India in the defence sector and the cooperation has been steadily growing further. Tweeting about the event, Russian Embassy here on Tuesday said, "preparations for #Kazkaz2020 Strategic Command and Control Exercise are underway in Russia. Indian military representatives among the participants." The embassy also posted the Russian defence ministry tweet which said, "a staff meeting for military representatives of the countries participating in #Kazkaz2020 Strategic Command and Control Exercise – Belarus, India, Iran, Myanmar and Pakistan – started today in Volgograd." In June, a tri-services contingent from India participated at the Victory Day Parade at the iconic Red Square in Moscow to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the Soviet victory over Nazi Germany in the Second World War. A contingent from China had also attended it. The invite for the exercise comes at a time when India and China are locked in a bitter border row in eastern Ladakh. Both India and China are members of the SCO, an influential regional grouping. Indian and Chinese troops have been engaged in a standoff in several areas along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh. Both the countries are holding talks at military and diplomatic levels to resolve the dispute. Russia has already said that India and China should resolve the border dispute through talks and that a "constructive" relationship between the two countries was important for regional stability. The SCO, seen as a counterweight to NATO, has emerged as one of the largest transregional international organisations which accounts for almost 44 per cent of the world population stretching from the Arctic Ocean to the Indian Ocean and from the Pacific Ocean to the Baltic Sea. The aim of the SCO is to maintain peace, stability and security of the region. India became a member of SCO in 2017. It will be the first major multilateral military exercise in which India is participating after the coronavirus pandemic broke out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-participate-in-mega-war-game-in-russia-next-month-877784.html
25-08-2020||National||Not keeping track of post-Covid-19 syndrome cases: Health Ministry||The Union Health Ministry on Tuesday said it does not have any count on what percentage of recovered patients are suffering from the post-Covid-19 syndrome, even though a technical panel within the Ministry was examining the issue for more than a month. More and more hospitals are now reporting cases of the post-Covid-19 syndrome, in which people suffer from breathlessness, fatigue and body ache. There are also reports of fibrosis in the lungs in some of the recovered patients. “We don't have anyone suffering from post-Covid syndromes. We are not keeping a track,” Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said at a press conference here. For more than a month, a technical committee within the ministry was in touch with various hospitals to know the status of recovered patients. “The aim is to create a guidance document to help the doctors treating such patients,” Bhushan said. While other countries have scientifically documented the unrelated health problems faced by the Covid-19 patients, there is no such attempt in India so far though more than 24 lakh Indians have recovered from the pandemic so far. Last week NITI Ayog member Vinod K Paul admitted that post-Covid sub-acute morbidities like respiratory symptoms, immunological reactions among children and fibrosis in lungs were “new dimensions” of the disease that were being watched. "We will have to be aware that there may be some impact later too. We will use the treatment modalities available with us as and when required to deal with these cases. It is happening to an extent, but not at a dangerously alarming level," Paul said when asked to comment on the syndrome. Bhushan said the number of active Covid-19 cases dropped for the first time by more than 6,400 in the last 24 hours. The rate of increase of active cases is showing a declining trend too. The positivity rate fell further in the fourth week of August (8.6%) compared to the second week (9%). But to get control of the epidemic, the positivity rate must drop below 5%. Out of 58,390 deaths recorded so far, nearly 51% are people of age 60 years and above while another 36% are people in the age between 45-60 years. Balram Bhargava, Director-General of Indian Council of Medical Research said that the council would undertake the second round of national sero-prevalence survey in September while the results of the first survey would be published later this week. ICMR had received criticism in the past for not publishing the results of the first national-level serological survey that can offer an idea on the extent of the spread of the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-keeping-track-of-post-covid-19-syndrome-cases-health-ministry-877786.html
25-08-2020||National||Arrival of custom-made B777 plane for VVIP travel delayed due to technical reasons||The arrival of the VVIP aircraft from the US, which will be used to fly President, Vice President and Prime Minister, has been delayed due to technical reasons, senior Air India officials said on Tuesday. The plane was scheduled to arrive in India during the first half of this week, the officials noted. Senior officials of the national carrier reached the US earlier this month to receive the plane from aircraft manufacturer Boeing, the officials said. Another custom-made B777 plane for the travel of VVIPs is likely to be received from Boeing in September, they noted. Currently, the President, Vice President and the Prime Minister, fly on Air India's B747 planes, which have the call sign ''Air India One''. Air India pilots fly these B747 aircraft for the dignitaries and the Air India Engineering Services Limited (AIESL) maintains them. When these B747 aircraft are not flying the dignitaries, they are used by the Indian national carrier for commercial operations. The new planes will be used for travel of the dignitaries only. These two aircraft were part of Air India's commercial fleet for a few months in 2018 before they were sent back to Boeing for retrofitting them for VVIP travel. The B777 planes will have state-of-the-art missile defence systems called Large Aircraft Infrared Countermeasures (LAIRCM) and Self-Protection Suites (SPS). In February, the US agreed to sell the two defence systems to India at a cost of $190 million. The Centre has already initiated the process of divestment of its stake in Air India, which has a debt of over Rs 60,000 crore. However, the process has been postponed due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arrival-of-custom-made-b777-plane-for-vvip-travel-delayed-due-to-technical-reasons-877790.html
25-08-2020||National||India deploys troops with shoulder-fired missiles in key areas in eastern Ladakh||The Indian Army has further bolstered its combat readiness in eastern Ladakh by deploying troops with shoulder-fired missiles in several sensitive areas in the backdrop of increasing activities by Chinese helicopters in the region, official sources said on Tuesday. These missiles have a range of two to five kilometres and they are capable of bringing down low flying helicopters and aircraft, they added. The deployment of a sizeable number of troops with shoulder-fired missiles came as part of India's overall approach to significantly ramp up combat capabilities of the Army and the Indian Air Force (IAF) in eastern Ladakh. There has been an increase in activities by the Chinese air force in the region in the last few weeks following which the Army has decided to deploy troops with shoulder-fired missiles, the sources said. The Indian Army has significantly increased deployment of troops and weaponry including tanks and artillery guns in various sensitive sectors along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the last few weeks. The IAF has also significantly enhanced deployment of its frontline jets, attack helicopters and transport fleet in all its key bases guarding the airspace along the LAC. It has enhanced deployment of its air defence systems in the region. The IAF has already moved a sizeable number of its frontline fighter jets including Sukhoi 30 MKI, Jaguar and Mirage 2000 aircraft to several key airbases including Leh and Srinagar. It has also deployed Apache attack choppers and Chinook heavy-lift helicopters to transport troops to various forward locations. The frontline fighter jets have increased their sorties in Ladakh and nearby areas. India and China have held several rounds of military and diplomatic talks in the last two-and-half months but no significant headway has been made in resolution of the border row in eastern Ladakh. The formal process of disengagement of troops began on July 6, a day after a nearly two-hour telephonic conversation between National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on ways to bring down tensions in the area. However, the process has not moved forward since mid-July. In the five rounds of Corps Commander-level talks, the Indian side has been insisting on complete disengagement of Chinese troops at the earliest, and immediate restoration of status quo ante in all areas of eastern Ladakh prior to April. Even as both sides have been engaged in diplomatic and military talks, the Indian Army is making elaborate preparations to maintain its current strength of troops in all key areas in eastern Ladakh in the harsh winter months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-deploys-troops-with-shoulder-fired-missiles-in-key-areas-in-eastern-ladakh-877801.html
25-08-2020||National||Intense rainfall likely in north, central and east India during next 5 days||Twelve rain-related deaths were reported in Gujarat and four from Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday, even as very heavy downpour was predicted in the east, north and the central parts of the country over the next five days. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said a low pressure area (cyclonic circulation) over north Bay of Bengal and its neighbourhood was very likely to move west-northwestwards during the period as it issued a red alert for Odisha for August 26 and for Chhattisgarh, a day later. Incessant rainfall disrupted normal life in Odisha, and 1,400 people were evacuated from inundated areas in Gujarat during the day, while over 1,000 villages remained affected by floods in 18 districts of Uttar Pradesh. In the national capital, the IMD issued an alert for "moderate to heavy" rains over the next three days, and the Yamuna river was flowing precariously close to the warning mark in the city. No fresh areas were inundated by floodwaters for the third consecutive day in Bihar, where 83.62 lakh people across 16 districts were reeling under the impact of the deluge. The IMD said widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls are very likely in Odisha, Gangetic West Bengal and Jharkhand till August 28 and in Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and west Rajasthan during August 26-28. Isolated extremely heavy falls are also very likely in Odisha on August 25-26 and in Chhattisgarh on August 27, it said. "The north, central and east India will experience widespread rainfall activity and it can also experience an intense rainfall activity over the next five days," Sathi Devi, head of the national weather forecasting centre, said. In Gujarat, 12 deaths have been reported in rain-related incidents since Monday evening. The state has so far received 106.78 per cent of its annual average rainfall. Heavy rains in catchment areas have filled to the brim 90 out of 205 dams in the state, while 70 dams have reached over 70 per cent of their total storage capacity, he said. Rescue and relief operations continued in rain-battered regions as teams of the National and State Disaster Response Forces evacuated people stranded due to flooding. Three people drowned in Morbi district, and one death each was reported from Dang, Jamnagar, Junagadh, Tapi, Kutch and Amreli districts. A man died in a wall collapse incident in Patan, while two more died in other rain-related accidents. A high alert has been issued for areas downstream of 138 dams from which water is being released. In Jammu and Kashmir, three members of a family were among four killed in separate incidents of landslides following heavy rains in Reasi district. A 30-year-old man, his 25-year-old wife and a relative were killed in a landslide in the upper reaches of Khour in Mahore area on Monday night, and a 40-year-old man died in another landslide in Khandi Gali Dhok. The Uttar Pradesh government said 1,090 villages in 18 districts have been affected by floods, although Relief Commissioner Sanjay Goyal said the situation was being monitored and "there is an overall improvement". He said the Sharda river at Lakhimpur Kheri's Palia Kalan, the Saryu at Elgin Bridge in Barabanki, Ayodhya and Turtipar in Ballia were flowing above the danger mark. In Delhi, dark clouds shrouded the skies in the morning, restricting the maximum temperature at 33.2 degrees Celsius. Humidity levels oscillated between 69 per cent and 92 per cent. The city is likely to witness another spell of "moderate to heavy rain" between Wednesday and Friday, the IMD said. The Yamuna was flowing precariously close to the warning mark. The water level was recorded at 204 metres at 10 am and at 203.98 metres at 6 pm, just below the danger mark of 205.33 metres. Water was being released into the Yamuna at the rate of 33,406 cubic metres per second (cusec) at 6 pm from the Hathnikund barrage in Haryana's Yamunanagar district. Normally, the flow rate is 352 cusec. Maximum temperatures settled within normal limits in Haryana and Punjab, with common capital Chandigarh recording a high of 33.1 degrees Celsius. According to the weather office, an active monsoon wet spell is likely to commence in the region from Wednesday for subsequent three days. In Bihar, an official bulletin said 83,62,451 people in 1,333 panchayats of 130 blocks are hit by the deluge. River Ganga continued to flow above the danger mark at three places in the state and the Bagmati river at five places. Incessant rainfall disrupted normal life in parts of Odisha. The low-pressure area, formed over north Bay of Bengal on Monday, has now become well marked and lies in the same region, the Bhubaneswar weather office said. Besides triggering heavy to very heavy and even extremely heavy rainfall in parts of Odisha over the next three days, the system is likely to cause squally weather with the high-velocity wind having speed up to 55 kmph along and off the Odisha coast, it said. In view of the weather forecast, district collectors have been asked to remain alert and closely monitor the situation, Special Relief Commissioner P K Jena said. In Andhra Pradesh, the water level in river Godavari slid below the danger mark, but several villages along its course in East and West Godavari districts are yet to fully return to normal. Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy reviewed the situation in the morning and directed the collectors of the two districts to complete enumeration of the damage to crops by September 7.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/intense-rainfall-likely-in-north-central-and-east-india-during-next-5-days-877804.html
25-08-2020||National||NEET, JEE on schedule, say officials; NTA prepares for safe conduct of exam amid Covid-19||The Joint Entrance Examination (Main) and the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET-UG) will be conducted in September as scheduled, officials said on Tuesday, amid a growing chorus for postponing the crucial tests in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The National Testing Agency said it has planned several steps to conduct the papers safely which include increasing the number of examination centers, alternate seating plan, fewer candidates per room and staggered entry and exit. These steps have been introduced to ensure adherence to social distancing norms at the centres in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, it said. Officials in the Ministry of Education asserted the exams will be conducted as per schedule. While the Joint Entrance Examination (Main) is scheduled from September 1-6, the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET-UG) is planned on September 13. "The number of examination centers have also been increased from 570 to 660 (for JEE Main) and 2,546 to 3843 (for NEET). While JEE-Mains is a computer-based test, NEET is a pen-paper test,” the NTA said in a statement. “Additionally, in case of JEE-Mains, the number of shifts has been increased from the earlier 8 to 12, and the number of candidates per shift has been reduced from earlier 1.32 lakh to 85,000 now," it said. “In order to ensure proper social distancing inside the examination halls, the candidates will be seated in alternate seats in case of JEE-Mains. In case of NEET, the number of candidates per room has been reduced from 24 to 12,” it said. For ensuring social distancing outside the examination hall, the entry and exit of candidates has been staggered, it added. "Adequate arrangements have also been made outside the examination centers to enable candidates stand with adequate social distancing, while waiting. Candidates have also been issued advisory guiding them about ‘Dos and Don'ts’ for proper social distancing," it added. There have been demands from several quarters to further postpone the entrance exams in view of increasing coronavirus cases. On Tuesday, Swedish teen climate change campaigner Greta Thunberg also threw her weight behind postponing the exams in view of the pandemic. “It’s deeply unfair that students of India are asked to sit national exams during the Covid-19 pandemic and while millions have also been impacted by the extreme floods. I stand with their call to #PostponeJEE_NEETinCOVID,” she said in a tweet. Several opposition leaders in India including Congress' Rahul Gandhi, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, her Odisha counterpart Naveen Patnaik, DMK President MK Stalin and Delhi Deputy CM Manish Sisodia have demanded the exams be postponed. The Supreme Court had last week dismissed a plea seeking postponement of the two exams amid spurt in the number of COVID-19 cases, saying precious year of students "cannot be wasted" and life has to go on. "We find that there is absolutely no justification in the prayer made for postponement of the examination in question relating to NEET as well as JEE-Mains," the Supreme Court had said. The NTA has also written to state governments to extend support in local movement of the candidates so that they are able to reach their examination centres on time. While a total of 9.53 lakh candidates have registered for JEE-Mains, 15.97 lakh students have registered for NEET.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/neet-jee-on-schedule-say-officials-nta-prepares-for-safe-conduct-of-exam-amid-covid-19-877822.html
25-08-2020||National||People not wearing masks, maintaining social distancing driving Covid-19 pandemic in India: ICMR DG||ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava on Tuesday said "irresponsible" people not wearing masks and maintaining social distancing are driving the coronavirus pandemic in India. He also said that the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has embarked on a second national sero survey which shall be completed by the first week of September. Speaking at a press briefing in response to a question, Bhargava said, “I would not say young or old, I would say irresponsible, less cautious people who are not wearing masks and not maintaining social distancing are driving the pandemic in India.” The official said full paper of the last national sero survey, carried out in May, has been peer-reviewed twice and is likely to be published in the Indian Journal of Medical Research by the end of this week. "Most of the sero surveys are looking at antibodies. Neutralising antibodies and T-cell responses are not being studied in these large sero surveys. Sero surveys are important to guide us on what phase of the epidemic we are in and what we need to do in terms of public health response and containment zones and measures," he said. The Union health ministry on Tuesday said though Covid-19 testing has been increased exponentially, there has been a steady decline in the positivity rate and highlighted that the number of active cases of the infection reduced by 6,423 for the first time in a span of 24 hours. The testing for the disease has been increased from 363 tests per million per day on August 1 to more than 600 tests per million per day at present, the ministry said with India having tested nearly 3.7 crore cumulative Covid-19 samples so far. With 60,975 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's Covid-19 tally rose to 31,67,323, while the death-toll climbed to 58,390 with 848 fatalities being reported in a span of 24-hours, the health ministry data updated at 8 am on Tuesday showed. With a record 66,550 patients having recovered from Covid-19 in a day, the total recoveries have surged to 24.04 lakh pushing the recovery rate to 75.92 per cent, while the active cases of coronavirus infection presently comprise only 22.24 per cent of the total cases, it said.  On the status of tele-ICU service started by AIIMS, Delhi in collaboration with the health ministry, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the initiative was started on July 8 with the intent to train doctors manning the intensive care units (ICUs) across the country.   The intent was also to answer some of the questions these doctors face while treating Covid-19 patients. Every week, on Tuesdays and Fridays, these tele-ICUs are conducted at AIIMS and doctors working at ICUs join the interactive session. "From July 8 till date, 14 such tele-ICUs have been held and they have covered 148 Covid hospitals across the country. A document is under preparation by AIIMS, New Delhi, which is a FAQ to help treating doctors manning various ICUs across the country," the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/people-not-wearing-masks-maintaining-social-distancing-driving-covid-19-pandemic-in-india-icmr-dg-877827.html
25-08-2020||National||India, Vietnam agree to add 'new momentum' to ties||China's military assertiveness in the region figured at a high-level meeting between India and Vietnam that focused on various regional issues and ways to further expanding bilateral cooperation between the two countries in diverse areas. India and Vietnam agreed to add a new momentum to their economic and defence engagement in the virtual meeting of India-Vietnam Joint Commission on Trade, Economic, Scientific and Technological Cooperation which was co-chaired by External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Vietnamese counterpart Pham Binh Minh. China's aggressive behaviour including in eastern Ladakh and the South China Sea figured in the deliberations, people familiar with the talks said. However, there was no official word on it. Last week, Vietnamese ambassador Pham Sanh Chau briefed Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla about the escalating tension in the South China sea after China significantly ramped up its military presence in the region. In a statement, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said: "Both sides reviewed the recent developments in India-Vietnam Comprehensive Strategic Partnership and discussed the future trajectory of their wide-ranging engagement." "They agreed to add new momentum to the economic and defence engagement between the two countries and to explore closer cooperation in emerging areas such as civil nuclear energy, space, marine sciences and new technologies," it said. Both sides agreed to coordinate closely at multilateral forums, including at the UN Security Council based on their strong convergence of views on many global and regional issues, the MEA said, adding they also agreed to step up cooperation and coordination at important regional forums under the ASEAN framework. It said the co-chairs exchanged views on regional and international issues of mutual interest, especially in the context of the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic. "Concluded the 17th India-Vietnam Joint Commission Meeting. Thank Deputy PM and FM @FMPhamBinhMinh for co-chairing. Our Comprehensive Strategic Partnership keeps growing. Ensures peace, security and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific," Jaishankar said in a tweet. The MEA said Jaishankar expressed India's full support to Vietnam's chairmanship of ASEAN this year and appreciated the positive leadership provided by Vietnam to the bloc in a year when the world is faced with the COVID-19 pandemic. "India and Vietnam also agreed to enhance their bilateral cooperation in line with India’s Indo-Pacific Oceans Initiative (IPOI) and the ASEAN's Outlook on Indo-Pacific to achieve shared security, prosperity and growth for all in the region," the MEA said. "India invited Vietnam to collaborate on one of the seven pillars of the IPOI," it added. An agreement for cooperation between Sushma Swaraj Institute of Foreign Service (SSIFS) and Diplomatic Academy of Vietnam was sealed on the margins of the Joint Commission Meeting. A separate MoU was finalised between National Maritime Foundation, New Delhi and Scientific Research Institute of Sea and Islands, Hanoi. In the meeting, Jaishankar underlined Prime Minister Narendra Modi's vision of 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' (self-reliant India) for enhancing resilience and human-centric globalisation as the basis for India's economic revival, the MEA said. He also reaffirmed India's development and capacity building assistance to Vietnam through initiatives such as Quick Impact Projects (QIP).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-vietnam-agree-to-add-new-momentum-to-ties-877828.html
25-08-2020||National Politics||Letter not dissent, but good suggestions given in Congress' interests: Ex-Punjab CM Bhattal||Former Punjab Chief Minister and senior Congress leader Rajinder Kaur Bhattal, whose name figured in the list of 23 leaders, who demanded an "active, full-time and visible" party president, said on Monday that their communication should not be seen as dissent, but good suggestions were given in party's interest. Another signatory to the letter, former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, however, declined to comment on the party's "internal matters". Bhattal said that Sonia Gandhi had been made interim president of the Congress last year. That was less than two years after she voluntarily relinquished the top post in favour of her son Rahul Gandhi who refused to continue as Congress chief (after the 2019 general election defeat), the former Punjab CM said. After her tenure (as interim chief) came to an end on August 10, Congress had said that Sonia Gandhi will continue in the post till such time a "proper procedure" is implemented in the "not too distant future" to elect a party chief. "She (Sonia Gandhi) had said that she will continue for one year and her tenure was to come to an end on August 10. Rahul ji had earlier said that he does not want to continue as party chief. "In light of these things, we had given our suggestions (in the letter). Those who have read the full contents of the letter know that we have praised Sonia Gandhi and her leadership," Bhattal told PTI. She said that despite the tragedies Sonia Gandhi faced on the personal front -- losing her mother-in-law Indira Gandhi and husband Rajiv Gandhi -- "she moved on and effectively guided the Congress and formed government at the Centre twice". "Soniaji's leadership is acceptable to all, but we had said that a working group be formed under her which will be directly answerable to her. This was our demand, there is nothing wrong, it was not dissent, it was a suggestion letter, we gave good points to make the party strong," said the senior Congress leader. On the other hand, when asked about the letter during an informal chat, Hooda replied, "I won't make any comment on the party's internal matters." He, however, said the Congress needs to be strengthened. The Congress Working Committee on Monday urged Sonia Gandhi to continue as its interim chief till an AICC session can be convened and authorised her to effect necessary organisational changes to deal with the challenges facing the party. At an over seven-hour long meeting, which took place in the backdrop of more than 20 party leaders seeking an immediate organisational overhaul and a collective leadership, Gandhi is said to have offered to quit but was requested by the party's top decision-making panel with over 50 members to stay on. Bhattal said, "We had suggested that a working group should be formed under her and an AICC session should be summoned. We always accepted Sonia ji's leadership and never were any question marks raised. We have been well-wishers of the Nehru-Gandhi family, which made sacrifices for the nation's sake." She said that Sonia Gandhi ran things quite smoothly being at the helm. "But she had herself said last year that she will be there for one year. It is good that she will continue now," Bhattal said. Bhattal said assembly elections are due in Punjab in over a year, polls in other states are going to take place in coming months and the suggestions they gave was to strength party for the elections also. Asked why then there has been criticism to their letter, Bhattal replied: "Sometimes, things get misinterpreted in the media. We all want that Congress should be further strengthened. It is a grand old party which first fought for the country's freedom and then ran the country for all these years. To speak for strengthening the party, I think there is nothing wrong in that."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/letter-not-dissent-but-good-suggestions-given-in-congress-interests-ex-punjab-cm-bhattal-877365.html
25-08-2020||National Politics||Bypolls to be 'bada-chota bhai' vs 'trimurti' battle: Scindia||BJP Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia on Monday said the upcoming assembly bypolls in Madhya Pradesh are crucial as their outcome will decide the future of the state, and sought to portray them as a "bada-chota bhai" versus "trimurti" battle for leadership. He said the bypolls will decide whether people want the leadership of "bada-chota bhai" (an apparent reference to Congress veterans Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh) or that of trimurti (triumvirate, a reference to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, BJP leader Narendra Singh Tomar and Scindia). Bypolls are due on more than two dozen seats in Madhya Pradesh but their schedule is yet to be announced. The former Union minister, who quit the Congress in March and later joined the BJP, was speaking on the last day of BJP membership drive in his bastion Gwalior. Referring to development of the region, Scindia said Chouhan sanctioned schemes worth Rs 110 crore for development of Gohad (a constituency in Bhind district), but Kamal Nath, during his tenure as chief minister, always complained about shortage of funds." From where money has come now? Scindia asked. "After 15 years, when the Congress government was formed in the state (in 2018), out of the 34 seats in the Gwalior-Chambal region, 26 were won by the Congress. The contribution of this region (in Congress victory) was immense, he said. But in 15 months (of the Congress rule), everyone has watched what has happened. We have no greed for chair or power, but it was a question of justice, pride and development," Scindia said, apparently referring to his decision to quit the Congress. "The coming bypolls will decide the future of Madhya Pradesh. Whether people want 'bada-chota bhai' or trimurti of Chouhan, Tomar and himself. "Those who remain with people during their good and bad days or those indulging in corruption and exchange of money, Scindia said. Praising Chouhan for his leadership skills, he said It is not an easy task to remain chief minister for 13 long years. It is possible only when you actually have made a place for yourself in the hearts of people." The Congress should have drawn a bigger line than the BJP after coming to power, it drew a big line but that of corruption and unfulfilled promises, Scindia alleged. The coming bypolls will be a fight for justice and honour and those who did not remain in the midst of people when needed have no right to seek votes from them, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bypolls-to-be-bada-chota-bhai-vs-trimurti-battle-scindia-877381.html
25-08-2020||National Politics||Shiv Sena demands CBI probe into death of UP minister Chetan Chauhan||The Uttar Pradesh unit of the Shiv Sena on Monday demanded a CBI probe into the death of state minister Chetan Chauhan, who succumbed to Covid-19, questioning the circumstances under which he was shifted from a government hospital in Lucknow to a private facility in Gurgaon. A delegation of the Shiv Sena met Governor Anandiben Patel and handed over a memorandum to her in this regard, the party said in a statement here. Initially, he was admitted to Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI) in Lucknow. After his health deteriorated due to kidney-related ailments, he was shifted to Medanta Hospital in Gurgaon where he was on life support for nearly 36 hours. "Under what circumstances was late minister Chetan Chauhan shifted from SGPGI in Lucknow to Medanta Hospital in Gurgaon? Did the government have no faith in SGPGI, a prestigious institution?" the Shiv Sena asked in its statement. "The minister was hurt by the attitude of the doctors and staff of SGPGI. Till now, no action has been taken against the guilty doctors and staff of the SGPGI. In the entire episode, the government continued to sleep, and two ministers succumbed to Covid-19," it said. On August 2, state technical education minister Kamla Rani Varun, 62, had died days after testing positive for Covid-19. "The government must conduct a CBI probe," the Shiv Sena said. Earlier, Samajwadi Party MLC Sunil Singh Sajan had alleged that Chauhan died not because of Covid-19 but due to carelessness in his treatment at the SGPGI. Raising the issue in the Upper House of the Uttar Pradesh Legislature on Friday, he alleged that Chauhan received poor treatment at the state-run hospital. He had also claimed that he and Chauhan were admitted in the same ward of the hospital. "Once during a round, a doctor and a nurse asked who is Chetan, to which the minister raised his hand since he was a simple person. He was asked as to when he got infected with the virus, to which he explained the entire matter to the hospital staff. "At that time, another personnel asked Chauhan what do you do, to which he said he is a minister in the Yogi Adityanath government," Sajan had said. He had said he was angered by the behaviour of the hospital staff with Chauhan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shiv-sena-demands-cbi-probe-into-death-of-up-minister-chetan-chauhan-877401.html
25-08-2020||National Politics||It is not about a post, but about country: Kapil Sibal||Senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal, who is among the 23 party leaders who have written to Sonia Gandhi seeking an organisational overhaul, said on Tuesday that "it is not about a post" but about the country that matters most. A day after a stormy Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting, Sibal made the remarks in a cryptic tweet. "It's not about a post. It's about my country which matters most," he tweeted, without elaborating. After the seven-hour meeting of the party's top decision-making body, the CWC urged Sonia Gandhi to continue as its interim chief till an AICC session can be convened and authorised her to effect necessary organisational changes to deal with the challenges facing the party. It made it clear no one will be permitted to undermine or weaken the party and its leadership. The CWC also resolved that inner-party issues cannot be deliberated through the media or in public fora and all such issues must be raised within the party "in the interest of propriety and discipline". Some senior Congress leaders, including Sibal and Shashi Tharoor, met at their senior colleague Ghulam Nabi Azad's house here on Monday evening after the CWC debated their letter to Sonia Gandhi seeking urgent organisational reforms. The meeting was also attended by Mukul Wasnik and Manish Tewari, along with some other signatories to the letter who were present in the national capital, sources said. The leaders discussed the resolution passed at the CWC meeting. Having a "full time" leadership that is active in the field and "visible" in party offices, devolution of powers to state units and revamping the CWC in line with the party constitution are some of the far-reaching suggestions made by 23 senior Congress leaders in a letter to party chief Sonia Gandhi to revive the organisation. Sibal had hit out at Rahul Gandhi on Twitter on Monday for a purported remark slamming the letter writers. Sibal, who is not a part of the CWC, withdrew his tweet a little later after being "informed by Rahul Gandhi personally that he never said what was attributed to him". The Congress also officially denied that Rahul Gandhi had accused any party leader of "colluding with the BJP". Former president Rahul Gandhi, it is learnt, launched a sharp attack against the signatories of the letter, questioning their timing as well as the fact they went public with their grievances.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/it-is-not-about-a-post-but-about-country-kapil-sibal-877533.html
25-08-2020||National Politics||Congress leadership crisis: Not dissenters, but proponents of revival, says Tankha||A day after high-voltage meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), Congress leader Vivek Tanka on Tuesday brushed aside the “dissenters” barb hurled at him and other signatories of the letter to Congress President Sonia Gandhi seeking sweeping changes in the party. “Friends, we are not dissenters but proponents of revival,” Tankha, a Rajya Sabha member from Madhya Pradesh said. Tankha, a Supreme Court lawyer, was among the 23 signatories to a letter to Gandhi asking the leadership to be more “visible” and “active”, besides seeking elections to key party fora. “The letter was not a challenge to leadership but a parchment of action to strengthen the party. Universally truth is the best defence whether it be Court or Public Affairs. History acknowledges the brave & not the timid,” Tankha said. The ‘dissenters’, led by Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, Mukul Wasnik, Kapil Sibal, Manish Tewari, Shashi Tharoor, met late Monday night at Azad’s residence to discuss the outcome of the Congress Working Committee meeting that went on for seven hours. “It’s not about a post. It’s about my country which matters most,” Sibal said in a cryptic tweet on Tuesday. The ‘dissenters’ sought solace in Gandhi’s closing remarks that she did not hold any ill will against any colleague, irrespective of the “hurtful” remarks, and treated them as part of a family. “Irrespective of however hurtful the remarks in the past many years of any colleague may have been, she maintained that she has always risen above them to keep the Congress family together and to fight for the cause of the people,” Congress chief spokesman Randeep Singh Surjewala had said on Monday briefing on the CWC meeting. At the meeting, four of the 23 leaders who had written the letter – Wasnik, Azad, Sharma and Jitin Prasada defended their action by insisting that they had merely raised issues bothering them with the Congress President.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-leadership-crisis-not-dissenters-but-proponents-of-revival-says-tankha-877571.html
25-08-2020||National Politics||Sorry if we have hurt Sonia Gandhi's feelings: Veerappa Moily||"If we have hurt her (Sonia Gandhi's) feelings, we are sorry for it," M Veerappa Moily, one of the 23 senior Congress leaders who sought urgent organizational reforms, said on Tuesday, asserting they never questioned her leadership. At the same time, the former union minister defended being a signatory to the letter addressed to the interim Congress president, as he stressed the need for rejuvenating and restructuring the party. Moily also disapproved of the media leak of the letter and called for an internal party enquiry to find out those behind it and wanted them to be punished. The former Karnataka chief minister asserted that none of 23 leaders have any intention to leave the Congress. "We have never questioned the leadership of Soniaji," Moily told PTI in an interview, a day after the Congress Working Committee in a meeting prompted by the letter unanimously resolved to strengthen the hands of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi in every possible way. The partys top decision-making body also made it clear no one will be permitted to undermine or weaken the party and its leadership. "Soniaji is like a mother to the party. We revere her even now. There is no question of any intention to hurt her feelings. If we have hurt her feelings, we are sorry for it," Moily said. In her concluding remarks at the CWC meeting, Sonia had agreed to continue but said this arrangement cannot remain "open ended", as the new party chief has to be selected soon. She had also said that she does not hold anything or any kind of "ill-will" against any of her colleagues irrespective of how hurtful were the remarks made by them. Noting that the party is passing through difficult times, Moily said "We can't afford to lose the Congress party which we have nurtured by our perspiration, dedication and sacrifice." "We do recognise the sacrifice made by Soniaji, she was reluctant (earlier to take up the post), but she gave life to Congress party. Nobody can be ungrateful to Soniaji. And we still treat her as our own mother and guide the destiny of the party and also destiny of the nation," he said. "That respect will continue to be there. But at the same time, the party needs to be rejuvenated. Our main theme of the letter itself is rejuvenation of the Congress at all levels. That does not mean she should not be President. Her becoming interim President again is welcome. We all love her." He said wholehearted efforts should be made to rejuvenate the party, adding, the organisation will have to be properly restructured. Moily claimed some mischievous elements leaked the letter written by the leaders. "I dont know from which end it was released. That was not correct. We dont approve of that, none of us approve of it," he said adding none of the signatories leaked it. Moily said the leak had occurred "somewhere after it is given to...I dont want to go into that. I think a proper inner party enquiry will have to be done and those who have leaked it will have to be punished, he added. On some senior Congress leaders, including Kapil Sibal and Shashi Tharoor, meeting at their senior colleague Ghulam Nabi Azads house in Delhi on Monday evening after the CWC meeting, Moily said he did not know about it as he was not in the national capital. He added: "There is no question of any one of us thinking to condemn the party or be away from the party. No question. Question of joining hands with the BJP does not arise at all. We hate BJP, we continue to hate BJP and policies of (Prime Minister) Narendra Modi." Without naming anyone, Moily attacked 'betrayers' of the Congress. "There are many people who betrayed the Congress many a times, they think that they are more loyal than us," he said. Moily said he joined the Congress in 1968 and had remained loyal to the party. "There are some people who really let Indira Gandhi, and the Congress party down... they think they are more loyal than the King whereas many of us stood by Congress party and fought in most difficult times for the Congress party," he added. After a marathon seven-hour-long meeting, the CWC on Monday decided that Sonia Gandhi will continue as the party's interim president and effect necessary organisational changes while an AICC session will be called at the earliest to start the process of electing a new chief.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sorry-if-we-have-hurt-sonia-gandhis-feelings-veerappa-moily-877670.html
25-08-2020||National Politics||Letter written with best interest of party: Congress leader Anand Sharma||Senior Congress leader Anand Sharma, one of the 23 signatories to the letter written to Sonia Gandhi seeking an organisational overhaul, said on Tuesday their intention was to convey "shared concerns" over the present environment in the county and it was done with the best interest of the party in their hearts. A day after a stormy Congress Working Committee meeting, where members of the 'group of 23' were dissed by many for voicing their concerns, several signatories asserted that they were "not dissenters" but "proponents of revival" of the party. Responding to a tweet by Congress MP Vivek Tankha, in which he had said the letter was not a challenge to leadership but a parchment of action to strengthen the party, Sharma said, "Well said. The letter was written with the best interest of the party in our hearts and conveying shared concerns over the present environment in the country and sustained assault on the foundational values of the constitution." Having a "full time, active and visible" leadership, devolution of powers to state units and revamping the CWC in line with the party constitution were some of the key suggestions made by the 23 senior Congress leaders, in the letter sent to Sonia Gandhi, to revive the organisation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/letter-written-with-best-interest-of-party-congress-leader-anand-sharma-877686.html
25-08-2020||National Politics||Sonia and Rahul Gandhi will 'finish' Congress: Sakshi Maharaj||Uttar Pradesh BJP leader Sakshi Maharaj on Tuesday said Sonia Gandhi and her son Rahul Gandhi are "enough to finish" the Congress party. The BJP leader said it was a "courtesy visit". Responding to a query of reporters, he said the Congress is "sinking because of its deeds and we need not do anything". "(Congress Interim Chief) Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi are enough to finish the Congress and there is no need for anyone to do anything," he said. Maharaj said it was "unfortunate" that there was no "Opposition" in the country. "A grand temple of Lord Ram will come up soon in Ayodhya," he added. The Congress is currently in turmoil over a letter written by some veterans demanding a "visible and full-time leadership". On Monday, the Congress Working Committee (CWC) decided that Sonia Gandhi will continue as the party's interim President and effect necessary organisational changes while an AICC session will be called at the earliest to start the process of electing a new chief.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sonia-and-rahul-gandhi-will-finish-congress-sakshi-maharaj-877705.html
25-08-2020||National Politics||We are not dissenters, did not challenge leadership: Congress's 'Group of 23'||A day after being hammered by colleagues at the meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), few of the 23 leaders who had sought sweeping changes in the organisation brushed aside the “dissenters” barb, contending that they were “proponents of revival” of the party. Senior leader M Veerappa Moily, in a statement, said that it was an “admitted fact” that the organisation of the Congress party was not in a position to take forward the Congress philosophy and protect democracy in the present turbulent condition in the country. Moily said the intention of the letter was to keep the party ready for the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. He asserted that Sonia Gandhi's leadership was “always required” and welcomed the decision of the CWC to urge her to continue as party chief. Senior leaders Anand Sharma, Mukul Wasnik and Vivek Tankha, who are signatories to the letter, asserted that the intention for writing the letter was in the best interest of the party. “It’s not about a post. It’s about my country which matters most,” senior leader Kapil Sibal said in a cryptic tweet on Tuesday. It’s not about a postIt’s about my country which matters most AICC Treasurer Ahmed Patel reached out the senior leader Ghulam Nabi Azad and had a long chat with him trying to understand the need for writing the letter and seeking to address certain issues raised by the group, now dubbed as G-23 within the party. “Sooner than later those who saw the letter as an offence will also realise that the issues raised are worth consideration,” AICC General Secretary Wasnik said. Another Congress leader, belonging to the group which wrote the letter, said they were satisfied with the outcome of the CWC meet. Some leaders who signed the letter were present at the CWC meeting and agreed to the proposals, said the leader, who wished not to be named. "We have never expressed any doubts on the leadership of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi and whatever decisions Sonia ji will take, will be acceptable to us," the leader said. "We are working to strengthen the party, not working against anyone," the leader said. Stating that the Gandhi family is always known for patriotism and sacrifice, Moily said Sonia Gandhi's leadership is always required and her consent to continue as president is the "most welcome step". Sharma said the letter carried “suggestions for party's renewal” and should not be viewed as dissent. “The letter was written with the best interest of the party in our hearts and conveying shared concerns over the present environment in the country and sustained assault on the foundational values of the constitution,” Sharma said. Tankha said the letter was not a challenge to leadership but a parchment of action to strengthen the party. “Friends, we are not dissenters but proponents of revival,” he said adding that universally, truth was best defence whether it be Court or Public Affairs. “History acknowledges the brave & not the timid,” said Tankha, a Supreme Court lawyer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/we-are-not-dissenters-did-not-challenge-leadership-congresss-group-of-23-877712.html
25-08-2020||National Politics||'Letter war to hasten Rahul Gandhi's return as Congress President'||The G-23 'rebellion' in the Congress has hastened the return of Rahul Gandhi as party chief, believe a section of leaders close to him. The letter by the 23 leaders to Congress President Sonia Gandhi was seen by large sections of the party as an attempt to delay Rahul's return as party chief. “Rahul will be at the helm of party affairs as early as January,” a leader close to the former Congress President said adding that the rebellion had, in fact, put the process on a faster track. The leader brushed aside talk of a 'non-Gandhi' President saying the mood of the party now was not to encourage such a narrative. Congress has already set in motion the process to implement the resolution adopted by the Congress Working Committee (CWC) to appoint a four-member panel to assist party chief Sonia Gandhi in the day-to-day functioning of the organisation. A session of the AICC would follow soon to elect Rahul as the Congress President, the leader said adding that the letter seeking sweeping changes to the party organisation has resulted in overwhelming support for Rahul across the country. The CWC meeting also saw leaders from former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, A K Antony, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, Ahmed Patel asking Rahul to take over as Congress chief. Rahul had stepped down as Congress President in July last year accepting responsibility for the defeat of the Congress in the Lok Sabha elections. He was expected to return to the top post closer to the 2024 Lok Sabha elections, but the G-23 letter bomb appears to have hastened the process. Rahul was angry at the G-23 leaders for raking up the leadership issue at a time when Sonia Gandhi was unwell and the party was fighting challenges in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/letter-war-to-hasten-rahul-gandhis-return-as-congress-president-877811.html
25-08-2020||North and Central||One cop dead after roof of barrack collapses in Kanpur||One policeman died and two other were injured after roof of barrack in police line collapsed in Uttar Pradesh's Kanpur on Monday night. "We express our condolences to his family, compensation will be given. His last rites will be performed with full honour. Rescue operation almost complete. Incident will be probed," Preetinder Singh, SSP Kanpur told ANI.  More to follow.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-cop-dead-after-roof-of-barrack-collapses-in-kanpur-877351.html
25-08-2020||North and Central||Excise department constable shot dead in Uttar Pradesh||A 32-year-old constable of the state excise department was allegedly shot dead by a man from his village here on Monday, police said. The incident took place in Alahdadpur village, they said. Sunil Yadav had gone to the fields to get fodder for his animals when he was shot dead by one Lavkush of the same village, Superintendent of Police Shivhari Meena said citing a complaint lodged by the victim's brother. A case has been registered and an investigation is underway, he said. The motive behind the murder is not clear yet, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/excise-department-constable-shot-dead-in-uttar-pradesh-877352.html
25-08-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: US took cue from 'Delhi model' and adopted plasma therapy, says Kejriwal govt||"What Delhi did yesterday, America does today", said Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday as his government claimed that the US adopted the model of convalescent plasma therapy for treatment of critically-ill coronavirus patients, taking a cue from the 'Delhi Model' of battling Covid-19. The Delhi government's statement comes after the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) gave emergency authorisation for the use of blood plasma to treat coronavirus patients, saying the benefits of the treatment outweighed any potential risks. The Delhi government was "the first to seek permission for trials" of plasma therapy in April and the first to open a plasma bank in India in July, a Delhi government statement said. "Taking a cue from the Delhi Model of battling coronavirus, the federal government of the United States of America has also adopted the model of convalescent plasma therapy for the treatment of critically Covid-19 patients in the US. "The announcement was made today by US President Mr Donald Trump," the statement said. In a tweet, Kejriwal said, "They used to say back in the day - what America does today, India would do tomorrow. Delhi has changed it. Now - what Delhi did yesterday, America does today. Congratulations Delhiites for achieving this for our country." Back in April, the Delhi government was the first in the country to apply for permission from Centre to carry out trials of plasma therapy at its LNJP hospital, the statement said.   Following encouraging results of the initial trials of plasma therapy in critical Covid patients, Delhi government then requested the Centre to allow plasma therapy in the national capital, which was granted, it said. The first plasma bank in the country was subsequently started in ILBS by the Delhi government on July 2, with an objective to provide free of cost convalescent plasma to patients.  Subsequently, another plasma bank was launched at the LNJP Hospital in Delhi.  "This system has been a crucial element in the Delhi Model of Covid response and is being adopted by other states too," the statement said. The establishment of the plasma bank by the Arvind Kejriwal-led government was done to put forward an "efficient system" for the recovery of patients and reduce the number of Covid-19 deaths to zero, it said.  During the launch of the plasma bank, Kejriwal had requested Covid-19 recovered patients to donate plasma in large numbers and be effective contributors in Delhi's fight against coronavirus, which is the "essence" of the Delhi model of Covid response, it said.   Plasma has an important role in the declining death rate of Covid-19 patients and until a vaccine comes, the convalescent plasma therapy should be looked at as an effective treatment for Covid-19, the statement said. The convalescent plasma has been provided to patients of all blood groups, including the rare blood group type AB, B, and O. The plasma therapy has shown "encouraging results" in the "recovery" of critically-ill patients, it said.  Till August 11, a total of 921 Covid-19 recovered patients had donated plasma at the ILBS plasma bank, it said. The donors include 86 healthcare workers, 209 entrepreneurs, eight media personnel, 28 police officials, 50 students, 32 government officials, and 508 others like servicemen, self-employed professionals, non-residents of Delhi among others. Around 14 recovered patients have donated plasma more than once, added the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-us-took-cue-from-delhi-model-and-adopted-plasma-therapy-says-kejriwal-govt-877364.html
25-08-2020||North and Central||Dalai Lama's security being tightened after detention of two persons: Himachal CM||Tibetan spiritual leader Dalai Lama's security is being tightened following the detention of two persons who were allegedly tracking his movement on the directions of Chinese national Charlie Peng, Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Monday. Charlie Peng was earlier booked by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) for allegedly running a money-laundering racket. The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) had detained him. He is allegedly holding a fake Indian passport and officials had said he created a “web of sham companies to launder hawala funds to and from China” in the past two-three years. Thakur said a Chinese woman, Lan Hoo, and another person, identified as Sonu Bangtoo, were detained by Himachal Police for their alleged links with Charlie Peng. It is yet not clear whether Bangtoo is a Chinese national or a Tibetan refugee but it has been established that money has been transferred into their account by Charlie Peng through SK Traders company for tracking the movement of the Dalai Lama and providing him related information, he added. Both of them have been detained, he said, adding the intelligence bureau and other agencies are questioning both of them. The chief minister said he had directed the state police to further strengthen the Dalai Lama's security and instructed them to be more vigilant and cautious in Dharamshala where his residence is located. The Tibetan 'government-in-exile' is based in Dharamshala. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) had registered the money laundering case against Charlie Peng for allegedly running a hawala racket worth an estimated Rs 1,000 crore using shell or dubious firms. Officials had said 42-year-old Charlie Peng, alias Luo Sang, and some of his alleged associates, including Indians, and bankers were raided by the Income Tax Department on August 12. The taxman had searched at least two dozen premises, including that of Peng in Gurgaon. The agencies were also probing allegations if Peng was "bribing" some Tibetans living in Delhi. The ED had taken cognisance of the tax department evidence and action and a Delhi Police Special Cell FIR against Peng before filing the criminal case of money laundering against him, officials had said. They alleged his front or showcase business was import and export of medical and electronic goods and some other items. Peng, the sources said, was arrested by the Special Cell of the Delhi Police in September, 2018 on charges of fraud and forgery and was allegedly running an illegal money changer. It is alleged that Peng got a fake Indian passport from Manipur after marrying a woman from that state and some fake Aadhaar cards were also recovered during the raids against him. "Search action revealed that at the behest of Chinese individuals, more than 40 bank accounts were created in various dummy entities, entering into credits of more than Rs 1,000 crore over the period," the CBDT had said. "Incriminating documents of hawala transactions and money laundering with the active involvement of bank employees and Chartered Accountants have been found as a result of the search action," it said. Evidence of foreign hawala transactions involving Hong Kong and US dollars have also been unearthed, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dalai-lamas-security-being-tightened-after-detention-of-two-persons-himachal-cm-877372.html
25-08-2020||North and Central||Journalist shot dead in Uttar Pradesh, third scribe to be killed in last three months||On Monday morning, armed assailants shot dead a TV journalist in Uttar Pradesh's Ballia district, about 400 kilometres from Lucknow. According to the police sources, Ratan Singh, who was associated with a regional Hindi TV channel, was sprayed with bullets while he was on his way home from work in Phephna locality. Singh was rushed to the district hospital but was declared brought dead, sources said. Police said that he was killed over a land dispute. Six persons have been arrested in connection with the killing. The in-charge of Phephna police station has been suspended on charges of laxity, police officials said in Ballia. UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has announced a compensation of Rs. 10 lakh to the next of kin of the deceased. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra condemned the killing and said that the crime graph has shot up drastically in UP and the state government is 'helpless'. Journalist organisations held demonstrations in Ballia and the state capital Lucknow in protest against the incident. Singh is the third journalist to have been killed in the state in the past three months.  Vikram Joshi, a Ghaziabad based scribe, had been shot dead last month after he dared to lodge a complaint with the police following alleged molestation of his niece. Another journalist Shubhmani Tripathi was killed in June this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/journalist-shot-dead-in-uttar-pradesh-third-scribe-to-be-killed-in-last-three-months-877403.html
25-08-2020||North and Central||Yamuna flowing near warning level in Delhi: Officials||The water level of the Yamuna river was recorded at 204 metres at 10 am on Tuesday, precariously close to the warning level of 204.50 meters, according to officials. Water was being released into the river at the rate of 7,418 cubic metres per second (cusec) at 10 am from the Hathnikund barrage in Haryana's Yamunanagar district, an official of the Irrigation and Flood Control Department said. One cusec is equivalent to 28.317 litre per second. The flow rate was the same at 8 am and 9 am, the official said. The water level of the river was recorded at 204.38 metres at 8 am on Monday. Normally, the flow rate at the Hathnikund barrage is 352 cusec, but the discharge is increased after heavy rainfall in catchment areas. Last year, the flow rate had peaked to 8.28 lakh cusec on August 18-19, and the water level of the Yamuna had hit the 206.60 meter-mark, breaching the danger mark of 205.33 meters. The Delhi government had to launch evacuation and relief operations after the overflowing river submerged many low-lying areas. Delhi's Water Minister Satyendar Jain had on Monday said the government was ready to deal with any flood-like situation. "We have a flood control system ready and it will be activated when any situation demands it," he said. The government has a plan ready for all the areas along the Yamuna, right from Palla village to Okhla, he said. The water level of the river rose due to heavy rainfall in its catchment area over the last few days. The IMD has predicted a spell of heavy to very heavy rainfall in Northwest India between August 26 to August 29.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yamuna-flowing-near-warning-level-in-delhi-officials-877509.html
25-08-2020||North and Central||Massive landslide forces closure of Jammu-Srinagar national highway||Traffic on the Jammu-Srinagar national highway was suspended early Tuesday after heavy rains triggered a massive landslide in Ramban district, blocking the only all-weather road linking Kashmir with rest of the country, officials said. Deputy Superintendent of Police, Traffic (National Highway), Ajay Anand said the landslide struck the highway at Dalwas around 5 am, also damaging a portion of the road. “The agencies concerned have started the road clearance operation to restore the highway,” he said adding the restoration work would take time given the damage to the road. Traffic was stopped at Qazigund in south Kashmir following the landslide, the officials said. The traffic on the highway plies from Jammu and Srinagar alternatively in view of the ongoing work on the four-laning project. Light motor vehicles from both sides were also stopped at various places due to the closure of the highway, the officials said, adding the stranded vehicles would be given priority once the highway is restored.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/massive-landslide-forces-closure-of-jammu-srinagar-national-highway-877545.html
25-08-2020||North and Central||Overcast skies in Delhi, light rain likely||Dark clouds shrouded the skies in the national capital on Tuesday morning, with the Met department forecasting light rain during the day. The cloud cover is expected to keep the maximum temperature below the 34 degrees Celsius mark, the weatherman said. The national capital is likely to witness another spell of "moderate to heavy rain" between Wednesday and Friday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the IMD, said the monsoon trough is likely to shift northwards and will remain close to Delhi-NCR from Tuesday evening to Friday. Under its influence, the convergence of lower-level easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal and southwesterly winds from the Arabian Sea will take place over northwest India, he said. Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy showers are likely to occur over northwest India during the period. "One or two spells of moderate rain, thundershowers with isolated heavy rain may occur between Wednesday night and Friday afternoon," he said. Delhi has recorded 213.3 mm rainfall against the normal of 210.6 mm in August so far. Overall, it has gauged 531.9 mm precipitation against the normal of 486.7 mm since June 1, when the monsoon season starts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/overcast-skies-in-delhi-light-rain-likely-877547.html
25-08-2020||North and Central||Haryana transport minister tests positive for Covid-19||Haryana Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, a day before the Assembly's monsoon session begins here. On Monday, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Speaker Gian Chand Gupta were also found infected with the virus. Officials said the chief minister, admitted to Gurgaon's Medanta hospital, is in a stable condition. The speaker had mandated a coronavirus test for all MLAs, Assembly staffers and officials ahead of the session beginning August 26. BJP MLAs Lakshman Napa, Ram Kumar Kashyap and Aseem Goel have also tested positive as have six Assembly staffers, officials said. Sharma, a BJP MLA from Ballabgarh in Faridabad district, said he was asymptomatic and appealed to all those who had come in contact with him to get themselves tested.           “Until Tuesday morning, I've had no symptoms. I am not running fever, my throat is clear, there is no runny nose and there are no flu-like symptoms. As of now, I have isolated myself at home,” Sharma told PTI over phone.          The state's transport minister had on Monday carried out a surprise inspection of a bus stand in his assembly constituency.         Former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, who is leader of opposition in the Assembly, has tested negative for the infection, sources said. Khattar's test report came on Monday, six days after he had attended a meeting with Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, who was later found Covid-19 positive. The chief minister reached Gurgaon on Monday night from his official residence in Chandigarh       With the speaker too positive for the disease, Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwa will be presiding over the House proceedings.          The speaker had made it mandatory for anyone entering the Assembly complex for the monsoon session to show a Covid-19 negative certificate, which should not be older than three days. This was done on Health Minister Anil Vij's suggestion.          The seating arrangement in the House has also been changed to ensure social distancing, officials said. Haryana Assembly has a strength of 90 members. With 1,074 fresh cases, the state's Covid-19 tally is 55,460, according to the health department's daily bulletin on Monday. Vij on Friday said all offices and shops, except those providing essential services, will remain closed every Saturday and Sunday in the wake of the increase in Covid-19 cases in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-transport-minister-tests-positive-for-covid-19-877558.html
25-08-2020||North and Central||Mutilated body of teenage girl found in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri||The mutilated body of a 17-year-old girl was found in a village under Neemgaon police limits on Tuesday, police said. The girl was killed with a sharp-edged weapon and there were injury marks on her neck with a portion of her leg appearing to have been devoured by some stray animal, police said. The body was found lying near a dry water pond, about 200 metres away from her village, they said. According to her parents, the girl was doing her intermediate from Uttar Pradesh board and had gone to a neighbouring town on Monday to fill up a scholarship form. However, when she did not return home, the family informed the police. Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), Mitauli Shitanshu Kumar, who visited the spot and carried out initial investigations said, "The body was being sent for a postmortem examination to ascertain the exact cause of death." "Further action would be taken after the postmortem report and complaint by the aggrieved family members," he added. Meanwhile, Kheri DM Shailendra Kumar Singh and SP Satendra Kumar Singh also reached the village and inspected the crime scene.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mutilated-body-of-teenage-girl-found-in-uttar-pradesh-s-lakhimpur-kheri-877564.html
25-08-2020||North and Central||Urdu poet Ashok Sahil passes away at 64||Urdu poet Ashok Sahil passed away at a Meerut hospital on Monday after prolonged illness, a family member said. He was 64. Sahil had been suffering from kidney ailments for some years, and was admitted to the hospital when his condition worsened on Monday morning. "During the treatment he passed away at the hospital," his son-in-law Tarun Joshi told PTI. He was cremated at Shukartal last evening, where his friends and family offered condolences, Joshi added. Sahil is survived by three daughters. After the death of his wife, Shobha Bhagat, three years ago due to cancer, the poet's health had started failing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/urdu-poet-ashok-sahil-passes-away-at-64-877576.html
25-08-2020||North and Central||Landslide kills one in Chamoli||A junior engineer was killed and three others were seriously injured early on Tuesday when a Panchayat Ghar collapsed in a village in Pokhri area of Chamoli district following a landslide, police said. The landslide occurred above the Panchayat Ghar in Tali-Ansari village at about 3 am and the rubble fell upon the structure pulling it down, the office of Chamoli Superintendent of Police said. Four people inside the Panchayat ghar -- the JE of a construction company, two drivers of heavy earth moving machines and one helper were badly injured in the incident, it said. They were all pulled out out from under the debris and rushed to a hospital in Pokhri but the junior engineer died on the way, the SP office said. The rest of them sustained serious injuries and were under treatment, it said. The deceased JE was identified as Mayank Semwal (24), a resident of Rudraprayag district. The injured were Pokland  operator Jaipal Singh (31), who is from Sirmaur district in Himachal Pradesh, JCB operator Anil Singh (25), a resident of Pokhri, and a helper Ramesh (24) who is from Nepal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/landslide-kills-one-in-chamoli-877579.html
25-08-2020||North and Central||Landslide in Jammu and Kashmir's Reasi leaves four dead||Three members of a family were among four killed in separate incidents of landslides following heavy rains in Reasi district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said on Tuesday. Khalil Ahmad (30), his wife Raksana Begum (25) and their relative Mohammad Aslam were killed after a landslide in upper reaches of Khour in Mahore area on Monday night, a police official said. He said the three had gone to the area for cattle grazing and had set up their shelter near the mouth of a natural cave. Several of their animals were also killed in the incident. The bodies of the deceased were recovered this morning and are being handed over to their families after completion of legal formalities, the official said. In another incident, the official said 40-year-old Wali Mohammad was killed in a landslide in Khandi Gali Dhok on Monday. The deceased was grazing his cattle when the landslide occurred, he said, adding five buffaloes were also killed in the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/landslide-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-reasi-leaves-four-dead-877581.html
25-08-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh journalist's murder: Police officer suspended, 6 arrested||A police officer was suspended in connection with the murder of a journalist working with a Hindi news channel here while six accused have been arrested so far in the case, police said on Tuesday. On the complaint lodged by the father of journalist Ratan Singh (45) against 10 people, six accused -- Sushil Singh, Dinesh Singh, Arvind Singh, Suneel Singh, Vir Bahadur Singh and Vinay Singh have been arrested so far, Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP) Sanjay Yadav said.   Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has announced an ex-gratia of Rs 10 lakh to the family of the deceased and offered condolences.   An official spokesperson in Lucknow said the chief minister has directed officials to ensure strict action against the accused. Ratan Singh was shot dead on Monday night in Phephana Police Station area. The police station in-charge of Phephna, Shashi Mauli Pandey, has been suspended and efforts are on to nab the remaining accused, the ASP said. The ASP said that the journalist's father, Vinod Singh, alleged that Sonu Singh of the same village had called his son at around 8 pm and invited him to his house where the accused were waiting with lathis and a revolver and they killed Ratan Singh. Meanwhile, the Ballia Working Journalist Union has demanded an ex-gratia of Rs 1 crore and a government job for the wife of the deceased.    Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar had stated on Monday night that Ratan Singh had a property dispute with his neighbour and after a fight between the two, he was shot at. "Accused Dinesh Singh is parcener (pattidar) of Ratan Singh. The reason of the fight, which led to murder of the journalist is old enmity and property dispute with the neighbour," the senior police officer said. He categorically stated that Ratan Singh's killing had nothing to do with him being a journalist. "Action under the National Security Act and Gangster Act will also be ensured against the accused," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-journalists-murder-police-officer-suspended-6-arrested-877584.html
25-08-2020||North and Central||Cop suspended over video of him beating up boy||A constable has been suspended after a video surfaced purportedly showing him beating up a boy with a baton in southwest Delhi as another policeman stood nearby, officials said on Tuesday. A departmental inquiry has also been initiated against the constable after the incident occurred at R K Puram area last Saturday, police said. In the video that went viral on social media, the constable who was on his night duty can be seen beating up the boy with a stick as another cop stood watching the act. The boy's age has not been ascertained yet. "Soon after the matter came into their notice, we immediately suspended the constable and have also initiated an inquiry into the matter," Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southwest) Devender Arya said. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (South-West) Amit Kaushik has been asked to conduct a fact-finding inquiry and appropriate action will be taken based on it's findings, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cop-suspended-over-video-of-him-beating-up-boy-877615.html
25-08-2020||North and Central||Probe ordered after video of cop beating up youth||An inquiry has been ordered after a video surfaced purportedly showing a constable beating up youth with a baton in southwest Delhi as another policeman stood nearby, officials said on Tuesday. The incident occurred at R K Puram area. The youth's age and date of the incident have not been ascertained yet. In the video that went viral on social media, the constable who was on his night duty can be seen beating up the youth with a stick as another cop stood watching the act. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southwest) Devender Arya said an inquiry had been ordered and departmental action would be taken against him based on its outcome Earlier, the officer had said the constable had been suspended. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (South-West) Amit Kaushik has been asked to conduct a fact-finding inquiry and appropriate action will be taken based on its findings, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/probe-ordered-after-video-of-cop-beating-up-youth-877640.html
25-08-2020||North and Central||NIA files charge sheet against 19 people in Pulwama suicide attack case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday filed a charge sheet in February 14, 2019 Pulwama suicide attack case against 19 accused, including Pakistan-based chief of Jaish-e-Mohammad terror outfit Masood Azhar and his relatives. Among the 19 accused, seven are arrested, while seven others are deceased terrorists and five are absconding. The 13,800-page charge sheet was filed before a special NIA court in Jammu. Besides Masood Azhar, his brothers Abdul Rauf Asghar and Ammar Alvi, and nephew Umar Farooq are among those named in the charge sheet by the probe agency. Farooq, the son of IC-814 hijacking accused Ibrahim Athar, who was in India to execute the deadly Pulwama attack, was killed in March 2019 in an encounter by security forces. The charge sheet details how the planning and execution of one of the deadliest terror attacks, in which 40 CRPF personnel were martyred, was executed from Pakistan. A spokesperson of the NIA said the investigation revealed that Pulwama attack was a result of a well-planned criminal conspiracy hatched by Pakistan-based leadership of the Jaish. “The investigation has revealed that Masood Azhar, Rauf Asgar and Ammar Alvi Masood were continuously giving directions and guidance to the Pakistani Jaish terrorists, (who had infiltrated into India) both before and after the attack,” he said. According to the investigations, the Jaish had also planned to carry out another suicide attack which got averted due to Balakot air strikes, killing of main conspirator Umar Farooq and international pressure on Pakistan. The NIA charge sheet also includes digital, forensic, documentary and oral evidence, establishing a ‘foolproof’ case against the accused. “The charge sheet has brought on record the all-out involvement of Pakistan-based entities to carry out terrorist strikes in India and to incite and provoke Kashmiri youth,” it added. The NIA probe has also revealed that Pakistan used Adil Ahmad Dar, a local militant who rammed an explosive-laden car into a CRPF convoy in Pulwama, as a suicide bomber to project the attack as a result of a home-grown militancy. 40 CRPF personnel, travelling in a convoy on south Kashmir highway in Pulwama district, were martyred on February 14, 2019 when suicide-bomber Adil Ahmad Dar rammed a car loaded with explosives into the paramilitary bus at around 3.15 pm at Lethpora. The impact of the blast reduced the bus to a mangled heap. The ruthless nature of the attack and the stark casualty count had stirred mass outrage within India and just 12 days after the attack, Narendra Modi-led NDA government sanctioned a surgical airstrike on a JeM camp in Balakot area of Pakistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nia-files-charge-sheet-against-19-people-in-pulwama-suicide-attack-case-877641.html
25-08-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: Dairy animals to undergo quarantine in Jammu and Kashmir||The Jammu and Kashmir government has decided to put dairy animals imported from other states in quarantine upon their arrival in the union territory (UT) to ensure that farmers get disease-free animals. Under the newly issued Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), the Department of Animal and Sheep Husbandry has ordered disease surveillance, health profiling, and verification of the supplier and the buyer. As per officials, the government took these measures to ensure disease-free animals reach Jammu and Kashmir in the wake of the outbreak of Covid-19. “The buyer shall register at Animal Husbandry Post Lakhanpur for purchase, transportation of dairy animals from outside J&K. After registration, the farmer shall procure the dairy animals, which, after reaching Lakhanpur, shall be quarantined for disease surveillance and to check the health profile of animals,” an order issued by Principal Secretary, Animal/ Sheep Husbandry and Fisheries, Navin K Chaudhary, reads. The order says a fitness certificate shall be given to the farmer importing the dairy animal from outside Jammu and Kashmir. “The animals shall be tagged, vaccinated and fitness certificate will be issued within minimum possible time,” it added. The demand for dairy animals in Jammu and Kashmir has increased after the government announced a 50% subsidy on the purchase of animals. After the implementation of the scheme, there has been an immense flow of dairy animals from outside states to the union territory. Moreover, the government has also called for checking the illegal trafficking of dairy animals to the valley. In April, J&K Wildlife department had decided to implement a tightened lockdown in the peripheries of wildlife zones and zoos in the Valley to prevent any transmission of the novel coronavirus from humans to animals. The move came after the report of a tiger housed in Bronx Zoo, New York, contracting the deadly virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-dairy-animals-to-undergo-quarantine-in-jammu-and-kashmir-877650.html
25-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi government schools to have specialised toilets, ramps for children with special needs||Schools run by the Delhi government will have specialised toilets, ramps and railings for Children With Special Needs (CWSN) by end of this year, according to officials of the Directorate of Education (DoE). "Consequent upon multiple meetings and exhaustive discussions with various stakeholders, various projects pertaining to CWSN have been shortlisted for implementation of 'Vision 2030'. CWSN toilet, ramps and railings in each school will be readied by December end. The sanction to PWD and other modalities will be finalised by next month," a senior DoE official said. The department also plans to establish 17 additional resource centre for CWSN within the same timeline. "In order to promote talents of CWSN, we will identify children with disabilities who have special talent at school level and further facilitate promotion of their skills or talent at zonal, district, state and international level," the official added. Creation of at least one school of excellence (SoE) in each district, teaching foreign language in government schools, connected classrooms, exchange programmes for students and corporate social responsibility (CSR) funding are among the projects shortlisted for DoE's "Vision 2030". Vision 2030 is a part of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government's strategies to uplift public education in the national capital. To set up schools of excellence -- the English-medium schools of Delhi government -- in each district, the DoE has asked its officials to identify existing school buildings where new rooms can be constructed and prepare a proposal to declare those institutes as schools of excellence by September 15. "Integrated digital devices will be installed in all classrooms. Primary and nursery classes will get smart and interactive TVs. In some classrooms, laptops will be provided to improve learning. The project is likely to be implemented by the end of this year," the official said. The government also pans to issue smart cards to all government school students tentatively by September 30. "The smart card will have multiple uses like entry in school, use of health services, utilisation of library services, etc," the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-government-schools-to-have-specialised-toilets-ramps-for-children-with-special-needs-877662.html
25-08-2020||North and Central||Hate posts: Delhi Assembly panel to summon Facebook officials||A Delhi Assembly committee on Tuesday decided to summon Facebook officials following allegations that the social media giant did not adhere to its own policy on taking down hate posts by some BJP supporters fearing that it will anger the ruling party and will have adverse business implications. The decision was taken at a meeting of the Committee on Peace and Harmony headed by AAP MLA Raghav Chadha, which also had digital rights activist Nikhil Pahwa and Paranjoy Guha Thakurta, a senior journalist and co-author of ‘The Real Face of Facebook in India’. After the panel meeting, Chadha said witnesses who deposed have spoken about an "unholy nexus" between Facebook and the BJP and the committee will further probe the allegations ranging from the role of Facebook in the riots in Delhi and other places. The panel had taken up the matter after a report in the Wall Street Journal (WSJ), which claimed that Facebook India turned its face against hate posts by at least four Hindutva supporters, including a BJP MLA T Raja Singh, with its Public Policy head Ankhi Das saying that taking action against the supporters of the ruling BJP would be detrimental to its business interests. The summoning of Facebook officials by the Delhi Assembly panel came close on the heels of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology headed by senior Congress MP Shashi Tharoor asked the officials of the social media giant to present before the panel on September 1. The issue of the Parliamentary panel summoning Facebook officials was opposed by the BJP MPs. Chadha said the committee believes that the Facebook action was a "direct assault on Indian democracy as this alleged nexus might compromise on free and fair elections in the country". He also said he recognises the application of principles of natural justice and acknowledged it is incumbent upon the committee that Facebook should be called to present their side. During his deposition, Guha said that Facebook is not content-neutral as it claims to be and there were sufficient circumstantial pieces of evidence which show an unholy nexus between the ruling dispensation and Facebook. He also highlighted the complicity of Facebook in forwarding a certain narrative at the cost of suppressing contrasting narratives, thus reducing the visibility of the content critical of the ruling dispensation. He also claimed that the community standard guidelines, which is a comprehensive set of rules claimed to be uniformly applied by Facebook globally, have allegedly not been applied in India. He alleged that Facebook, as well as WhatsApp, has a massive role in aggravating riot situations happening in the country including riots of Muzaffarnagar, Bengaluru and north-east Delhi. The witnesses also alleged that Das along with some other Facebook officials have close links with the government and it must be investigated. Facebook is deliberately and intentionally hindering free and fair elections in our country by actively colluding with the current ruling dispensation, the witnesses were quoted in an official statement as saying.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hate-posts-delhi-assembly-panel-to-summon-facebook-officials-877721.html
25-08-2020||North and Central||Smart cards with auto top-up, thermal scanners, warning stickers: DMRC preps up for new normal||From new smartcards with auto top-up facility to stickers on social distancing norms pasted on seats and platform floors, the Delhi Metro is all set to handle commuters, in adherence to Covid-19 safety guidelines, whenever its services are ordered to be resumed. Delhi Metro services have remained suspended since March 22, the day Janata Curfew was imposed in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak. According to sources, it has suffered a loss of nearly Rs 1,300 cr till now. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) had on Sunday said it shall be prepared to resume operations whenever directed by the government. The statement from the urban transporter came on a day Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said metro train services in Delhi should be resumed on a trial basis as the Covid-19 situation was improving in the city, and hoped the Centre would soon decide on it. The national capital recorded 1,061 fresh coronavirus cases on Monday, taking the tally in the city to over 1.62 lakh, while the death toll mounted to 4,313. After the lockdown period, the economy has been slowly opening up in a phased manner since June, but the DMRC has not yet received a nod from the Centre to resume operations. "The DMRC shall be prepared to commence operations whenever directed by the government. All necessary guidelines to combat the spread of Covid-19 shall be implemented, and all efforts shall be made to make travel safe for our valued commuters," Anuj Dayal, Executive Director, DMRC was quoted as saying in a statement. On regular days, the average daily ridership of DMRC is over 26 lakh. The DMRC, meanwhile, has been training its staff on compliance of Covid-19 safety norms and also on ways to make travel safer for commuters. From thermal scanners to measure the temperature of commuters to stickers on social distancing norms pasted on seats and platform floors, Delhi Metro has been preparing to handle commuters as per safety guidelines, officials said. Authorities have been working on protocols to ensure that social distancing norms are in place whenever commuters return. To promote greater e-transaction, the Delhi Metro on August 19 announced a new facility that will enable riders to get their smart cards auto-topped up at automatic fare collection (AFC) gates. This new smart card is available for customers through the app 'Autope' which zhas been specially developed for this purpose. The old smartcards can also be upgraded to avail this facility, officials said. "This feature will come in handy during these times... which call for social distancing and contactless services," a senior official said. Among other measures, red lines have been drawn at regular intervals next to AFC gates and security checking gates, just before commuters enter near platform areas. On platform floors, large stickers bearing 'Ensure Social Distancing' message with a white circle bordered by a red circle, have been pasted at regular intervals to alert commuters. Thermal scanners will be used to screen commuters, sources said. The DMRC had recently tweeted a photo, showing caution stickers being put up on seats at regular intervals, for maintaining social distancing. The DMRC authorities, however, remain tight-lipped on whether Aarogya Setu app would be made mandatory for travelling in the metro. "The decision to resume metro rail services in Delhi-NCR will be taken by the government, after which a detailed protocol for passengers will be shared with the media and the public," the DMRC had earlier said. At present, the DMRC is taking up the necessary cleaning mechanisms inside the trains and indoor areas of stations such as entrance lobbies, corridors, staircases, escalators, elevators, security area etc, it said. "Other necessary logistical arrangements such as provision for hand sanitisation, thermal screening at stations and installation of social distancing related signages are also being handled," the DMRC said. "The exercise will be extremely exhaustive as it involves cleaning and maintenance of 264 stations over 2200 coaches and over 1100 escalators and 1000 lifts etc," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/smart-cards-with-auto-top-up-thermal-scanners-warning-stickers-dmrc-preps-up-for-new-normal-877729.html
25-08-2020||Opinion||Does the NEP’s push for classical languages make sense?||That Sanskrit was officially notified as a ‘classical language’ (in 2005) after Tamil (notified in October 2004) must be one of life’s more absurd paradoxes. Or perhaps, some act of divine correction given that for long, Tamil’s rightful position was denied to it as Sanskrit was considered the fount of all Indian languages. Tamil’s elevation to this status was the result of a battle that raged for more than a century. In 1870–71, the education department began to distinguish between Indian languages as classical or vernacular. Sanskrit was designated as a classical language and Tamil and many other Indian languages were listed under the vernacular. It was a position that troubled Tamil scholars no end. Post-independence, this classification came to an end with the Constitution’s position on languages that specified no national language and instead classified Hindi and English as official languages and 14 others (later expanded to 22) as ‘scheduled languages’ whose status was on par with the official, becoming the norm. In 2004, political machinations ensured that the ‘classical language’ status was enshrined on Tamil followed by Sanskrit in 2005. This soon sparked a contest of sorts with other languages too clamouring for this status. An obliging Centre then added others to the list: Kannada and Telugu in 2008, Malayalam in 2013 and Odia in 2014. As of July 2019, Marathi’s claim to classical status was under ‘active consideration’. As with all bureaucratic decisions, classical status was determined on the basis of certain eligibility criteria: a recorded history over a period of 1500-2000 years, a body of ancient literature, an ‘original’ literary tradition not borrowed from another speech community and the classical language and literature being distinct from the modern. Classicism as an idea is a Western construct emanating from the study of Latin and ancient Greek in the schools and colleges of the West. The ideas and arguments behind the study of these ancient tongues were probably developed as a result of questions asked about the utility of studying these long-dead languages in modern times. It has been held that the literature in these two tongues displays certain characteristics: Antiquity, Harmony, Clarity, Restraint, Serenity, Idealism, Universality, Reason, Order and Humanism and to engage with these languages and their literature is to partake of all of these. The value of these qualities, needless to say, is well-established. NEP & the teaching of ‘classical languages' The National Education Policy 2020 (NEP) unveiled a few weeks ago has to this to say on the issue of classical language teaching: ‘In addition to Sanskrit, the teaching of all other classical languages and literature of India, including Tamil, Telugu, Kannada, Malayalam, Odia, Pali, Persian, and Prakrit, will also be widely available in schools as options…’ To the obvious question of why, the justification is provided in the point following the one above: ‘For the enrichment of our children, and for the preservation of these rich languages and their artistic treasures’. In another place in the policy, the emphasis is on mother tongue/local language/regional language as the medium of instruction at least till Grade 5, but preferably till Grade 8 and beyond. The emphasis is also in implementing the three-language formula as it stands—English, Hindi and a regional language in the non-Hindi speaking states and English, Hindi and ‘a modern Indian language’ in the Hindi-speaking regions. The classical language options will be in addition to these three languages. At the secondary level, the teaching of foreign languages is also envisaged. Essentially, the policy as it has been spelt out throws up several questions. How will this mélange of languages be taught to students? What are the pedagogic implications of so many languages being taught? Will it perhaps result in overburdening the student? To negotiate the alphabet, the literature, the grammar et al of all these languages is not going to be a cakewalk. Also important to consider is the issue of diglossia (the distance between the written and spoken language) that is problematic to negotiate even for students studying in their mother tongue. There is also the issue of ‘standard’ languages and dialects which queers the pitch of language teaching.   And what is likely to be the status of the classical language insofar as examinations are concerned? If passing it is a must, then a whole bunch of implications follow. If they are treated as a mere adjunct, then in all likelihood, little learning of the language will take place. Another tantalising possibility has been thrown up by this policy. For as long as the three-language policy has been in existence, many in the Hindi-speaking belt have gotten away with studying Sanskrit as a third language thereby diluting the spirit of the policy which envisaged that Hindi-speakers would study a language like Marathi, Tamil, Bengali or another language. A greater degree of national integration was the objective. But while Hindi is studied as a third language in many non-Hindi speaking areas of the nation (exceptions exist), there has been little reciprocation. Now that Sanskrit has been kicked upstairs, will this duplicitous practice of studying Sanskrit as a third language come to an end? The value of studying a classical language (however contentious this idea) cannot be denied. But, to balance economic interests, which necessitates the teaching of English and to a lesser extent, Hindi, with preserving treasures from the past is a call not easily taken. For a shot at higher education, school education is a must. Will complicating this stepping stone, as the policy seems to be headed towards, therefore result in vexing the issue further?  (Karthik Venkatesh is an editor, writer and deeply interested in language affairs) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/does-the-nep-s-push-for-classical-languages-make-sense-877440.html
25-08-2020||Opinion||Sonia won the day, but Congress lost all over again||Sonia Gandhi has chalked up a very visible victory against the group of senior Congress leaders who wrote to her earlier this month, drawing attention to the drift in the party and pressing for a full-time visible president. But the win may have come at the cost of a genuine attempt at airing of concerns and pressing ahead with long-due changes in the Congress.  With the developments of August 24, Sonia seems to have had her way and eased the road ahead for her son and former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi. The letter writers, supposedly numbering 23, were effectively snubbed at a marathon seven-hour meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), which disapproved of their efforts to undermine Sonia Gandhi’s leadership. The meet tamely ended with the adoption of a resolution requesting her to continue as interim party president till alternate arrangements could be made. Eating humble pie Pushed on the backfoot, the dissenters were reduced to defending themselves, consistently pointing out that they never harboured any doubts about Sonia Gandhi’s ability to lead the Congress. Nor did their letter suggest that she and Rahul Gandhi should step aside to give an opportunity to a non-Gandhi to take over the party’s presidency.  They were at pains to explain that their letter was essentially aimed at pointing to the lack of direction in the party which was primarily due to the prevailing uncertainty about Sonia Gandhi’s tenure as Congress chief and the ambiguous status of Rahul Gandhi’s future plans.  However, this did not cut much ice with the others as the CWC resolution rapped the dissenters on the knuckles for airing their grievances in public and were told in no uncertain terms that all attempts to undermine the party (read the Gandhis) would not be tolerated. The dissenters were left with few options but to endorse the resolution as none of them are mass leaders like Sharad Pawar and Mamata Banerjee who can survive outside the party fold.     Making it all about the Gandhis The CWC deliberations became an occasion for Sonia Gandhi to successfully ensure that the meeting was all about her leadership. She set the ball rolling by dashing off a letter on the eve of the meeting to K C Venugopal, party general secretary in charge of organisation, saying that she wished to step down and that the CWC should start the process of finding her replacement.  Given this backdrop, the meeting of the party’s highest decision-making body predictably became an occasion for the “loyalists” to express their undying faith in Sonia Gandhi’s leadership. Not only did she succeed in securing her own position, Sonia Gandhi also warded off any possible questions which could have been raised about Rahul Gandhi’s style of functioning in the course of a discussion. She understood that the letter was not aimed at her but was a subtle message that Rahul Gandhi does not have it in him to lead the party.    With the Nehru-Gandhi scion reluctant to return as party chief, the “letter bomb” came in handy to orchestrate a chorus at the CWC that Rahul Gandhi return as Congress president whenever Sonia Gandhi wished to hand over the baton to him.  The resolution adopted by the CWC particularly acknowledged the leading role played by the mother and son duo in “exposing the government’s inadequate responses, divisive politics and audacious propaganda,” suggesting that Sonia and Rahul Gandhi were the only two leaders in the Congress who were battling the Bharatiya Janata Party and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Lost opportunity While Sonia Gandhi can justifiably congratulate herself on her strategic win at Monday’s CWC meeting, there is no getting away from the fact that she frittered away an excellent opportunity to discuss all that is wrong with the party today.  Instead of dismissing the dissenting voices, which includes seniors like Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, Prithviraj Chavan and Kapil Sibal, the concerns raised by them could have served as a basis to kick off a long-delayed and much-required introspection on the party’s electoral losses, its eroding support base, poor organisational strength and lack of ideological clarity.  As it is, Congress insiders have been bemoaning that the party has not thought it necessary to brainstorm over these issues despite its two consecutive humiliating defeats in the 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Then there have been complaints about the inaccessibility of the party leadership, Rahul Gandhi’s “non-political” team members and shrinking spaces for deliberating key matters like the party’s position on the recent Chinese incursions or the Facebook controversy.  The much-maligned letter has sought internal elections to the CWC and the party president’s post and the reconstitution of the Congress Parliamentary Board and  greater empowerment of state units.  All these are valid suggestions and certainly merited a discussion. Now was the time to initiate such an exercise. But by giving primary billing to safeguarding the Gandhi family’s interests, it was the party which eventually lost out.  (Anita Katyal is a Delhi-based journalist and a keen observer of domestic political developments) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/sonia-won-the-day-but-congress-lost-all-over-again-877466.html
25-08-2020||Panorama||Early childhood care in NEP: A slip between draft and policy||The towering edifice of education is impressively outlined in the National Education Policy-2020 but its foundation is not on strong pillars. Unfortunately, it equates building knowledgeable, skilled human resource to mere formal schooling or college education. It has a faulty assumption that all learning starts with formal schooling. There was not a single specialist in child development, paediatric neurologist or child psychologist in the drafting panel of the NEP. No wonder NEP glaringly displays its ignorance on when and how the human brain grows structurally and what needs to be done as interventions strategically during the critical window period of neuronal multiplication and networking. Learning starts from the womb when human brain structure is laid down and reaches its acceleration before two years of age, much before the 3-6 years of pre-school education. The draft version of NEP-2019 which was uploaded in the public domain had a much better understanding of Early Childhood Care and Stimulation for Development. But the final document, omitting many revolutionary concepts of the draft and suggestions from civil society, was hurriedly approved by the Cabinet without getting it vetted by Parliament or state legislatures. The very first sentence in the draft version was a hitherto less known fact that “the learning process for a child commences immediately at birth” as opposed to the popular belief that child starts learning only when admitted in formal school. The actual learning of language, numerical and arithmetic proficiency and analytical skills are attained during school days. But the foundations for such a learning capacity are laid much earlier, and it happens without us knowing about it. Intellectual development and attainment of maximum potential of senses have taken place before three years of age. Higher cognitive functions attain their maximum peak of growth between one and three years of age even before they meet any teacher in a school. Opening statement had reinforced this modern concept. The first chapter of current NEP starts with lip service to early childhood education: “The Policy emphasises the criticality of the early years and aims to ensure quality early childhood care and education for all children between three and six years by 2025 with significantly increased investment and new initiatives. A curricular and pedagogical framework will be developed with guidelines for appropriate cognitive stimulation of 0-3 year-olds”. That means the Policy envisages only age above three years for early childhood care and education and below three as merely issuing guidelines. For whom? Parents or caregivers in crèches and Balwadis? The current global thinking is to focus on the first 1,000 days of life including intrauterine period of 280 days for optimal brain development. The age between three and six years is too late for intervention to boost human development potential of a nation. Scientific research shows that a child’s peak of potential growth of intelligence and cognitive development has already been achieved between the age of one and three. After rapid multiplication of brain cells, in the areas of visual and auditory cortex, the formation of experience-dependent synapses (connections) peaks as early as the fourth post-natal month, and is followed by a gradual retraction if not adequately stimulated until the end of the pre-school period. Similarly, the centres for language and speech proficiency develop maximally between sixth and 10th months of age even before their speech and language make any sense to you. When the child is a toddler, her spoken vocabulary significantly increases. Genetic determinants and environmental determinants play equally critical role in shaping the neural configuration. The post-natal synapses incorporate ongoing experiences into the synaptic architecture of the brain through a process of “blooming and pruning”. Some of these environmental determinants act as modifying gene expression through epigenetic mechanisms. Future brains So what is there in NEP to contribute to growth and development of future brains of our country up to three years to get educated and skilled? Vague or practically nothing? The earlier draft had rightly differentiated the early childhood education into two parts - one prior to three years and the other 3-6 years of age. The latter is what is going on currently as pre-school education in anganwadi centres. Policy directions and strategies for care and early stimulation for child development known as “care concept” is already lacking in ICDS since its inception in 1975. The entire responsibility of early child care and stimulation for development of under-three children is left to the discretion and imagination of parents and rest of the family members even in NEP. Stimulation for brain and mind is by inputs or signals through five sensory organs of the body - eye, skin, ear, nose and tongue. The intensity and frequency of flow of these signals during early childhood determines the attainment of level of intelligence and mental development. It also strengthens the synaptic connectivity. The baby’s explorative learning and storage of those acquired information and knowledge or inputs into the brain takes place every moment and hour of its early life without any teacher or school. The only way out for “universalisation” of standardised care is appointment of an additional worker trained in early stimulation for child development in every Anganwadi for under three children? Let the Anganwadi teacher take care of pre-school education of 3-6 years old. That requires a salary component for 8-9 lakh workers in the country which is a worthwhile investment considering the impact on learning outcome and human resource development. By the 86th Amendment of the Constitution 2002, the state is to provide early childhood and elementary education (ECCE) to all children till six years of age. Section 11 of the Right to Education Act also mandates public provision of the ECCE. “Early Childhood Care and Stimulation for Education and Development is perhaps the greatest and most powerful equaliser in brain development, school preparedness, improved learning outcomes, equality and justice, employability and economic growth of the country” was the text in the draft that has disappeared now in NEP. (The writer is former Health & Nutrition Specialist, Unicef, and former Director, State Health Resource Centre, Chhattisgarh)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/early-childhood-care-in-nep-a-slip-between-draft-and-policy-877817.html
25-08-2020||Panorama||How our population will change by 2100||Recently, The Lancet published data from the Global Burden of Disease Study 2017 to project global, regional and national population changes by 2100. It is fascinating to take stock of the world population at this crucial juncture, as we suffer through a pandemic, when it has completely jeopardised economy and the resultant unemployment has pushed people to sheer despair.  The foremost question here, has human resource become a liability in the changing scenario? This study comes to the rescue and it what it posits is quite contrary to the general assumptions, it shows India’s population coming down to 109 crores by 2100 from its current score of 138 crores. Similarly, based on the current pace of growth, India’s population will reach its peak of the demographic curve with 161 crores by 2048 and then the decline starts. The present study funded by the Bill Gates Foundation has taken the duration between 2017 and 2100 into account and the chief factors for consideration are birth and death ratio, fertility rate, and the floating population of 195 countries. Interestingly, the report highlights the role of empowered women in enabling this tectonic shift in the world demography. To be specific, the positive developments that will possibly change the population chart are, the growing female literacy rate, increasing awareness and use of contraceptives, and larger employment of women. This survey has made some startling observations on the top three positions by 2100. Firstly, India will be on the top with 109 crore people. Quite surprisingly, China will move down to the third slot with 73 crore people. Nigeria will move up to the second position with 79 crore people. In short, almost 183 countries will see a decline in population and 23 countries will shelve half of their present tally. The main reason for this shift could be population control in Sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia, which have always been the major contributors to the global population till date. Significant take away from this report is, the working population will see a drastic decline in the coming years. In contrast, the number of the unemployed, retired and older population will move up. This phenomenon will severely affect the economy. As this study supposes, every employed will have to financially support at least one or more unemployed persons. If this happens, the working population will have to pay high-income tax to sustain the financially insecure masses. Overall, this survey gives us numerous lessons in advance to brace for the changes. First, India needs to cross its highest number at the earliest. Once done, we will get ample time for adequate financial reforms based on the reduced numbers to take the country forward in development trajectory. As per this report, China reaches its peak in 2024 and India will hit that milestone in 2048. So, earlier the better.  Secondly, this survey reemphasizes the implication of women empowerment as the main booster for population control. Therefore, the attention needs to be paid for her physical and mental health. That is the best investment for country’s overall progress. Additionally, if the decision of childbirth becomes woman-centric, population control is easier.  Time and again, the government needs to focus more on public health care. The corona pandemic has exposed the loopholes of our poor health system enough. As well, the Finance ministry has to explore different sources to generate national income. As this survey hints at the possible drop in working population, we need a strong gross national income to feed the unemployed.  (The writer is Assistant Professor of English from Tumkur University, Karnataka)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/how-our-population-will-change-by-2100-877819.html
25-08-2020||Second Edit||When liberals fall into illiberal trap||While Bloomsbury India’s decision to withdraw the book titled Delhi Riots 2020: The Untold Story will keep copies of the book off the shelves for now, it has kicked up a storm and raised troubling questions relating to freedom of speech in the country. Not much is known about the contents of the book. It claims to lay bare the “untold story” of the horrific violence that convulsed north-east Delhi in February, which left around 53 people, mainly Muslims, dead. The book reportedly depicts the violence as a conspiracy by ‘urban naxals’ and ‘jihadists’ that was carried out by Muslims linked to the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act. The immediate spark for the controversy over the book’s publication was a virtual publicity event where Kapil Mishra, the BJP leader whose incendiary speech incited the communal riots, was the chief guest. A section of liberal intellectuals and rights activists expressed outrage over this. It quickly gathered momentum on social media to become a protest against the book’s publication. The book was slammed for distorting facts and Bloomsbury was criticised for giving a platform for Hindutva propaganda. If Delhi Riots is indeed a one-sided account of the terrible communal violence early this year, it will show up the biases and poor research capabilities of its three authors. Bloomsbury’s decision to publish the book and then withdraw it and its attempt to distance itself from the controversy by claiming it was kept in the dark about the publicity event has damaged its credibility. However, as disturbing is the outrage expressed by a section of left-liberals against the book. Many of them have not read its contents. That has not prevented them from railing against its publication. Some called for the book’s withdrawal, even ban, which puts them in the same illiberal boat as the right-wing bigots who burnt books and forced the government to ban Wendy Doniger’s book on Hinduism and James Laine’s biography of Shivaji a few years ago. The role of the media and publishing houses in propagating hate and peddling of falsehood as fact is of grave concern. But the way to address the problem is to counter it by publishing other perspectives and counter-arguments. Bloomsbury’s decision to withdraw the book will not keep the book off the shelves forever as others will publish the book. Liberals may have strengthened the illiberal cause as the controversy has generated interest in the book. It will boost its readership. If the idea is to defeat the ideas that Delhi Riots propagates, it can only be done by encouraging discussion and debate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/when-liberals-fall-into-illiberal-trap-877812.html
25-08-2020||South||Former supercop Annamalai to join Tamil Nadu BJP||Former IPS officer K Annamalai, Karnataka's very own 'Singham', will join the BJP on Tuesday, as the saffron party braces itself for the crucial Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu next year. The 36-year-old former IPS officer will join BJP in the presence of its President J P Nadda at 11 am in New Delhi. "BJP is a nationalist party and I am a nationalist in the first place. I think BJP will be able to give a new vision and direction to Tamil Nadu," he told Deccan Herald. After resigning from service, Annamalai launched an organisation to work with farmers in Karur and Coimbatore. He had maintained that he was not taking a political plunge anytime soon. He said he is joining BJP unconditionally and his admiration for #NarendraModi is one of the things that made him take the decision. "The call to join the BJP was taken very late. I feel political change is important than social change and that is why I decided to take the political plunge now," he said. The former IPS officer believes BJP has been wrongly represented in Tamil Nadu . "The party is not perceived the way it is here in other states. A wrong perception of BJP has been created here, " he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/former-supercop-annamalai-to-join-tamil-nadu-bjp-877435.html
25-08-2020||South||BJP has the potential to give new direction and vision to Tamil Nadu: ex-IPS Annamalai||K Annamalai, the former IPS officer who earned the sobriquet ‘Singham’ for his flamboyant style of functioning during his tenure in Karnataka, is joining the BJP on Tuesday and is likely to contest the assembly elections in Tamil Nadu due in 2021. Even before joining the BJP, the former IPS officer, who resigned from service in 2019, became a target on Tamil Twitter for his pro-BJP views. Annamalai speaks to Deccan Herald’s E.T.B. Sivapriyan on his political plans and why he took the plunge into politics. Excerpts: Q: You are joining the BJP after refuting reports on this. Also, you have been maintaining that you will wait for some time before taking the political plunge. What led you to take the plunge now? A: I have always been a nationalist. The reason why I joined IPS was also because of my nationalistic feelings. I resigned from IPS and wanted to work with the people without any political identity. I wanted to be myself and bring about a social change, but I have realised that a political change is also necessary. Especially for a state like Tamil Nadu which needs a different path now. I have always maintained that I admire Narendra Modi and keeping all this in mind, I thought BJP was the best choice. At the same time, we have to maintain the respect and identity that Tamil Nadu has. The state needs a new vision and direction and I am convinced that the BJP will be able to provide the vision and direction. Q: What will be your role in the BJP in Tamil Nadu? A: I really do not know. I am joining the BJP unconditionally. I will take up any responsibility that they give me. I have taken this decision after much thought. Q: There is a perception that you are being soft launched by the Sangh Parivar as part of its grand plans for Tamil Nadu. You were trolled on Twitter for your views. And then your decision to join the BJP comes. Your comments. A: I attended several functions and went to temples. I have always maintained that I liked Modi and his leadership very much. I have never hidden my opinion anywhere and I did everything openly. But the call to join the BJP was taken very late. In the beginning, I decided to wait for a year and experiment with a different way of reaching out to the people (other than politics) but when I thought of a more effective way, I decided to join politics. At the same time, I hope to maintain a part of my identity also and what I do among the people. Q: BJP is not a very popular party in Tamil Nadu and the outfit is being criticised in the state for a host of issues, especially for imposition of Hindi and Sanskrit. You say you are in politics to bring about a change. Is it possible in a party which does not enjoy people’s support? A: I believe that BJP as a party is kind of misrepresented or wrongly represented in Tamil Nadu. The party is not exactly how it is perceived in Tamil Nadu. I have seen the party in Karnataka and in other states too. BJP is a party which gives space for freedom of expression. And BJP also gives a lot of autonomy to its state units and they run it democratically. I think the Hindi issue has led to a wrong perception for the party in Tamil Nadu. I will definitely speak about my views on Hindi language after joining the party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-has-the-potential-to-give-new-direction-and-vision-to-tamil-nadu-ex-ips-annamalai-877458.html
25-08-2020||South||Puducherry records highest single day spike of 571 Covid-19 cases||Puducherry on Tuesday registered its highest single-day spurt of 571 new coronavirus cases and eight deaths, taking the overall tally to 11,426. Director of Health and Family Welfare S Mohan Kumar said in a release that the fresh infections were reported during last 24 hours ending 10 am on Tuesday in the Union Territory. Of the four regions constituting the Union Territory, Puducherry accounted for 529 new cases followed by 36 in Karaikal and six in Yanam. Mahe region an enclave of Puducherry in Kerala had reported no new case of Covid-19. The Director further said 571 cases were identified after examination of 1,327 samples, while 331 patients were discharged. Eight more people, including a 55-year-old woman, succumbed to the viral infection, raising the total number of fatalities to 172. Seven male patients and one female died of the virus at hospitals in Puducherry, Karaikal and Yanam regions. Mahe did not register any death, the release said. Most of those who died had co-morbidities and they were in the age groups ranging between 50 and 73 years. The official said 3,981 cases out of the cumulative cases were active, while 7,273 patients recovered and were discharged. The Department of Health and Family Welfare has so far tested 65,769 samples and found 52,857 to be negative. Results of examination of remaining samples were awaited, the Director said. The fatality rate was 1.51 per cent in Puducherry while recovery rate was 63.65 per cent. Meanwhile, a total lockdown was observed in Puducherry and Karaikal regions on Tuesday in response to the call given by the government. All shops, business establishments, banks and trading centres remained shut while medical shops and retail outlets selling milk functioned as usual as they were exempted from total shutdown. The lockdown would be in force till 6 am on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-records-highest-single-day-spike-of-571-covid-19-cases-877588.html
25-08-2020||South||Congress hails HC upholding order on CBI probe into killing of 2 party workers||The Congress on Tuesday welcomed the Kerala High Court judgement upholding a single judge bench's order for a CBI probe into the killing of two Youth Congress workers allegedly by CPI(M) activists in Kasaragod last year. Hailing the court order dismissing a state government plea against the CBI inquiry, Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) chief Mullappally Ramachandran said the Left "spent lakhs of rupees to save the culprits" but the High Court has decided to handover the case to the central investigating agency. "The Kerala government spent lakhs and brought in senior advocates to stop the probe into the matter. This was the situation in all other political cases. But this time the High Court has decided to bring in the CBI. We welcome it," Ramachandran told the media here. A bench headed by Chief Justice S Manikumar, while accepting an interim probe report of the state crime branch, which investigated the case initially, directed the CBI to conduct further inquiry. Observing serious lapses in the police investigation, the High Court had last September handed over the case to the Central agency after dismissing the chargesheet filed by the crime branch. Sarath Lal and Kripesh were hacked to death on February 17, 2019 in Kasaragod allegedly by CPI(M) workers. "Pinarayi tried all tricks in the book to save the culprits. But the High Court dismissed the state government's stand which was a setback for them in the Periya case. What happened to the expensive lawyers brought from Delhi?," Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Ramesh Chennithala asked. In its appeal against the single bench order, the government had alleged that the entire findings of the bench were based on surmises and conjunctures, and not supported by any material and it had not considered the material on record including the case diary. IUML leader M K Muneer, who also spoke to reporters said the court's decision shows that "whatever happens, justice will be served at the end". The CBI, which re-registered the case on October 23, 2019 following the court order, had accused the state police of not handing over the necessary documents needed for the investigation. The CBI had mentioned the alleged non-cooperation by the crime branch wing of the Kerala police in the status report of the probe submitted by its investigation officer before the Chief Judicial Magistrate Court here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-hails-hc-upholding-order-on-cbi-probe-into-killing-of-2-party-workers-877618.html
25-08-2020||South||Kerala HC refuses to stay privatisation of Thiruvananthapuram airport||The Kerala High Court, on Tuesday, refused to grant interim stay on leasing out operation, management and development Thiruvananthapuram airport to a private party. Considering a petition filed by the Kerala government opposing cetre's decision to leasing out the airport to Adani Group, the court sought more details about the matter. A detailed hearing on the matter would be conducted next month. The state's plea for interim stay on the leasing out procedures was not allowed by the court. The state had approached the High Court last year also against privatisation of the airport. However the HC then reject the petition citing the no steps were initiated then to handover the airport to private party. The state subsequently approached the SC and in February the SC returned the petition to the HC with a directive to consider it. But no fresh steps were taken thereafter and hence the state now approached the HC again. The Kerala Assembly also passed a joint resolution recently on Monday urging the centre to reconsider the decision to hand over Thiruvananthapuram international airport operation, management and development to Adani Group. The state had been demanding that a special purpose vehicle with Kerala government equity participation shall be handed over the airport at the rate quoted by Adani Group. While the Adani group won the bid for the airport by quoting a fee of Rs. 162 per passenger to the AAI, the SPV formed by state government quoted only Rs. 135.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-refuses-to-stay-privatisation-of-thiruvananthapuram-airport-877674.html
25-08-2020||South||Minor girl gang-raped by migrant workers in Kochi||In a gruesome incident, a minor girl in Kochi was gang-raped by a group of migrant workers hailing from Uttar Pradesh for around six months. While three of the accused were already nabbed by the police, three others are suspected to have fled to Uttar Pradesh. Hence the police was seeking the help of their UP counterparts to nab them. The girl, aged 14, was staying with her grandparents at Manjummel near Eloor in Kochi city. The accused were staying close to her house. It was during the recent counselling to school children that the victim, who is an eighth-standard student, revealed the ordeal she had been facing for about five months. The girl was also quite depressed. She said that three of the accused initially sexually abused her during the lockdown days in March by threatening her when there was no one else in her house. Later they forcefully took her to some other places and sexually abused till earlier this month. As the accused threatened of dire consequences, she did not reveal it to anyone. Police sources said that the girl was subjected to medical examination and three already held were produced before the court and remanded. They were identified as Shahid 24, Farhad Khan,29, and Haneef, 28. The other three had fled to UP and efforts were being made to nab them. A police team would be leaving for UP as part of the probe. Kochi city assistant commissioner of police K Lalji is investigating the case. Various sections of POCSO, including gang rape, were invoked against the accused. All the accused were engaged in casual jobs, mostly in the construction sector.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/minor-girl-gang-raped-by-migrant-workers-in-kochi-877678.html
25-08-2020||South||Tea and coffee kept near deceased patient served in Kerala's Covid-19 ward||Amid the coronavirus scare, bed coffee was served in the Covid ward of the Thiruvananthapuram Medical College hospital allegedly by keeping the kettle and cups near the body of a patient who died early Tuesday morning, prompting the College Superintendent Dr Sharmad to order a probe. The incident came to light when some of the patients recorded a video in which authorities were seen removing the body wrapped in a plastic. The video also showed a person in a PPE kit keeping the kettle and cups near a table next to the stretcher in which the body was wrapped and kept. "We were informed about the incident at 5.30 AM and the death was declared within an hour as per the protocol. The swab was taken from the body which was disinfected and wrapped in plastic. The body being kept near where the morning beverages were distributed cannot be justified. A report has been sought and action will be taken accordingly so that it will not be repeated," Dr Sharmad told PTI. The superintendent said the authorities tried to contact the relatives of the 85-year-old deceased woman as they had sought the photo and video of the body because they were also in quarantine. He termed as completely wrong reports that food was distributed in the Covid ward next to the body which had been lying there for nearly five hours, after 10.30 AM. "That information is completely wrong. We could declare the death only after one hour. But there was a delay removing the body for taking the video for the relatives in quarantine. However, it was removed after around 8.30 AM itself," Sharmad said. He said since the relatives, who are also under quarantine, are unable to visit, the authorities normally send them the video of the body. "It was not the food, but tea or coffee for a few other patients that were served as some of them demanded. However, it should not have been done and a probe has been ordered and report sought," the Superintendent said. The incident took place in ward number 5 of the medical college hospital here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tea-and-coffee-kept-near-deceased-patient-served-in-keralas-covid-19-ward-877679.html
25-08-2020||South||Kerala Minister K T Jaleel accused of triggering communal sentiments||Kerala Higher Education Minister K T Jaleel is being accused of triggering communal sentiments to resist the allegations over accepting Ramadan relief kits and Quran from UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. Jaleel said in a social media post the other day that he was being attacked by his political opponents for accepting the Ramadan relief kits from the UAE consulate as part of a religious custom. If such customs are not allowed in present India, the centre should inform other countries about it. UAE had been distributing religious books to various countries over the years as a cultural practice. If that is not allowed here, I would return the Qurans received from the consulate even with utmost pain. Indian Union Muslim League chief Panakkad Sayed Hyderali Shihab Thangal alleged in an interview to a TV channel on Tuesday that Jaleel was trying to trigger communal sentiments. It was unfortunate that the Holy Quran, which is respected by all sections of people, has been dragged into a political controversy. He should not have done that, he said. Jaleel's statement came close on the heels of reports that the Ministry of Finance might probe into the acceptance of 'gift' from UAE consulate considering petitions of Congress and BJP leaders. The Kerala Lok Ayukta had also sent a notice to Jaleel as part of a preliminary enquiry into a petition alleging that the minister flouted Foreign Contribution (Regulation ) Act 2010 by accepting the offer from a foreign mission for Rs. 5 lakh without obtaining permission. Jaleel was also facing allegations of facilitating distribution of around 300 Qurans received from the UAE consulate to various parts of the state, especially his home district, using a government agency's vehicle. The Qurans were also brought as diplomatic baggage. Meanwhile, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had backed Jaleel. While replying to the no-confidence motion in the Assembly on Monday, he said that there was nothing unusual in Jaleel's acts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-minister-k-t-jaleel-accused-of-triggering-communal-sentiments-877709.html
25-08-2020||South||Madras High Court sets aside privilege proceedings against M K Stalin, 18 other DMK MLAs||The Madras High Court on Tuesday set aside the breach of privilege proceedings initiated against DMK President M K Stalin and 18 other party MLAs for waving gutkha packets, banned in the state, on the floor of the Tamil Nadu Assembly in 2017. The first bench of Chief Justice A P Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy also held that the privilege notice suffers from a “foundational error.” The MLAs had displayed gutkha packets on the floor of the Assembly on July 19, 2017 to drive home the point that the banned substance was still available in the state. “The issuance of the impugned notice of breach of privilege dated 28.8.2017, based on the incident dated 19.7.2017, suffers from a foundational error of assuming the conduct of the petitioners to be prohibited by the notification dated 23.5.2017, and we hold accordingly,” the bench said in its order. However, the judges left it to the privilege committee to deliberate upon the issue, any further, in case it is still of the opinion that any breach has been conducted of the privileges of the House by the MLAs. The DMK had made the gutkha scam, in which senior police officers are alleged to have been involved, a major issue in the Assembly. The scam refers to huge bribes paid to those in the administration to ensure the sale of gutkha, which is a banned substance in Tamil Nadu, in the market, despite the ban. After the Speaker referred the conduct of the MLAs in the House to the Privileges Committee, the DMK MLAs moved the Madras High Court challenging the proceedings. In all, 21 MLAs had moved the court against the proceedings – 2 legislators have died since then. Responding to the verdict, Stalin said the High Court has saved democracy through the verdict and reiterated that the banned substance is still available in the market. “Why was no action taken against the Minister who received money?” he asked. The CBI is probing the gutkha scam and has conducted raids in the premises belonging to Health Minister C Vijayabhaskar, former DGP T K Rajendran, and former Chennai Police Commissioner S George.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madras-high-court-sets-aside-privilege-proceedings-against-m-k-stalin-18-other-dmk-mlas-877714.html
25-08-2020||South||Setback for Kerala's CPM govt as High Court allows CBI probe into Kasargod twin murders||The CPM-led Left Front government in Kerala faced a setback on Tuesday when the Kerala High Court rejected an appeal by the Kerala government against an earlier order for a CBI probe into the murder of two Youth Congress workers at Kasargod district in North Kerala in February 2019. The Pinarayi Vijayan-led state government has been accused of filing the appeal as the accused in the case were CPM workers. The division bench of the HC also reportedly pointed out serious flaws in the investigation by the Kerala police, especially into the conspiracy behind the murder. However, the court set aside single bench's order scrapping the police chargesheet and allowed the CBI to file a supplementary chargesheet. The single bench had earlier pointed out serious lapses in the police investigation. The CBI had recently maintained that they could not take over the probe as the appeal against the order for the CBI probe was pending with the court. Youth Congress workers of Periya, Kripesh, 24, and Sarathlal, 29, were killed on February 17, 2019. The police probe concluded that personal rivalry led to the murder and chargesheet was filed against 14 persons, including local CPM activists. The Congress had used this case during the Lok Sabha election campaign to accuse the CPM of promoting political murders. The families of the deceased, with the backing of the Congress, had approached the court seeking a CBI probe into the murders. The state government had even hired senior lawyers for representation in the case, which was also criticised. Kerala Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala had flayed the government for wasting public money by hiring senior lawyers to sabotage the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/setback-for-keralas-cpm-govt-as-high-court-allows-cbi-probe-into-kasargod-twin-murders-877718.html
25-08-2020||South||Thiruvananthapuram's Lord Padmanabha Swamy temple to open tomorrow||After over five months, devotees will be allowed to offer worship at the famous Lord Padmanabha Swamy temple from Wednesday adhering to strict Covid-19 protocols. The temple had not allowed worshippers since March 21 due to the pandemic. "We have made adequate arrangements for devotees. Floor markings have been made to ensure social distancing of devotees. Barricades have also been set up," temple sources told P T I. Followers will have to book for darshan online through the temple website "spst.in" a day ahead of their visit to the shrine and before 5 pm, keep a copy of the same and carry their original Aadhaar card along with them during the temple visit. A counter has been set up at the North gate from where the devotees have to enter and they have to write their details in a register, the sources said. At each point of time only 35 devotees would be allowed inside the shrine and a maximum of 665 people a day. Those over 60 and children less than 10 years of age would not be allowed to offer prayers. The darshan is from 8 am to 11 am and from 5 pm to deeparadhana around 6.45 pm, a temple press release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/thiruvananthapurams-lord-padmanabha-swamy-temple-to-open-tomorrow-877727.html
25-08-2020||South||Madras HC sets aside privilege notices against Stalin, 18 other DMK MLAs for displaying 'gutkha' in TN assembly||The Madras High Court on Tuesday set aside the breach of privilege notices against 19 DMK MLAs, including party president M K Stalin, saying it suffered a "foundational error" in assuming their action of displaying gutkha in the Tamil Nadu assembly in 2017 to be prohibited in law and also violated Constitutional rights. The first bench of Chief Justice A P Sahi and Justice Senthil Kumar Ramamoorthy, passing final orders on a batch of petitions from Stalin and others, however, granted liberty to authorities for initiation of the privilege proceedings afresh. On July 19, 2017, DMK members, led by Stalin, had displayed sachets of 'gutkha' a banned product, which is a mixture of chewing tobacco and betel nut, in the House. Speaker P Dhanapal referred it to the Privileges Committee. The Opposition party MLAs, held gutkha packs while seeking to raise an issue of the "availability," of banned products. Twenty-one MLAs, who were issued a notice for alleged breach of privilege on August 28, 2017, challenged it by filing writ petitions in the High Court, while two of them, J Anbazhagan and K P P Samy died this year. The court, noting that exhibiting gutkha was not disputed, said the only question was as to whether gutkha could be treated as a prohibited item in law for the purpose of the display inside the assembly. "The issuance of the impugned notice of breach of privilege based on the incident suffers from a foundational error of assuming the conduct of the petitioners to be prohibited by the notification dated 23.5.2017, and we hold accordingly," the bench said. The notification in 2017 was made by the Tamil Nadu government prohibiting the manufacture, storage, transport, distribution and sale of gutkha. The law relating to prohibition of a gutkha sachet being possessed by an individual, which as per the "peculiar facts" is not alleged to be for consumption, nor was it meant to be storage, transportation or possession for sale resulting in consumption, cannot be construed as an act prohibited under the notification, the court said. "There is no law, nor was any shown to us that a mere display of a gutkha sachet which was with the clear intention of drawing the attention of the entire assembly towards an alleged apathy of the government in not tackling the menace of free sale of gutkha in Tamil Nadu was conduct prohibited under the notification." The court said, on behalf of the petitioners, that the foundational facts of treating the petitioners's conduct as prohibited in law suffered from a totally erroneous approach. "The action of the Committee of Privileges in issuing the impugned notices treating the conduct of the petitioners to be one that is prohibited by law, in the present case by the notification is erroneous and violates the constitutional rights of the petitioners under Article 194 of the Constitution," the judgement said. The wordings in the impugned notices suffered from gross illegality of a fundamental error and therefore a step in that context in furtherance of the show cause for a breach of privilege is unwarranted. On judicial review, the court said it was is not supposed to be viewed as policing, but rather conserving and preserving the rule of law so as to ensure that all authorities act within the confines of their power in an accountable way. Citing various verdicts, the judges said they were convinced that in the present case "we are called upon to determine a pure question of law on the admitted facts relating to the ramifications of the notification." The court said the petitioners cannot be proceeded against on the strength of the impugned notices by treating their conduct of displaying gutkha sachets and photographs as being violative of any prohibitory law, particularly the notification of 2017. The bench made it clear that its conclusion was confined only to the interpretation of the notification vis-a-vis the specific conduct of the MLAs inside the House that was made the basis for the issuance of the notice of breach of privilege. It should not be construed as an interpretation regarding prosecution or trial of any offence before a competent forum arising out of the notification of 2017, it said. Whether there was a breach of privilege or not is a matter within the realm of the House for which the Privileges Committee can proceed to answer the same, the Judges said. "We leave it open to the Committee of Privileges, if it so chooses, to deliberate upon the issue any further in case it still is of the opinion that any breach has been committed of the privileges of the House by the petitioners," they said. In such an event, the petitioners would be at liberty to raise all objections that they raised before the court or otherwise available in law, the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madras-hc-sets-aside-privilege-notices-against-stalin-18-other-dmk-mlas-for-displaying-gutkha-in-tn-assembly-877734.html
25-08-2020||South||Is this mask world’s most affordable N95 equivalent?||A mask claimed to be the world’s most affordable N95 equivalent was launched at the Indian Institute of Technology Hyderabad on Tuesday. The US9™ Respirator Mask’s protection costs Rs 13 per day, with a filter change for fresh use. It has 98.03 percent PM0.3 filtration rate and 99.7 percent bacterial filtration rate, which is better than N95 standards, the makers said. The reusable hood, to be washed after every use, is priced separately at Rs 499 per piece. A pack of 30 filters comes at Rs 399. US9 was developed by USafe Healthcare, a startup incubated by the IITH’s Center for Healthcare Entrepreneurship (CfHE), currently focused on developing protective equipment against Covid-19. “The mask is highly durable and adheres to the highest safety standards for use in hazardous environments, especially the healthcare sector and for the frontline workers. Arguably, US9 is technically the most advanced and affordable respiratory safety device in India and substantially more effective in protection against the COVID-19 virus than the present masks in the market,” IITH said in a press statement. The home-grown innovation was designed, developed, and produced in collaboration with IIT Hyderabad. “US9™ Respirator mask, made in line with the ‘Make in India’ and ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ objectives, helps the society fight this pandemic in a very effective manner,” Prof BS Murty, director, IITH says. The filtration for the filter cartridges in the respirator was certified by the South India Textile Research Association (SITRA), a National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories designated agency for particulate and bacterial filtration testing in India. The mask is designed for a snug fit with complete silicone seal and fitting tests were carried out at IITH using an infrared camera. “The innovative reusability in US9 mask reduces the recurring costs and drastically reduces the biowaste generation,” said Jayesh Ranjan, principal secretary, industries, Telangana government while describing US9 as a significant contribution from IITH and Telangana towards fighting the Covid-19 pandemic, during the launch. “We are supplying the product to top hospitals in Hyderabad and received tremendous response. Now we plan to make the US9 mask available pan-India,” said Dr Sai Laxman Bharadwaj, USafe co-founder and technical director.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/is-this-mask-world-s-most-affordable-n95-equivalent-877753.html
25-08-2020||South||DMDK says it wants Vijaykanth to be 'King' in 2021 Tamil Nadu polls||AIADMK ally DMDK on Tuesday said it wished to see its founder Vijayakanth as 'King' in next year's assembly elections in Tamil Nadu, remarks that did not appear to go well with the ruling party which asserted it would lead the alliance. Vijayakanth's wife and DMDK Treasurer Premalatha said her party cadres' wish is their 'Captain' (as Vijayakanth is addressed by his supporters) to be a 'king' (and not a kingmaker) in the next assembly election for which they favour going it alone. Her announcement, which came even as a host of AIADMK leaders led by Chief Minister K Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam wishing Vijayakanth on his 68th birthday today, appeared to have irked the ruling party. Senior AIADMK leader and Fisheries Minister D Jayakumar asserted that the assembly polls next year will be fought under his party's leadership and the alliance formed during 2019 Lok Sabha elections will continue for the hustings in 2021 as well. He, however, said the DMDK leader's statement did not indicate a rift in the alliance. AIADMK led the NDA in the state in the last Lok Sabha polls and the other key constituents included BJP and the PMK. "It is the wish of our cadres that the DMDK leader Vijayakanth should be the King," Premalatha told reporters here after distributing sweets to party members at his residence here on his birthday. Asked if her party will face the assembly election in the present alliance or go it alone, she replied, "there is still plenty of time for polls." In due course, Vijayakanth will convene the party's executive committee and general council and announce the stand in December or January. "We are still in the AIADMK alliance now," she said and added that during a recent video conference interaction, the party cadres expressed their wish that Vijayakanth is a 'king' and that DMDK should face the polls by itself. "Our cadres are enthused and have huge expectations in the 2021 assembly polls," Premalatha said. Responding to Premalatha's remarks, Jayakumar said that "she has only expressed her view. The DMDK is still in AIADMK's alliance." Premalatha's statement should not be construed as a rift in ties or weakening of the AIADMK. We are still a formidable force as we had been under the leadership of late M G Ramachandran or Jayalalithaa. The next assembly election will be fought under the AIADMK leadership," Jayakumar said. Incidentally, BJP state vice president V P Duraisamy had recently said that being a national party, the BJP has the right to lead the alliance in 2021 polls. Vijayakanth, a popular actor who launched his Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam in 2005, went on become the Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly in 2011 when he joined hands with late Jayalalithaa who stormed to the power that year. He parted ways with her after a spat in the assembly later and faced the 2016 elections as part of the People's Welfare Front which included the two Left parties and Vaiko-led MDMK, only to draw a blank. However, Vijayakanth joined the NDA in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmdk-says-it-wants-vijaykanth-to-be-king-in-2021-tamil-nadu-polls-877763.html
25-08-2020||South||Blunt injuries found on bodies of Tamil Nadu custodial death victims, says CBI||A total of 30 blunt injuries were found on the bodies of P Jeyaraj and his son Emmanuel Bennix, who died due to injuries suffered allegedly during police custody, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) said on Tuesday, quoting the post-mortem reports of the father-son duo. While 17 injuries were found on Jeyaraj, the number of injuries on Bennix’s body was 13. Jeyaraj and Bennix were arrested by the Sathankulam police in Thoothukudi district on June 19 over an argument and returned as lifeless bodies three days later. While Bennix died on June 22, his father died on June 23, triggering a wave of protests and outrage. The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court handed over the case to the CB-CID wing of the Tamil Nadu police before the CBI took over. The CBI told the court on Tuesday about the injuries during a hearing of the bail petitions filed by three suspended policemen. Judge V Bharathidasan rejected the bail plea of the policemen. The investigation hit a roadblock after seven sleuths from the CBI tested positive for the virus. As many as 10 policemen were booked for their role in the case of the custodial death, while only five of them were arrested. One arrested policeman died due to Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/blunt-injuries-found-on-bodies-of-tamil-nadu-custodial-death-victims-says-cbi-877776.html
25-08-2020||South||First government dental lab set up in Kerala||A dental lab set up by the Kerala government here on Tuesday is claimed to be the first of its kind in the country's government sector. The Rs 1.30-core facility is aimed at manufacturing dentures, dental bridges, dental crowns and inlay and outlay procedures. It would also facilitate research in the field. State Health Minister K K Shailaja inaugurated the facility associated with the Thiruvananthapuram government dental college on Tuesday. According to the minister's office, it is the first such facility in the government sector in the state. It would be of relief to the common people who approach government hospitals for dental-related treatment as so far private labs were mainly depended upon for dentures. The centre was also set up as per Dental Council's norms that prescribe dental laboratory with a ceramic unit for dental colleges. Dental science students in government institutions in the state were also so far depending on private labs for practical experience.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/first-government-dental-lab-set-up-in-kerala-877799.html
25-08-2020||South||Fire at Kerala secretariat triggers allegations of destroying evidence in gold smuggling case||Amidst the allegations over Kerala gold smuggling racket's nexus with the Kerala government, a fire broke out at the state secretariat on Tuesday, triggering fresh accusations by opposition Congress and the BJP of an attempt to destroy evidences. The state secretariat witnessed tense scenes with the Kerala Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta himself asking the media and politicians to go out of the secretariat premises and the police arresting BJP state president K Surendran for staging a protest. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala of the Congress, who was later allowed the visit the spot after strong protests, later told reporters that he could learn from senior officials that files pertaining to foreign trips and designating VIP status were among those damaged and hence it was strongly suspected to be a bid to sabotage the gold smuggling and other related probes. The opposition also called for observing a black day in the state on Tuesday to protest against the incident. The fire broke out at the General Administration Department's political section by around 4.45 pm. There were recent reports that the NIA and Enforcement Directorate had sought details of diplomatic baggage that reached the state from the state protocol officer attached to the GAD.  The NIA also sought copies of video footage of the CCTV cameras of the secretariat. The CCTV footage was not yet provided by the secretariat authorities citing technical reasons over the large size of the file. Owing to these reasons, the opposition was raising strong suspicions over the fire. A section of officials said that electric short circuit was the reason for the fire and only filed pertaining to government guest house allotment mere destroyed. There were no casualties. The fire was immediately put off. Meanwhile, senior CPM leader and Industry Minister E P Jayarajan said that the involvement of opposition parties in setting the fire was suspected as they wanted to unleash a riot in the secretariat premises. According to sources, even as the government used to claim of hundred percent paperless file movement in the secretariat, about 20 percent of files were handled physically even now, especially confidential and super-sensitive ones. The fresh row has triggered hardly a day after the Pinarayi Vijayan government faced a no-confidence motion in the Assembly over the alleged links with the gold smuggling accused, apart from a series of other allegations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/fire-at-kerala-secretariat-triggers-allegations-of-destroying-evidence-in-gold-smuggling-case-877805.html
25-08-2020||South||Annamalai's induction part of BJP’s 'grand plans' for Tamil Nadu||Former IPS officer K Annamalai’s induction into the BJP cannot be seen in isolation, as he is part of the BJP’s concerted efforts to project itself as an alternative to the Dravidian ideology in Tamil Nadu and shed the Brahminic image it has acquired. BJP feels 36-year-old Annamalai, who retired from the Indian Police Service last year after serving in Karnataka for nine years, is a 'good catch' for the party as it leaves no stone unturned to make its presence felt in Tamil Nadu whose politics has been hegemonized by the DMK and AIADMK since 1967. With a Dalit L Murugan as the president, a former DMK man V P Duraisamy, who also belongs to the same community as one of the vice-presidents of the state unit, and by inducting leaders from Other Backward Class (OBC) and other communities, the BJP has taken the first step towards 'social engineering' in a state where it hardly has any presence, albeit for now. Annamalai hails from the dominant Gounder community, much like Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, and the BJP feels his 'clean image' and his 'impressive record' as a policeman would help to strike a chord with the youngsters and its cause for an alternative political ideology in the state. However, the party’s recruitment spree that has resulted in several people with criminal records getting appointed would sully its 'clean party' image. And the BJP has been reaching out to other dominant communities like Thevars in southern Tamil Nadu and Vanniyars in the northern part of the state for some time now. Gounders are a very dominant force in Western Tamil Nadu, comprising of seven districts, and the BJP feels the predominantly business community has a 'soft-corner' for them and inducting a man of their own might tilt at least a section of their votes towards the saffron party. The entrepreneurial Gounders have favoured a BJP government at the Centre and the party has a structure of its own in the western districts, especially in Coimbatore and Tiruppur. That Annamalai is already being criticized heavily for his views on the reservation and three language policy to cite a few is a different story altogether. Political analysts feel that mass recruitment of leaders and administrations from backward communities and other under-privileged sections are part of the BJP’s 'grand plans' for Tamil Nadu where they want to completely cut off the Dravidian baseline. BJP knows it will be a long haul for the party in Tamil Nadu, where the Dravidian ideology has been ruling the roost ever since the Congress was thrown out of power in 1967 by the then-fledgeling DMK, and dismantling the Dravidian majors in one election is almost impossible. It is also a fact that the BJP is still seen as a 'Hindian' party for its obsession with Hindi, but the saffron outfit is making every effort not to shed the image, but to change the people’s mind by 'counselling them on how a third language' would bring better employment and economic opportunities.  “They (BJP) are here, absolutely for a long haul. They want to completely cut off the Dravidian baseline because Tamil Nadu is the only state that challenges the BJP’s style of politics. And since Tamil Nadu possesses a distinct identity, they want to wipe it off and bring the state to the so-called mainstream,” Prof Ramu Manivannan, Head of the Department of Politics and Public Administration, University of Madras, told DH. He added that the BJP is attempting at a social engineering method that has been successfully implemented in Uttar Pradesh three decades ago, by bringing together communities that have felt marginalized by the ruling class in Tamil Nadu. Another political analyst, who did not wish to be quoted, told DH that the BJP wants to lead the anti-DMK stream in Tamil Nadu in the future and that is the reason the party has been trying to project the 2021 election as a fight between it and the DMK, much to the discomfiture of its ally AIADMK. “The BJP wants to attempt a social engineering method in Tamil Nadu like it did in many states, especially Uttar Pradesh. The party has been identifying communities that have not been adequately represented in politics and tapping them. Only time can tell how far they will be successful, but they are making a clear attempt to shed their pro-Brahmin image,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/annamalais-induction-part-of-bjp-s-grand-plans-for-tamil-nadu-877820.html
25-08-2020||State||Karnataka mulls reforms for additional borrowing||Karnataka is looking to push through two more major labour law reforms — elimination of licence renewals and streamlining industrial inspections — as doing this will allow the state to borrow an additional 2% of its gross state domestic product (GSDP), which is nearly Rs 17 lakh crore.  The Commerce & Industries department has asked the labour department to implement the reforms by September 15 and share “compliance evidence”.  These reforms are linked to Karnataka’s eligibility to borrow loans to manage the economic difficulty.  In May, the Centre raised the borrowing limit of states from 3% to 5% of the GSDP. However, incremental borrowing beyond 3.5% of GSDP is linked to reforms.  Last month, the BS Yediyurappa-led government, which is looking to raise money from the market, promulgated a pro-industry ordinance tweaking three labour-related laws. At 3% of the GSDP, Karnataka is eligible to borrow around Rs 50,000 crore. If it carries out reforms, it can borrow an additional Rs 15,000 crore. “The requirements for renewal of certificates/approvals/licences obtained by businesses for various activities has to be eliminated,” Commerce & Industries principal secretary Gaurav Gupta stated in a letter to Additional Chief Secretary (Labour) Rajkumar Khatri. “However, it is stated by the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) that mere collection of reasonable fees with automatic non-discretionary deemed renewal is permitted if done in a transparent, online, non-discretionary and automatic manner.”  The current licensing regime under Shops and Establishments Act, Contract Labour (Regulations and Abolition), Inter-State Migrant Workmen (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act and Factories Act will have to go.  Further, the Commerce & Industries department wants a ‘computerised central random inspection system’. “The same inspector is not to be assigned to the same unit in subsequent years, prior inspection notice has to be provided for business owners automatically and inspection report has to be uploaded within 48 hours of inspection,” Gupta has stated.  “These (reforms) will help. Businesses should not get bogged down with compliance requirements,” Gupta told DH. “By elimination of renewals, we mean something like long-term licences. And the centralised, computerised inspection will be a single portal across departments for which the labour department should take the ownership,” he said.  Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FKCCI) president CR Janardhan said deemed renewals will help. “That will help proprietors, who otherwise look at orders, delivery schedules, bank loans and statutory obligations, focus more on the daily operations,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-mulls-reforms-for-additional-borrowing-877355.html
25-08-2020||State||201 fresh cases, 6 more Covid-19 fatalities in Dakshina Kannada||The surge in Covid-19 cases and fatalities continued in Dakshina Kannada with the district administration recording 201 fresh cases and six more fatalities on Monday. Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V said that of the fresh cases, 128 are asymptomatic and 73 are symptomatic. Mangaluru taluk recorded the highest of 144 cases followed by 22 from Bantwal, 18 from other districts, five each in Puttur and Sullia and seven from Belthangady. The Covid-19 discharges outnumbered fresh cases on Monday. A total of 241 discharges were recorded in the district. Of the discharges, three are from Covid care centres, 180 from home isolation and 58 are from hospitals. The total Covid-19 cases in the district stand at 10,531 and 2,297 are undergoing treatment at various hospitals and under home isolation, added the DC. Of the fresh cases, 70 were suffering from Influenza Like Illness (ILI), and nine were suffering from SARI. The contact tracing of 72 infected is underway while 49 infected are the primary contacts of those already infected persons. The district has recorded six Covid fatalities, thus taking the tally of deaths to 316. Of the six deaths, three were from Mangaluru, two from Bantwal and one was from outside the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/201-fresh-cases-6-more-covid-19-fatalities-in-dakshina-kannada-877449.html
25-08-2020||State||Once again Manasi Sudhir hit on social media||Bharatnatyam dancer Manasi Sudhir who has grabbed the attention of many through her graceful gestures and expressions has surged in popularity on social media again. During the lockdown, she started experimenting with songs written by well-known litterateurs and infused life into it with her colourful, imaginative singing. With the music compositions of her Guru Gururaj Marpalli, she has sung many songs and uploaded them on YouTube, for which she has received appreciation from all quarters. The song 'Eni adbhutave gelathi enta adbhutave..' has already been viewed by over a lakh people. Manasi runs a dance school, `Nrityaniketana Kodavoor', with her husband, Sudhir Rao Kodavoor, an eminent Bharatnatyam artiste.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/once-again-manasi-sudhir-hit-on-social-media-877492.html
25-08-2020||State||Saavira Kambada Basadi listed among top architectural marvels in Fodor’s||The 1000-pillar Basadi (Saavira Kambada Basadi) of Moodbidri has figured in the top 13 Jain Temples with incredible architecture in the latest edition of Fodor’s, a publication on travel and tourism information.   Elated about it, Jaina Mutt seer Bhattaraka Charukeerthi said, “It is a matter of pride that Saavira Kambada Basadi is one among the architectural marvels of the country. The Basadi is known for its architectural splendour, for its intricate carving. Theerthankara Jinabimba's works spread the message of Sarvadharma Samanvaya.” He said the Basadi is in the third position among the architectural wonders. “The Basadi has a staggering number of beautifully-carved pillars lining its halls and no two are the same,” said Fodor’s. The first two spots were taken by Ranakpur Jain Temple, Rajasthan and the Dilwara Temples of Mount Abu. Chaturmukha Basadi in Karkala has attained fourth place. The Basadi is a four-sided structure with identical gates so that the idols can be seen from all four directions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/saavira-kambada-basadi-listed-among-top-architectural-marvels-in-fodor-s-877499.html
25-08-2020||State||Report on losses due to rain to be compiled after meeting with officials on Wednesday, says B S Yediyurappa||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said that losses caused due to rains and flood-like situation in Belagavi and Dharwad districts has been reviewed during the meeting with elected representatives and officials. Another meeting will be held in Bengaluru on Wednesday to compile the losses before deciding on compensation. Speaking to reporters after a review meeting at the airport here on Tuesday, Yediyurappa said, losses caused due to rains and floods during the previous year and current monsoon have been reviewed. Compensation for crop losses will be released soon and officials have been asked to ensure that its not misused. Finances of the state were not good due to Covid-19 situation, yet government has been paying salaries of it's employees. We hope that the situation will come to normal in next two to three months, he said. Roads and bridges have been damaged in the rains. Elected representatives have requested for funds for patchwork, he said. Yediyurappa said that the losses of houses and crops will be released as per NDRF norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/report-on-losses-due-to-rain-to-be-compiled-after-meeting-with-officials-on-wednesday-says-b-s-yediyurappa-877585.html
25-08-2020||State||Mysuru Police Commissioner Chandragupta, KSRP ACP test positive for Covid-19||Mysuru City Police Commissioner Chandragupta and KSRP ACP Bharat Raj tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday night. They are under home isolation and being treated. As the Commissioner had attended a meeting on Independence Day celebration at the Zilla Panchayat Hall, along with Superintendent of Police C B Ryshyanth, chaired by District in-charge Minister S T Somasekhar, Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar and district-level officers, he was under home quarantine and tested, even though he was asymptomatic. It has to be recalled that Ryshyanth had tested positive on August 17. He too was asymptomatic. Besides, Abhiram G Sankar was under quarantine, as his driver had tested positive for coronavirus on August 15. 92 Police officials, including Inspector General of Police Southern Range Vipul Kumar, SP Ryshyanth, and then Additional SP P V Sneha, were under quarantine as a police personnel had tested positive for the deadly virus in the fourth week of June. The IGP, SP and ASP were under home quarantine, while other officers were in facility quarantine, since June 21. All the 92 policemen tested negative on June 26.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru-police-commissioner-chandragupta-ksrp-acp-test-positive-for-covid-19-877594.html
25-08-2020||State||Yediyurappa to visit New Delhi to seek funds from centre for flood losses||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said that a proposal to seek adequate compensation for losses suffered due to rains and floods in the state will be prepared after holding a meeting with all legislators in the state. A detailed report will be sent to the centre. Yediyurappa said he would visit New Delhi next week to seek more funds for the state. The Chief Minister held a meeting with elected representatives and officials from Belagavi and Dharwad districts regarding the losses suffered due to rains and flood like situation in both the districts at the airport here on Tuesday. He called the MLAs to respond to the grievances of the people from their constituencies. Due to Covid-19 situation, emergency funds for work will be released under NDRF. He also directed the deputy commissioners to send reports regarding the losses suffered and funds required at the earliest. Belagavi district has availability of funds to the tune of Rs 412 crore for flood management and emergent work. More funds if required, would be released. Rs 174 crore is to be used for the construction of houses and the rest for road repairs and other work. Funds to the tune of Rs 488 crore have been released for 44,156 beneficiaries from Belagavi district who lost their houses, he informed. Yediyurappa said, problems from Belagavi and Dharwad have come to his notice. Due to Covid-19 situation, based on the finances of state measures will be taken to release funds for houses and crop damages. Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi spoke about the flood situation. Revenue Minister R Ashok informed that decision on opening software link for compensation of those who lost houses in previous years floods will be taken soon. Home Minister Basavarj Bommai, Water Resources and Belagavi District Incharge Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi and Industries and Dharwad District Incharge Minister Jagadish Shettar gave information about the measures taken to manage the flood situation. Elected representatives from Belagavi and Dharwad districts explained the situation in their respective constituencies and sought more funds from the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/yediyurappa-to-visit-new-delhi-to-seek-funds-from-centre-for-flood-losses-877623.html
25-08-2020||State||Covid-19: IAS body asks Karnataka government to stand by its officers||The IAS Officers’ Association, Karnataka, has asked the state government to “stand by its officers” while making a case in support of 2014-batch officer Prashant Kumar Mishra, who is facing an FIR in connection with the death of Nanjangud taluk health officer SR Nagendra. Mishra, the Mysuru Zilla panchayat chief executive officer, has been transferred without a posting following outrage over Nagendra’s alleged suicide due to work pressure. Lodging FIR against Mishra, the Association said, has “brought down the morale of field officers and such acts will deteriorate the administrative efficiency and effectiveness.” The Association said the government should support the hard work put in by all officers at the field level. “IAS officers on Covid duty have been working non-stop 24/7,” the Association added. “This was a very unfortunate incident and no one knows what prompted the doctor to take such a step. To blame an officer for doing his duty is not the right approach. The insinuations about one’s character and media trial do irreparable damage.” The Association’s statement, which does not name Mishra, is signed by its honorary secretary Pankaj Kumar Pandey, the commissioner for health and family welfare. “In the bureaucracy, virtually every department has been entrusted with Covid-19 work to assist the health department and bring down its burden,” the Association pointed out, adding that all deputy commissioners and CEOs have been “persistently” implementing Covid-19 guidelines. “The suicide of taluk health officer, Nanjangud is very unfortunate and our heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family. However, holding senior officers responsible for it is unjust,” the Association said. “The broad framework and guidelines to control Covid-19 pandemic are given by the government and senior officers in the district are only implementing that to the best of their capacity,” it said, seeking “a pragmatic and sensitive approach” towards officers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-ias-body-asks-karnataka-government-to-stand-by-its-officers-877692.html
25-08-2020||State||Government tails sugar factories for Rs 365 crore bad debt||Cooperation Minister ST Somashekhar on Tuesday moved to act against sugar factories that have defaulted on loans borrowed from cooperative banks. At a meeting to review the district cooperative central (DCC) banks, Somashekhar found that 119 sugar factories had outstanding loans worth Rs 5,229 crore of which Rs 4,864 crore was active. “But loans amounting to Rs 365 crore have become non-performing assets (NPA). I have sought a comprehensive report on this to be given to me within a week,” Somashekhar said. Many sugar factories are owned by politicians. “There’s no question of protecting anyone,” he added. “I have asked for details such as which sugar factory owes how much, who the owner is, when the loan was given and so on. I will make these details public once I get them,” the minister said. Somashekhar said he had directed officials to come out with a policy to govern lending to sugar factories. “Lending should be based on repayment capacity,” he said. It was also decided to organize a statewide ‘loan mela’ to help the poor and middle class, Somashekhar announced. The DCC banks in Belagavi, Kalaburagi, Bengaluru and Mysuru divisions will be made ‘Janasnehi’ (people-friendly) banks and steps will be taken to extend credit facilities to the poor, middle-class people, he said. So far, DCC banks have given crop loans worth Rs 842 crore to 1.10 lakh farmers SC/ST farmers. Overall, 22.52 lakh farmers got Rs 13,577 crore in crop loans in 2019-20 fiscal. “Repayment rate is 94%, which is good,” Somashekhar noted. The credit target for 2020-21 is Rs 14,500 crore for 24.50 lakh farmers, he said. During the Covid-19 pandemic, 41,836 Asha workers out of the total 42,537 have received an incentive of Rs 3,000 each. “The incentive will be distributed among the rest soon,” the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/government-tails-sugar-factories-for-rs-365-crore-bad-debt-877765.html
25-08-2020||State||DULT takes bus priority lanes idea to tier-II cities||In an effort to take the bus priority lane to tier-II cities and prepare them to meet the future demand for transport systems, the Directorate of Urban Land Transport (DULT) has invited proposals from urban local bodies (ULBs).  There are 10 municipal corporations and 59 city municipal councils in the state, some of which witnessed considerable growth in population. The project will help those cities that are already witnessing huge demand for public transport. Officials have learnt from the experience in Bengaluru, where it took years to set up bus lanes on the Outer Ring Road (ORR), though such a facility was included in the conception of the ORR. The Cities on the Move Challenge that carries the tagline ‘Where there is a bus, there is a way,’ will help smaller cities focus on moving people instead of vehicles. DULT Commissioner V Manjula said proposals will be finalised based on merit and after looking into the value-for-money aspect. “DULT had previously funded tier-II cities to implement public transport by sharing 50% of the vehicle cost. Many cities started city bus services. Now, we want to encourage them to take the next step at a time when traffic there is still manageable,” she said. To participate in the challenge, ULBs have to register their interest, following which the DULT will conduct a workshop to guide them on the components of the bus lane project. The ULBs will then send a draft proposal, which will be reviewed thoroughly before arriving at the final proposal. The directorate will fund the project, which includes demarcation and junction improvements.  The exercise has been taken up to utilise the situation brought about by Covid-19, to strategise and implement sustainable transport solutions. DULT has also been pushing for pop-up bicycle lanes in Bengaluru and other cities, where the public was called on to mark the cycle routes. DULT has received more than 130 files suggesting routes where people want to see the cycle lanes. Data has also been taken from public bicycle operators as well. Further, routes have been mapped under the Cycle To Work platform by 156 companies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/dult-takes-bus-priority-lanes-idea-to-tier-ii-cities-877807.html
25-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||D K Shivakumar tests positive for Covid-19; admitted to hospital in Bengaluru||According to sources, Shivakumar was admitted to Suguna Hospital in Rajajinagar on Monday night.  On Sunday, Shivakumar decided to call off his visit to the flood-hit areas in Belagavi and Bagalkot districts. “On health grounds, postponing my visit by three days to the flood-affected regions of Belagavi and Bagalkot districts which were scheduled on August 24 and 25th,” he had tweeted.  AICC interim president Sonia Gandhi, former party president Rahul Gandhi and the party’s general secretary KC Venugopal spoke to Shivakumar over phone and wished him speedy recovery. They spoke to him over phone on Tuesday afternoon, according to a statement from Shivakumar’s office.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/d-k-shivakumar-tests-positive-for-covid-19-admitted-to-hospital-in-bengaluru-877563.html
25-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Report getting ready to seek flood relief from Centre: Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Tuesday said a report was being prepared to secure Centre's assistance for the flood ravaged parts, as he also expressed confidence that the financial situation of the state would improve in two to three months. The Chief Minister, who is on a visit to flood-hit districts and to conduct an aerial survey of the situation there, also said, the government was honestly working towards providing relief and rehabilitation to those affected. "Survey is going on regarding the losses, how can we know it immediately? estimates are being worked out. Once that report comes, we will forward it to the Centre to get all possible help. Report is getting ready..," Yediyurappa said in response to a question. Speaking to reporters at Belagavi, he said, on going back to Bengaluru, after conducting the aerial survey of the affected areas, he will once again discuss with the officials in this connection. The Chief Minister today reviewed the situation due to recent rains and floods, also relief measures undertaken so far, with the elected representatives and officials of Belagavi and Dharwad districts. Pointing out that due to Covid-19 reasons the state's economic situation was not good, Yediyurappa said despite this, most probably in the entire country, Karnataka is the only state where there was no disruption in payment of salary to government employees. "The government was also releasing money for developmental works as much as possible, as per the requirement," he said adding that "most probably in two to three months financial conditions may get better." The CM assured that his government would honestly work on rebuilding the houses that collapsed last year and this year due to rains and floods, and restore roads and bridges that have seen extensive damages. On crop relief, the Chief Minister said, he has instructed officials to ensure that there is no misuse and work in this regard should happen with honesty and caution. "I assure that as per central government and NDRF rules whatever is possible, I will honestly work beyond my limits to do it," he added. The state government had earlier this month said according to the initial assessment Rs 4,000 crore loss has been incurred due to floods. It had also requested the Centre to provide additional special assistance of Rs 4,000 crore, other than NDRF norms, to address the situation amid the pandemic. According to the latest data available, at least 12 districts have been affected by floods and rains since August 1, in which 20 people have lost their lives, while three are missing and ss many as 66 animals died. Ninety two relief camps have been opened across these 12 districts, where 4,485 people are taking shelter. While 385 houses are completely damaged, 7,238 have seen partial damages. Also, agriculture crops in about 89,440 ha and horticulture crops in over 51,803 ha have been affected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/report-getting-ready-to-seek-flood-relief-from-centre-karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-877603.html
25-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Karnataka's Dakshina Kannada district opens all borders||With the Karnataka government lifting travel restrictions for people from outside the state, Dakshina Kannada (DK) district administration has opened all its borders for passengers from Kerala. Dakshina Kannada district deputy commissioner K V Rajendra said the rules prescribed in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic have been revised and passengers entering Karnataka from other states need not undergo quarantine and there will be no checks at border points. All the borders with Kasaragod district in Kerala have been opened with effect from Monday evening and there are no restrictions on people coming in from other states. However, people from Karnataka visiting other states have to follow the rules prevailing in the respective states, he said. Meanwhile, BJP's Kasaragod district unit staged a protest on the Kerala-Karnataka border at Talapady Tuesday against the travel restrictions by the Kasaragod district administration which is continuing with the pass system for those who commute daily to Mangaluru. The protestors, numbering around 100, entered Dakshina Kannada in the morning violating the pass rule from the border, demanding that Kerala government also relax travel rules on the lines of Karnataka. BJP district president K Srikanth inaugurated the protest, which was held adhering to Covid-19 norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-karnatakas-dakshina-kannada-district-opens-all-borders-877672.html
25-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka ready to resume inter-state bus services||Karnataka is preparing to restart inter-state bus services with life returning to normalcy amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “Our transport corporations are ready to resume bus operations to Goa, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Telangana,” Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi, the state’s transport minister, said in a statement. “But we are yet to get a green signal from these states,” he said. State-owned KSRTC, NEKRTC and NWKRTC are ready to operate bus services, Savadi said. Karnataka, however, is not willing to send its buses into Maharashtra just yet. Savadi said a decision on bus services to Maharashtra will be taken next month. “With the situation having gotten better, we have already started bus services to Andhra Pradesh,” Savadi said. “Keeping in mind public demand to restart buses to Goa, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Telangana, the Transport department has written a letter seeking the opinion of these states. We expect a positive response from these states soon,” Savadi said. Before the Covid-19 lockdown was imposed, Karnataka had 2,500 buses going into the neighbouring states daily. It is widely expected that Unlock 4.0, which will kick in from September 1, will see more and more services being freed up. Easing inter-state travel, Karnataka has ordered ‘discontinuation’ of several screening and surveillance procedures at its borders, bus stands, railway stations and airports.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-ready-to-resume-inter-state-bus-services-877726.html
25-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 8,161 new Covid-19 cases, total discharges breach two-lakh mark||Karnataka on Tuesday reported a sharp spike of 8,161 new Covid-19 cases and 148 related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 2,91,826 and the death toll to 4,958, the Health department said. The day also saw 6,814 patients getting discharged after recovery, taking the total number of discharges so far past the two lakh mark. Of the 8,161 fresh cases reported today, 2,294 cases were from Bengaluru Urban alone. As of August 25 evening, cumulatively 2,91,826 Covid- 19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 4,958 deaths and 2,04,439 discharges, the Health department said in its bulletin. It said, out of the 82,410 active cases, 81,659 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 751 are in ICU. As many as 61 of the 148 deaths reported on Tuesday were from Bengaluru Urban, followed by Mysuru (16), Dharwad (8), Ballari and Koppal (6), Davangere, Haveri and Shivamogga (5), Tumakuru and Vijayapura (4). Most of the dead are either with a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Influenza-like illness (ILI). Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 2,294, followed by Mysuru 1,331 (backlog of 4 days), Ballari (551), Davangere (318), Belagavi (298), Shivamogga (276), Dakshina Kannada (247), Koppal (238) and Kalaburagi (227) among others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 1,12,087 infections, followed by Ballari (18,536) and Mysuru (13,929). Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with a total of 74,901 followed by Ballari (12,748) and Mysuru (10,011). A total of 25,13,555 samples were tested so far, out of which 59,787 were tested on Tuesday alone. Among the samples tested today 24,587 were rapid antigen tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-8161-new-covid-19-cases-total-discharges-breach-two-lakh-mark-877759.html
25-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||189 legislators, 12 institutes adopt over 700 govt schools||The school adoption programme has received tremendous response, with 189 legislators coming forward to adopt more than 600 government schools in their constituencies.  Though the programme existed for several years, it is for the first time the elected representatives came forward in such a large number and adopted at least three government schools in their constituencies. This is the response received after Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa included the recommendation by Prof M R Doreswamy, advisor to the government (education reforms), on compulsory adoption of government schools by legislators in the budget, asking elected representatives to adopt schools in their constituencies.  Sharing the details of the number of schools adopted so far, Doreswamy told a press conference on Tuesday, “As many as 189 legislators have adopted over 600 government schools in their constituencies. This includes 10 schools adopted by Yediyurappa.” “Following our recommendation, the chief minister included the concept in the budget. We have written letters to each elected representative, requesting that they adopt at least three government schools in their constituencies. We have received overwhelming response,” said Doreswamy.  The duration of the adoption is three years and those who have adopted can work for the development and upgradation of the school (academically and infrastructure-wise). “Those who have adopted can construct toilets, provide safe drinking water facilities, construct compound walls, appoint additional teachers, etc, in the school” he said. Apart from lawmakers, private and state-run universities have adopted around 120 government schools. As per the details provided by Doreswamy, eight private and four government-run universities have adopted a total of 120 government schools.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/189-legislators-12-institutes-adopt-over-700-govt-schools-877764.html
25-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 audit: PAC chief critical of CAG delay||The Public Accounts Committee (PAC) has written a stinging letter to the Comptroller & Auditor General (CAG), questioning the delay in a special audit into the alleged financial misappropriation by the BJP government in Covid-19 relief measures. According to sources, in response to the PAC’s request for a special audit in the matter, the CAG stated that the issue would be compiled as part of the 2019-20 performance audit. The PAC is of the view that such an approach would entirely defeat the purpose of the inquiry.  In his letter addressed to Principal Accountant General (Audit-I) E P Nivedita, PAC chairperson H K Patil questioned the rationale behind the delay in the special audit. “Even though the issue related to procurement in the department took place after March 2020, the CAG has proposed to include it in the performance audit of 2019-20. The CAG has also mentioned in its letter that one month as suggested by PAC will not be sufficient in finalising audit report due to prevalent pandemic. “The committee is aware of the situations and the time required may be scientifically worked out with efficiently mobilising available resources. However, we feel that it must be the first instance wherein CAG is failing to appreciate dire need for the special audit of a department where the committee had discussed in length about the probable mismanagement of funds, that too in presence of representative of CAG,” Patil, a senior Congress leader, wrote.    The PAC, in its meeting on August 4 had decided to request for a special audit to CAG in the wake of allegation of financial misappropriation in Covid-19 equipment procurement.  The Patil-led committee is already looking into allegations of irregularities in the procurement of Covid-19 equipment.  This delay in conducting the special audit was against the interest of people of the state, Patil said. “The Public Accounts Committee and CAG are public bodies, constitutional obligation is of paramount importance in acting as watchdog of finances. In the instant case it not only pertains about money but also the lives of the people...,” Patil stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-audit-pac-chief-critical-of-cag-delay-877800.html
25-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa to meet PM Modi after Sept 12 to seek funds for flood relief||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi after September 12 seeking more assistance from the Centre as flood relief. “The financial position of the state and the centre is not satisfactory on account of Covid-19 pandemic. However, I am trying to get funds evern under this critical condition. I have discussed with Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman about Karnataka’s share of Rs 13,000 crore in the GST. The GST council meeting scheduled for August 27 will take a decision in this regard,” Yediyurappa said. He was speaking to reporters after offering bagina to River Krishna at Almatti dam in Vijayapura district on Tuesday. Yediyurappa said that financial assistance would also be sought for increasing the height of Almatti reservoir from the present 519 meter to 524.25 meter and for completing all the pending Upper Krishna Project works. “If necessary, we will borrow money for utilising the state’s share of Krishna waters as determined by the Krishna Tribunal,” he said. The chief minister also conducted an aerial survey of the areas affected by floods in Belagavi and Bagalkot districts. Revenue Minister R Ashoka, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi accompanied him. Meanwhile, the chief minister had to face the wrath of farmers protesting against the amendments brought to the Land Reforms Act. The farmers had been staging a protest at the entrance of the Sambra airport in Belagavi since morning. The police had allowed a few of them inside to enable the protesters submit a memorandum. However, the chief minister did not receive the memorandum. The enraged protesters raised slogans against the chief minister. Later, the farmers attempted to intercept the vehicles in which ministers Jagadish Shettar and Srimanth Patil were travelling. The police foiled their attempt. The workers of Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha and Hasiru Sene attempted to submit a memorandum to the chief minister at Almatti reservoir also.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-to-meet-pm-modi-after-sept-12-to-seek-funds-for-flood-relief-877802.html
25-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka BJP hopes to cash in on Annamalai’s image||BJP leaders of Karnataka on Tuesday celebrated the induction of former IPS officer K Annamalai’s formal induction into the party, which they believe, can act as a bonus given his popularity.  Annamalai, who resigned last year from the IPS after serving in the state for nine years, has served in Udupi, Chikkamagaluru and Bengaluru South. He came to be known as ‘Singham’ for his tough, no-nonsense policing. It is said that the BJP will look to gain from Annamalai’s image. “Tamil Nadu’s youth are tired of dynasty politics. BJP has today given a self-made leader to TN. Annamalai’s entry in TN politics will give voice to all nationalist-minded Tamil youth who are very capable & talented,” Bangalore South MP Tejasvi Surya said in a tweet.  According to Mysore-Kodagu MP Pratap Simha, BJP national general secretary (organization) B L Santhosh was the one behind Annamalai’s entry into the BJP. “Few months ago, Santhosh played the pivotal role in bringing Pawan Kalyan to NDA fold (sic),” Simha tweeted. “Dear Tamil bros, welcome this guy with open heart, he will be an assent to Tamil Nadu politics.”  Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar, Tourism Minister C T Ravi, Udupi-Chikmagalur MP Shobha Karandlaje, among others, welcomed Annamalai’s entry into the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-bjp-hopes-to-cash-in-on-annamalai-s-image-877803.html
25-08-2020||West||MNS workers damage furniture at MSEDCL office||Activists of Raj Thackeray-led Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) on Monday created ruckus and damaged furniture at the office the State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) at Ambad in Jalna district over "inflated" power bills, police said. One person was arrested and seven others booked in connection with the incident. An official said a delegation of some MNS activists met MSEDCL officials earlier in the day to discuss the issue. "However, disagreement between two sides over some issues resulted into the incident," the official said. Police inspector Anirudhha Nandedkar said one person has been arrested. MNS had held protests at many places in the state over inflated power bills received by lakhs of people during the lockdown period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mns-workers-damage-furniture-at-msedcl-office-877379.html
25-08-2020||West||Covid-19: AYUSH Minister Shripad Naik's health stable, but recovery still far||The health of Union Minister of State for AYUSH and Defence Shripad Naik has stabilised, but recovery from Covid-19 still far away, a doctor examining the BJP leader said, even as the Congress on Tuesday demanded a daily medical bulletin with the details of the North Goa MP's health to be placed in the public domain. 67-year-old Naik, whose oxygen saturation levels had dropped on Monday, will not be airlifted to Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences for treatment, said Dr Shekhar Salkar, a top oncologist at Panaji’s Manipal Hospital and also a BJP state executive member. “He is good now. He is stable… He will need a long time to recover. It will not be a fast recovery,” said Salkar, who was accompanying a team of doctors from the AIIMS which had been dispatched to Goa late on Monday to examine Naik’s health. Naik tested coronavirus positive on August 12 and was initially in home isolation, but was hospitalised sone days later after his condition worsened.  At the Manipal Hospital, the Union Minister was administered high flow nasal oxygen and plasma treatment after which his health somewhat stabilised. After Monday’s dip in oxygen levels, Shripad Naik’s saturation levels had now stabilised at 95, Dr Salkar also said. Naik has already tested negative for Covid-19 according to a test carried out late on Monday. A second test is expected to be conducted later on Tuesday night. The Congress meanwhile has alleged that the state and the Central government was trying to create a web of secrecy around the health of Naik and demanded an issue of a medical bulletin detailing the condition of Naik every day until he was hospitalised. “For the last several days Union AYUSH Minister Shripad Naik is taking treatment in a private hospital. The Goa government and central government has not issued a health bulletin. Shripad Naik is a public servant and a Union Minister. Information about his health should be released to the people. We demand of the state and central governments to issue a health bulletin with details of Naik’s health immediately,” State Congress president Girish Chodankar has demanded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-ayush-minister-shripad-naiks-health-stable-but-recovery-still-far-877398.html
25-08-2020||West||19 persons still missing in Maharashtra building collapse, says Raigad SP||A day after a five-storeyed building in Maharashtra's Raigad district collapsed, rescue personnel continued to sift through the rubble in search of survivors, while police said 19 persons are still missing. Raigad District Superintendent of Police Anil Paraskar told PTI that eight persons have been rescued from the debris so far and 19 are still missing. A man died of cardiac arrest on Monday night after he was hit by a stone from the falling building, the IPS officer said. "This person was not a resident of the building but was walking nearby when it collapsed and was hit by a stone from the falling debris. He died of cardiac arrest," Paraskar said. An official at the Mantralaya State Control Room of the State Disaster Management Unit said the Tarek Garden building collapsed at Kajalpura in Mahad tehsil around 7 pm. There were around 40 flats in the building, the official said, adding those rescued were shifted to a local hospital at Mahad, which is around 170 km from Mumbai. Teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) are at the spot for rescue operations. Canine squads were also deployed at the scene of the collapse, an official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/19-persons-still-missing-in-maharashtra-building-collapse-says-raigad-sp-877431.html
25-08-2020||West||Maharashtra building collapse: 64-year-old searches for daughter, 3 grandkids||Sixty four-year-old Muhammad Ali reached Mahad immediately after hearing news of a building there collapsing like a pack of cards. Ali, a resident of Mandangad in Raigad district, said he is clueless about the fate of his daughter, who lived in the ill-fated Tarek Garden building with her three children. "My son, who lives in Mumbai, called me on Monday night and said the building had collapsed. I immediately set out from Mandangad," he said. Ali reached Mahad, which is around 40 km from Mandangad, on Monday night and is camping near the collapse site, frantically trying to know the whereabouts of his kin. "My daughter lives in the building along with her two daughters aged five and two years and a son who is three years old. I don't know their fate. Officials are not allowing me to search for them in the debris," he said. A day after the five-storeyed building collapsed, rescue personnel continued to sift through the rubble in search of survivors, while police said 19 persons are still missing. An official at the Mantralaya State Control Room of the State Disaster Management Unit said the Tarek Garden building at Kajalpura in Mahad tehsil collapsed around 7 pm. There were around 40 flats in the building, the official said, adding those rescued were shifted to a local hospital at Mahad, which is around 170 km from Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-building-collapse-64-year-old-searches-for-daughter-3-grandkids-877461.html
25-08-2020||West||Local authorities, NDRF at building collapse site in Raigad providing all possible help: PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday expressed his sadness at a building collapse in Raigad in Maharashtra, and said local authorities and NDRF teams are providing all possible assistance at the site.  "Saddened by the building collapse in Mahad, Raigad in Maharashtra. My thoughts are with the families of those who lost their dear ones. I pray the injured recover soon. Local authorities and NDRF teams are at the site of the tragedy, providing all possible assistance," the Prime Minister's Office tweeted quoting Modi.  A day after the five-storeyed building collapsed in Raigad district, rescue personnel continued to sift through the rubble in search of survivors, while police said 19 people are still missing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/local-authorities-ndrf-at-building-collapse-site-in-raigad-providing-all-possible-help-pm-narendra-modi-877491.html
25-08-2020||West||Nagpur civic chief Tukaram Mundhe tests coronavirus positive||Nagpur Municipal Commissioner Tukaram Mundhe on Tuesday said he has tested positive for coronavirus. "I have tested positive for #COVID19. I am asymptomatic and have isolated myself as per the protocol & guidelines. Request everyone who have come in my contact for last 14 days to get tested," Mundhe tweeted. The civic commissioner further said he is working from home to control the pandemic situation here in Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nagpur-civic-chief-tukaram-mundhe-tests-coronavirus-positive-877497.html
25-08-2020||West||School uses walls of houses to impart lessons to poor students||With many poor students being unable to afford smartphones for online classes amid the Covid-19 pandemic, a school in Maharashtra's Solapur city has found a new way of imparting education by painting walls of houses in the vicinity with lessons from textbooks. Around 300 outer walls of various houses in Nilamnagar area of Solapur have been painted with simplified lessons from textbooks of various subjects of Classes 1 to 10. This makes it convenient for students to go and stand in front of a particular wall to revise the lessons while following the social distancing guidelines, Ram Gaikwad, a teacher from the Asha Marathi Vidyalaya primary school in Nilamnagar of Solapur told PTI. Nearly 1,700 students from nearby areas study in the primary school and its secondary section Shri Dharmanna Sadul Prashala. Gaikwad said these students come from poor families as their parents are labourers, mostly working in textile units of the district. "Online education is the new norm in the current Covid-19 situation for which smartphonewith good internet bandwidth is a must. But, the parents of majority of our students do not have smartphones or any other gadget, so online classes is a distant dream for them," he said. Hence, the school came up with the idea of painting walls of the houses located near the educational institution with lessons from textbooks, he said. "We painted contents from textbooks on the walls of houses in Nilamnagar by making them simpler, comprehensible and interesting. Students, as per their convenience, now go and stand in front of the walls following all the social distancing norms and revise the lessons," Gaikwad said. The lessons painted on the walls include introduction to letters, numbers, word and sentence formation, grammar, mathematical formulas, general knowledge and lessons from various other subjects, he said. The school is also conducting online classes for students who have smartphonesor other gadgets at home, Gaikwad added. Asha Marathi Vidyalaya's Principal Tasleem Pathan said nearly 1,700 students, mostly from Nilamnagar, are enrolled in the primary and secondary sections of the school. The lessons painted on the walls are not only benefitting them, but also students from two to three other schools located nearby, she said. Nagesh Kallur, who works at a canteen in the city and has enrolled his son in this school, said he cannot afford a smartphone for his child's online education. "But, the lessons painted on the walls of houses in our area are turning out to be beneficial for students. Students follow the social distancing norms and wear masks while standing in front of these walls to study," he said. Surekha Kore, a parent of another student, said as their family income has dipped due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown, it is difficult for them to afford a smartphone for online education. "These lessons painted on the walls in our area are turning out to be quite useful for our children," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/school-uses-walls-of-houses-to-impart-lessons-to-poor-students-877504.html
25-08-2020||West||Anxious families call for relatives in rubble of collapsed Indian building||Distressed families shouted names of relatives trapped in the rubble of a collapsed building in Maharashtra on Tuesday, hoping to receive a response as rescue workers accelerated efforts to pull out dozens of survivors. At least two people were killed and 18 injured when a five storey building collapsed in Mahad, an industrial town near India's financial capital Mumbai on Monday. More than 90 people were trapped under the debris, with 60 now being rescued. The building, which comprised of 47 flats, fell almost like a pack of cards, said a police official at the disaster site, adding that legal action was initiated against the builder. Local residents and police combed through tin sheets, metal rods and other wreckage in a desperate search for survivors as ambulances rushed injured to nearby hospitals amid heavy monsoon rains and fears of Covid-19 infections. Shabana Lora, a female survivor who stood at the disaster site with her family, said she managed to run out of the building with her three daughters when it started shaking. "We had just fled a few metres from the building and we heard lord noise. Then there was smoke everywhere, the building was collapsed in a few seconds after we ran out," she said. Other survivors said at least 18 people were yet to be found below the concrete and brick rubble of the residential building that housed roughly 200 residents of Mahad situated about 165 km (100 miles) south of Mumbai. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday in a tweet said he was saddened by the incident and prayed the injured to recover. The cause of the accident was not clear, but building collapses are common in India, usually due to shoddy construction, substandard materials and a disregard of regulations. Every year, heavy downpours bring down rain-sodden small and large structures deemed too dangerous to live in. More than 1,200 people were killed in 1,161 building collapses across India in 2017, according to latest data from the National Crime Records Bureau.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/anxious-families-call-for-relatives-in-rubble-of-collapsed-indian-building-877505.html
25-08-2020||West||Maharashtra: Mandals skip installation of Ganesh idols in Parbhani||Over 1,600 Ganesh mandals in Maharashtra's Parbhani district have not installed idols of the deity during the Ganpati festival this year in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. This has been done to avoid crowds and to check the spread of the viral infection in the district, Collector Deepak Muglikar told PTI on Monday. Last year, 1,680 Ganesh mandals registered with the district administration for conducting the celebration. This year, none of them installed the Ganesh idol, he said. The 10-day Ganesh festival this year began on Saturday under the shadow of coronavirus. "We had appealed to people to help the administration in curtailing the Ganesh festival celebration this year. As a result, there has been no public installation of Ganesh idols in Parbhani," the collector said. In Aurangabad also, the festival celebration has been subdued in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Last year, 1,524 mandals registered for the celebration in Aurangabad's rural areas and 522 of them implemented the concept of 'one village one Ganesh' (collective celebration of the festival). This year, the number of mandals that installed the Ganesh idols has come down to 446. Out of these, 208 have implemented the 'one village one Ganesh concept, Superintendent of Police Mokshada Patil said in a release. Celebrations are low-key this year and contributions from businessmen and shopkeepers have also reduced, Aurangabad Ganesh Mahasangh president Kishor Tulsibagwale said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-mandals-skip-installation-of-ganesh-idols-in-parbhani-877510.html
25-08-2020||West||Mental health issues rise as over 1,300 people seek Maharashtra government's help||Amid the coronavirus lockdown, more than 1,300 people battling mental stress and depression have approached the Maharashtra government with requests for medical help, a state health official said. Private doctors also claimed that the number of people suffering from depression, obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) and phobia of stepping out of home has significantly increased in the last few months. "Out of the 36 districts in Maharashtra, 30 have reported 1,302 cases of people seeking help of psychiatrists," a senior official from the state health department told PTI. Some of them suffered from violent behaviour, like attempt to self-immolate, self-harm and outburst as a result of prolonged depression, she said. "The data is still being compiled as some of the districts are yet to report cases. The numbers could be much higher than the currently reported 1,302 cases," she said. Noted psychiatrist Anand Nadkarni said before March this year (prior to the outbreak of Covid-19), he used to get six to seven cases of OCD daily, but now the number has gone up to 32 to 36 every day. "Most of the people do not admit OCD as an illness and thus, its impact remains for a longer time on their life. Unfortunately, there is a dearth of psychiatrists in the overall health sector field," he said. In some cases, there has also been a significant increase in alcohol consumption, Nadkarni said. "Liquor consumption has reduced among students, as most of them have returned home, but it is higher among the middle-aged working class. Increased liquor consumption makes them weaker and more susceptible to the coronavirus infection," he said. Another mental health expert Mrudula Apte said they used to get two to three patients per week for general stress related issues at their clinic in Pune before the outbreak of the pandemic. But, the number has now gone up to at least three cases every day, she said. "People are coming up with multiple issues, some suffering from direct affect of Covid-19 outbreak, like financial uncertainty, and some with secondary issues like problematic family relationships, space issues, lack of coping mechanisms like meeting friends, going to the gym, going to restaurants or shopping, she said. Elderly people and young adults seem to be most affected, she said, adding that aged people living alone also approach them for help. Public health expert and Maharashtra Communicable Diseases Prevention and Control technical committee chairman Dr Subhash Salunkhe said the rise in depression and mental stress triggered by the Covid-19 crisis is a global phenomena. "People who were already suffering from such ailments are complaining of increased illness. Some people who had mild symptoms or had similar problems which were never detected are now seeking consultation," he said. There are also cases of people who earlier never complained of stress or its management, but are now facing challenges due to the pandemic, Salunkhe said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mental-health-issues-rise-as-over-1300-people-seek-maharashtra-governments-help-877520.html
25-08-2020||West||Goa Innovation Council gets 320 new business ideas: Official||The Goa State Innovation Council's portal has received 320 new business ideas, including 43 from established startups, an official said. This indicates the success of the council's virtual innovation register in reaching out to innovators and tapping new ideas, the council's chairman Jose Manuel Noronha told PTI onMonday. He was speaking after the Goa State Innovation Council released its annual report for 2019-20 and submitted it to the state Assembly. Noronha said the council convened four meetings in 2019-20 and organised various activities, included a hackathon to identify the challenges faced in solid waste management and disposal. During the hackathon, students from various engineering colleges in the state came up with 19 ideas for disposal of tube-lights, LED lights and sanitary pads, he said. The council earlier launched the 'Young Innovator' awards, as part of which students from various schools in the state came up with more than 200 new ideas, including for oil spill removal, aquaculture and digital microscopes, he said. "In 2019-20, the council organised around 20 boot camps focusing on technology, innovation and entrepreneurship which were attended by 1,561 college students," Noronha said. The council also conducted a financial literacy workshop for students of Class 8 from rural schools of Goa on a pilot basis. It included topics like money management and entrepreneurship, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-innovation-council-gets-320-new-business-ideas-official-877609.html
25-08-2020||West||Maharashtra: Covid-19 cases in Thane cross 1.15 lakh||The number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra's Thane district reached 1,15,625 on Tuesday after 860 more people tested positive for the disease, a senior district official said. He said 33 deaths were also reported on Monday, taking the total number of fatalities in the district to 3,301. The civic limits of Bhiwandi, Ambernath and Badlapur did not report any death due to Covid-19 Monday, he said. As of now, there are 12,262 active cases in the district, while 1,00,062 patients have recovered from the viral infection, he said. The Covid-19 recovery rate in the district was 86.54 per cent while the mortality rate was 2.85 per cent. The official also pointed out that the daily number positive cases in Thane city and Kalyan has come down below 200, while Navi Mumbai township was reporting more than 300 cases in a day. The powerloom town of Bhiwandi, which was a Covid-19 hotspot earlier, did not report any death for 12 days out of the total 24 days this month, Bhiwandi Nizampur Municipal Corporation (BNMC) spokesman Milind Palsule said. The coronavirus situation in the town is under control, he said. The neighbouring Palghar district has so far reported 22,500 Covid-19 cases and 450 deaths due to the disease, another official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-covid-19-cases-in-thane-cross-115-lakh-877620.html
25-08-2020||West||PM Awas Yojana supervisor caught taking bribe in Gujarat||A site supervisor of the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana in Gujarat's Banaskantha district was caught while taking a bribe of Rs 10,500 from a scheme beneficiary, the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) said on Tuesday. The complainant, a resident of Palanpur town in Banaskantha, submitted an application to the local municipality in 2018 to get financial assistance for building a house under the scheme. The accused, Nirmal Gadhvi, was hired on contractual basis by the Palanpur municipality as site supervisor of the scheme. He visited the site and gave his approval, following which the complainant received a financial assistance of Rs 1,30,000 in three instalments, the ACB said in a release. However, Gadhvi then allegedly started demanding a bribe of Rs 10,500 from the complainant to release Rs 1 lakh towards the last instalment following which the latter approached the ACB. The anti-graft agency laid a trap and caught Gadhvi while accepting the amount from the complainant on Monday, the release said. The Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana is a central government scheme to provide affordable housing to poor citizens.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pm-awas-yojana-supervisor-caught-taking-bribe-in-gujarat-877624.html
25-08-2020||West||Maharashtra building collapse: Saw building pillars breaking before I ran out, says eyewitness||Mustafa Chaphekar and his family members, all residents of the ill-fated building that collapsed in Raigad, had a narrow escape as they rushed out just in time before the structure came crashing down. They had barely reached the gate of the five-storey building when they saw some pillars of the ground floor breaking into pieces, Chaphekar said. The building, which had around 40 flats, collapsed on Monday evening in Maharashtra's Raigad district. According to police, a man, who was not a resident of the building, died of cardiac arrest on Monday night after he was hit by a stone from the falling building, and 19 persons were still missing. Chaphekar said he was at home when he suddenly felt "tremors", following which he ran out into the balcony of his flat and asked others what was happening. Some people asked him to come out as the building was on the verge of collapse, he said. Chaphekar then quickly rushed out along with his family members. Before leaving, he knocked the door of his neighbour and alerted him, he said. "As my family members and I left the building, I heard a loud sound. When I turned back, I saw two-three pillars of the ground floor breaking into pieces," he said. Chaphekar said since he and his family came to live in the building in 2013-14, there were issues related to substandard work and incidents of falling of plaster. The problems increased in the next two years, following which the residents had a meeting with the builder, but he was reluctant to carry out repair work, he said. "The builder told us that he had constructed the building and given it to us, now it was up to us what to do with it," he added. Riyaz Mulla, a relative of one of the missing families, said the incident shocked him. His brothers wife and three children, aged between 1.5 and 5 years, were still missing, a teary-eyed Mulla said. His brother worked in Dubai and left from there to reach home after getting to know about the incident, he added. A day after the building collapsed, rescue personnel continued to sift through the rubble in search of survivors, while police said 19 persons are still missing. An official at the Mantralaya State Control Room of the State Disaster Management Unit said the Tarek Garden building at Kajalpura in Mahad tehsil collapsed around 7 pm. There were around 40 flats in the building, the official said, adding those rescued were shifted to a local hospital at Mahad, which is around 170 km from Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-building-collapse-saw-building-pillars-breaking-before-i-ran-out-says-eyewitness-877625.html
25-08-2020||West||Maharashtra building collapse: 5-year-old boy rescued from debris||A five-year-old boy was rescued on Tuesday from the debris of the five-storeyed building which collapsed in Raigad district of Maharashtra, police said. The boy, looking bewildered after the night-long ordeal, was taken by NDRF personnel to a waiting ambulance. A police official said so far nine persons have been rescued after the Tarek Garden building in Mahad, around 170 km from Mumbai, came tumbling down on Monday evening. Eighteen residents are still missing and rescue operation is underway, he said. The NDRF, police, locals, and dog squads are working relentlessly to rescue people trapped under the debris, he said adding 13 heavy-duty excavators and other vehicles were engaged in removing it. As the operation was underway, the rescue team spotted the child under the debris, after which it started clearing the structure with help of gas cutter and other machines. Local residents, who were watching the operation with baited breath, cheered with joy after the boy was rescued. As the Ganesh festival is on, the locals chanted "Ganpati Bappa Morya" after the child was lifted onto a stretcher. Mohammed Nadim Bangi, the rescued child, has some minor injuries on his body, the official said. The child's aunt said she was happy after seeing him safe, adding she is praying that everybody who lived in the building is safe. Three more members of the family, including a woman and two children, are still under the debris, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-building-collapse-5-year-old-boy-rescued-from-debris-877642.html
25-08-2020||West||Maharashtra building collapse: Death toll reaches 13; 4-year-old boy rescued||A four-year-old child was rescued from the rubbles even as the death toll rose to 13 in collapse of a five-storey building at Mahad in Raigad district, nearly 170 kms away from downtown Mumbai. The rescue workers who are working for the last 24 hours, heard the child crying, and spotted his hand. Soon, he was pulled out from the debris. The five-storey building Tarique Garden, collapsed around 6.05 am on Monday. So far, 13 bodies have been recovered from the accident site. The rescue and relief operations are currently underway on Tuesday – and expected to continue over Wednesday. As the four-year-old child was pulled out to safety, there were tears and cheers among the people who assembled near the crash site to witness the operations being carried out by teams of Raigad district, SDRF and NDRF.   Chants of ‘Ganpati Bappa Morya’ were made as the boy was lifted out by the NDRF team members and evacuated him to safety. The boy was immediately rushed to a hospital. The fate of his family members is yet to be known. His aunt, Rupasa, said the boy was trapped under the debris along with his two sisters and mother. “His three family members are still trapped under the rubble. I pray for everyone’s survival,” she said. “The miracle child has been rescued….he is God’s child,” said NDRF director-general Satya Narayan Pradhan. “The rescue and relief work is underway in war-footing,” relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar told reporters in Mumbai. Raigad collector Nidhi Chaudhari and superintendent of police Anil Paraskar briefed the ground report to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. At least two ministers – Urban Development Minister Eknath Shinde and Minister of State for Industries and Protocol Aditi Tatkare visited the site to supervise the rescue operations. The A-Wing has 21 flats and B-Wing has 20 flats – and the total number of occupants was 97. While 13 persons have died, 78 have been rescued so far. Special cameras are being used to locate people. The Mahad police has filed FIR against the builder as well as the contractor, engineer, architect and the building consultant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-building-collapse-death-toll-reaches-13-4-year-old-boy-rescued-877657.html
25-08-2020||West||Unit-2 of Narora nuclear plant completes two years of continuous operation||The Unit-2 of Narora Atomic Power Station has completed two years of safe and continuous operation, according to India’s state-owned nuclear power producer. The plant has completed 731 days of operation, officials of the Mumbai-headquartered Nuclear Power Corporation of India Ltd (NPCIL), that runs the plant, said on Tuesday. The NAPS-Unit 2 located in  Bulandshahar district in Uttar Pradesh, has become the fourth plant of the NPCIL to complete two years of continuous operations – the others being 962 days by  Kaiga Atomic Power Station-Unit 1 (Uttar Kannada in Karnataka), 777 days by Rajasthan Atomic Power Station-Unit 3 and 765 days by  Rajasthan Atomic Power Station-Unit 5 (both in Rawatbhata in Rajasthan). NPCIL officials said that NAPS-Unit 2, a 220 MW indigenous pressurized heavy water reactor (PHWR) commenced its commercial operation on 1 July 1992.“Indian nuclear power stations have demonstrated continuous operation for long periods exceeding a year 34 times so far. The KGS-Unit 1 has set the world record of 962 days of continuous operation,” the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/unit-2-of-narora-nuclear-plant-completes-two-years-of-continuous-operation-877689.html
25-08-2020||West||Only first wife of man entitled to lay claim on his money: Bombay HC||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday said as per law, if a man has two wives and both lay claim to his money, only the first wife would be entitled for it but his children from both marriages would get the money. A bench of Justices S J Kathawalla and Madhav Jamdar made the above observation orally after the state government submitted that there existed a previous full bench judgement of the high court's Aurangabad bench that gave a similar direction. The bench led by Justice Kathawalla was hearing a petition filed by the second wife of Suresh Hatankar, an assistant sub-inspector in the Maharashtra railway police force who died of Covid-19 on May 30. As the state government's resolution promises a compensation of Rs 65 lakh to police personnel who die of Covid-19 while on duty, two women, both claiming to be Hatankar's wives, had laid a claim to the compensation amount. Later, Shraddha, Hatankar's daughter from his second wife, approached the Bombay High Court, seeking that she be given a proportionate share of the compensation amount to save her and her mother from "starvation" and homelessness. On Tuesday, state's counsel Jyoti Chavan told the bench that the state would deposit the compensation amount in the court for the time that HC takes to decide who is entitled to the amount. Chavan also informed the court about the judgement of the Aurangabad bench. The court then said, "The law says that the second wife might not get anything. But the daughter from the second wife, and the first wife and the daughter from the first marriage will be entitled to the money." Hatankar's first wife Shubhada and the couple's daughter Surbhi, who were present before the court through video-conferencing, claimed they were not aware that Hatankar had "another family". However, Shraddha's counsel Prerak Sharma told the court that Surbhi and Shubhada knew about Hatankar's two marriages and they had contacted Surbhi on Facebook on previous occasions. Sharma also said that Hatankar had been living with his second wife and their daughter in the railway police quarters allotted to him in Dharavi. The high court, therefore, directed Hatankar's first wife and her daughter to file an affidavit by Thursday, clarifying if they knew Hatankar had two families. The court posted the matter for hearing on Thursday. Hatankar married for the first time in 1992 and his second marriage took place in 1998. Shraddha told the court in her plea that both the marriages were registered with the Registrar of Marriages and under the Hindu Marriage Act. She claimed in her plea that being the child of Hatankar's second wife, she too had the right to family pension, and death-cum-retirement gratuity. Therefore, she and her mother should get equal proportion of the compensation disbursed by the state government and the Railways.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/only-first-wife-of-man-entitled-to-lay-claim-on-his-money-bombay-hc-877697.html
25-08-2020||West||Total coronavirus cases in Maharashtra cross 7 lakh-mark||The total Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra crossed the seven lakh mark on Tuesday. In the last 24 hours, a total of 10,425 cases  and 329 deaths were reported. The total cases now stand at 7,03,823 and deaths 22,794 On Tuesday, 12,300 patients discharged taking the total to 5,14,790 Covid-19 patients discharged after full recovery. The recovery rate in the state is 73.14 per cent. The case fatality rate in the state: 3.24 per cent. Out of 37,24,911 laboratory samples, 7,03,823 have been tested positive (18.89%) for Covid-19 till date. Currently 12,53,273 people are in home quarantine and 33,668 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/total-coronavirus-cases-in-maharashtra-cross-7-lakh-mark-877818.html
25-08-2020||West||Three arrested in Mumbai for Fruit Irfan's murder||In a major swoop, the Mumbai police has arrested three gangsters for the sensational gunning down of notorious history sheeter and real estate developer Irfan Allahbaqsh alias Fruit Irfan in Hubbali around a fortnight ago. The Unit-7 of Crime Branch-CID made the arrests of three accused. The accused are residents of Ghatkopar, Chembur and Wadala areas of Mumbai. They were arrested from the Nehrunagar area of Mumbai when they were planning to leave the city.  On interrogation, the accused revealed that they carried out the firing on Irfan at the instance of gangsters Yusuf Suleman Qadri alias Yusuf Bachkana and Raju Rawat alias Nepali.All the arrested accused are history-sheeters.the Nehrunagar area of Mumbai when they were planning to leave the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/three-arrested-in-mumbai-for-fruit-irfans-murder-877821.html
