26-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Dakshina Kannada reports 247 new Covid-19 cases||The Dakshina Kannada (DK) district recorded 247 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday in addition to three fatalities due to coronavirus. The total cases in the district stand at 10,778 and 8,136 infected have already been discharged from hospitals and Covid Care Centres. DK Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V said that 85 among the new confirmed cases were the primary contacts of the already infected persons, while 72 with symptoms of ILI and 11 with symptoms of SARI had tested positive. The contact tracing of 78 persons is underway. One of the Covid-19-infected persons is an interstate traveller. Among the fresh cases, 149 are asymptomatic. Mangaluru taluk has the highest chunk of the 171 fresh cases followed by Bantwal at 48, 10 from Belthangady, six from Puttur, four from Sullia and eight from other districts. A total of 218 persons have recovered and they've been discharged from hospitals, Covid Care Centres and home isolation.  Among the three fatalities, one each from Mangaluru, Bantwal and outside the district have been recorded. The total deaths in the district have risen to 319. Covid-19 in Dakshina Kannada: Total confirmed cases: 10,778 Total discharges: 8,136 Total active cases: 2,323||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dakshina-kannada-reports-247-new-covid-19-cases-877898.html
26-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mangaluru City Corporation to give Rs 60 lakh, 20-acre land to forest department||The Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) has decided to pay Rs 60 lakh for taking up compensatory afforestation and to seek permission for the felling of the trees on the land identified for urban housing project, from the Ministry of Environment and Forest and Climate Change (MoEF). In addition, the MCC has also decided to hand over 20-acre alternative land to the Forest Department as compensation for taking up the housing project on deemed forest land at Rajiv Nagara in Padavu village of Shaktinagara. The four-year-old housing project initiated jointly under Pradhan Mantri Awaz Yojana (PMAY) and State government fund aimed at constructing 930 houses on a 10-acre land on survey number 82 (G +3 model) for the poor shelterless in Mangaluru city. The proposal for the project was approved on September 30, 2016. Even after four years, the poor who were given the title deeds are still waiting for a roof over their head, drawing criticism from various quarters. After initial work of calling the tenders for the works were taken up, environment groups raised objections stating that it was a deemed forest and the Forest Department too withheld the permission to clear the trees on the said land. As a result, the project suffered a setback. According to officials, the MCC has to get permission from the MoEF to continue the project and an online application seeking permission to fell trees have been submitted on January 24, 2020. In addition, the MCC has written to Tahsildar to earmark 20-acre land on survey number 100/4 at Tenkayedapadavu, in the name of MCC, to be handed over to the Forest Department, for afforestation.   The council of the Mangaluru City Corporation has recently approved the proposal for the handing over Rs 60 lakh and 20-acre alternative land to the Forest Department. MLA Vedavyasa Kamath during the council meeting had said: “I have been personally pursuing the matter to make the project a reality at the earliest.” In fact, the title deeds for the 930 beneficiaries of the project were handed over on February 24, 2018. It may be recalled that the failure to start the project had even led to spar over the project between the former MLA J R Lobo and current MLA Vedavyasa Kamath, a few months ago. The estimated cost of the project was Rs 69.5 crore and the unit cost of each house was Rs 5 lakh, of which a sum of Rs 1.8 lakh would be borne by the state government for SCs and Rs 1.2 lakh for others; Rs 1.5 lakh by Central government and Rs 1 lakh by MCC for SCs, for others Rs 70,000 and the remaining amount would be borne by the individual beneficiaries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangaluru-city-corporation-to-give-rs-60-lakh-20-acre-land-to-forest-department-877902.html
26-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Janardhana Poojary urges Gandhi family to lead Congress||Union minister and veteran Congress leader B Janardhana Poojary said that it would be better if the Gandhi family only leads the Congress.  “It is better if the Gandhi family only leads the Congress. The responsibility of the AICC should be borne by the family,” said former Union minister and veteran Congress leader B Janardhana Poojary. “In this difficult situation, the Gandhi family should take over the leadership of the party. The Gandhi family members had taken the party forward in the past, during difficult times. Gandhi family that has sacrificed for the country should only lead the Congress,” he urged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/janardhana-poojary-urges-gandhi-family-to-lead-congress-877921.html
26-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Forest dept rescues wild elephant from trench in Hanur||The Forest Department, with the help of Fire and Emergency Services personnel, rescued a wild elephant that had fallen into a trench at Male Mahadeshwara Wildlife Sanctuary. The rescued elephant was later released into the forest. A tusker had fallen into the trench and was found struggling to get up at Bore Forest area, at Hanur buffer zone, on Wednesday morning. The locals immediately alerted the Forest department personnel, who rushed to the spot. The elephant was lifted with the help of an excavator.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/forest-dept-rescues-wild-elephant-from-trench-in-hanur-878022.html
26-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Man held for creating fake Facebook page in the name of Bengaluru police||A 40-year-old man has been arrested for creating a fake Facebook page in the name of Bengaluru City Police, police said on Wednesday. According to police, he is a resident of Malleswaram in the city and had created the page recently. When it came to the knowledge of the Cyber Crime police of the Central Crime Branch, Bengaluru, they registered a case against him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/man-held-for-creating-fake-facebook-page-in-the-name-of-bengaluru-police-878060.html
26-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Day-long digital events to mark 105th jayanti of Suttur Mutt seer||Suttur Jagadguru Sri Veerasimhasana Mahasamsthana Mutt (Suttur Mutt) has organised a day-long digital and virtual events, attended by dignitaries like Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir Manoj Sinha, to celebrate the 105th birth anniversary of the 23rd seer Shivaratri Rajendra Swami, on August 29. Addressing a media conference here, on Wednesday, secretary of JSS Mahavidyapeetha S P Manjunath said, “The celebration has taken the digital and virtual format, due to the Covid-19 crisis. The event will start with puja to the ‘gadduge’ (memorial) of Shivaratri Rajendra Swami and Mantra Maharshi at 9 am at Suttur in Nanjangud taluk. At 9.15 am, floral tributes will be paid to the statue of the seer at the Mysuru branch, by seer Shivaratri Deshikendra Swami.” “The Union Minister will join the session at 10.30 am for inauguration. Former prime minister H D Deve Gowda will preside over, while Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will release animation films ‘Suttur Srimutt - Guru Parampare’ in Kannada and ‘The Heritage of Sri Suttur Mutt’ in English,” he said. He said, “Opposition Leader Siddaramaiah will release Telugu translated book ‘Kayaka Thapaswi Sri Shivaratri Rajendra Swamigaru’, Tamil translated book ‘Bhakthi Bhandari Basaweswararin Vasanangal’ and ‘Neeti Samrajya Shathaka’. Deputy Chief Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan will release souvenir ‘Prasada’, while District i\In-charge Minister S T Somasekhar will handover prizes and scholarships of students to heads of institutions and their divisions. They will be re-distributed among students later, in the wake of the Covid crisis,” he said. Executive secretary of JSS Mahavidyapeetha C G Betsurmath said, Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir Manoj Sinha will inaugurate a session on ‘Covid-19, Challenges and Confidence Management’ at 4 pm. “Dharmadhikari of Dharmasthala Veerendra Heggade, Minister for Medical Education Dr K Sudhakar, chairperson of Infosys Foundation Sudha Murty and actor Darshan will participate. Pro-Chancellor of JSS Academy of Higher Education and Research B Suresh will be the moderator. The animated films will be streamed at 6 pm (Kannada) and 7 pm (English),” he said. Abdul Kareem of Shoonyeka Solutions, makers of the animation films, said, “Students can participate in a quiz, immediately after the screening and win cash prizes. They can register on www.jssonline.org or www.rajendraswamiji.in.” Director for college education of JSS Mahavidyapeetha Morabad Mallikarjun said, “The celebrations of the birth anniversary will be held online in all institutions up to September end. The tradition of felicitating retired employees of the institutions, during the jayanti celebrations, has been postponed due to the Covid crisis.” Participants can join on https://www.facebook.com/JSSMVP/, https://www.youtube.com/c/JSSMahavidyapeethaonline or on www.jssonline.org.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/day-long-digital-events-to-mark-105th-jayanti-of-suttur-mutt-seer-878260.html
26-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Vijayendra runs 4G govt: Cong spokesperson||Congress spokespersons alleged that B Y Vijayendra, BJP state vice-president, also son of Chief Minister B S Yediyurapa, is running a parallel government and is involved in rampant corruption. In a press conference here, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) spokesperson M Lakshmana said, "BJP MLAs themselves have raised an objection and have complained to the party high command." "A few BJP MLAs have written a letter to the party high command against the irregularities in which Vijayendra is involved. Vijayendra along with his close relatives and aides, is running a parallel 4G (Fourth generation) and has collected huge funds," he said and released a copy of a press release, which he claimed is issued by the BJP MLAs. "Vijayendra has introduced VST (Vijayendra Service Tax) and is collecting 15%. He has collected Rs 5,000 crore VST in one year. Vijayendra has formed his team of 31 members and has appointed them as in-charges for all departments," he said. Congress leader Manjula Manasa alleged that the BJP leaders are accusing the previous Congress government as 10% commission, but, now Vijayendra is collecting 15% VST. The BJP leaders must be ashamed of themselves, she said. "The CM said that the government has no funds to compensate flood-hit people. But, his own party men have alleged that Vijayendra has collected Rs 5,000 crore. No transfer or tender is processed without Vijayendra’s permission" he said. Lakshmana claimed that he has more documents to prove corruption charges against Vijayendra. “We will release more documents in September in Delhi. The state government should conduct a probe into the letter, said to be written by BJP MLAs. We will approach the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB), Lokayukta, Income Tax and Enforcement Directorate and file a petition before the court,” he said. However, he did not disclose the names of the MLAs. Interestingly, the name of Rana George, son of Congress leader, also former minister K J George and his associate Kiran are mentioned in the letter. It is mentioned that Rana and Kiran have colluded with Vijayendra. Reacting to the allegations, BJP state spokesperson R Raghu said that the Congress, which is feeling insecure as Vijayendra is appointed as BJP state vice-president. "Their insecurity grew more stronger after the recent visit of Vijayendra. They are afraid of the charisma and popularity of Vijayendra. If there are documents, why wait till September, could have released immediately know?" he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/vijayendra-runs-4g-govt-cong-spokesperson-878262.html
26-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Civic workers threaten to boycott Dasara works||Hundreds of pourakarmikas of Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) staged a protest in the city on Wednesday, threatening to boycott work during Dasara-2020, if their demands remain unfulfilled. The workers said, “Although the government has ordered to pay salaries directly to their bank accounts, the salaries are still paid through contractors and the MCC is yet to pay five months’ salary.” They raised slogans against the officials and demanded Rs 30 lakh compensation for the civic workers, who died of Covid-19. Narayan, former chairman of Karnataka State Safai Karamchari Commission, said, “The government abolished contract system and ordered direct payment of salaries. After a series of protests, then chief minister Siddaramaiah ordered cancellation of contract system. But, the MCC is yet to implement the order.” “All local bodies, including BBMP, which has 20,000 civic workers, across the state, are paying salaries directly. But, the MCC is yet to adopt the system even after two years. The civic workers will intensify the protest and will also boycott work during Dasara festival, if they do not get their salary directly from September,” Narayan warned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/civic-workers-threaten-to-boycott-dasara-works-878264.html
26-08-2020||Karnataka Politics||Congress workers blame Jagadish Shettar for damaged roads||Youth Congress members staged a unique protest by planting paddy saplings on slushy roads and potholes near the residence of Large & Medium Scale Industries and District In-charge Minister Jagadish Shettar at Madhura Estate in Hubballi on Wednesday, demanding immediate repairs of damaged roads in the city. They charged that Shettar gave only false assurances and he failed in improving basic facilities in his own constituency. "Shettar speaks about huge grants just for publicity, and but he does not work to solve problems being faced by the common man. Several roads in the City are full of potholes, posing threat for vehicle users and pedestrians also. Shettar should open eyes, and should attend the problem," said Hubballi-Dharwad City District Congress Committee president Altaf Halwoor. Rajat Ullagaddimath asked the BJP government to drop Shettar from the Cabinet, alleging that his performance in terms of development was a big zero. "Shettar is the MLA for more than 25 years and BJP is in power at the municipal corporation for the last 15 years. But, due attention is not given to repair roads which are damaged," he added. Shahazman Mujahid, Shiva Bendigeri, Basavaraj Gadgimath, and others took part in the protest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-workers-blame-jagadish-shettar-for-damaged-roads-878094.html
26-08-2020||Karnataka Politics||Tipu Sultan is the son of this soil: BJP’s H Vishwanath||Senior BJP MLC AH Vishwanath on Wednesday hailed erstwhile Mysuru ruler Tipu Sultan as “the son of this soil”, leaving the BS Yediyurappa administration red-faced over attempts to omit him from school textbooks. “Tipu Sultan doesn’t belong to any party, caste or religion. Tipu Sultan is the son of this soil. We shouldn’t reduce him to any one caste or religion,” Vishwanath told reporters when asked about the issue of whether or not school children should study the 17th-century ruler in textbooks. “Children should study Tipu Sultan, Mahatma Gandhi and the likes...that will instill a sense of pride for the country,” Vishwanath, who was with the Congress and JD(S) before joining the BJP, said. Lessons pertaining to Tipu Sultan led to the controversy last academic year and the BJP government constituted an expert committee, which recommended not to drop him from textbooks. Vishwanath’s stand is a deviation from the position taken by many BJP leaders who see Tipu Sultan as a “tyrant” and “anti-Hindu” who plundered, killed and forced Hindus to convert. For the Congress, Tipu Sultan was a “valiant hero” and “patriot” who died fighting against the British. Soon after coming to power last year, the BS Yediyurappa-led BJP government cancelled the celebration of Tipu Sultan’s birth (Tipu Jayanti), which was an annual event started in 2015 by the Siddaramaiah-led Congress government. Vishwanath, who was one of the 17 rebels who led to the fall of the Congress-JD(S) coalition for the BJP to come to power, is eyeing a Cabinet berth. He is said to be sulking on this matter. “I had a role to play for the BJP to come to power and BS Yediyurappa to become the CM. That doesn’t mean we (rebels) came here to become a minister. We came for a better chance. So, I’m hopeful I’ll get an opportunity and Yediyurappa is the only leader who sticks to his word,” he said. He added that he is the senior-most politician in Karnataka today. “Mallikarjun Kharge entered Vidhana Soudha in 1972, I came in 1978,” he said, referring to the fact that Kharge was now a Rajya Sabha member. “I was a legislator, MP and minister. I have a vast administrative experience. All I’m saying is that my experience should be made use of for the state’s development,” he asserted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/tipu-sultan-is-the-son-of-this-soil-bjp-s-h-vishwanath-878133.html
26-08-2020||Mysuru||Anti-Corruption Bureau sleuths raid Mysuru City Corporation official's house||Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths raided the house of an officer attached to Mysuru City Corporation here on Wednesday. The ACB officials of Ramnagara raided the residence of Assistant Commissioner of Zone 6, Nagaraju. The officials are inspecting documents at his house in Kuvempunagar, his office and at his relative's house. The ACB officials had received a complaint of disproportionate assets against the officer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/anti-corruption-bureau-sleuths-raid-mysuru-city-corporation-officials-house-878007.html
26-08-2020||National||Mutual respect must in interest of both nations: China envoy||China and India can come out of suspicion for each other and misunderstanding only with mutual respect, Chinese envoy to New Delhi Sun Weidong said amid continuing military stand-off between the two nations in eastern Ladakh. He said that “mutual respect and support between China and India” were “the right path” and would serve the long-term interests of both the countries. “Only by mutual respect and equal treatment can we continuously enhance mutual understanding and trust, avoid suspicion and misunderstanding, and realise the goal of ‘Dragon-Elephant Tango’ between China and India on the road of peaceful coexistence and common development,” said Sun. He made the remarks during a China-India youth webinar held on August 18, but the embassy of the East Asian nation in New Delhi posted his statement on its website on Tuesday. “As (the) two rising major neighbours, China and India should abandon the old mindset of drawing lines by ideology and get rid of the old game of ‘one’s gain is another’s loss’ and (the) ‘zero-sum game’,” said Beijing’s envoy to New Delhi, adding: “Otherwise, you would be led astray and go down a wrong path.” His comment came amid continuing stand-off between the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army along the Line of Actual Control — the de facto border between the two nations.  Sun said China saw India “as a partner instead of a rival” and “an opportunity instead of a threat”. “We hope to put the boundary question at an appropriate place in bilateral relations, properly handle differences through dialogue and consultation, and push bilateral relations back on track at an early date.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mutual-respect-must-in-interest-of-both-nations-china-envoy-877859.html
26-08-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on August 26||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 31 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala. On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 33,03,233 as of August 26 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 60,550   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 19,19,842  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-august-26-877861.html
26-08-2020||National||Covid-19: Harsh Vardhan says eye banking system among worst-hit non-emergency medical activities||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Tuesday said the eye banking system is among the worst Covid-19 affected routine non-emergency medical activities, with negligible cornea retrievals being conducted in April-May and a shortfall in donations. The minister, who addressed the 35th National Eye Donation fortnight celebrations and presided over the interactive webinar organised by AIIMS, Delhi and the National Eye Bank, reiterated the advice of the medical community that "it is highly unlikely for the virus to be transmitted via donor corneas", a health ministry statement said. "Corneal blindness is one of the leading causes of blindness in the world," the statement quoted Vardhan as saying. Citing the National Blindness and Visual Impairment Survey 2019, he said corneal blindness is the leading cause of blindness among patients aged below 50 in India, accounting for 37.5 pc of the cases, and the second leading cause of blindness among patients aged above 50. In India, approximately 68 lakh people suffer from corneal blindness in at least one eye. Of these, 10 lakh people are blind in both eyes, he said. World Health Organisation (WHO) reports estimate that approximately 5 per cent of the world's population is blind due to corneal diseases alone, Vardhan said. Since the only known treatment for corneal blindness is corneal transplant, he urged those present at the event to increase awareness to fill the demand and supply gap of corneal tissue, the statement said. On the shortfall of donations in recent months due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the associated fear, he said, "The eye-banking system has been one of its worst victims among the routine non-emergency medical activities." "The eye-banking guidelines of various countries, including India, advised temporary suspension of donor cornea retrieval and elective corneal transplantation surgeries when active lockdown measures were being implemented. This led to almost negligible cornea retrieval in April-May with more than 90 per cent fall in corneal transplant surgeries," he said. Vardhan expressed happiness that eye banking activities have resumed in non-Covid hospitals via the Hospital Cornea Retrieval Programme in India. He also congratulated the Eye Bank Association of India (EBAI) for coming out with a detailed advisory on precautionary measures with regard to corneal tissue retrieval to ensure maximum safety of tissue recipients and those handling them. Dr. Jeewan S Titiyal, professor of ophthalmology and chairman National Eye Bank at Dr. Rajendra Prasad Centre for Ophthalmic Sciences, AIIMS said the lockdown measures implemented to contain the spread of the virus have adversely impacted both corneal tissue collection and keratoplasty surgeries. No tissues were collected during the period from March to July 2020. Hundreds of patients requiring keratoplasty could not be operated upon. However, emergency keratoplasty surgeries were performed with previously retrieved glycerin preserved tissues during this period, he said. "After the temporary halt in corneal tissue retrieval during the lockdown, we have resumed corneal tissue collection via the HCRP (hospital cornea retrieval programme) since July 1. However, the list of the patients awaiting keratoplasty surgery has further increased because of the pandemic," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-harsh-vardhan-says-eye-banking-system-among-worst-hit-non-emergency-medical-activities-877873.html
26-08-2020||National||DH Toon | Congress crisis: And writing on the wall? Raze down the building||A day after being hammered by colleagues at the meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), few of the 23 leaders who had sought sweeping changes in the organisation brushed aside the “dissenters” barb, contending that they were “proponents of revival” of the party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-congress-crisis-and-writing-on-the-wall-raze-down-the-building-877883.html
26-08-2020||National||Decline in Covid-19 positivity rate despite increasing tests exponentially: Govt||There has been a steady decline in the positivity rate of Covid-19 despite an exponential increase in testing, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday, underlining that the number of active cases of the infection have reduced by 6,423 in a day for the first time. Presenting a mortality analysis on the basis of age and gender, Health Ministry Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said Covid-19 fatalities include 69% male and 31% female. "Thirty-six per cent of the deaths have been reported in the age group between 45-60 years and 51 per cent deaths in people aged 60 and above. Eleven per cent deaths were reported in the age group of 26-44 years and 1 per cent each among people aged 18-25 and those below 17," he said addressing a press briefing. The testing for the disease has been increased from 363 tests per million per day on August 1 to more than 600 tests per million per day at present, Bhushan said, with India having tested nearly 3.7 crore cumulative Covid-19 samples so far. Bhushan said that on the basis of a seven-day rolling average, the positivity rate of Covid-19 has come down to eight per cent now from 11 per cent during the first week of August. "While the tests for detection of Covid-19 have increased exponentially, there has been a steady decline in the positivity rate. For the first time, active cases of Covid-19 have reduced by 6,423 in a span of 24 hours," he said. Bhushan also said 2.70 per cent of the active cases of the infection are on oxygen support, while 1.92 per cent are in Intensive Care Unit (ICU) and 0.29 per cent are on ventilators. He said the recovered Covid-19 cases are 3.4 times the number of active cases.  Asked whether the Russian government has placed any formal request for the manufacturing of its Covid-19 vaccine in India, Bhushan said as far as the vaccine Sputnik V developed is concerned, "both the countries (India and Russia) are in communication". "Some initial information has been shared while some detailed information is awaited," he said. Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Director General Dr Balram Bhargava asserted that "irresponsible and less cautious" people who were not wearing masks and not maintaining social distancing were "driving the pandemic in India". On augmentation of the testing capacity, he said gradually the testing capacity was increased and on August 21 it finally reached the landmark of testing one million Covid-19 samples in a day. "Covid-19 testing capacity has increased significantly, from 10 tests per day on January 30 to touching 1 million tests per day on August 21," Bhargava said. "We have 1,524 Covid testing laboratories in India and as on August 25 and 3,68,27,520 tests have been done," he said. Rapid antigen tests comprise around 30-40 per cent of the total daily tests conducted for detection of Covid-19 in the country at present, he said, adding that RT-PCR tests are also growing. "With Indian startups coming forward, we've been able to deploy large number of indigenous kits wherein they have brought down costing of Covid tests. RT-PCR testing kit cost around Rs 2,000 in March, now it is Rs 300," he said. Responding to a question on reports of reinfection in Hong Kong, Bhargava said there is no need to be "alarmed immensely". "We have read with interest the reports of reinfection in one case in Hong Kong. We are learning more and more about the disease as we go ahead. It can depend on several factors, one of all can be related to the patient itself, how is his immunity, how was his immune status, was it compromised. It can also depend upon the virus, whether the virus has mutated or turned virulent," he said. However, he said this was only one instance of re-infection and that is very rare for viral infections. Bhargava further said that ICMR has embarked on a second national sero survey which shall be completed by the first week of September. Responding to a question on whether India was willing to making any upfront payment for global COVAX plan for equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines, the health secretary said that according to the World Health Organisation, 172 member countries have become part of COVAX facility. "To the best of my knowledge there is no reference to countries making upfront payments in COVAX nor have the countries been requested by COVAX authorities in this regard," he said. COVAX is an arrangement brought about by WHO, Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) and GAVI vaccine alliance which works on the principle of pooling the demand of member countries for vaccines on one hand and on the other pooling the supply of certain shortlisted vaccine candidates, Bhargava said. "They have so far shortlisted nine such vaccines whose manufacturing capacities they have ascertained, and therefore they have done a projected pooling of what would be available and they have also done a pooling of the projected demand," he said. With 60,975 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's Covid-19 tally rose to 31,67,323 on Tuesday, while recoveries have surged to 24,04,585 pushing the recovery rate over 75.92 per cent, according to health ministry data. The death-toll has climbed to 58,390, with 848 fatalities being reported in a span of 24-hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. However, according to a PTI tally, compiled from the data provided by state governments, India's Covid-19 case count has crossed the 32 lakh mark.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/decline-in-covid-19-positivity-rate-despite-increasing-tests-exponentially-govt-877903.html
26-08-2020||National||Indian envoy holds virtual meeting with Massachusetts governor||India's Ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu held a virtual meeting with Massachusetts Governor Charlie Baker on Tuesday on the multi-faceted India-Massachusetts relationship. Their discussion covered areas of economic significance for both countries, including finance, higher education, healthcare, technology and innovation, the Indian Embassy here said in a statement. During the virtual meeting, Sandhu shared the recent policy developments in the education and technology landscape in India with Baker. He highlighted the potential of mutually rewarding India-US collaborations in the post-Covid-19 phase. India and Massachusetts share a strong trade and investment partnership with historical roots dating back to the 18th century. Total merchandise trade between India and Massachusetts has grown to $729 million in 2019. Also, in recent years, about $873 million worth of Indian investments have created over 1,350 jobs in Massachusetts. Prominent Indian companies present in Massachusetts are Datamatics, HCL, Infosys, TCS, Sun Pharma, among others. Similarly, a number of Massachusetts origin companies in energy, financial services, defense and technology sectors are present in India. Some notable names are General Electric, Raytheon Technologies, Liberty Mutual Insurance Group, Thermo Fisher Scientific, among others. During their discussion, Sandhu and Baker underscored the importance of the vibrant Indian diaspora in the India-Massachusetts relationship. Sandhu shared that a large number of Indian professionals, academicians and students have made Massachusetts their home. He said that they form a key part of Massachusetts's STEM workforce and contribute to the state's innovation economy. Sandhu and Baker agreed to further build upon the synergies in the India-Massachusetts relationship for mutual growth and prosperity, the Indian Embassy said in the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-envoy-holds-virtual-meeting-with-massachusetts-governor-877909.html
26-08-2020||National||India reports 67,151 new coronavirus cases; 1,059 deaths||India's novel coronavirus tally rose to 32.34 lakh on Wednesday with 67,151 more people testing positive for the infection, while the recoveries have surged to 24,67,758, the Health Ministry said. The death toll from the pathogen climbed to 59,449 with 1,059 more fatalities. There are 7,07,267 active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), comprising 21.86 percent of the total 32,34,474 cases, the ministry said. The case fatality rate has declined to 1.83 percent, the ministry data stated. According to the ICMR, a total of 3,76,51,512 tests have been conducted so far, including 8,23,992 samples on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-67151-new-coronavirus-cases-1059-deaths-877940.html
26-08-2020||National||India may manufacture Russian Covid-19 vaccine: Report||Russia and India have begun talks over Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V and Russia has provided initial information about the vaccine to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. The Sputnik V vaccine is an adenovirus vector-based vaccine. “Some initial information on the vaccine has been shared and communication has been made to the office of principal scientific advisor, health ministry and the Indian Council of Medical Research,” a senior government official told the publication. The vaccine will have to undergo trials in India in order to be made available to the public, the senior official told the website, adding that the process has not started yet. India is currently testing three vaccine candidates, Bharat Biotech’s COVAXIN and Cadila Healthcare’s vaccine candidate have completed phase 1 of clinical trials while Serum Institute is conducting phase 2/3 trials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-may-manufacture-russian-covid-19-vaccine-report-877943.html
26-08-2020||National||Sonia Gandhi to meet Opposition CMs over NEET, JEE, GST issues||Congress President Sonia Gandhi is meeting seven opposition chief ministers on Wednesday afternoon to discuss issues such as NEET/JEE examinations and GST, signalling the first outreach for a joint strategy after a stormy meeting of the Congress Working Committee. Besides the four chief ministers of Congress-ruled states, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren and Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray are expected to attend the meeting which would be held through video conferencing. Invitations were also sent out to Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal but were declined citing preoccupation. Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra have taken up the demand for postponement of the NEET/JEE exams which are scheduled for September. A large number of students have been demanding postponement of the exams citing the Covid-19 pandemic. Another issue on the table would be the payment of GST compensation to state governments, which the Centre has been delaying citing the Covid-19 pandemic. Banerjee had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi twice asking for the NEET-JEE exams to be deferred. The government has so far resisted growing calls for postponing JEE and NEET scheduled next month, saying the exams will be held with full precautions against the virus. Opposition chief ministers are expected to jointly demand 14% GST compensation from the Modi government. Opposition-ruled states have accused the centre of a sovereign default in not agreeing to pay the GST compensation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sonia-gandhi-to-meet-opposition-cms-over-neet-jee-gst-issues-877947.html
26-08-2020||National||Pranab Mukherjee still in deep coma, on ventilator support: Hospital||Former President Pranab Mukherjee continued to be in deep coma and on ventilator support, the hospital said in its latest report on Wednesday. He is being treated for lung infection.  "Pranab Mukherjee is being treated for lung infection. His renal parameters are slightly deranged since yesterday. He continues to be in deep coma and on ventilator support," the Army Research and Referral Hospital said in a statement. Mukherjee is being treated for respiratory infection, which he developed at the hospital. He was operated for removal of a clot in the brain. He had also tested positive for Covid-19 at the time of his admission. Mukherjee was the 13th President of India from 2012 to 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pranab-mukherjee-still-in-deep-coma-on-ventilator-support-hospital-877967.html
26-08-2020||National||119 more mandis added to e-NAM portal in Rajasthan||The Rajasthan government is increasing the number of online mandis, with 119 more mandis have been added to the e-NAM portal between April 5 and June 30, an official statement said. From April 5 to June 30 this year, 2,205 farmers and 2,989 traders were registered and a total trade of 2,885.3 tonnes was done, it added. Kunji Lal Meena, secretary, agriculture and horticulture department of Rajasthan, said, "The state government is committed to the welfare of farmers. Under this, many efforts are being made to take advantage of technology for farmer welfare, and emphasis is also on increasing technology literacy among farmers." According to the statement, amid the coronavirus crisis, the state government is working to provide benefits to farmers through online platform. The government has already decided to convert the trade licence into a unified licence, which also allows to do e-trade of agricultural commodities in any e-mandi of the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/119-more-mandis-added-to-e-nam-portal-in-rajasthan-877972.html
26-08-2020||National||Saving India's Urdu heritage, one book at a time||Priceless pieces of Urdu poetry and books on art, literature and history confined to dark corners of private homes and public libraries have found a new home – all 1,00,000 of them digitised and ready to access for students, researchers and bibliophiles.   The world’s largest repository of Urdu books is the brainchild of Sanjiv Saraf, the man behind India’s first and largest Urdu festival Jashn-e-Rekhta, who took it upon himself to collect and digitise books that were otherwise destined to be lost forever in the ruins of time.   Childhood memories of listening to ghazals on vinyl records kindled love for the language. And then, as he grew up, the strong urge to read the masters of Urdu poetry in the original script inspired Saraf to start learning the ‘rasm ul-khat’ (Urdu script).   But to his dismay there were virtually no resources available on the internet. Saraf told PTI. That was eight years ago.   The mission that began in 2012 with the love for Urdu poetry culminated in July with the Rekhta Foundation digitising a colossal 1,00,000 books. Saraf, who is based in Delhi and comes from a business family of Rajasthani origin, did all that was expected of an heir-apparent – he did his schooling from the Scindia School in Gwalior, graduated from IIT Kharagpur in 1980, joined the family business in 1984, and later established Polyplex Corporation, a multinational business in polyester films.  But the old love of listening to ghazals, courtesy his father’s fondness for Urdu ‘shayari’, tugged at him. “Later, when business got established and was growing well, I stepped back from business to focus on learning Urdu. In the process, I realised there wasn’t enough content or resources available on the Internet and what was available was incomplete, non credible and mostly in Urdu script. The younger generation, attracted to the eloquence, beauty and versatility of the language had no easy recourse,” Saraf said in an email interview. The initiative began small and soon mushroomed into a massive project that covered not just rare books but also all other forms, including recent books, manuscripts and periodicals that were digitised with the aim of preserving them for posterity.  Teams of enthusiastic volunteers were sent to public and private libraries all over the country to look for books and found entire Urdu collections lying forgotten and often neglected. “...as we progressed and as students, scholars and others started benefitting through e-books, whether for study, research or simple reading, we started receiving a welcoming response from the libraries/individuals that we contacted, and they started coming forward to share their holdings,” said the businessman-turned-Urdu connoisseur. Terming the initiative “extraordinary”, Urdu scholar C M Naim said he used the website (www.rekhta.com) almost on a daily basis for one reason or another.  “I regularly check to see what is new. I’m sure the same is done by many enthusiasts of Urdu, in academia or outside, across the world. I have recently been working on crime fiction in Urdu, and was happy to see that the Rekhta archive has managed to find a fair number of these otherwise hard to find books,” Naim said. He added that while Rekhta wasn’t the first to take up this initiative, it was the one to do it with respect to old books and journals. Naim, professor emeritus at the University of Chicago, remembered Carnegie Mellon’s 2007 Million Book project which also covered Hyderabad and said, “Regretfully, it was done in a criminal fashion.”  “...they freely unbound books in order to scan the pages and then paid little attention to their being rebound properly. The Rekhta project was respectful of the material, and used only the most appropriate ways to achieve their goal. It made their progress slow but they also did not leave behind hundreds of unbound Urdu books lying on the floor as I saw in Hyderabad,” Naim recalled. A dedicated team of 53 members works on the ebooks project -- 30 high-end machines in 16 libraries across the country scan and add 2,500 books a month to the digital collection. This unique e-library comprises books on science, arts, religion, history in its different genres, literary journals issued by various institutions and organisations, apart from contemporary books, and classical books that can be searched and sorted by genre, period and author.  The collection, running into nearly 19 million pages, includes the lost treasures of Munshi Naval Kishore Press, the complete works of classical poets Mir Taqi Mir and Mirza Ghalib, all 46 volumes of Persian epic “Daastan-e-Amir Hamza”, the works of 11th century Persian philosopher Imam Mohammad Ghazali, and 13th century Sufi poet Amir Khusrau as well as the works of obscure poets and scholars.  “If one wants to read the entire 19 million-page Rekhta stack - without blinking and at a statistical 65 pages an hour rate - it would take 33 years and 36 days!” Saraf said. Over 25,000 people visit the e-book section at the Rekhta Foundation website every day, he said.  “It would be ideal if there could be a public-private coordinated effort and cooperation for digitisation of our literary heritage. However, this is easier said than done. There are a large number of agencies involved and getting everyone on the same page is a herculean effort,” he said. In 2015, the Rekhta Foundation started Jashn-e-Rekhta, a festival of the letters and the arts to popularise Urdu. In 2017, it launched Aamozish, an e-learning platform, where over 60,000 people have learnt the language till date. The Rekhta Foundation also launched Sufinama, an online collection of Sufi poetry, in 2019 and Hindwi, a website dedicated to Hindi literature, in July this year.  Primarily funded through Polyplex Corporation Ltd's CSR commitments and Saraf's personal funds, Rekhta Foundation also receives donations from corporations and friends of Rekhta.  “However, to be sustainable in the coming years, Rekhta Foundation has been working on models which will make itself self-sustaining through content syndication services, book sales through its marketplace and host of other self-sustaining models without impacting users and their engagement with Rekhta platforms,” Saraf added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/saving-indias-urdu-heritage-one-book-at-a-time-878000.html
26-08-2020||National||Puducherry records 511 fresh cases; tally inches closer to 12,000||With Puducherry logging 511 new coronavirus cases on Wednesday, the aggregate number of those infected by the viral infection shot up to 11,930. Eight more people succumbed to the virus, taking the toll to 180. A release from Director of Health and Family Welfare S Mohan Kumar said out of the 11,930 cases 4,264 were active and taking treatment in hospitals or home quarantine, while the number of patients treated and discharged was 7,486. He said 213 patients were discharged during the last 24 hours. The fresh cases today were identified after examination of 1,296 samples. The fatality rate was 1.51 per cent while the recovery rate was 62.75 per cent. The Department of Health tested so far 67,301 samples and found 53,950 out of them to be negative. Results of examination of remaining samples were awaited, the Director said. While the hospitals in Puducherry region had 425 fresh cases out of the total 511 cases, Karaikal had 28, Yanam 53 and Mahe five cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/puducherry-records-511-fresh-cases-tally-inches-closer-to-12000-878025.html
26-08-2020||National||Gujarat tops Niti Aayog's Export Preparedness Index 2020||Gujarat has topped the Niti Aayog's Export Preparedness Index 2020 followed by Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, according to the government think tank's report released on Wednesday. Speaking at the launch of the report Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said rapid growth of exports is a crucial component for long-term economic growth. A favourable ecosystem enables a country to contribute significantly to global value chains and reap the benefits of integrated production networks, globally, Kant added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-tops-niti-aayogs-export-preparedness-index-2020-878027.html
26-08-2020||National||SC disposes plea seeking salary payment to doctors, healthcare workers||The Supreme Court on Wednesday disposed of a plea seeking payment of salary to doctors and healthcare workers on the ground that the Delhi High Court was already seized of the matter. A bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan said the high court had already taken suo motu cognizance of multiple media reports about the non-payment of salary. "In light of the suo motu proceedings being taken up by the Delhi High Court, we dispose of the plea with the liberty to petitioner to raise issues, if any before the Delhi High Court," the bench also comprising Justices R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah, said. The top court also noted that the North Delhi Municipal Corporation has started paying salary to doctors. Senior Advocate K V Vishwanathan, appearing for the petitioner, raised the issue of ASHA Workers who have not been paid salaries. The court, however, said the issue does not fall within the purview of the petition before it. The bench was hearing a plea of Arushi Jain, a private doctor, questioning the Centre's May 15 decision that 14-day quarantine was not mandatory for doctors. Jain had also alleged in her plea that front line healthcare workers engaged in the fight against Covid-19 are not being paid salaries or their wages are being cut or delayed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-disposes-plea-seeking-salary-payment-to-doctors-healthcare-workers-878029.html
26-08-2020||National||SC refuses to consider plea against status quo order on Andhra Pradesh's three-capital plan||The Supreme Court on Wednesday refused to consider a plea against an order of status quo directed by the Andhra Pradesh High Court on the three-capital plan by the Jaganmohan Reddy government in the state. The High Court, earlier this month, suspended the move, pending consideration of a plea by the farmers whose lands were being used for developing Amravati as the capital city. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah said that the High Court should be allowed to decide the matter pending over there expeditiously by holding a day-to-day hearing. Senior Advocate Rakesh Dwivedi, appearing for the Andhra Pradesh government, submitted that the High Court's order has put on halt on all preparations, bringing the whole things to stand still. "This has never happened that the judiciary has decided where the executive will function from," he said. Senior advocate Fali S Nariman submitted that the Presidential order for the judicial seat to be at Amaravati must stay. Senior advocate Ranjit Kumar said the High Court's full bench is all set to hear the matter from Thursday onwards. The top court said the High Court should be allowed to decide the matter. A plea was moved in the High Court, challenging the validity of the Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions Act, 2020, which allowed for shifting of offices to Vishakhapatnam and Kurnool.  A group of farmers, whose lands were being used for the development of Amravati as the capital city, led by Rajdhani Rytu Parirakshana Samiti, contended that the new law ignored the existing projects involving huge money from the exchequer. It also did not show any public interest or justification for abandoning the existing capital city. The move would affect the livelihood and economy of the entire state. On July 31, the Jagan Mohan Reddy government issued separate notifications, one for abolishing AP Capital Region Development Authority set up in 2014 for developing Amravati as state capital and another for forming three capitals, executive capital at Vishakhapatnam, judicial capital at Kurnool and legislative capital at Amravati.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-refuses-to-consider-plea-against-status-quo-order-on-andhra-pradeshs-three-capital-plan-878030.html
26-08-2020||National||Can't hide behind RBI on interest during loan moratorium; Clarify stand on waiver: SC to Centre||The Supreme Court on Wednesday told the Centre that it has to take consideration of sufferings of people instead of being interested in business as it sought clarity on interest being charged during moratorium on loan announced due to lockdown actuated by the Covid-19 pandemic. A bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan pulled up the Union government for "hiding behind the RBI" and asked it to take decisions, independent of RBI, on charging interest on loans and interest on interest on six-month loan moratorium. The court gave the Centre time till August 31 to file an affidavit, by taking a stance in the matter.  It asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to take a clear stand under the Disaster Management Act whether it can provide relief to the people on additional interest being charged on existing interest during the loan moratorium period ending August 31. Mehta said that there may not be common solutions to all the problems. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for a petitioner, sought extension of loan moratorium period from August 31. Senior advocate Rajeev Dutta, for the petitioner submitted that Union government has neither made clear their stand nor filed any affidavit. The court put the matter for consideration on September 1. On the PIL filed by Gajendra Sharma, the court had earlier said the central government can't raise its hands in helplessness, It can't now say it is between banks and customers. If the Centre announced moratorium, it must ensure the benefits are given to customers purposefully, it said. The RBI issued circulars on March 27, April 17 and May 23 for an initial three-month moratorium period on loan repayment which was subsequently stood extended till August 31. The measure was announced as a relief to the people after the nationwide lockdown was imposed since March 25 to contain Covid-19 pandemic. In June, the court asked the officers of Ministry of Finance and the RBI to hold a meeting to resolve the matter, saying loan repayment moratorium should not lead to higher interest rate being charged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cant-hide-behind-rbi-on-interest-during-loan-moratorium-clarify-stand-on-waiver-sc-to-centre-878032.html
26-08-2020||National||Neither ‘firebrand’ nor ‘rightwing’, I am ‘centre-left thinking person’, says Varun Gandhi in new book||Describing himself as a “centre-left thinking person”, BJP MP Varun Gandhi says in a new book that he is not a rightwing person by nature and his writings are evidence of his “consistently progressive liberal record”. In the recently launched "India Tomorrow: Conversations with the Next Generation of Political Leaders", Varun Gandhi also terms Britain’s Jeremy Corbyn and US’ Bernie Sanders, both known for advocating left economic and social policies, his political inspirations. The book gives readers a snapshot of contemporary Indian politics through interviews of 20 of the country's most prominent next-generation politicians.  "My sense is, if one were to look at it in terms of ideology or policy, then I am a centre-left thinking person. I am not a right-wing person by nature. If you have read all my writings, for the last 10 years I have had a consistently progressive liberal record. As a person, I have grown into this voice which is what's inside me," Varun Gandhi says in an interview to the authors, Pradeep Chhibber and Harsh Shah. The Gandhi-Nehru scion – he’s the son of the late Sanjay Gandhi and BJP leader Maneka Gandhi -- joined the BJP in 2004. He fought and won his first election in 2009 from Pilibhit in Uttar Pradesh, the same seat he represents right now, with a margin of nearly three lakh votes.   The Pilibhit MP also brings up issues such as economic inequality, environment justice, disadvantaged communities in the interview to buttress his point of being a staunch progressive liberal. "... I have always taken stands that are symptomatic of some desire for progressive change. The kind of support and love that I get from a variety of audiences, I get about 10 times more support from the liberals than I get from the right-wingers. In fact, I get knocked by the right- wingers many times but I never get knocked by the liberals ever," he says. Varun Gandhi adds that communists always joke with him and say he is a "communist in the BJP".  The 40-year-old politician dissociates himself from terms such as "firebrand" or “strident”, a perception that many people had of him after the alleged hate speech controversy in 2009 for which he was later acquitted by the courts. While campaigning as a BJP candidate from Pilibhit in 2009, he attracted controversy and ire over his alleged hate speeches. He was booked under various sections of the IPC and the People's Representation Act for promoting enmity and acts prejudicial against communal harmony. He was acquitted in 2013 because of lack of any substantial evidence against him. Varun Gandhi, who writes a syndicated column and has authored several books, including two volumes of poetry, says it has been a very long time since the infamous incident and there have been a hundred things he has done since then. He also points out in the interview that he was the "only MP in Parliament" to sit at Anna Hazare's dharna and support the Lokpal Bill. "I don't think, to be honest, that anybody thinks any more that I am a firebrand person or a strident person. If you look at any of the public platforms, I don't think anybody would mention that. The thing is it was a very bizarre thing, the so-called speech, because when I fought my case and won, they apologized to me," he adds. Asked what draws “someone with progressive liberal views, being centre-left” to the BJP, why he is sticking with it and why he is not moving to a party “more in line” with his values and outlook on so many issues, Varun Gandhi says he has been in the BJP for 15 years. "… I have built relationships within it, I have got friends here. I feel that in the medium-to-long-term, the workers of the BJP, I feel, are very committed, hard working, middle class, humble, salt of earth people who mean well for this country. I am not a huge votary of party politics, to be honest, so that's not what I think about at all," he explains. Varun Gandhi also speaks about what he really likes in BJP -- "decentralization of power" and "tolerance of different intellectual disciplines within the larger political framework". He admits to strident rightwing voices within the party, but gives the example of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee who for the large part of his life talked about "Gandhian socialism". "When I joined the BJP, after a few years I realized one very good thing about it was that there was a decentralization of power. I think centralized power in any form is never a great thing.   "So I felt here was a party where even if you fell out with one leader you could survive and succeed because there would be four other people to see goodness and talent and worth in you. That is one thing that encouraged me as a young person." Varun Gandhi's syndicated column reaches a subscriber base of over 200 million through 17 newspapers, covering many different languages. In late 2018, he authored a book on rural distress, "Rural Manifesto: Realizing India's Future Through Her Villages". He is a poet too and has written two volumes -- "The Otherness of Self" (2000) and “Stillness: Poems” (2015). Discussing his column, he says, "And I write solely on policy. I don’t write on politics in an adversarial manner. A lot of them are solution-oriented and the syntax is not meant to be polemical, it is not meant to be an us versus them, me versus you, because in policy terms there is no me and you, there is only us."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/neither-firebrand-nor-rightwing-i-am-centre-left-thinking-person-says-varun-gandhi-in-new-book-878036.html
26-08-2020||National||Watch Live: Sonia Gandhi holds meeting with CMs||Congress President Sonia Gandhi's meeting seven opposition chief ministers commenced on Wednesday afternoon to discuss issues such as NEET/JEE examinations and GST, signalling the first outreach for a joint strategy after a stormy meeting of the Congress Working Committee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/watch-live-sonia-gandhi-holds-meeting-with-cms-878042.html
26-08-2020||National||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu lauds man who won 'world's fastest human calculator' title||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday praised Neelakantha Bhanu Prakash for winning the "world's fastest human calculator" title. Prakash clinched the first-ever gold for India in the Mental Calculation World Championship at Mind Sports Olympiad held in London recently, the vice president noted.  Prakash (20), is from Hyderabad.  "He has done India proud. My best wishes to him for all future endeavours," the Vice President Secretariat tweeted quoting Naidu. The tweet was posted with the hashtag 'Human Calculator'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vice-president-m-venkaiah-naidu-lauds-man-who-won-worlds-fastest-human-calculator-title-878045.html
26-08-2020||National||Covid-19 recoveries exceed active cases by 3.5 times; recovery rate over 76%: Health Ministry||The total number of Covid-19 recoveries in India has surged to 24,67,758 and exceeds the active cases of the infection by 3.5 times as on date, pushing the coronavirus recovery rate to over 76 per cent, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday. The record high recoveries have ensured that the number of active cases of Covid-19, which is the "actual caseload" of the country, comprises only 21.87 percent of the total cases, it highlighted.   Recovery of 63,173 Covid-19 patients in 24 hours has resulted in 24,67,758 cumulative recoveries, according to the data updated at 8 AM. This has contributed to the rapidly widening chasm between the percentage of recovered cases and percentage of active cases, the ministry said. There are 17,60,489 more recovered people than the active cases. "With this, India's recovery rate amongst Covid-19 patients has risen to 76.30 per cent today," the ministry. There are 7,07,267 active cases of coronavirus infection presently, it said.   "The coordinated efforts of Centre and state and UT governments of early detection through aggressive testing and efficient clinical management of hospitalized cases have shown results with continuously regressing case fatality rate. It stands at 1.84 pc as on date, and steadily declining," the ministry underlined.     India's novel coronavirus tally rose to 32.34 lakh with 67,151 more people testing positive for the infection in a day, while the death toll from the disease climbed to 59,449 with 1,059 new fatalities being reported in a span of 24-hours, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-recoveries-exceed-active-cases-by-35-times-recovery-rate-over-76-health-ministry-878057.html
26-08-2020||National||Experts discuss ways to conserve river dolphins||Experts from India, Bangladesh, Nepal and Myanmar on Tuesday discussed ways to conserve river dolphins, the National Mission for Clean Ganga said. A webinar on 'Exploring the impact of Covid-19 on the ecosystem health of rivers and its dolphin population: Present status and future strategy for conservation in India-Bangladesh-Myanmar-Nepal' was organised. National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) Director General Rajiv Ranjan Mishra, shared his experiences on dolphin conservation linking its importance in the rejuvenation of the Ganga. It was conducted by the NMCG, Inland Fisheries Society of India, Indian Council for Agricultural Research-Central Inland Fisheries Research Institute (ICAR-CIFRI), Professional Fisheries Graduates Forum (PFGF) and the Aquatic Ecosystem Health and Management Society. Historically, the Gangetic dolphin was distributed throughout the Ganga, Brahmaputra and Karnaphuli-Sangu rivers and their tributaries in India, Nepal and Bangladesh, he said. In India, the Gangetic dolphin is found downstream of Bijnore barrage and tributaries like the Ramganga, Yamuna, Gomti, Ghaghara, Rapti, Son, Gandak, Kosi; and in Brahmaputra river. The most important thing to focus on now is community participation along with scientific interventions, he stressed. "Namami Gange has given importance to biodiversity and ecological improvement along with pollution abatement and projects have been taken up for the improvement of fisheries with CIFRI and for biodiversity conservation with Wildlife Institute of India (WII). "Under this framework, this is a first of its kind occasion where the fishery sector is leading the dolphin conservation discourse," he said. This webinar was organised to discuss the future strategy to conserve and revive these dolphins with regional cooperation, the statement said. For the conservation of dolphins, Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently announced 'Project Dolphin'. The webinar was attended by more than 1,000 participants across the world, according to the statement. Lectures on 'Conservative measure of Irrawaddy Dolphin in Myanmar', 'Status of dolphins in Nepalese River' and 'National Atlas and dolphin action plan- Bangladesh' were the highlights of the conference. "The conference resolved to continue this regional and multi-sectoral collaboration. The rich discussion would be very helpful in developing contours of the 'Project Dolphin' in India," the statement added. In his address, ICAR-CIFRI Director B K Das stated that the discussion would enhance dolphin conservation in the southeast Asian regional countries. ICAR DDG (Fisheries Science) J K Jena emphasised that with less disturbance and interference, dolphins could thrive on their own and that is what is being seen during the lockdown. "These animals do not realise boundaries and have tried to find habitat wherever possible. Hence, regional cooperation is very important in conserving them," he said. River dolphins, a unique species found mainly in rivers of Asia and South America, are vanishing rapidly. Gangetic dolphin, the national aquatic animal of India, has been declared endangered by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN). The Sundarbans delta is a unique ecological space where the Gangetic, as well as the Irrawaddy dolphin, are present, the statement said. The conference gave a unique opportunity to share experience on the Dolphins. It was also supplemented by Myanmar and Chilika Lake authority in the context of the Irrawaddy Dolphin, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/experts-discuss-ways-to-conserve-river-dolphins-878059.html
26-08-2020||National||Govt must listen to students on NEET-JEE, find amicable solution: Rahul Gandhi||Batting for the students taking the NEET-JEE exams, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday urged the central government to listen to their grievances and find an amicable solution. The students have been demanding postponement of the medical and engineering entrance exams in view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the country. Gandhi said the NEET-JEE aspirants are worried about their health and future due to concerns about coronavirus infection and floods in Assam and Bihar. "NEET-JEE aspirants are worried about their health and future. They have genuine concerns of: fear of Covid19 infection, transport and lodging during pandemic and flood-mayhem in Assam and Bihar," he said on Twitter. "GOI must listen to all stakeholders and find an acceptable solution," he said. The former Congress president also dubbed the Modi government as "anti-students" and used a hashtag in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-must-listen-to-students-on-neet-jee-find-amicable-solution-rahul-gandhi-878100.html
26-08-2020||National||Over 4 lakh admit cards downloaded for medical entrance exam NEET within 3 hours||Over four lakh admit cards for medical entrance exam NEET were downloaded within three hours on Wednesday, sources said. The National Testing Agency (NTA) released the admit cards for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) at 12 pm on Wednesday. "Admit cards of NEET were available for download at 12 today. Over 4 lakh candidates have downloaded in first 3 hours," sources said. While the NEET is planned on September 13, engineering entrance exam JEE Main is scheduled from September 1-6. Around 9.53 lakh candidates have registered for JEE-Mains and 15.97 lakh students have registered for NEET. Amid rising clamour for postponement of the crucial exams in view of rising Covid-19 cases, the Ministry of Education (MoE) officials had reiterated on Tuesday that the exams will be conducted as per schedule in September. Increasing the number of examination centres, alternate seating plan, fewer candidates per room and staggered entry and exit are among the steps the NTA will take for safely conducting NEET and JEE next month. "The number of examination centres have also been increased from 570 to 660 (for JEE Main) and 2,546 to 3,843 (for NEET). While JEE-Mains is a computer-based test, NEET is a pen-paper test," the NTA said in a statement on Tuesday. "Additionally, in case of JEE-Mains, the number of shifts have been increased from the earlier 8 to 12, and the number of candidates per shift has been reduced from earlier 1.32 lakh to 85,000 now," it said. "In order to ensure proper social distancing inside the examination halls, the candidates will be seated in alternate seats in case of JEE-Mains. In case of NEET, the number of candidates per room has been reduced from 24 to 12," it added. For ensuring social distancing outside the examination hall, the entry and exit of candidates has been staggered. "Adequate arrangements have also been made outside the examination centers to enable candidates stand with adequate social distancing, while waiting. Candidates have also been issued an advisory guiding them about the 'Dos and Don'ts' for proper social distancing," the NTA said. There have been demands from several quarters to further postpone the entrance exams in view of increasing coronavirus cases. On Tuesday, Swedish teen climate change campaigner Greta Thunberg also threw her weight behind postponing the exams in view of the pandemic. "It's deeply unfair that students of India are asked to sit national exams during the Covid-19 pandemic and while millions have also been impacted by the extreme floods. I stand with their call to #PostponeJEE_NEETinCOVID,” she said in a tweet. Several opposition leaders in India including Congress' Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, her Odisha counterpart Naveen Patnaik, DMK president MK Stalin and Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia have demanded the exams be postponed. The Supreme Court had last week dismissed a plea seeking postponement of the two exams amid spurt in the number of Covid-19 cases, saying precious year of students "cannot be wasted" and life has to go on. "We find that there is absolutely no justification in the prayer made for postponement of the examination in question relating to NEET as well as JEE-Mains," the Supreme Court had said. The NTA has also written to state governments to extend support in local movement of the candidates so that they are able to reach their examination centres on time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-4-lakh-admit-cards-downloaded-for-medical-entrance-exam-neet-within-3-hours-878101.html
26-08-2020||National||From The Newsroom: Sonia Gandhi meets 7 Oppn-ruled states' CMs on NEET/JEE; SC asks Modi govt to clarify stand on interest waiver||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom,  Supreme Court tells Modi government to clarify stand on interest waiver; Congress president Sonia Gandhi meets seven opposition chief ministers to discuss issues relating to NEET/JEE examinations and GST and Covid-19 tests to be doubled in Delhi.  Here are the top news of today, Wednesday: August 26, 2020:   Congress President Sonia Gandhi met seven opposition chief ministers on Wednesday afternoon to discuss issues relating to NEET/JEE examinations and GST, signalling the first outreach for a joint strategy after a stormy meeting of the Congress Working Committee. The Congress chief said that all the opposition parties should jointly fight against the central government's decision of allowing exams to be held amid the coronavirus pandemic. "We have to work and fight together against Central government. Students' problems and exams issue dealt with uncaringly by the Centre. National Education Policy, a setback to secular and scientific values, reveals insensitivity of the government," Gandhi said according to PTI. Also, West Bengal CM, Mamata Banerjee said, "The exams are in September. Why should the lives of students be put at risk? We have written to the PM, but there has been no response," reports ANI. Mamata also urged all CMs should together move Supreme Court for postponing NEET, JEE exams as students "are not prepared".   The Supreme Court on Wednesday took note of the Centre's alleged inaction and asked it to clarify its stand within a week on the waiver of interest on interest for deferred payments of instalments for loans during the moratorium period announced due to the coronavirus lockdown. A bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan said the Centre had not made its stand clear on the issue despite the fact that ample powers were available with it under the Disaster Management Act and was "hiding behind the RBI". The apex court granted time to the government after Solicitor General Tushar Mehta sought a week's time to file a response. "My Lordships may not say that. We are working in coordination with RBI," Mehta said. The bench, also comprising Justices R Subhash Reddy and Justice M R Shah, asked the solicitor general to clarify stand on the Disaster Management Act and whether additional interest on existing interest could be accrued. Mehta argued that there cannot be a common solution for all the problems. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for the petitioner, informed the bench that the loan moratorium's deadline would end on August 31 and sought its extension. "I am only saying that till these pleas are decided, the extension should not end," Sibal said. The apex court has now posted the matter for hearing on September 1. The top court had earlier said there was "no merit in charging interest on interest" for deferred loan payment installments during the moratorium period announced in wake of the COVID-19 pandemic.     COVID-19 tests in Delhi will be doubled to 40,000 per day within a week as there has been a marginal increase in the number of coronavirus cases in the city, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Wednesday. Addressing an online media briefing, Kejriwal said that at present, 20,000 tests are being conducted per day in the city. Earlier in the day, Kejriwal had called a high-level meeting to discuss the rising number of coronavirus cases in Delhi. The chief minister said that the government has issued directions for stringent enforcement of COVID-19 guidelines, adding that everyone should wear face mask and maintain social distancing at public places. He said that after August 17, there has been a marginal increase in COVID-19 cases in the national capital. In the last 24 hours, 1,693 new COVD-19 cases have been reported in Delhi, he said, adding that the government has a total of 14,130 COVID beds and of those, 10,448 are vacant. Taking suo motu cognizance of actress Rhea Chakraborty’s entry to the morgue of Cooper Hospital where the late actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s body was kept, the Maharashtra State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has slapped a notice to the Mumbai Police and BrihanMumbai Police demanding an explanation. Treating the matter as a priority, the SHRC has ordered the police and civic authorities to submit their detailed explanation in the matter by Monday. Meanwhile, the Enforcement Directorate (ED), which is probing a money-laundering angle into the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput and has questioned his girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty, has referred some evidence to the CBI and the Narcotics Control Bureau about her alleged links to banned drugs, a charge vehemently denied by her lawyer. The officials said the central probe agency stumbled upon certain data and these "prima facie" inputs have been shared with the two federal agencies but did not give any details of the nature of evidence referred to the agencies.   To know more about the conversation, listen to the podcast... Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-sonia-gandhi-meets-7-oppn-ruled-states-cms-on-neet/jee-sc-asks-modi-govt-to-clarify-stand-on-interest-waiver-878108.html
26-08-2020||National||'Come and work with me': Mother Teresa told Priyanka Gandhi after Rajiv's assassination||"Come and work with me," was what Mother Teresa told Priyanka Gandhi when she visited former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi's family after his assassination in 1991. This anecdotal account was shared by Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Twitter while remembering Saint Teresa on her 110th birth anniversary. "Shortly after my father was killed Mother Teresa came to see us. I had fever. She sat by my bedside, held my hand and said ‘Come and work with me’," the Congress general secretary said in a tweet. "I did so for many years, and owe her a great debt of gratitude for the abiding friendship of all the MC (Missionaries of Charity) sisters who continue to show me the path of selfless service and love," she tweeted along with two pictures of her working with Missionaries of Charity sisters. Special prayers were held at the Mother House in Kolkata, the global headquarters of the Missionaries of Charity, on the 110th birth anniversary of St Teresa of Calcutta but entry of visitors was restricted due to the Covid-19 pandemic. St Teresa was born on August 26, 1910 in Skopje, presently the capital of North Macedonia, to a family of Albanians. She left home at a young age and came to India in 1929 as a novice with the Loreto nuns. She left the congregation in the late 1940s and started the Missionaries of Charity in 1950 to work among the poor. She died on September 5, 1997 in the city, which she had made her home and was canonised on September 4, 2016 by Pope Francis at the Vatican.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/come-and-work-with-me-mother-teresa-told-priyanka-gandhi-after-rajivs-assassination-878137.html
26-08-2020||National||Indian scientists find N95 masks to be most effective at stopping Covid-19 spread||N95 masks may be the most effective at reducing the spread of the novel coronavirus, according to a study by researchers, including those from the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), which suggests that any mask is better than no mask at preventing Covid-19. The researchers noted that airborne transmission by respiratory aerosol droplets produced during coughing and sneezing is the dominant mode of spreading for infectious diseases such as Covid-19. Padmanabha Prasanna Simha, from ISRO, and Prasanna Simha Mohan Rao, from the Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research in Karnataka, experimentally visualised the flow fields of coughs under various common mouth covering scenarios. The, study published in the journal Physics of Fluids, found N95 masks to be the most effective at reducing the horizontal spread of a cough. The N95 masks reduced a cough's initial velocity by up to a factor of 10, and limit its spread to between 0.1 and 0.25 meters, the researchers said. An uncovered cough, in contrast, can travel up to three metres, but even a simple disposable mask can bring this all the way down to 0.5 metres, they said. "If a person can reduce the extent of how much they contaminate the environment by mitigating the spread, it's a far better situation for other healthy individuals who may enter places that have such contaminated areas," Simha said. Rao and Simha noted that density and temperature are intricately related, and coughs tend to be warmer than their surrounding area. They utilised a technique called schlieren imaging, which visualises changes in density, to capture pictures of voluntary coughs from five test subjects. By tracking the motion of a cough over successive images, the team estimated velocity and spread of the expelled droplets. N95 masks have the best effectiveness and completely contain the horizontal spread to between 0.1 and 0.25 metres, researchers said. A disposable surgical mask greatly reduces this distance to between 0.5 and 1.5 metres, they said. "Even if a mask does not filter out all the particles, if we can prevent clouds of such particles from traveling very far, it's better than not doing anything," said Simha. "In situations where sophisticated masks are not available, any mask is better than no mask at all for the general public in slowing the spread of infection," said Simha. The researchers also contradict the generally accepted notion that using an elbow to cover up a cough is a good alternative. The found that unless covered by a sleeve, a bare arm cannot form the proper seal against the nose necessary to obstruct airflow. The researchers added that a cough is able to leak through any openings and propagate in many directions. Simha and Rao hope their findings will put to rest the argument that regular cloth masks are ineffective, but they emphasise that masks must continue to be used in conjunction with social distancing. "Adequate distancing is something that must not be ignored, since masks are not foolproof," Simha added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-scientists-find-n95-masks-to-be-most-effective-at-stopping-covid-19-spread-878142.html
26-08-2020||National||MWCD invites nominations for Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar 2021||The Women and Child Development Ministry has invited nominations for the Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar 2021 from children, individuals and institutions for their outstanding contribution in the field of child welfare and development. In a statement, the Women and Child Development Ministry said the awards are given by the President of India in Darbar Hall, Rashtrapati Bhavan in the week preceding the Republic Day every year.   The Ministry clarified that some awards conferred in the name of NGO Indian Council for Child Welfare (ICCW), National Bravery Awards by a private organisation are not recognised by the Ministry and it is not in any way associated with them. This year, the last date for receipt of application forms has been extended to September 15, it said. The Prime Minister also felicitates the awardees of the Bal Shakti Puraskar, who also take part in the Republic Day parade on Rajpath, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mwcd-invites-nominations-for-pradhan-mantri-rashtriya-bal-puraskar-2021-878145.html
26-08-2020||National||Centre to build 23 expressways in five years||To give a major boost to the infrastructure project, the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways is planning to build 23 green expressways in the next five years.  The highways, which will connect major cities,  business hubs and port cities, are to be built at an estimated cost of Rs 3.3 lakh crore. The total length of the green expressways will be 7800 km. Plans are ready to tap full potential while building newer highways by laying optic fibre, transmission line and gas pipelines," said an official. As per plan prepared by the Ministry, the Power Ministry will come up with plans for transmission line while the IT ministry can lay optical fibre cable network. Of the planned 23 green expressways, the work on seven including Rs 1 lakh crore Delhi-Mumbai Expressway has already started. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), the nodal agency to build highways, will invite bids for most of the project next year, said the official from the Road Ministry. Of the total proposed highways, 4 will be completed by 2023, 10 will be 2024 and nine will be completed by 2025. The NHAI will set up a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) to fund these projects. The NHAI aimed to get cheaper funds for SPV from pension and insurance funds, said the official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-build-23-expressways-in-five-years-878147.html
26-08-2020||National||Plan to use surplus land of railways to generate 20 GW of renewable energy: Piyush Goyal||Indian Railways plans to use its surplus land to generate 20 GW of renewable energy from 'Made in India' solar or wind equipment to power its network, Commerce, Industry and Railways Minister Piyush Goyal said on Wednesday. He said Indian Railways will be a 100 per cent electricity-driven rail network in coming years which would make it the largest such network in the world. "We plan to use a lot of our surplus land and land along the tracks to generate 20 GW (gigawatts)...'Made in India' solar or wind equipment being used to give us 20 GW production capacity of renewable energy and enough KW (kilowatt) hours to power our entire railway," Goyal said. He was addressing CEEW India's programme on 'Powering Livelihoods: Transforming India's Rural Economy with Clean Energy Solutions'. The railways may need to either expand battery storage or other forms of storage for this, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plan-to-use-surplus-land-of-railways-to-generate-20-gw-of-renewable-energy-piyush-goyal-878149.html
26-08-2020||National||Congress revokes ex-Union minister Shakeel Ahmed's suspension||Former Union minister Shakeel Ahmed's suspension from the Congress for contesting as an Independent candidate from a Lok Sabha seat in Bihar last year was revoked on Wednesday. The move comes just ahead of the assembly polls in Bihar. All India Congress Committee Bihar in-charge Shaktisinh Gohil welcomed Ahmed back in the "Congress family" over a year after he was suspended in May 2019. Gohil also posted on Twitter AICC general secretary Motilal Vora's letter in which he said that the Congress president was glad to revoke the suspension with immediate effect. Ahmed was suspended from the party last year for contesting as an Independent from the Madhubani Lok Sabha seat in Bihar. The party had said last year that Ahmed -- who had won the Madhubani seat for the Congress in 2004 -- has been suspended with immediate effect for going against the party decision.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-revokes-ex-union-minister-shakeel-ahmeds-suspension-878169.html
26-08-2020||National||Take steps to increase agri exports: Parliament panel to govt||With the Covid-19 pandemic adversely impacting the economy, the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Commerce has asked the government to identify commodities and products where the country has a "comparative advantage" and prioritise target countries for export. The panel headed by senior YSR Congress MP V Vijayasai Reddy also recommended allowing Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) in a regulated manner in the tobacco sector and establishing export-only tobacco farms to boost outward shipments. In the report on the 'Export of Agricultural and Marine Products, Plantation Crops, Turmeric and Coir' submitted to Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday, the panel said measures for promoting agricultural and plantation sectors assume more significance in the context of the pandemic. The adverse impact of the pandemic on the export front would require concerted measures by the government and other stakeholders. The Department of Commerce should identify commodities and products where India has a comparative advantage and prioritise target countries for their export and put in place the WTO-compatible export subsidies for the predictable and consistent regime for exporters. It also asked the government to play a proactive role in international trade and economic fora in strengthening multilateralism and ensuring fair world trade governance in the post-Covid-19 phase. The panel noted that the share of export of agricultural commodities as compared to their production was low. Only 0.2% of wheat, 1.2% of pulses and 1.3% of fruits produced in India are exported, it said. The government should extend the necessary support and incentives to the growers for scientific production, which would tremendously help in boosting quality production thereby pushing up export to new heights. Proactive efforts should be undertaken towards the market exploration of new emerging trade destinations of Egypt, Mexico, Malaysia, Indonesia and the Philippines for Indian rice export, it added. On tobacco, the panel suggested that 100% FDI in the tobacco sector should be allowed with a condition that tobacco produced using investment from abroad would be marketed through auction platforms. "Also, FDI may be permitted in cigarette manufacturing wherein the value addition of such products is done only in SEZs for export purpose with no domestic sale," it said adding the feasibility of having 'export only' tobacco farms should be explored for promoting the cultivation of tobacco specifically for export purposes. India is the third-largest producer and exporter of tobacco in the world, contributing Rs 6,001.02 crore (2018-19) in terms of foreign exchange to the exchequer. Referring to the vast potential in harvesting marine resources owing to India’s long coastline, the panel recommended that the Marine Products Export Development Authority (MPEDA) undertake measures for value-addition and quality standards and establishing testing laboratories near marine processing centres and an e-auction platform. Steps should also be taken to modernise dilapidated fishing harbours, upgradation of post-harvest infrastructure, devising specific schemes for Tuna fish production and its export given its huge potential, appropriate incentives to the marine exporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/take-steps-to-increase-agri-exports-parliament-panel-to-govt-878174.html
26-08-2020||National||Narcotics Control Bureau registers a case in Sushant Singh Rajput's death||The investigations into the actor Sushant Singh suicide case took a turn on Wednesday with the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) registering a case against actress Rhea Chakrabarty, who is under the CBI scanner, and others on allegations that they were dealing in banned drugs. After the CBI and Enforcement Directorate (ED), NCB will be the third federal agency to get involved in the case. Officials said the NCB's action came after the ED, which is probing the money laundering angle in the case, referred some "prima facie" evidence to the CBI after the agency found some data in the phone of Rhea, who was in a relationship with the actor. Rhea's lawyer had denied the allegations, saying she had never taken any drugs in her life and was ready for a blood test. Officials said the NCB filed the case after a reference from the ED. Various sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) have been invoked against Rhea and others. Sushant (34), who hailed from Bihar, known for his stellar performance in Kai Poche and MS Dhoni: The Untold Story among others, died by suicide on June 14 in his apartment in Bandra in Mumbai on June 14. The ED had in July filed a case of money laundering against Bollywood actress Rhea Chakraborty and her family in connection with the Sushant's death. The actor's family had accused Rhea of abetting his suicide and misappropriating his wealth. The ED case was based on the FIR filed by Sushant's father Krishna Kumar Singh with Bihar Police in Patna accusing Rhea and her family of unexplained transfer of money from the actor's account. The father had also accused Rhea of pushing Sushant to suicide on June 14 in his Bandra residence. The CBI took over the case after a Supreme Court order earlier this month. Rhea had earlier said that she was in a live-in relationship with Sushant from a year up till June 8 when the petitioner had temporarily shifted to her own residence in Mumbai. She has been in deep trauma due the death of the actor and moreover getting rape and death threats. Sushant's family had alleged that Rhea and her family of misappropriating Sushant's money and pushing him to suicide.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/narcotics-control-bureau-registers-a-case-in-sushant-singh-rajputs-death-878175.html
26-08-2020||National||Book directly with airlines, no need to apply to us: Aviation Ministry to international passengers||Passengers taking international flights from India need not apply to the Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) and can directly book their tickets with the airlines, said an official statement on Wednesday. A standard operating protocol issued by the Home Ministry on August 22 stated that persons who are eligible to travel on outbound flights "will apply to MoCA or an agency/agencies designated by MoCA for this purpose with necessary details, including places of departure & arrival". The MoCA said on Twitter on Wednesday that it "has designated all the airlines operating under Vande Bharat Mission & air transport bubble arrangements as designated agencies for this purpose". "Passengers may book tickets directly with the airlines concerned. They need not apply/register with the Ministry of Civil Aviation," it added. While scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in the country since March 23 due to the coronavirus pandemic, special international flights have been operating under Vande Bharat Mission and bilateral air bubble arrangements. Since July this year, India has signed separate bilateral air bubble arrangements with various countries like the US, the UK, the UAE, Germany, France and Qatar. Under a bilateral bubble pact, airlines of both the countries can operate special international passenger flights with certain restrictions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/book-directly-with-airlines-no-need-to-apply-to-us-aviation-ministry-to-international-passengers-878196.html
26-08-2020||National||Centre frames draft policy on data privacy under National Digital Health Mission||All necessary data privacy measures will be put in place to safeguard the confidentiality of sensitive health-related information of individuals under the National Digital Health Mission (NDHM) programme that seeks to provide a unique ID to all citizens to map their medical history, the government has said. The ambitious NDHM programme was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi earlier this month during his Independence Day speech. As per the draft proposal, everyone enrolled for the mission will get a Health ID free of cost and will have complete control over his or her data. Any personal data can be collected only on consent from individuals and they will be allowed to revoke their consent to restrict any sharing of personal data. The government has proposed a framework and a set of minimum standards for data privacy protection to be followed across the board in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The National Health Authority (NHA), the central agency responsible for the implementation of Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana, which has been mandated to design and roll out NDHM in the country, has released the draft 'Health Data Management Policy' in the public domain. The document has been put up on the official website of National Digital Health Mission seeking comments and feedback from the public till September 3. The draft policy mainly seeks to set out a framework for "secure processing of personal and sensitive personal data of individuals" who are a part of the national digital health ecosystem. Data collected across the National Digital Health Ecosystem (NDHE) will be stored in at the central level, the state or Union Territory level and at the health facility level, by adopting the principle of minimality at each point, according to the document. The federated structure necessitates the development of a framework that can be utilised throughout the NDHE to safeguard the privacy of confidential health data that has been collected from individuals in India, it stated. Indu Bhushan, the Chief Executive Officer of NHA said, "The Draft Health Data Management Policy is the maiden step in realizing NDHM's guiding principle of 'Security and Privacy by Design' for the protection of individuals' data privacy." "It encompasses various aspects of health data like data privacy, consent management, data sharing and protection among others," the officer said. The provisions of this policy shall apply to the entities involved in the NDHM and those who are a part of the NDHE, that includes all entities and individuals who have been issued an ID under this policy, healthcare professionals, governing bodies of the health ministry, the NHA, relevant professional bodies and regulators. It would also apply to any healthcare provider who collects, stores and transmits health data in electronic form, insurers, charitable institutions, pharmaceuticals and all individuals, teams, entities who collect or process personal or sensitive data of any individual as part of the NDHE. The federated design of the NDHE ensures personal data of the data principals will be held at the point of care or at the closest possible location where it was created, with no centralised repository, the draft document said. As such, data storage shall incorporate privacy control and safeguards right from the foundational levels Highlighting the significance of the policy and its potential impact, Bhushan said, "The government is working to ensure strong privacy of health data and therefore, we are circulating the Draft Health Data Management Policy of NDHM to increase awareness on the importance of data privacy and instil a privacy-oriented mindset among all stakeholders and participants of the ecosystem." "I look forward to feedback, suggestions and inputs from experts and members of the general public to help us finalise the policy and make the implementation of the mission stronger and more effective." The vision of the mission is to create a national digital health ecosystem which enables timely and efficient access to inclusive, affordable, and safe healthcare to all citizens. The National Health Authority said the NDHM will significantly improve the efficiency, effectiveness, and transparency of health services in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-frames-draft-policy-on-data-privacy-under-national-digital-health-mission-878198.html
26-08-2020||National||Amid Covid-19, Akshaya Patra Foundation serves 7.7 crore meals||The Akshaya Patra Foundation has actively contributed by providing over 7.7 crore meals over the last 6 months across 52 locations in 17 states and 2 union territories, to supplement the government’s efforts during the by the Covid-19 pandemic in India. The supplies were in the form of freshly cooked food and food relief kits with essential groceries. Akshaya Patra has been reaching out to people from vulnerable communities, such as daily-wage earners, industrial workers, labourers at construction sites, across India, since the last week of March. The Foundation is leveraging its existing state-of-the-art kitchens in Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Dadra & Nagar Haveli, Delhi and National Capital Region (NCR), Gujarat, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Odisha, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, and Uttar Pradesh to prepare and serve freshly cooked meals through centres assigned by the administration. Simultaneously, it is distributing food relief kits to vulnerable communities in these states as well as in Assam, Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and West Bengal. In states where the organisation does not have any existing kitchen infrastructure, relief feeding was extended from the nearest kitchen in the neighbouring state. The contents of these kits are based on the local palate of the region with each kit having a dry ration sufficient to cook 42 or 28 meals. In this relief feeding endeavour, the Foundation has had the continued support of various state governments, corporate partners, individual donors and volunteers. Sudha Murty and Narayana Murthy, have donated Rs 10 crore to the foundation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-covid-19-akshaya-patra-foundation-serves-77-crore-meals-878199.html
26-08-2020||National||Don't leak Parliament panel meet details before report is tabled: Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu tells MPs||Irked by the leaking of confidential deliberations of the Parliamentary Standing Committees, Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday wrote to panel chairpersons asking them to ensure that MPs do not divulge details of meetings till a report is placed before Parliament. Naidu reminded that the proceedings of the committees are confidential and it is not permissible for an MP or anyone to communicate it to the media before the report is placed before Parliament. Such actions are a breach of privilege of the House, he warned. In the letter to chairpersons of eight Standing Committees under the Upper House, Naidu said Parliamentary Committees have been entrusted with the major responsibility of functioning on behalf of Parliament. These committees undertake detailed scrutiny of legislative proposals of the government of the day, which has not been found feasible for Parliament to do in the transaction of its day-to-day business for various reasons. These panels also choose various subjects and study them in a non-partisan manner, he said. Naidu noted that several recommendations of these panels were accepted by the government, which would not have been ordinarily possible in the regular course of the legislative process in both the Houses of the Parliament. "However, for some time now, it has been observed that the media has been found quoting, in their reportage, the proceedings of the committees related to the subject matters or the legislative Bills under their consideration and examination," he said. "I urge upon you to impress upon the MPs belonging to your committee and participating in the proceedings to strictly adhere to the existing provisions/ direction relating to confidentiality and refrain from premature divulgence of any information to the media, till the reports are presented to the House," he wrote to the chairpersons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-leak-parliament-panel-meet-details-before-report-is-tabled-rajya-sabha-chairman-venkaiah-naidu-tells-mps-878201.html
26-08-2020||National||Money put in Pak bank accounts of JeM commander before Pulwama blast: NIA||Mohammed Umar Farooq, the nephew of Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) chief Masood Azhar, had received Rs 10 lakh in his bank accounts in Pakistan to execute the Pulwama terror attack in which 40 CRPF personnel were killed in February last year, the NIA has said in its chargesheet. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) probe has shown that Rs 10 lakh in Pakistani currency was credited into three accounts of Farooq, the main accused in the suicide attack case who was later killed in an encounter with security forces, in Allied Bank and Mezaan Bank in that country days before the incident, officials said. They said the money was deposited by top leadership of the terror group JeM between January and February 2019. The terrorists had spent around Rs six lakh on procurement of explosives and the Maruti Eeco car used in the attack, the NIA said in its chargesheet filed on Tuesday before a special court in Jammu. A major chunk of the fund, about Rs 2.80 lakh, was used to procure around 200 kilograms of explosives including ammonium nitrate to trigger a massive car-laden IED attack on the CRPF convoy moving from Jammu to Srinagar on February 14, 2019, they said. The 200 kilograms of explosives comprised of a lethal concoction of RDX brought from Pakistan, gelatin sticks procured by Mudasir Ahmad, four kilograms of Aluminium powder bought on Amazon by accused Wazi Ul Islam and Calcium Ammonium Nitrate. The IED was fitted into the Eeco car in two containers weighing 160 kilogram and 40 kilograms to trigger the blast, the NIA said. Charge sheeted accused Shakir Bashir allegedly collected the explosives -- RDX, Gelatin sticks, Aluminium power and Calcium-Ammonium Nitrate -- and stocked them at his house for making the IED, the agency said. The terrorists had spent another Rs 2.5 lakh on purchasing and modifying the car to be used in the attack which was also parked in the front-yard of Shakir Bashir’s house, it said. Some money was spent on miscellaneous expenses too, which included purchase of containers for fabricating the Improvised Explosive Devices, officials said. The NIA probe has shown three bank accounts of Farooq, the main perpetrator, who received the money from January 2019 till February of the same year. The agency had filed a 13,800-page chargesheet against 19 accused persons in an NIA Special Court at Jammu in connection with last year’s terrorist attack on the CRPF convoy at Lethpura, Pulwama, they said. Jaish-e-Mohammad terrorist Adil Ahmad Dar, who was driving the car laden with explosives, had rammed it into the convoy killing 40 CRPF personnel and grievously injuring eight others. "The investigation has revealed that Pulwama attack was a result of well-planned criminal conspiracy hatched by Pakistan-based leadership of terrorist organisation Jaish-e-Mohammad. The JeM leaders have been sending their cadres to the terrorist training camps of Al-Qaida-Taliban-JeM and Haqqani-JeM in Afghanistan for receiving training in explosives and other terrorist tactics," the NIA said in the chargesheet. The agency said the main accused Umar Farooq was trained in Afghanistan for explosives. He visited Afghanistan in 2016-17 and had infiltrated into India through the International Border at Jammu-Samba Sector in April, 2018, it said. Farooq took over as the Jaish-e-Mohammad Commander of Pulwama. "Accused Shakir Bashir, Insha Jan, Peer Tariq Ahmad Shah and Bilal Ahmad Kuchey provided all logistics and harboured the JeM terrorists in their houses," the NIA has said. Bashir allegedly did reconnaissance of the movement and deployment of security forces on the Jammu-Srinagar National Highway. A propaganda video clip of Mohammad Umar Farooq, Sameer Dar and Adil Dar was allegedly prepared at Insha Jan’s house which was released immediately after the suicide attack, it said. The terrorists had prepared the car for the attack by fitting it with the IED on February 6, 2019 but suspended their nefarious plans because of heavy snowfall which led to closing of the National Highway for vehicular movement, the agency said. They attacked the convoy on February 14, 2019, when the National Highway reopened, they said. Bashir drove Adil Ahmad Dar till the National Highway, after which Dar drove the car and carried out the blast, it alleged. Damage to the tune of Rs 32.90 lakh was caused to public property, the probe agency said. The NIA found that JeM leadership consisting of Masood Azhar, Rouf Asgar and Ammar Alvi alias Chacha alias Chota Masood handled the operation by continuously giving directions and guidance to the Pakistani JeM infiltrators before and after the attack.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/money-put-in-pak-bank-accounts-of-jem-commander-before-pulwama-blast-nia-878207.html
26-08-2020||National||Reduced fear of Covid-19 one of the reasons for lesser people opting for tests: Experts||Reduced fear of Covid-19 among the public coupled with festivities and heavy rains led to lesser number of people coming for tests, experts on Wednesday said in view of fluctuating figures in daily coronavirus tests in Delhi in August. Their comments come after Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday warned against complacency and urged people to get themselves tested if they observe coronavirus symptoms while asserting that Covid-19 tests in Delhi will be doubled to 40,000 per day within a week. According to the data, the number of tests in Delhi witnessed a decline in August as compared to July. The authorities conducted over 2.58 lakh Covid-19 tests in Delhi between August 1 and 15, whereas the figure stood at over 3.13 lakh in the same period in July, according to data. Between July 16 and 31, over 2.96 lakh tests were conducted in Delhi. Between August 16 and August 25, the total number of tests stood at over 1.71 lakh while the figure between July 16 and July 25 stood over 1.92 lakh. Addressing an online media briefing, Kejriwal said at present, 20,000 tests are being conducted per day in the city. He also warned people against complacency and said that more and more people should get themselves tested if they observe coronavirus symptoms. "Due to this overconfidence, some people think they will recover even after they have symptoms. They do not realise that if they do not get tested in time, they end up infecting many people around them eventually. People can avail of testing for free in any government hospital or government dispensaries," he said. He asked people to get themselves tested, wear masks, and practice social distancing. During his briefing on Wednesday, Kejriwal said 1,693 coronavirus cases were reported in the last 24 hours. Delhi on Tuesday recorded 1,544 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the city's tally to over 1.64 lakh cases, while the death count from the disease mounted to 4,330. August 1 saw over 18,000 tests being conducted, while the figures on subsequent days -- August 2 (12,730), August 3 (10,133) and August 4 (9,295) were significantly lower than the average number of tests being conducted on a daily basis, which is 20,000. The numbers picked up later and on August 5 when over 16,000 tests were done. Between August 6 and August 9, the number of tests exceeded 20,000 per day with August 8 seeing 24,592 tests. Testing was ramped up in Delhi in the month of June with the government introducing rapid antigen tests from June 18. Between July 1 and July 12, the national capital saw over 9,000 RT-PCR tests being conducted daily with July 6 and July 7 being the only two days when the number of RT-PCR tests was below the 9,000-mark. In fact, on July 2, the number of RT-PCR tests (10,978) exceeded the number of rapid antigen tests. Dr. Manoj Sharma, Senior Consultant, Medicine and Incharge at Medeor Hospital Qutab Institutional Area, said the hospital witnessed lesser footfall of patients for coronavirus tests on some days due to the incessant rains which led to flooding in some areas and also on days when there were festivals or holidays like Independence Day, Janmasthami among others. "Earlier, there was a lot of panic and even for minor symptoms people were coming to hospitals. But now, they know that if they have minor symptoms, they think they will recover. There is some taboo attached to it. They think that authorities will put up sticker outside their home and their neighbours will come to know," he opined. Dr Alpana Razdaan, Lab Head, Genestrings Lab, concurred with Sharma, and said the number of patients coming for tests has gone down. Sharing numbers, she said earlier, the number of patients was 350 a day but now it has come down to 170 a day. "The fear has reduced among people and those with mild symptoms feel they will recover. People will severe symptoms only come for tests," she said. She also said they are not getting samples from government for testing. She said until and unless the government makes something mandatory as 'Unlock' is happening, people will not come forward for testing. Desh Deepak, the nodal officer for Covid-19 at RML Hospital said there is a fluctuation in the number of testing figures which is because people do not turn up in large number on holidays. "For instance, lesser number of people got themselves tested on Rakshabandhan, Independence Day, but the number is compensated the next day. We have been witnessing a slight increase in new cases in Delhi and that's because people are gradually returning from other states for work, the city is opening up," he added. Dr Harjit Singh Bhatti, president of Progressive Medicos and Scientists Forum, claimed the number of tests has been kept low deliberately. The Delhi government has not done much to bring the situation under control, he alleged. "It knows that more tests means more positive cases, so the whole strategy is to keep the figure of confirmed cases low. The government will need more testing kits and facilities if they decide to ramp up testings, which means more expenditure. The administration knows that only around 5-6 per cent of the Covid-19 cases become severe, rest all recover on their own. So they do not want to make any extra effort to test, isolate and arrest the spread of the virus," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/reduced-fear-of-covid-19-one-of-the-reasons-for-lesser-people-opting-for-tests-experts-878210.html
26-08-2020||National||Solicitor General Tushar Mehta declines consent for contempt plea against actor Swara Bhasker||After Attorney General K K Venugopal, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta on Wednesday also declined his consent for initiation of contempt proceedings against actor Swara Bhasker for her comments against the Supreme Court. He said the request was "misconceived" as a similar plea was already rejected by the Attorney General on August 21. The request for consent was made by Anuj Saxena, an advocate on behalf of his client Usha Shetty, who wanted to file a contempt petition against Swara for alleged "derogatory and scandalous" comments by her in a programme in Mumbai on February 1. The actor has on reportedly said: "We are living in a country where the Supreme Court of our country states that demolition of Babri Masjid was unlawful and in the same judgment, rewards the same people who brought down the mosque". Venugopal had then said: "The comment is not an attack on the institution...does not constitute criminal contempt". With regard to her comment: "We are in a situation where our courts are not sure whether they believe in the Constitution or not", the A-G had said that t is a vague statement and not related to any particular court. "Something which is so general that no one would take any serious note of this statement". Under the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971, a consent from the Attorney General or Solicitor General was required for initiating criminal contempt proceedings against anyone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/solicitor-general-tushar-mehta-declines-consent-for-contempt-plea-against-actor-swara-bhasker-878225.html
26-08-2020||National||Vested interests trying to disrupt NEET: Karnataka Deputy CM||Amid calls from some quarters against the conduct of NEET as scheduled, Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan on Wednesday said he saw no reason for putting it off and claimed some "vested interests" were trying to disrupt the medical entrance exam since its inception. The state government had successfully conducted the common entrance test (CET) for engineering and other courses for more than 1.94 lakh students, including 63 Covid-19 positive students who achieved good ranks, he said. "When the reality is so conducive, I do not understand why people are opposing the conduct of NEET. I would like to advise all of them that they should not play with the future of the children," he told reporters here. Narayan, who holds the Higher Education portfolio, was responding to a question on calls for deferment of the National Eligibility and Entrance Test (NEET), to be held next month, citing Covid-19 pandemic. He said certain 'invisible' groups wanted seats allocated through an "opaque system" rather than on the basis of merit through the entrance test. "Some vested interests have been trying to disrupt the NEET examination since the beginning. There is a huge ecosystem behind it with efforts going on for many years now. However, their objectives will remain unfulfilled," the Deputy Chief Minister said. Narayan asserted that the NEET needed to be conducted as it was a well-structured exam which allows students to take up admissions throughout the country with just one test. There have been calls from various quarters for postponing the entrance exams in view of Covid-19 situation. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday urged all chief ministers of states ruled by opposition parties to together move the Supreme Court for postponing the NEET and JEE exams, saying the students are not prepared. She was addressing a virtual meeting convened by Congress President Sonia Gandhi to discuss the key issues confronting the opposition ruled states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vested-interests-trying-to-disrupt-neet-karnataka-deputy-cm-878235.html
26-08-2020||National||NEET, JEE exams should be held as planned in Sept: JNU VC||Jawaharlal Nehru University vice-chancellor Mamidala Jagadesh Kumar on Wednesday said NEET and JEE exams should be held as planned in September as their postponement will lead to "further anxiety" among students.  His comments come in the wake of growing clamour for postponing the two crucial exams in view of the rise in Covid-19 cases. "Both JEE and NEET should be held as planned in September. This is not the right time to create further anxiety in students' minds by insisting on postponement of these exams. Even the Supreme Court has said that 'life must go on' and students 'cannot waste a whole year'," he posted on Twitter.  The JEE Main and the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET-UG) will be conducted in September as scheduled, the Ministry of Education officials had on Tuesday said, amid a growing chorus for postponing the crucial tests in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.  While the JEE Main is scheduled from September 1-6, NEET is planned on September 13. Several opposition leaders in India, including Congress' Rahul Gandhi, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, her Odisha counterpart Naveen Patnaik and DMK president M K Stalin have demanded the exams be postponed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/neet-jee-exams-should-be-held-as-planned-in-sept-jnu-vc-878282.html
26-08-2020||National||ICMR conducts second national sero survey; India's Covid-19 crosses 60,000||With India's Covid-19 death toll crossing 60,000, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has undertaken its second national-level sero survey to find out the extent of the virus’ spread in the last eight months. Medical researchers will look for Covid antibodies in 28,000 blood samples — 400 each from 70 representative districts. These are the same districts that were part of the first survey. In the second survey, every member of the household, including children of more than 10 years of age, will be examined. In the first round, only those above 18 years were included. Since the second survey will be completed by the first week of September, the inputs will help guide future policy decisions like reopening of schools. While the results of the first ICMR survey are yet to be published, such studies were carried out in Delhi, Mumbai, Pune and Punjab. After two rounds of peer review, the results of the first survey are set to be published in the upcoming issue of the Indian Journal of Medical Research. But the survey results from the states suggest that 20%-30% of the population were exposed to the virus, though a large number of them did not have any symptoms or health issues that may have compelled them to seek healthcare. “Sero survey tells us how far the infection has spread and helps change the policy dynamically. For instance, the two surveys in southwest Delhi show 13% (1st survey) and 16% (2nd survey) of people were exposed to the virus. This means a large number of populations are susceptible and there can’t be any slackening in containment measures and social distancing norms,” Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said.  India’s total Covid-19 death count now stands at 60,550. More than 67,000 fresh cases (health ministry data) were also registered on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases past the 32-lakh mark. But only around seven lakh are active cases as more than 24.5 lakh have recovered. The mortality stands at 1.84%. Among the deceased, 69% are male and 31% female.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icmr-conducts-second-national-sero-survey-indias-covid-19-toll-crosses-60000-878285.html
26-08-2020||National||ICMR says its Twitter handle 'compromised'||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Wednesday evening that its Twitter account has been "compromised" and it was taking necessary steps to rectify the issue. According to sources, it was observed that certain tweets criticising the government were "liked" from the ICMR's official Twitter handle. The matter was brought to the notice of ICMR officials by some Twitter users, they said. "ICMR has observed that the Twitter account of the organisation has been compromised. We are taking necessary steps to rectify the same. We apologise for any inconvenience caused due to this situation," the apex health research body said in a tweet.   ICMR has observed that the twitter account of the organisation has been compromised. We are taking necessary steps to rectify the same. We apologise for any inconvenience caused due to this situation. The ICMR has removed its likes on the tweets in question.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icmr-says-its-twitter-handle-compromised-878295.html
26-08-2020||National||Centre sets up panel to modify the charter of DRDO labs||With disruptive technologies being the need of the hour, the centre has formed an expert panel to overhaul the charter of 52 DRDO laboratories so that the apex defence research organisation can play a more meaningful role in futuristic battle techniques by developing such technologies. Headed by V Ramgopal Rao, Director, Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi, the panel has been given 45 days to submit its report to the government. Other panel members are S Somnath, director of Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre, Thiruvananthapuram; Air Marshal Sandeep Singh, Deputy Chief of Air Staff; Samir V Kamat, director-general, naval systems and materials at DRDO headquarters and Benjamin Lionel, director, Instruments Research and Development Establishment, Dehradun, who will serve as the member secretary of the panel. This is the second external committee to review the function of DRDO in two decades after the P Rama Rao panel that submitted its report in 2008. The Rama Rao committee report that recommended some far-reaching changes, however, was not made public by the government. The new panel will “study and review the charter of duties for all DRDO labs’ and “redefine the charter of duties of the labs on the current and futuristic defence and battlefield scenario.” The committee will also minimize the overlapping of technologies among the laboratories. The Defence Research and Developmental Organisation often face criticism for the delay in executing the projects leading to cost and time overrun. Over the years several Parliamentary Committees too expressed their dissatisfaction on the "inordinate delay in execution of almost all DRDO projects", which had become a common phenomenon. Incidentally, the government announced the formation of the new panel days after the Centre gave a two-year extension to DRDO chief G Satheesh Reddy. In a 2018 report, the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Defence noted that there were 93 on-going major projects in different DRDO labs, including Agni IV and Agni V ballistic missile, Nirbhay cruise missile, submarine-launched K-15 missile, anti-tank Nag missile, beyond visual range Astra missile, airborne radar, Arjun battle tank and Tejas Light Combat Aircraft. Out of 30 major on-going projects (each costing more than Rs 100 crore), there were cost revisions in six and time revisions in 16 projects. Besides, 12 projects were more than five years old (sanctioned prior to 2011) while 17 major projects were approved during the 11th five-year plan (April 2002 to March 2007). None had been completed at the time of finalization of the House panel report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-sets-up-panel-to-modify-the-charter-of-drdo-labs-878303.html
26-08-2020||National||Chandrayaan-2 Orbiter in good health, but Gaganyaan worries ISRO||Despite Mission Chandrayaan-2 recording another success with its Orbiter completing a year around the Moon last week, the Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) has reason to be worried: India’s maiden manned space mission, Gaganyaan overshooting its deadline due to Covid-19-triggered delays. The space agency was euphoric in its declaration that the Chandrayaan-2 Orbiter had enough fuel on board to keep it alive for another seven years. This was a reiteration of what Isro chairman K Sivan had declared soon after acknowledging the failure of the mission’s original purpose: A soft-landing on the lunar surface. Launched on July 22, 2019, and well on course for a textbook landing, the mission had suffered a dramatic last-minute flaw. Barely metres away from a soft touchdown on September 7, the Orbiter had lost communication link with the Lander, Vikram. ISRO eventually ruled that Vikram had hard-landed, preparing the stage for a third attempt, Chandrayaan-3. However, this mission’s timeline, too, is now in big trouble. But for Isro, nothing could be more urgent than the Gaganyaan mission. Before the launch of the manned spaceflight, originally planned by 2022, the space agency had intended to undertake two unmanned missions. Two years ago, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had declared the Gaganyaan mission would be a proud feat to accomplish by August 15, 2022, when India completes 75 years of Independence. The mission plan is to send three Indians to space for a period of five to seven days. First of the two unmanned missions, planned for December 2020, is now very unlikely due to the disruptions caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. The virus, it is learnt, had also infected staff members at the space agency’s multiple centres. Isro has reportedly communicated its inability on this front to the Space Commission. However, since Gaganyaan is a prestige project overseen from the very top, Isro is making all efforts to ensure that the 2022 deadline is adhered to. The four astronauts shortlisted for the mission are currently undergoing training in Russia. After a brief disruption, the training has resumed. In an official statement, Russian space agency Roscosmos had informed that the astronauts were in good health and determined to continue with their training at the Gagarin Cosmonaut Training Centre (GCTC). Operating the Soyuz MS crewed spacecraft is a key part of the training schedule.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chandrayaan-2-orbiter-in-good-health-but-gaganyaan-worries-isro-878307.html
26-08-2020||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi slams govt over 'expensive petrol'||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday hit out at the government over "expensive petrol" and "rising prices". In his tweet, he also tagged a media report which said petrol prices had increased in the domestic market for the sixth consecutive day on Tuesday. "Expensive petrol and rising prices, the government is looting the people openly," he alleged in a tweet in Hindi. The former Congress president has been critical of the Modi government for its handling of the economy over the past few years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-slams-govt-over-expensive-petrol-877858.html
26-08-2020||National Politics||When fighting for principles, opposition often voluntary, support often managed: Kapil Sibal||Senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal, one of the 23 leaders who have written to party chief Sonia Gandhi seeking an organisational overhaul, said on Wednesday that when fighting for principles, "opposition is often voluntary and support is often managed". After a stormy Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting on Monday, Sibal made the remarks in a cryptic tweet. "When fighting for principles in life, in politics, in law, amongst social activists, on social media platforms, opposition is often voluntary, support is often managed," he said on Twitter. Sibal's remarks come in the backdrop of the controversy over the letter written by 23 Congress leaders, including him, to Sonia Gandhi, in which they called for far-reaching reforms within the party, such as having a "full time, active and visible" leadership, devolution of powers to state units and revamping the CWC in line with the party constitution. Several leaders in the run up to the CWC meet and during it had rallied behind Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi, while lashing out at the letter writers. Former party chief Rahul Gandhi is also learnt to have criticised the letter writers at the meeting of the party's top decision-making body CWC. Making no direct reference to the events, Sibal had posted a cryptic tweet on Tuesday as well saying: "It's not about a post. It's about my country which matters most." A day after being dissed at the CWC meet, several members of the 'group of 23' said on Tuesday they were "not dissenters" but "proponents of revival". Many of them also backed Sonia Gandhi remaining at the helm. After the seven-hour meeting of the party's top decision-making body, the CWC urged Sonia Gandhi to continue as its interim chief till an AICC session could be convened and authorised her to effect necessary organisational changes to deal with the challenges facing the party. It made it clear no one would be permitted to undermine or weaken the party and its leadership. The CWC also resolved that inner-party issues cannot be deliberated through the media or in public fora and all such issues must be raised within the party "in the interest of propriety and discipline".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/when-fighting-for-principles-opposition-often-voluntary-support-often-managed-kapil-sibal-877976.html
26-08-2020||National Politics||Government needs to spend more, not lend more: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday attacked the government over the state of the economy and said it needs to give money to the poor to restart the economy through consumption. Gandhi said "distractions" through media won't help the poor or make the "economic disaster disappear". His attack on the government came after the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) said on Tuesday that demand in the economy will take quite some time to mend and that an assessment of aggregate demand during the year so far suggests that the shock to consumption is severe. "RBI has now confirmed what I have been warning for months. Govt needs to: spend more, not lend more," Gandhi said. "Give money to the poor, not tax cuts to industrialists. Restart economy by consumption," the former Congress chief tweeted. In its latest annual report, the RBI said "deep-seats and wide-ranging" reforms are needed to regain losses and return to the path of sustainable economic growth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/government-needs-to-spend-more-not-lend-more-rahul-gandhi-877993.html
26-08-2020||National Politics||Grand Alliance in Bihar may get a shot in the Left arm||With battle lines clearly drawn after the Election Commission made it clear that the Bihar Assembly polls will be held as per the schedule, there is some good news for the faction-ridden Grand Alliance, also called Mahagatbandhan. The Left parties, comprising the CPI, CPM and the CPI-ML, are likely to be part of the Grand Alliance so that there is no division of Opposition votes and the Mahagatbandhan could give the NDA a tough fight. The Left parties, of late, have been winning seats in single-digit but have its area of influence in Begusarai, Madhubani, Purnia, Jehanabad, Bhojpur and Aurangabad districts, and could tilt the balance if they contest unitedly. At least two sources in the Grand Alliance confirmed it to Deccan Herald on Wednesday that the Left could be part of the Mahagatbandhan as the Congress in general and Rahul Gandhi, in particular, had been insisting that “all those forces, which are inimical to the BJP-led NDA, should join hands.” “The move (Left joining Grand Alliance) has been cleared by RJD chief Lalu Prasad. The formal clearance from Congress high command is yet to be obtained, as the grand old party is busy setting its own house in order,” said a source in Grand Alliance, aware of the developments. The move is significant in the sense that BJP chief JP Nadda has already made it clear that the three NDA allies – JD (U), BJP and the LJP are united and will fight the Bihar Assembly polls under the leadership of Nitish Kumar. Together, these three parties command around 39 percent votes and give the NDA a clear edge. On the other hand, the Grand Alliance, comprising the RJD, Congress, Upendra Kushwaha’s Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) and Mukesh Sahni’s Vikas-sheel Insaan Party (VIP), command over 32 percent votes. “If the Left parties, which have its cadre all over Bihar but fail to wrest seats due to division of Opposition votes, join the Mahagatbandhan, then this could be a shot in the arm for Grand Alliance. After all, the Left has a minimum four percent votes in the state. They could swell the Mahagatbandhan votes. In such direct contest, we could see a fierce fight in the ensuing Assembly polls,” opined noted political commentator Ajay Kumar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/grand-alliance-in-bihar-may-get-a-shot-in-the-left-arm-877995.html
26-08-2020||National Politics||Seven CMs to jointly move SC against conducting NEET, JEE exams||Chief Ministers of seven opposition states are planning to jointly move the Supreme Court, seeking a review of the NEET-JEE examinations scheduled to be held in September. Chief Ministers of West Bengal, Maharashtra, Jharkhand, Punjab, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Puducherry decided to move the Supreme Court at a meeting convened by Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday. The proposal to move the Supreme Court was mooted by West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and agreed upon by other chief ministers attending the meeting through video-conferencing. “Let us go to the Supreme Court. Let us talk about this matter. This is a mental agony for students. I have not seen so many atrocities in a democracy. The situation is very serious. We have to speak up for the children,” Banerjee said. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said the Opposition has to decide whether it has to live in fear or fight it out. “We have to decide darna hai ki ladna hai (whether we live in fear or fight it out). There is no point in holding a mere discussion. It is time for action. There is a lot of power with the common man,” Thackeray said. “I agree, we should work together,” Gandhi said. Chief Ministers Amarinder Singh (Punjab), Hemant Soren (Jharkhand), Bhupesh Baghel (Chhatisgarh), Ashok Gehlot (Rajasthan) and V Narayanasamy (Puducherry) concurred with Banerjee. Soren suggested meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi or President Ram Nath Kovind before moving the Supreme Court, but Banerjee pointed out that the NEET/JEE examinations were just a week away and it would be prudent to move the apex Court given the urgency of the situation. Amarinder concurred that all the Chief Ministers attending the meeting should jointly move the Supreme Court and file a review petition on the order to hold NEET-JEE examinations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/seven-cms-to-jointly-move-sc-against-conducting-neet-jee-exams-878065.html
26-08-2020||National Politics||Writing letter to Sonia Gandhi was not proper: Digvijaya Singh||Congress veteran Digvijaya Singh on Wednesday took a dim view of the letter written by some leaders to interim president Sonia Gandhi calling for "visible and active" leadership, which set off a storm in the grand old party. He also said it would have been better had these leaders raised the issue in the Congress Working Committee (CWC) forum instead of writing the letter and "leaking" it in the media. "I am neither a member of the CWC nor have I seen the letter. But about five of the signatories (of the letter) are members of the CWC, and as per the Congress' constitution any member of the CWC can request for a discussion which can take place before the committee. "But writing a letter and leaking it in the media is nor proper," the Rajya Sabha MP told reporters in Jabalpur. A controversy erupted recently over the letter written by 23 Congress leaders to Sonia Gandhi in which they called for far-reaching reforms within the party, such as having a "full time, active and visible" leadership, devolution of powers to state units and revamping the CWC in line with the party constitution. The letter was criticised at the CWC meeting held on Monday where the party leaders urged Sonia Gandhi to continue to hold her post until an AICC session can be convened. Meanwhile, Singh also appeared opposing scheduled NEET, JEE exams amidst the Covid-19 pandemic. "With the limited facility for coronavirus tests in the country and steady rise in the number of cases, (I feel) one need to approach the supreme court for review of the decision on (holding) these examination," he said. As per the public notices issued by the National Testing Agency (NTA), JEE (Main) April 2020 is scheduled from September 1-6, while NEET UG 2020 exam is scheduled for September 13. The Supreme Court recently dismissed a plea seeking postponement of JEE (Main) April 2020 and NEET-Undergraduate examinations amid spurt in number of Covid-19 cases, saying precious year of students "cannot be wasted" and life has to go on. Referring to the Madhya Pradesh government's decision to induct MPs and MLAs as members of cooperative bodies, the Congress leader said chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan was "compelled to placate legislators who failed to get berths in the state cabinet".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/writing-letter-to-sonia-gandhi-was-not-proper-digvijaya-singh-878091.html
26-08-2020||National Politics||Don’t take up 4G, internet suspension in Kashmir: BJP MP to Shashi Tharoor||BJP MP Nishikant Dubey once again took on Chairman of Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information and Technology Shashi Tharoor and asked him to cancel a scheduled meeting of the panel on the suspension of 4G and internet services in Jammu and Kashmir, saying it is sub-judice. Dubey's letter came after Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla issued an advisory to chairmen of all parliamentary panels asking them to strictly adhere to rules and regulations while conducting committee meetings besides avoiding matters that are sub-judice. The Parliamentary panel has summoned officials of Ministry of Communications (Department of Telecommunications), Ministry of Home Affairs and the representatives of the Bihar, Jammu and Kashmir and Delhi governments on 'Suspension of Telecom Services/Internet and its Impact' on September 1. "Since this issue is presently pending before the Supreme Court of India, any further deliberations on this would again be a violation of the relevant rules/directions as well as disregarding the recently issued advisory of the Lok Sabha Speaker," Dubey wrote to Tharoor. Dubey had last week demanded Tharoor's removal as panel chairman after the latter announced that Facebook India officials will be summoned after a report in Wall Street Journal claimed that the social media giant looked the other way when it came to hate posts by BJP supporters, with its policy head in India Ankhi Das saying that taking action against them would impact their business interests. He said the Speaker's advisory has clearly stated that the proceedings of the committee shall be treated as confidential and the panel may not take up those issues for the examination which are pending in courts. "Therefore, (I) appeal to your good-self that the sitting of the committee on information technology convened for the aforementioned purpose may be immediately revoked," he said. "I also request you to consider not taking up those issues for deliberation in our committee which is of 'national importance' as otherwise, we would again be showing discourtesy to the desire of our Speaker...," Dubey said. Targeting Tharoor, he said, it has been recently "experienced" that the agenda of the meetings are being decided "in front of media and camera glare/byte". He said the subjects which have been selected by the committee after intensive deliberations have been "unfortunately put on the back burner and various small issues, which may hit the news headlines for a while and vanish immediately, are being taken up" for discussion. This gives an impression that the panel is being used for "gaining political mileage and raising baseless controversies, one after the other", he said. He also requested Tharoor to not take up those issues for deliberation in the committee which are of national importance as otherwise, the panel would again be showing discourtesy to the desire of the Speaker.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/don-t-take-up-4g-internet-suspension-in-kashmir-bjp-mp-to-shashi-tharoor-878127.html
26-08-2020||National Politics||CPI & CPI (M) to forge electoral tie-up with Grand Alliance in Bihar||Left parties-CPI and CPI(M)-on Wednesday announced that they will forge an electoral alliance with the Grand Alliance in Bihar to ensure defeat of ruling NDA in the assembly elections due in October-November. The left parties' in-principle decision to contest state assembly elections with the Mahagathbandhan was taken after a delegation comprising leaders of CPI and CPI(M) met Bihar RJD president Jagdanand Singh here. The two parties were represented by their state secretaries--Ram Naresh Pandey and Awadhesh Kumar--in the meeting. Former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi's headed Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) had recently announced that it was leaving the opposition coalition in the state. The two leaders were not sure about CPI(ML) joining the coalition, but said they would certainly like to bring them for a broad and comprehensive alliance. The Communist Party of India (MarxistLeninist) (CPI (ML)) has three MLAs in the current assembly, while CPI and CPI(M) does not have any representation in the House. The ruling NDA in the state comprises of JD(U), RJD and LJP. "A delegation of leaders from CPI and CPI(M) met state RJD president Jagdanand Singh at latters party office and had a detailed discussion on forging electoral alliance with Grand Alliance to jointly fight assembly polls for defeating NDA in the state," CPI's Bihar Secretary Ram Naresh Pandey told PTI. His CPI(M) counterpart Awadhesh Kumar echoed similar views. "It was decided that all the constituents of Grand Alliance--RJD, Congress, RLSP, VIP, CPI and CPI(M) and other left and democratic parties--will unitedly fight the 243 assembly seats of the state, Pandey said. Asked about the number of seats on which both CPI and CPI(M) will be willing to contest in alliance, he said that he will soon inform them about it. "Whatever be the numbers, but it will be respectable count of seats that the two left parties will be contesting in alliance, Pandey added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cpi-cpi-m-to-forge-electoral-tie-up-with-grand-alliance-in-bihar-878284.html
26-08-2020||National Politics||Congress to hold nationwide protests on Friday against holding of NEET, JEE||In a statement AICC general secretary, KC Venugopal said the move is in line with concerted opposition to this "dictatorial move" of the government. State units of the Congress will be holding protests on Friday at 11 am in front of central government offices at state and district headquarters, he said. In a statement, Venugopal said lakhs of students and parents from across the country are rightfully agitating and demanding postponement of the JEE-NEET exams, scheduled to be held in September.  He said the government's decision to hold these exams during the Covid-19 crisis has created huge concern among the students and parents. "Apart from the very obvious vulnerability to and risk of infection, the decision to hold the exams will undoubtedly make it increasingly difficult for students to appear for the exams due to the availability of limited transport and lodging during the pandemic.  "While holding exams during Covid-19 crisis has put the students in a state of extreme mental stress, the grim flood situation in states like Assam and Bihar will further put students from those states at a severe disadvantage," he said. Venugopal said all these protest gatherings will take place following strict social distancing protocols issued by the respective health and civic authorities.  He said the party has also decided to organise a massive nationwide online campaign, #SpeakUpForStudentSaftey on the same day from 10 am onwards, through videos and posts protesting this decision, on any of the social media platforms like Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and Youtube. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said health and safety of 25 lakh students are being jeopardised in the ensuing JEE, NEET exams as students are protesting across the country. He also wondered why the government was "refusing to listen to their grievances, deliberate upon them and find a solution acceptable to all". Posing a set of questions, Surjewala asked who will "oversee that the guidelines and protocols do not remain an empty paper formality". He further asked what special arrangements have been made for students of flood-affected Bihar and Assam. There has been growing chorus for postponement of the NEET-JEE exams.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-to-hold-nationwide-protests-on-friday-against-holding-of-neet-jee-878287.html
26-08-2020||National Politics||After CWC, Sonia Gandhi reaches out to friendly parties over GST compensation||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday reached out to like-minded parties seeking joint action against the Modi government on issues ranging from delayed GST compensation payouts to states to “weakening” of environmental protection laws. Sonia also set up a five-member committee with Jairam Ramesh as convenor and senior leaders P Chidambaram, Digvijaya Singh, Dr Amar Singh and young turk Gaurav Gogoi as members, to examine the ordinances issued by the Modi government during the Covid-19 pandemic and prepare a strategy to raise issues effectively in Parliament. Sonia was seen in action mode two days after the Congress WoNarking Committee discussed the explosive letter by 23 leaders written to her voicing concern over leadership issues and arrest the drift in the organisation after the Lok Sabha debacle. The Congress president chaired a meeting of seven chief ministers — four from Congress-ruled states besides Mamata Banerjee (West Bengal), Uddhav Thackeray (Maharashtra) and Hemant Soren (Jharkhand) — to fight the Modi government for their rights. “This refusal to compensate states is nothing short of betrayal on the part of the Narendra Modi government, betrayal of state governments and people of India,” Sonia said at a virtual meeting of chief ministers which was beamed live on YouTube. She flagged issues such as National Education Policy, privatisation of state-run enterprises, draft EIA notification, ordinances related to the agriculture sector as some of the worrisome decisions taken by the Modi government without adequate consultations. Sonia appeared giving prominence to the friendly parties by asking Mamata to conduct the meeting after making the opening remarks and seeking views from Thackeray and Soren before moving on to the chief ministers of Congress-ruled states. Soren told the meeting that the Opposition appeared weakened and should put up a united fight against the Modi government. “We need to work jointly. The opposition voice has become very feeble. We have to stand together,” Soren said, appreciating the efforts of Gandhi to forge opposition unity. “I agree, we should work together,” Gandhi concurred with Soren assuring him to have such meeting more often.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/after-cwc-sonia-gandhi-reaches-out-to-friendly-parties-over-gst-compensation-878306.html
26-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi woman chained, tortured by husband rescued by DCW||A 32-year-old woman, who was bound in chains, tortured and held captive by her husband, was rescued on Tuesday by the Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) from East Delhi's Trilokpuri area, officials said. The husband, aged 35, has been arrested, police said. The DCW said the woman, who had been married for the last 11 years, was held captive and bound in iron chains by her husband in her own house. The room in which she was kept had no fan and a foul smell was emanating from it as she was made to lie in her own excreta. She was tortured and beaten so brutally that it had taken a toll on her mental health, the DCW said. After getting information from the Commission's Mahila Panchayat team that a woman was being held captive, DCW members Firdos Khan and Kiran Negi escalated the matter and reached the location along with panel chairperson Swati Maliwal. The team found the woman lying on the floor with her feet bound in iron chains. "She was in a miserable condition with torn clothes," the DCW said. After talking to the woman, the team learnt that the woman had been married for the last 11 years and had three children. She informed the DCW that her husband used to beat her brutally and she had been locked in chains for the last six months. Upon investigation, it was found that the her husband owns a flour mill and the victim was perfectly fine earlier. The panel said even her children confirmed that their father used to often beat them and their mother. After freeing her, the DCW team is taking care of the victim''s treatment. DCW Chief Swati Maliwal stated, "The torture inflicted on her has left deep scars. She is even suffering from mental health issues now. We have rescued her and have started working on her rehabilitation. We will ensure strongest action against the perpetrators of the crime." A senior police officer said the woman was taken to Lal Bahadur Shastri Hospital, in Kalyan Puri for medical examination and based on her statement, an FIR was registered in the matter. "We have registered a case against her husband on the complaint of her relative. The man has also been arrested and further investigation is underway." The woman lived with her husband, three children and her mother-in-law, he said. Police also received a PCR call in this regard. "All what DCW claims is part of the investigation," he said. When asked if the woman was chained, the officer said DCW has also made a video in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-woman-chained-tortured-by-husband-rescued-by-dcw-877835.html
26-08-2020||North and Central||Three arrested for assaulting police, tearing their uniforms in Delhi's C R Park||A 53-year-old businessman, his son and another person were arrested here for allegedly abusing and assaulting cops and tearing their uniforms in an inebriated condition, police said on Tuesday. The incident took place in south Delhi's C R Park on Monday night, they said, adding that the trio were identified as businessman Ajay Mahipal, his son Rohan (21), and his friend Anish Raghav (21). They had consumed alcohol and were travelling in a car which hit a BMW SUV in C R Park around 9.30 pm, the police said. "We received a complaint about an accident. On reaching the spot, two vehicles were found in damaged condition. Both Rohan and Anish were fighting and abusing the BMW driver. Police personnel tried to stop them, but were abused and their uniforms torn," Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said. The accused hurled abuses at locals who tried to stop the fight, he said, adding that Ajay Mahipal also joined his son and Raghav in abusing and fighting the police personnel. They were drunk and misbehaved with everybody, and after being brought to a police station, one of them slapped a policeman, a senior officer said. Ajay Mahipal owns a railway track clip manufacturing unit in Sonepat, and Anish Raghav and Rohan Mahipal are mass communication students at a university in Noida, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-arrested-for-assaulting-police-tearing-their-uniforms-in-delhis-c-r-park-877866.html
26-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal calls urgent meet on Covid-19 situation||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has called a high-level meeting to discuss the rising number of novel coronavirus cases in Delhi, sources said on Wednesday. Health Minister Satyendar Jain, Chief Secretary Vijay Dev and senior officials will attend the meeting, which will take place at 11 am, according to sources. The city recorded 1,544 more Covid-19 cases and 17 deaths on Tuesday. It was the first time in over a month that the number of new infections crossed the 1,500 mark.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-calls-urgent-meet-on-covid-19-situation-877931.html
26-08-2020||North and Central||Yamuna continues to flow near warning level in Delhi; water level likely to increase further||The Yamuna was flowing close to the warning mark in Delhi on Wednesday morning and is likely to swell further with more water being released into it from the Hathnikund barrage in Haryana, officials said.  The water level was recorded at 203.78 metres at the Old Railway Bridge at 8 am. Water was being released into the Yamuna at the rate of 13,433 cusec at 8 am from the Hathnikund barrage, an official of the irrigation and flood control department said.    One cusec is equivalent to 28.32 litre per second. The water level was recorded at 203.98 metres at 6 pm on Tuesday, precariously close to the warning level of 204.50 metres, according to the official.   The river had swelled to 204.38 metres on Monday, which was just a metre below the danger mark of 205.33 metres. “The flow rate was 36,557 cusec at 5 pm on Tuesday, the maximum in the last 24 hours… The water level is likely to increase in the next 48 hours,” he said. The water discharged from the barrage — which provides drinking water to Delhi — usually takes 72 hours to reach the capital. Normally, the flow rate at the Hathnikund barrage is 352 cusec, but the discharge is increased after heavy rainfall in catchment areas. Last year, the flow rate had peaked to 8.28 lakh cusec on August 18-19, and the water level of the Yamuna had hit the 206.60 meter-mark, breaching the danger mark of 205.33 meters. The Delhi government had to launch evacuation and relief operations after the overflowing river submerged many low-lying areas. Delhi's Water Minister Satyendar Jain had Monday said the government was ready to deal with any flood-like situation. The India Meteorological Department has also warned of "heavy to very heavy" rainfall in northwest India, which is likely to increase water levels of the river. “Heavy to very rainfall is likely in northwest India over the next three to four days due to the northward shifting of the monsoon through,” Kudeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the India Meteorological Department, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yamuna-continues-to-flow-near-warning-level-in-delhi-water-level-likely-to-increase-further-877959.html
26-08-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announces Rs 1 cr aid to kin of martyred soldier||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday announced Rs one crore financial assistance to the family of Army soldier Manish Vishwakarma Carpenter, who was martyred in Jammu and Kashmir last week, officials said. The chief minister also announced a government job to a family member of Carpenter, whose body was brought to the state on Tuesday night, they said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-chief-minister-shivraj-singh-chouhan-announces-rs-1-cr-aid-to-kin-of-martyred-soldier-877963.html
26-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi High Court declines to entertain PIL against transfer of Rs 15 crores to PM CARES fund by ICAI||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday declined to entertain a PIL opposing the decision of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) to transfer Rs 15 crore to the PM CARES fund, saying it appeared to be a "motivated" plea against the president of the institution. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan asked the lawyer appearing for the petitioner, Navneet Chaturvedi, to either withdraw the matter or face dismissal with costs. The counsel for the petitioner then sought permission to withdraw the plea and the court dismissed it as withdrawn. During the hearing via video conference, the bench asked the petitioner, who according to his lawyer is a journalist and a social worker, how a PIL can be filed when the members of ICAI were not aggrieved by the transfer of funds. "If the members of ICAI are happy to contribute, then what are the grounds for a PIL," the court asked and added, "this appears to be a motivated petition against the president of the institution". Besides transferring Rs 15 crore to the PM CARES fund in April, ICAI also pledged an additional Rs 6 crore via contributions from its members. According to the petitioner, the decision was taken by the institution on a request made by the then Secretary, Ministry of Corporate Affairs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-high-court-declines-to-entertain-pil-against-transfer-of-rs-15-crores-to-pm-cares-fund-by-icai-877980.html
26-08-2020||North and Central||10-month-old child among two dead in Madhya Pradesh building collapse||A ten-month-old child and a 23-year-old woman were killed in Tuesday's building collapse incident at Dewas in Madhya Pradesh, a police official said on Wednesday. Ten persons trapped under the rubble were rescued during the operation, which was called off around 2 am on Wednesday, he said. "A 30-member National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) team rescued a 16-year-old boy and pulled out the bodies of two victims- a 10-month-old child and a 23-year-old woman," Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Kiran Sharma said. Total ten people were rescued after this two-storey building, located in Lalgate area of the city, collapsed at around 4.30 pm on Tuesday, he said, adding that the rescue operation continued till 2 am on Wednesday. Those rescued are aged between nine years and 55 years, police said. One of the injured was referred to Indore, they said. District collector Chandramauli Shukla had earlier said that till late Tuesday night, nine persons had been rescued from under the debris. The NDRF team had reached Dewas on Tuesday night from Bhopal for the rescue operation, he had said. According to police, one Jakir Sheikh lived in this building along with his four brothers and their families, including children. They were at home when the incident took place. According to police, the house was re-constructed five years back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/10-month-old-child-among-two-dead-in-madhya-pradesh-building-collapse-877989.html
26-08-2020||North and Central||6 killed, 8 injured in Uttar Pradesh bus collision||Six people were killed and eight others injured in a road accident on the outskirts of the state capital on Wednesday morning. Two buses collided on the Lucknow-Hardoi road under Kakori police station area, ACP Kakori S.M. Kasim Abdi said. Six people were killed in the accident, the ACP said, adding that eight others were injured and all of them have been admitted to the Trauma Centre here. According to police, the accident took place early in the morning when one of the buses tried to overtake another vehicle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/6-killed-8-injured-in-uttar-pradesh-bus-collision-877996.html
26-08-2020||North and Central||Haryana agriculture minister J P Dala tests positive for Covid-19||Dalal said he got himself tested three days ago and the report returned negative. However, he got one more test conducted later, in which he tested positive. The minister said that he has isolated himself at home and appealed to all those who had come in his contact to get themselves examined. BJP MP from Karnal Sanjay Bhatia and party MLA from Gharaunda in Karnal district, Harvinder Kalyan, in their tweets said they have tested positive for coronavirus. Kalyan too had got himself tested three days ago and the report was negative. But after developing symptoms, he got himself tested again and the report returned positive on Sunday evening. Besides Bhatia, the BJP MPs from the state who were infected with Covid-19 earlier were Brijendra Singh and Nayab Singh Saini, representing Hisar and Kurukshetra, respectively. Haryana Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, a day before the Assembly's monsoon session began in Chandigarh.        On Monday, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Speaker Gian Chand Gupta were also found to be infected with the virus. Khattar is admitted to Gurgaon's Medanta hospital, and is in a stable condition. BJP MLAs Lakshman Napa, Ram Kumar Kashyap and Aseem Goel have also tested positive as have six Assembly staffers, officials said. Earlier, the speaker had made it mandatory for anyone entering the Assembly complex for the monsoon session to show a Covid-19 negative certificate, which should not be older than three days. This was done on Health Minister Anil Vij's suggestion. The seating arrangement in the House has also been changed to ensure social distancing, officials said. Haryana Assembly has a strength of 90 members. One seat is currently vacant after the demise of opposition Congress MLA Shri Krishan Hooda in April. The state currently has close to 57,000 Covid-19 cases and over 600 fatalities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-agriculture-minister-j-p-dala-tests-positive-for-covid-19-877998.html
26-08-2020||North and Central||NSUI members begin hunger strike demanding postponement of NEET-JEE||Members of the Congress-affiliated NSUI on Wednesday began an indefinite hunger strike demanding the postponement of the NEET-JEE and fee waiver for six months for students during the pandemic. The president of National Students' Union of India (NSUI), Neeraj Kundan and president of the Delhi wing of the students' body commenced the hunger strike along with eight other members. They are also demanding that varsities should not hold exams during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Last week, the NSUI had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding the postponement of the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) and promoting final year students on the basis of past performance. Top Congress leaders, including Rahul Gandhi, have requested the government to defer the all-India medical and engineering entrance examinations taking into consideration the concerns raised by a section of students and parents amid the coronavirus pandemic. Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia too has appealed to the central government to cancel the medical and engineering entrance exams. India's coronavirus tally rose to 32.34 lakh on Wednesday with 67,151 more people testing positive for the infection, while the recoveries have surged to 24,67,758, the Health Ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nsui-members-begin-hunger-strike-demanding-postponement-of-neet-jee-878015.html
26-08-2020||North and Central||Holding NEET, JEE exams will risk exposing 28 lakh students to Covid-19: Delhi Deputy CM Manish Sisodia||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday reiterated his demand that medical and engineering entrance exams NEET and JEE be postponed and the Central government work on alternative methods for selecting students. "They (Centre) are saying protocols will be followed. Following the same protocols that the Centre wants 28 lakh students to follow, lakhs of Indians have tested positive," Sisodia told reporters. "So many top leaders have got infected with Covid-19 despite taking all precautions. So, how can we take the risk of sending 28 lakh students to exam centre and be assured that they will not be infected," Sisodia asked. He said the Central government should immediately postpone the exams and work on "alternative methods" of admission. "I appeal to the government to not be adamant on admission only through these exams. We are not at all saying that the year be declared as a zero academic year. We are not in favour of admitting students just like that as we will need quality doctors and engineers but banking upon only a three-hour exam and expecting it to work like a magic wand in identifying talent, is a very conservative thought," he added. The Joint Entrance Examination (Main) and the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET-UG) will be conducted in September as scheduled, the Ministry of Education officials had said on Tuesday, amid a growing chorus for postponing the crucial tests in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. On Tuesday, Swedish teen climate change campaigner Greta Thunberg also threw her weight behind postponing the exams in view of the pandemic. "It’s deeply unfair that students of India are asked to sit national exams during the Covid-19 pandemic and while millions have also been impacted by the extreme floods. I stand with their call to #PostponeJEE_NEETinCOVID," she said in a tweet. Several opposition leaders in India including Congress' Rahul Gandhi, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, her Odisha counterpart Naveen Patnaik and DMK President MK Stalin have demanded the exams be postponed. Sisodia had on Saturday also appealed the Centre to postpone or cancel the exams. The Supreme Court had last week dismissed a plea seeking postponement of the two exams amid a spurt in the number of Covid-19 cases, saying a "precious" academic year of students "cannot be wasted" and life has to go on. While a total of 9.53 lakh candidates have registered for JEE-Mains, 15.97 lakh students have registered for NEET. Increasing the number of examination centres, alternate seating plan, fewer candidates per room and staggered entry and exit are among the steps the National Testing Agency will take for safely conducting NEET and JEE in September.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/holding-neet-jee-exams-will-risk-exposing-28-lakh-students-to-covid-19-delhi-deputy-cm-manish-sisodia-878023.html
26-08-2020||North and Central||Indian scientists find N95 masks to be most effective at stopping Covid-19 spread||N95 masks may be the most effective at reducing the spread of the novel coronavirus, according a study by researchers, including those from the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), which suggests that any mask is better than no mask at preventing Covid-19. The researchers noted that airborne transmission by respiratory aerosol droplets produced during coughing and sneezing is the dominant mode of spreading for infectious diseases such as Covid-19. Padmanabha Prasanna Simha, from ISRO, and Prasanna Simha Mohan Rao, from the Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research in Karnataka, experimentally visualised the flow fields of coughs under various common mouth covering scenarios. The study published in the journal Physics of Fluids, found N95 masks to be the most effective at reducing the horizontal spread of a cough. The N95 masks reduced a cough's initial velocity by up to a factor of 10, and limit its spread to between 0.1 and 0.25 meters, the researchers said. An uncovered cough, in contrast, can travel up to three metres, but even a simple disposable mask can bring this all the way down to 0.5 metres, they said. "If a person can reduce the extent of how much they contaminate the environment by mitigating the spread, it's a far better situation for other healthy individuals who may enter places that have such contaminated areas," Simha said. Rao and Simha noted that density and temperature are intricately related, and coughs tend to be warmer than their surrounding area. They utilised a technique called schlieren imaging, which visualises changes in density, to capture pictures of voluntary coughs from five test subjects. By tracking the motion of a cough over successive images, the team estimated velocity and spread of the expelled droplets. N95 masks have the best effectiveness and completely contain the horizontal spread to between 0.1 and 0.25 metres, researchers said. A disposable surgical mask greatly reduces this distance to between 0.5 and 1.5 metres, they said. "Even if a mask does not filter out all the particles, if we can prevent clouds of such particles from traveling very far, it's better than not doing anything," said Simha. "In situations where sophisticated masks are not available, any mask is better than no mask at all for the general public in slowing the spread of infection," said Simha. The researchers also contradict the generally accepted notion that using an elbow to cover up a cough is a good alternative. The found that unless covered by a sleeve, a bare arm cannot form the proper seal against the nose necessary to obstruct airflow. The researchers added that a cough is able to leak through any openings and propagate in many directions. Simha and Rao hope their findings will put to rest the argument that regular cloth masks are ineffective, but they emphasise that masks must continue to be used in conjunction with social distancing. "Adequate distancing is something that must not be ignored, since masks are not foolproof," Simha added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indian-scientists-find-n95-masks-to-be-most-effective-at-stopping-covid-19-spread-878026.html
26-08-2020||North and Central||Supreme Court to hear Sharjeel Imam plea on clubbing multiple FIRs after 2 weeks||The Supreme Court on Wednesday granted two weeks time to JNU student Sharjeel Imam to file additional documents in his plea for clubbing multiple FIRs lodged at various places across the country for his controversial speech of cutting chicken neck of the country during anti CAA-NPR-NRC protest. He faced cases in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Assam, Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah took into consideration plea by Imam's counsel contending that he was required to inspect case files as charge sheets have been filed in some cases. File inspection was not being allowed due to lockdown, he said. The court posted the matter for consideration after two weeks. Imam was arrested from his native place at Bihar's Jehanabad district on January 28 after his speech for cutting Chicken's neck, connecting India to North East, had gone viral.Stringent provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act have also been invoked against him. There were two speeches made by him one in Jamia Milia Islamia University here and another one in Aligarh Muslim University. Delhi Police alleged his speech "promoted enmity" between people that led to riots in and around Delhi's Jamia Milia Islamia University on December 15, 2019. On January 28, Imam was arrested by Delhi Police's crime branch from Bihar's Jehanabad in a sedition case for allegedly making inflammatory speeches in Jamia Milia Islamia and Aligarh. The PhD student at the Jawaharlal Nehru University's (JNU) Centre for Historical Studies has been booked on sedition and other charges after purported videos of his alleged inflammatory speeches made during protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) were circulated on social media. An FIR was registered against him by Delhi Police on January 25 under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 124 A (sedition) and 153 A (promoting or attempting to promote disharmony or feelings of enmity on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, caste or community or any other ground whatsoever) among others. "Two videos came to light, one was on December 13 at Jamia Milia Islamia and other was on January 16 at Aligarh, where it was noticed that Imam had delivered very inflammatory speeches in opposition to the Citizenship Amendment Act and the National Register of Citizens and such comments can potentially affect religious harmony and weaken the unity and integrity of the country," police had said. A graduate in computer science from IIT-Mumbai, Imam had shifted to Delhi for pursuing research at the Centre for Historical Studies at the JNU.   (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-to-hear-sharjeel-imam-plea-on-clubbing-multiple-firs-after-2-weeks-878038.html
26-08-2020||North and Central||Covid-19 testing to be doubled, says Arvind Kejriwal as cases rise in Delhi||Amid a rise in Covid-19 cases in the capital, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday announced that the number of tests will be doubled to 40,000 per day within a week, besides providing pulse oximeters to those developing some symptoms of the coronavirus infection even after recovery. The move comes against the backdrop of the rising number of cases, though marginally, with Tuesday reporting 1,544 cases, the highest since July 16. On Wednesday, the number of cases reported was 1,693. Kejriwal said that there has been a marginal increase in Covid-19 cases in the national capital after August 17. However, he said the situation is under control as the recovery rate is above 90% and the number of deaths per day has come down. “The case fatality rate (CFR) has come down to 1.4% and continues to be among the best in the country. We have adequate hospital beds as well. At present, there are 14,130 hospital beds, of which 10,448 beds are still lying vacant. Home isolation model is also doing well. No Covid-19 patient has died during home isolation since July 14,” he said during a digital address. The Chief Minister said the number of tests will be doubled from the existing around 20,000 per day to 40,000 within a week. "We had a meeting today where I directed officials to double the number of tests...Our strategy remains the same -- test and isolate,” he said. Kejriwal also gave instructions to ensure strict enforcement of Covid-19 guidelines like wearing face masks or face covers in public as well as adhering to social distancing norms. With some people reporting Covid-19 symptoms even after being recovered, he also said the government will be providing them pulse oximeters and oxygen concentrators at their homes. "Patients will be given pulse oximeters for a certain period. Oxygen concentrators will be sent to them in case their oxygen levels drop," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-testing-to-be-doubled-says-arvind-kejriwal-as-cases-rise-in-delhi-878040.html
26-08-2020||North and Central||Day-long Haryana Assembly session begins||The monsoon session of the Haryana Assembly, which began here on Wednesday, will be of one-day duration, Leader of Opposition and Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda said. As per the tentative schedule earlier, the session was to last for two days, but it has been cut short now, Hooda told reporters after attending the business advisory committee (BAC) meeting, which met hours before the start of the session. "There was a consensus among the members that the House should meet for a day. The Assembly will be adjourned sine die after obituary references are moved and important legislative business is conducted," the former chief minister said. The novel coronavirus pandemic had cast its shadow before the session was to begin, with eight legislators of the ruling BJP testing positive for the infection. They include the chief minister, two ministers and the Speaker. Hooda pointed out that the decision to cut short the duration of the session had been taken in the light of these developments. The BAC met under Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwa, who will be presiding over the session. Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, Home Minister Anil Vij and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Kanwar Pal were among those who attended the BAC meeting. The authorities have put strict protocols in place in view of the coronavirus pandemic. Besides the MLAs and officials requiring a coronavirus negative certificate to gain entry into the Assembly complex, seating arrangement has also been changed to ensure social distancing in the 90-member House.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/day-long-haryana-assembly-session-begins-878041.html
26-08-2020||North and Central||Take cognisance of 'very bad' women's safety situation situation in Uttar Pradesh: Priyanka to Governor||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday urged Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel to take cognizance of the situation of women's safety in the state which she alleged had become "very bad". The Congress has been alleging that the law and order situation is deteriorating in Uttar Pradesh under the BJP rule, a charge denied by the state dispensation. "Your Excellency the Governor of Uttar Pradesh, the situation of women's safety in UP has become very bad," Priyanka Gandhi said. A girl from Lakhimpur was going to fill an online form when she was raped and brutally murdered, the Congress general secretary said, claiming that this was happening on a daily basis in the state. "Hope you will understand its seriousness and take cognizance of it," Priyanka Gandhi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/take-cognisance-of-very-bad-womens-safety-situation-situation-in-uttar-pradesh-priyanka-to-governor-878048.html
26-08-2020||North and Central||Increase daily Covid-19 tests to 1.50 lakh: UP CM Yogi Adityanath||In a meeting with senior officials, Adityanath said there was a need to think "two steps ahead" to effectively check the coronavirus spread. He said 1.46 lakh tests were done in the state on Tuesday and it should be increased to 1.50 lakh per day, adding that testing plays the most important role in controlling the infection. Work on enhancing the testing capacity should be continued, he said. The chief minister said it was because of the strategy adopted by the government that the fatality rate in the state was "much less" than elsewhere in the country and the world. He stressed on adopting an effective strategy for bringing the fatality rate to its lowest. There is a need for more studies and researches to understand the nature of the virus. There is a need for a detailed study on medical treatment of the patients who have recovered from the virus as this would help in formulating the strategy ahead, Adityanath said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/increase-daily-covid-19-tests-to-150-lakh-up-cm-yogi-adityanath-878056.html
26-08-2020||North and Central||Jammu-Srinagar NH closed for second day as fresh landslides hamper restoration work||The 270-km Jammu-Srinagar national highway remained closed for the second day on Wednesday as heavy rains triggered fresh landslides at different places in Ramban district hampering road clearance operation, officials said. The highway, the only all-weather road linking Kashmir with the rest of the country, was closed for vehicular traffic early Tuesday after a massive landslide damaged a portion of the road at Dalwas leaving thousands of vehicles, mostly trucks, stranded on either side. Deputy Superintendent of Police Traffic, National Highway, Ajay Anand said the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) is working on the Dalwas landslide to make the road trafficable but fresh landslides and shooting of stones from the hillocks overlooking the highway at various places including Panthiyal, Monkey Morh, Maroog and Kunfer-Chanderkote overnight hit the restoration work. “The men and machines are on the job to clear the road of the debris despite inclement weather but there are very little chances of road being made trafficable today,” he told PTI. The weather office had forecast moderate to heavy rainfall till Thursday in most parts of Jammu and Kashmir. Officials said the restoration work at Dalwas was also affected for several hours on Tuesday following a protest by a group of people whose houses were damaged in a landslide in the same area in March. The protesters were demanding compensation for the 40 families whose houses suffered damages in the previous landslide, they said, adding that the matter was later resolved following intervention by the district magistrate of Ramban. In March, a massive landslide damaged 28 houses and a 500-metre portion of the highway.                 The officials said over 500 vehicles, mostly trucks, remained stranded in Banihal-Nashri sector and will be cleared on priority once the road is made traffic-worthy. Thousands of trucks are also stranded on the highway in Anantnag-Qazigund sector in Kashmir and Jammu-Udhampur sector in Jammu region, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-srinagar-nh-closed-for-second-day-as-fresh-landslides-hamper-restoration-work-878066.html
26-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi government opposes JEE, NEET exams amid Covid-19||Amid the country facing the Covid-19 pandemic, Delhi government on Wednesday demanded that the NEET and JEE be postponed and the Centre work on alternative methods for selecting students for engineering and medicine courses. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said how one can take the risk of sending 28 lakh students to exam centres and be assured that they will not be infected at a time when even top leaders are getting infected by Covid-19. Sisodia's demand came on a day when Congress president Sonia Gandhi called a meeting of Opposition Chief Ministers, including West Bengal's Mamata Banerjee, for formulating a strategy to oppose the conducting of NEET and JEE amid the pandemic. However, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Delhi's Arvind Kejriwal did not attend. "The Centre is saying that protocols will be followed. Following the same protocols that the Centre wants 28 lakh students to follow, lakhs of Indians have tested positive," Sisodia said adding that Union Home Amit Shah himself tested positive despite staying in a very safe environment. Appealing to the Centre to explore "alternative methods" of admission, he said the government should not be adamant on admission only through these exams. "We are not at all saying that the year is declared as a zero academic year. We are not in favour of admitting students just like that as we will need quality doctors and engineers but banking upon only a three-hour exam and expecting it to work like a magic wand in identifying talent, is a very conservative thought," he said The Centre has made it clear that it will not change the schedule for JEE and NEET in September. Several Opposition leaders like Rahul Gandhi, Banerjee, DMK chief MK Stalin and Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik have demanded that the exams be postponed. A total of 9.53 lakh candidates have registered for JEE-Mains while 15.97 lakh have registered for NEET.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-government-opposes-jee-neet-exams-amid-covid-19-878079.html
26-08-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh's Covid-19 tally crosses 2 lakh-mark with record 5,898 new cases||Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday reported 82 Covid-19 fatalities taking the death toll due to the disease to 3,141, while highest single-day spike of 5,898 new cases took the infection tally to 2,03,020. "In the past 24 hours, 5,898 fresh Covid-19 cases were found. There are a total of 51,317 active cases in the state, while 1,48,562 people have been treated and discharged," Additional Chief Secretary (medical and health) Amit Mohan Prasad told reporters here. He said that the state made a record by testing 1,44,802 samples on Tuesday and added that over 49 lakh tests were conducted in the state till now since the outbreak of the pandemic. "Of the total 51,317 active cases, 25,279 are in home isolation. So far, over 83,000 people opted for home isolation and of them over 58,000 have also completed their home isolation," he said. Till Tuesday, Kanpur reported the maximum deaths in the state at 385, followed by 303 in Lucknow, 150 in Varanasi, 134 in Allahabad, 128 in Meerut, 112 in Gorakhpur, and 106 each in Agra and Bareilly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradeshs-covid-19-tally-crosses-2-lakh-mark-with-record-5898-new-cases-878089.html
26-08-2020||North and Central||15-year-old student allegedly raped by her school manager in UP's Gorakhpur||A Class 7 student was allegedly raped by a manager of her school, who also made a video of the her and threatened to post it on social media if she reported the matter to anyone, police said here on Wednesday. Police said the incident took place on July 30 when school manager Harendra Yadav (38) called the 15-year-old girl to his house. The accused is on the run and police have registered a case against him. The police station in-charge of the area was removed from the post and attached to the Police Lines for failing to take the case seriously and not informing high officials regarding it. According to police, the accused made a video of the student and started blackmailing her. He threatened to post it on social media if she disclosed the incident to anyone, police said. The manager blackmailed her saying her father would kill her if she told him about the incident. Police said the accused asked the girl to live at his house in the city and study from there. After a few days, the girl, however, disclosed it to her family. The girl’s father informed police but the accused could not be nabbed. Later, the girl’s father met SSP Joginder Singh. A case was lodged against the school manager for rape and under provisions of the POCSO Act, but due to the elapse of time after the incident, the accused managed to escape. Gorakhpur's Gola Circle Officer Shyamdev said the girl complained to police that she was raped on July 30 by the manager at his home. “A case has been registered and police are searching for the accused,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/15-year-old-student-allegedly-raped-by-her-school-manager-in-ups-gorakhpur-878095.html
26-08-2020||North and Central||Minor, on way to college for scholarship form, raped and murdered by slitting throat in UP||She was going to her college for the scholarship form. On the way, the minor girl was raped and then brutally murdered in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri district, about 150 kilometres from Lucknow. According to the police sources, the blood-stained body of the victim was found near a pond, a few hundred metres away from her village under Neem Gaon police station area on Tuesday. The body bore injury marks at many places, and sources said that her throat was slit with a sharp-edged weapon. The postmortem examination of the body also confirmed rape, sources added. The family members said that the minor had gone to her college to take scholarship form on Monday. They launched a search for her when she did not return home till late in the evening.  A case has been registered and investigations are on, the police said. Barely a few days back a 13-year-old girl had been hacked to death after being gang-raped under Isanagar police station in the district. There has been a sudden surge in incidents of crimes against women in the state. Though the state government claimed that the crime rate has seen a decline, the Opposition parties have accused the BJP regime of failing to ensure the safety of the women. Only last week, a 17-year-old girl was allegedly burnt with acid and her body dumped in a river after being gang-raped in Bhadohi district.  A minor 'Dalit' girl was allegedly gang-raped before being burnt with cigarette butts in Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's home district Gorakhpur a few days back. In another incident, a minor was allegedly gang-raped by three youths in UP's Sitapur district, about 90 kilometres from Lucknow.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/minor-on-way-to-college-for-scholarship-form-raped-and-murdered-by-slitting-throat-in-up-878102.html
26-08-2020||North and Central||Man rapes minor girl, forces her to marry him, gives triple talaq: Police||A man has been booked by police for allegedly raping a minor sister of his elder brother’s wife and then marrying her by threatening her and her mother before giving her triple talaq. On a complaint by the victim’s mother, belonging to a village under Budhana police station of Muzaffarnagar district, accused Momin has been booked under section 376 of the Indian Penal Code, section 3 and 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and sections 9, 10 and 11 of the Prevention of Child Marriage Act. After the registration of the case against him, Momin has gone missing but the police have launched a manhunt to nab him, said Budhana police station in-charge K P Singh. In her complaint to the police, the victim’s mother said that her elder son-in-law’s brother Momin had visited their house in January this year and stayed with them for a few days during which he raped her minor daughter, said SHO Singh. After returning his home, he along with his parents began threatening the mother-daughter duo to marry the minor girl to him, the SHO said, adding the woman married her daughter to Momin under duress in February this year. But a few weeks after taking the minor girl to his home, Momin gave her triple talaq and left her back with her mother, said the SHO, after which the fatherless child approached Childcare Helpline, which referred the matter to the police. The police subsequently got a complaint from the mother of the minor child and booked the accused, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-rapes-minor-girl-forces-her-to-marry-him-gives-triple-talaq-police-878105.html
26-08-2020||North and Central||15 persons trapped in flood near Ujh river bank rescued in J&K's Kathua||Fifteen persons, belonging to different families, were rescued on Wednesday after they were caught in flash floods in Ujh river in Kathua district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said. The police acted swiftly after getting information about the trapped people of a nomadic tribe in their temporary shelters near the river in Rajbagh area, a police official said. He said a police team led by Station House Officer Bhopinder Singh immediately rushed to the spot and shifted all 14 marooned people belonging to three different families, including women and children, to safety. Another person, who was found trapped in his house on the bank of Ujh river in Rajbagh, was also rescued, the official said. Most parts of Jammu region have been lashed by heavy rains since Tuesday, leaving most of the water bodies swollen and low lying areas waterlogged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/15-persons-trapped-in-flood-near-ujh-river-bank-rescued-in-jks-kathua-878112.html
26-08-2020||North and Central||Two arrested on sedition charge over objectionable slogans during Muharram procession in Jammu & Kashmir||Police has registered a case of sedition and arrested two persons after mourners at a Muharram procession allegedly raised "pro-Azadi slogans" in Hokersar area here, officials said on Wednesday. The action was taken after a video of the alleged incident appeared on social media, they said, adding more arrests were likely. "On surfacing of a video in social media in which mourners were found chanting pro-Azadi slogans in a Muharram procession, Parimpora police station has taken cognizance," a police statement said. It said the police acted swiftly in identifying the location of the incident and the persons involved. The miscreants have been booked under the sedition law. Two persons have been arrested while more arrested were expected, it said. "It has been revealed that some youths from adjoining areas in Budgam district led by Sajad Hussain Parray, Arif Ahmad Dar and Raja Mehboob took advantage and raised the slogans," the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-arrested-on-sedition-charge-over-objectionable-slogans-during-muharram-procession-in-jammu-kashmir-878135.html
26-08-2020||North and Central||23 ministers, MLAs Covid-19 positive: Punjab CM||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday said twenty-three ministers and MLAs were coronavirus positive two days before the Vidhan Sabha session on August 28. He gave the figure during a video conference convened by Congress President Sonia Gandhi with the chief ministers of seven Opposition-ruled states to discuss various issues. With this, the CM tried to emphasise that the scenario was not conducive for holding physical examination for JEE-NEET. The chief minister, however, did not disclose how many of Punjab MLAs and ministers have recovered so far. “As of today, two days before the scheduled Punjab Vidhan Sabha session, 23 Ministers/MLAs were Covid positive,” said the CM in an official release. “If this was the state of the legislators and ministers, one can only imagine how grave the situation on the ground was. The scenario was not conducive to holding physical examinations,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/23-ministers-mlas-covid-19-positive-punjab-cm-878200.html
26-08-2020||North and Central||Video shows Delhi policeman beating youth with baton; DCPCR seeks action||The Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights has asked the police to lodge an FIR against those seen in a purported video which showed a constable beating up a youth with a baton in southwest Delhi as another policeman stood nearby. The child rights body has sought an action taken report by September 1. The Delhi Police had initiated a probe in the matter on Tuesday, officials said, adding that the youth’s age and the date of incident have not been ascertained yet. The Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) said it has taken suo motu cognisance of a story published online wherein a video has been attached which reveals a policeman assaulting a young boy in R K Puram as another policeman watches over. The boy was allegedly wandering on the streets late at night in search of food, it said. The Commission said it "strongly condemns such apathy and high-handedness of the police officials". DCPCR has issued a notice to SHO (RK Puram Station), directing him to identify both the officials involved, as evident in the video and book them under IPC sections 166 (public servant disobeying law, with intent to cause injury to any person), 321 (voluntarily causing hurt), 322 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt) and Section 75 of Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, pertaining to punishment for cruelty to child. "Such acts by public officials are against the very spirit of the Constitution of India and violate the fundamental rights of children as significant as Article 21, which guarantees Right to Life with Dignity to all persons. “Such acts tarnish the image of the police force and over-shadow their good work. The Commission will relentlessly pursue the matter and ensure justice is delivered," the body added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/video-shows-delhi-policeman-beating-youth-with-baton-dcpcr-seeks-action-878202.html
26-08-2020||North and Central||Avoid using banned Chinese app CamScanner in legal work: Delhi court to lawyer||A Delhi court has asked a lawyer to avoid the use of banned Chinese app CamScanner, used for scanning documents, in legal work. Additional Sessions Judge Sunil Chaudhary said the bail application filed before the court by advocate Praveen Chaudhary was scanned with the application CamScanner which has been banned by the Government of India. "This is an application for grant of bail as received through the mail. The application as filed is scanned with the application CamScanner which has been banned by the Government of India. "The council is advised to avoid the use of a banned application in legal work in future," the court said in its order passed on August 5. Chaudhary had filed the application seeking bail for Rupendra Kumar, accused in a case lodged under sections 498-A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) and 304-B (dowry death) of the Indian Penal Code. CamScanner was among the 106 apps with links to China that were banned by the Centre for being prejudicial to the sovereignty, integrity and defence of the country. On June 29, the IT Ministry's statement on the ban of 59 mobile apps had cited numerous complaints received from various quarters, including several reports about the misuse of some mobile apps available on Android and iOS platforms for allegedly "stealing and surreptitiously transmitting users'' data in an unauthorised manner to servers which have locations outside India".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/avoid-using-banned-chinese-app-camscanner-in-legal-work-delhi-court-to-lawyer-878203.html
26-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi riots: Court sends JNU student Sharjeel Imam to 4-days police custody in UAPA case||A Delhi court Wednesday sent JNU student Sharjeel Imam, arrested under the stringent anti-terror law — Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, to four days police custody in a case related to communal violence in northeast Delhi in February. Imam, arrested by the Special Cell of the Delhi police on Tuesday, was produced on Wednesday before the court through video conferencing. Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat allowed the custodial interrogation of Imam. Delhi Police had sought his custody for five days. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-court-sends-jnu-student-sharjeel-imam-to-4-days-police-custody-in-uapa-case-878208.html
26-08-2020||North and Central||Indina Army holds event to promote 'Make-in-India' initiative in defence technology||The Army on Wednesday organised 'Northern Command Equipment Display 2020' in Udhampur district of Jammu and Kashmir in its effort to promote Make-in-India initiative in defence technology, a defence spokesman said. Chief of Staff, Northern Command, Lieutenant General C Bansi Ponnappa inaugurated the event which was attended by defence industry experts from different parts of the country, including Delhi and Bengaluru, he said. The display not only served to showcase cutting edge technologies and innovative products to meet the complex challenges faced by security forces in Northern Command, but also acted as an ideal platform for mutual exchange of ideas between the Indian defence industry and the Army. “The technologies and products on display covered a wide canvas, the prominent being, counter drone systems, alternative energy sources, situational awareness control measures, training aids amongst others,” the spokesman said. He said the interaction with defence industry experts has resulted in furthering the relationship with the common objective of developing customised and effective solutions for the Army, and progress towards self-reliance in the Indian defence industry to align with the government initiative of Make-in-India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indina-army-holds-event-to-promote-make-in-india-initiative-in-defence-technology-878238.html
26-08-2020||North and Central||Financial woes drive jewellery shop owners to suicide in Delhi||Two brothers, owners of a jewellery shop, were on Wednesday found hanging at their store in central Delhi's Chandni Chowk, police said. The deceased have been identified as Arpit (42) and Ankit (47). They lived with their family in Bazar Sitaram area, they said. A suicide note recovered from the spot cited financial crisis as the reason for taking the extreme step, police said. The bodies were found on the third floor of the jewellery shop, while the deceased’s father was present on the first floor of the building at the time of the incident, Monika Bhardwaj, Deputy Commissioner of Police (North) said. The elder brother, Ankit, is married and has two children, the officer added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/financial-woes-drive-jewellery-shop-owners-to-suicide-in-delhi-878259.html
26-08-2020||North and Central||Court dismisses plea seeking FIR against Anurag Thakur, Parvesh Verma for hate speech||A Delhi court Wednesday dismissed a plea by CPI(M) leader Brinda Karat seeking an FIR against Union minister Anurag Thakur and his BJP colleague and MP Parvesh Verma for their alleged hate speech in relation to anti-CAA protest at Shaheen Bagh. Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Vishal Pahuja rejected the application saying requisite sanction from the competent authority, the central government, was not obtained which was required under the law. CPI (M) leaders CPM leaders Brinda Karat and KM Tewari had filed the complaint seeking a direction to the Parliament Street Police Station to register an FIR against Thakur and Verma. The court said that the complaint was not sustainable without the prior sanction. “Admittedly, there is no previous sanction obtained by the complainants from the competent authority to prosecute the respondents for the offences alleged in the complaint. Hence... the complaint deserves to be dismissed being not tenable in the eyes of law. Accordingly, the same stands dismissed,” it said. Karat had told the court in her complaint that “Thakur and Verma had sought to incite people as a result of which three incidents of firing took place at two different protest sites in Delhi.” The complaint had sought lodging of FIRs under various sections, including 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc.), 153-B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration) and 295-A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) of the IPC. It had also sought action under other sections of the IPC, including 298 (uttering, words, etc., with deliberate intent to wound the religious feelings of any person), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 505 (statements conducing to public mischief) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation). The maximum punishment for the offences is a jail term for seven years. Karat approached the court after her written complaints to the Commissioner of Police and the SHO, Parliament Street, failed to elicit any response. She had told the court that she had written to the commissioner on January 29 and subsequently on 31, while the letter to the SHO Parliament Street was sent on February 2. The CPI (M) leader had mentioned that at the Rithala rally here, Thakur, the minister of state for finance and corporate affairs, had on January 27 egged on the crowd to raise an incendiary slogan – “shoot the traitors” – after lashing out at anti-CAA protesters. In the application, she had mentioned that Verma had on January 28 allegedly made incendiary comments against the anti-CAA protesters in Shaheen Bagh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/court-dismisses-plea-seeking-fir-against-anurag-thakur-parvesh-verma-for-hate-speech-878283.html
26-08-2020||North and Central||12 bills passed, tributes paid to soldiers killed during Galwan clash in Haryana Assembly||In the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, a one-day session of the Haryana Assembly was held here on Wednesday with the House passing 12 bills and paying tributes to the 20 Indian soldiers killed in the Galwan Valley clash. However, the bills pertaining to reservation for women in panchayats and the state youth in private sector jobs were not introduced. Main opposition Congress 'boycotted' part of the less than three-hour proceedings for not being given time to discuss the "burning issues" and in absence of any “concrete assurance" to get “various scams” probed by any independent agency. The assembly witnessed an exchange of sharp words between Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda during a heated debate on a bill. The pandemic had cast its shadow before the session was to begin, with eight legislators of the ruling BJP testing positive for the infection. They include Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, two ministers and the speaker. Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwa presided over the House proceedings in the absence of Speaker Gian Chand Gupta. As some Congress and lone INLD MLA Abhay Singh Chautala protested over the short duration of the session, Gangwa said given the “extra ordinary” situation caused by Covid-19, it has been curtailed. But the assembly will not be adjourned sine die and will be “treated in continuity” and meet again as the situation improves, he said. The House passed 12 Bills while the Punjab Village Common Lands (Regulation) Haryana Amendment Bill, 2020, was deferred soon after Congress legislators said some of its provisions needed to be clarified. The bills pertaining to reserving 50 percent seats for women in panchayats and giving 75 per cent reservation to the state's youth in private sector jobs were not tabled. Official sources said it was felt as some members were down with Covid and the session was being convened only for a day, legislators will not get sufficient time to debate important legislations. Therefore, the bills were not introduced, they said. The Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas (Second Amendment and Validation) Bill, 2020, which primarily proposes to make express statutory provisions to clarify certain provisions of the Haryana Development and Regulations of Urban Areas Act, 1975, was passed after nearly 30-minute debate. Raising objections to provisions of bill, Congress MLA B B Batra said the government gave a “vague definition of vacant land” and demanded that it be referred to a select committee and a comprehensive legislation be brought after that. Causing embarrassment to his own coalition government, JJP MLA Ram Kumar Gautam said it is well known that officials “take money” due to which unauthorised colonies come up and later the ones who are unable to bribe, bulldozers are used to raze their structures. He said be it the previous or present governments, both are not above board on this count. Defending the bill, Dushyant Chautala said comprehensive amendments were aimed at ensuring that illegal colonies do not come up in the state. Congress leader Hooda then raised the issue of the alleged scam in land deed registries and demanded a CBI inquiry or by a sitting high court judge or matter be referred to a select committee of the House. At this, Dushyant Chautala launched a fierce attack against the Congress, particularly targeting Hooda, during whose tenure the BJP and JJP had alleged irregularities in land deals. “Hooda is demanding a CBI inquiry. Many CBI inquiries are already going on in the state. In our government, it is not the case of 'damad ji' (referring to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi's son-in-law Robert Vadra),” he said. “When we have to take action; we strongly take action wherever irregularities are detected. Did you take action during your 10 years of rule when wrong change of land use (CLUs) were issued,” Dushyant asked. “You were dictated by what your high command told you because you were given pension by Sonia Gandhi,” said Dushyant. Earlier, the proceedings of the assembly began at 2 pm and legislators came wearing masks. Changes had been made in the seating arrangements in the 90-member House and only one MLA was occupied a bench. The session began with the House paying tributes to the prominent personalities who passed away since the Budget session in February-March. The members also observed a two-minute silence to pay homage to the departed souls. Tributes were paid to the 20 Indian soldiers who were killed in a violent clash with Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh in June as well as to 'corona warriors' who died in the line of duty. The House also paid tributes to former MP Governor Lalji Tandon, former Union law minister Hansraj Bhardwaj, Indian classical vocalist Pt Jasraj, former Haryana MLA Mange Ram Gupta and Congress MLA Krishan Hooda.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/12-bills-passed-tributes-paid-to-soldiers-killed-during-galwan-clash-in-haryana-assembly-878298.html
26-08-2020||North and Central||India-China tension: Sri Lanka to always have 'India first' approach||The Sri Lankan government led by Gotabaya and Mahinda Rajapaksa has reassured New Delhi that it would never allow China to use the island nation as “a staging area” to hurt the “strategic security interests” of India. Sri Lanka’s new Foreign Secretary Jayanath Colombage quoted President Gotabaya Rajapaksa saying that the country would always have an “India First” approach. “That means Sri Lanka will not do anything harmful to India’s strategic security interests,” he said in an interview to Daily Mirror newspaper published from Colombo. The interview was published on Wednesday.     Colombage, a former commander of the Sri Lankan Navy, was the Additional Secretary (Foreign Relations) to President Gotabaya Rajapaksa before being appointed as the Secretary to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. His comments appear to be a move by Colombo to allay New Delhi’s concerns amid speculation that the recent landslide victory of the Rajapaksas’ Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP) in the elections might make it easier for China to spread its tentacles in the Indian Ocean region and get an edge over India. “China is the second-largest economy and India is considered the sixth-largest. In 2018, India was the world's fastest-growing economy. That means we are between two economic giants,” the Foreign Secretary of Sri Lanka told the Daily Mirror newspaper. He said that Sri Lanka could not afford, should not and would not allow any particular country to use it as “a staging area” to do anything against another country, especially India. Sri Lanka is one of the Indian Ocean nations where China is trying to outsmart India in order to spread its geo-strategic influence. They had to lease out the Hambantota Port to China for 99 years after its construction by a China-based country resulted in a huge debt burden for it. The second of Mahinda Rajapaksa's two consecutive terms (2005-2015) in the office of Sri Lankan President had seen China expanding its footprints in the country, causing much to India's discomfort. China was allowed to develop strategic assets, like Hambantota Port. The communist nation was also allowed to dock two nuclear submarines of the People Liberation Army Navy at the Colombo Port, raising hackles in New Delhi. Colombage, however, said that Sri Lanka had initially offered the Hambantota Port to India. “India did not undertake it for whatever the reason….Then, it went to a Chinese company,” he said. “Now, we have given 85 percent stake of that port to China Merchant Port Holding Company. That should be limited to commercial activities only. It is zero for military purposes.” Mahinda Rajapaksa was appointed Prime Minister after his brother’s election to the office of the President of Sri Lanka last year. He earlier this month led the SLPP to victory in the parliamentary elections and commenced his new term as the Prime Minister. Prime Minister Narendra Modi was the first foreign leader to call him and congratulate him on his party’s landslide victory on August 6 last.     The Modi government last month extended a $ 400 million currency swap facility to the Indian Ocean island nation to help its economy recover from the Covid-19 crisis. New Delhi is also discussing with President Gotabaya Rajapaksa’s government in Colombo a proposal to delay Sri Lanka’s outstanding debt repayment to India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-china-tension-sri-lanka-to-always-have-india-first-approach-878299.html
26-08-2020||North and Central||Multilevel approach needed for robust climate risk management framework: Harsh Vardhan||A robust climate risk management framework calls for a multilevel approach across the country to determine the impact climate change risks pose, Science and Technology Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Wednesday. Delivering a special address at a three-day conference on 'S&T Research- Policy-Practice Interface for Climate Risk Management', Vardhan said there has been an increasing trend in the frequency and severity of climate change, causing extreme weather events. Growing risks are pushing vulnerable people, communities and countries to their physical and socio economic adaptation levels, he said. There is a need for proper strategies not only to save people from disasters but also to build resilience towards it, educating them about the types and nature of disaster and ways to build resilience are of great importance. This would need building capacity of the communities to face these disasters, he noted. "A robust climate risk management framework calls for a multi- level approach across the country (national, sub-national, regional and local) to determine the various climate change risks likely to impact the country while also providing a broad understanding of the loss and damage likely to be caused due to these risks," Vardhan said. He said science and technology has a critical role to play in climate adaptive planning to help build disaster resilience and sustainability. Department of Science and Technology (DST) secretary Ashutosh Sharma said climate change is a global problem. "But per capita emissions (accumulative emissions that drive climate change) in India is less, and we are not part of the problem. However, we need to develop efficient use of technology to be part of the solution," Sharma said. Vardhan pointed out that the DST has made some major achievements in the implementation of two national missions on climate change as part of the National Action Plan on Climate Change (NAPCC). Under the two missions, as many as 200 projects of different sizes have been supported which include 15 centres of excellence, 30 major R&D programmes, 14 network programmes which comprise nearly 100 projects, six task forces. During the last six years, as many as 1,500 research papers in high impact factor journals were published. Over 100 new techniques have been developed and nearly 50,000 people are trained as part of these missions. More than 1,200 scientists and students are working in these mission projects, he said. He pointed out that according to a survey made by independent agencies like Globe Scan and National Geographics for 18 countries in the world, India ranks first in terms of a parameter called Greendex which is a measure of sustainability and lifestyle. "Despite so much contribution to sustainability and the environment, India is one of the worst impacted countries in the world in terms of extreme events,” he said. India is among a few countries which witness almost all types of disasters like earthquakes, tropical cyclones, floods, tsunamis, thunder storms, hail storms, lightning, heat waves, he said. Vardhan said improved warning systems have greatly helped reducing loss of lives but the loss of property continues to increase as more and more infrastructure due to economic development is getting exposed to disasters. The conference was organised by the National Institute of Disaster Management (NIDM), Ministry of Home Affairs and DST in collaboration with Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) GmbH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/multilevel-approach-needed-for-robust-climate-risk-management-framework-harsh-vardhan-878305.html
26-08-2020||North and Central||Yamuna river continues to flow near warning level in Delhi; water level likely to increase further||The Yamuna was flowing dangerously close to the warning mark in Delhi on Wednesday and is likely to swell further with more water expected to be released from the Hathnikund barrage in Haryana, officials said. The weather department has also forecast 'heavy to very rainfall' in northwest India over the next three to four days. The water level was recorded at 203.68 metres at the Old Railway Bridge at 6 pm. Water was being released into the Yamuna at the rate of 25,000 cusec at 6 pm from the Hathnikund barrage, an official of the Irrigation and Flood Control department said.    "The flow rate was 36,557 cusec at 5 pm on Tuesday, the maximum in the last 24 hours. The water level is likely to increase slightly as more water is expected to be released," he said. One cusec is equivalent to 28.32 litre per second. The water level was recorded at 203.78 metres at 8 am on Wednesday, precariously close to the warning mark of 204.50 metres, according to the official.   The river had swelled to 204.38 metres on Monday, which was just a metre below the danger mark of 205.33 metres. The water discharged from the barrage — which provides drinking water to Delhi — normally takes 72 hours to reach the capital. Normally, the flow rate at the Hathnikund barrage is 352 cusec, but the discharge is increased after heavy rainfall in catchment areas. Last year, the flow rate had peaked to 8.28 lakh cusec on August 18-19, and the water level of the Yamuna had hit the 206.60 metre-mark, breaching the danger mark of 205.33 meters. The Delhi government had to launch evacuation and relief operations after the overflowing river submerged many low-lying areas. In 1978, the river had swelled to the all-time record water level of 207.49 meters, while in In 2013, it had risen to 207.32 metres. Delhi's Water Minister Satyendar Jain had Monday said the government was ready to deal with any flood-like situation. The India Meteorological Department has also warned of "heavy to very heavy" rainfall in northwest India, which is likely to increase water levels of the river. Kudeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the India Meteorological Department, said, "Heavy to very rainfall is likely in northwest India over the next three to four days due to the northward shifting of the monsoon trough."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yamuna-river-continues-to-flow-near-warning-level-in-delhi-water-level-likely-to-increase-further-878309.html
26-08-2020||Opinion||Agriculture Infrastructure Fund: Betting on the private sector||The Government of India has issued guidelines for financing under the ‘Agriculture Infrastructure Fund’ (AIF).  The opening lines rhetorically underscore that ‘the role of infrastructure is crucial for agriculture development and for taking production dynamics to the next level’. Government support will be provided from 2020-21 to 2029-30 through interest subvention (subject to an upper limit of Rs 2 crores at 3 percent) and credit guarantee (up to Rs 2 crore) for post-harvest management projects across ten different categories and ‘to build viable community farming assets’.  The disbursements will be spread across four years with Rs 10,000 crore in the first year and Rs 30,000 crore in the subsequent three years. There are about eight different eligible entities including cooperatives, Self Help Groups, Joint Liability Groups, government agencies interested in the PPP route, Farmers Producers Organisations (FPOs) and “Agri-entrepreneurs” and Startups.  The tentative allocations for the states and Union Territories have been placed at Rs 1 lakh crore with the top 10 states tentatively allotted Rs 74, 506 crore with the highest allocation for Uttar Pradesh (Rs 12,831 crore), Rajasthan (Rs 9,015 crore), Maharashtra (Rs 8,460 crore), Madhya Pradesh (Rs 7,440 crore), Gujarat (Rs 7,282 crore) and West Bengal (Rs 7,260 crore). Debt-driven model The underlying objective, as with the larger economic model of the post-1991 era, is very clear. The role envisaged for the government will be limited to creating an ecosystem that facilitates long-term debt financing through priority sector lending with some form of limited support through interest subvention, incentives and credit guarantee in the private sector or through PPP format.  The intention of the government seems to be clear: It would not like to establish any facilities directly and will instead leave new investments in agricultural infrastructure to the private sector. It also seems to indicate a change from the stated intent in Budget 2018-19 to develop and upgrade 22,000 rural haats into Gramin Agricultural Markets (GrAMs) which were operationalised vide March 2019 guidelines under Agri Market Infrastructure Fund (AMIF).  Needless to say, the intent to attract investment into agriculture cannot be faulted. There is little doubt that the AIF guidelines have been attractively designed from a private sector perspective. There seems to be a hope that private sector entities and FPOs can be encouraged to build this infrastructure. One can only hope that the scheme will draw widespread participation and will not be restricted to larger entities.  As in the case of other programmes, the government's belief that technology is the panacea to India’s problems is an integral element with the compulsory requirement that the scheme will be completely based on an online MIS platform only. A perplexing side story of the guidelines is the introduction of a new category of the as yet undefined participant called the ‘Agri-entrepreneur’. One wonders how they differ from other persons defined in the recent agricultural ordinances.  Road ahead While it is hoped that post-harvest agricultural infrastructure will improve shortly, it is difficult to accept that the small, marginal, medium and tenant farmers — who comprise nearly 90 percent of the total agricultural producers — will benefit from these investments. In the present circumstances, the strategy to facilitate the private sector to invest with different forms of government support accounting for as high as 90 percent of the project may not be a prudent way to spend money since it will not solve the problems plaguing agriculture. A major issue with agriculture is the lack of remunerative prices at a time of rising costs, information asymmetry, price volatility and increased household expenditure. Building infrastructure alone may not address these concerns since the issue of affordability or cost of the storage infrastructure will continue. Hence, while subsidising infrastructure building is useful, unless there are other subsidies helping farmers to encourage the use of such infrastructure, the benefits may be beneficial to existing traders rather than small producers. Thus, irrespective of the intentions, the scheme could well end up benefitting existing or new formal sector corporate entities, including traders, rather than the overwhelming majority of small producers.   (S Ananth is an independent researcher based in Andhra Pradesh. Views expressed herein are strictly personal) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/agriculture-infrastructure-fund-betting-on-the-private-sector-877910.html
26-08-2020||South||Andaman and Nicobar Islands reports 41 new Covid-19 cases, 2 fresh fatalities||The Covid-19 tally of Andaman and Nicobar Islands rose to 2,945 on Wednesday as 41 more people tested positive for the infection, while two fresh fatalities pushed the Union territory's coronavirus death toll to 37, a health official said. Six new patients have travel history, while the remaining 35 infections were detected during contact tracing, he said. Two Covid-19 patients -- an 86-year-old woman suffering from coronary artery disease and a 79-year-old man suffering from paralysis -- have died, the official said. The fresh infections have pushed the number of active cases in the Union territory to 677, he said. As many as 139 more people have been cured of the disease, taking the total number of recoveries in the islands to 2,231, the official said. A total of 76,733 tests per million have been conducted in the Union territory so far, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andaman-and-nicobar-islands-reports-41-new-covid-19-cases-2-fresh-fatalities-877939.html
26-08-2020||South||Senior Telangana cop succumbs to Covid-19 days before retirement||A senior police officer in Telangana died of Covid-19 here on Wednesday, just days before his retirement from service. Additional Superintendent of Police of Jagtial district, K Dakshina Murthy (58), contracted coronavirus and was admitted to a private hospital here a week ago, police said. He died of a heart attack at about 5.30 am, while undergoing treatment for the viral infection, they said. The 1989 batch officer hails from Karimnagar and was due to retire by the end of this month. He is survived by wife, son and two daughters. "Dakshina Murthy was a dedicated police officer. Unfortunately, we lost him," Karimnagar Police Commissioner, V B Kamalasan Reddy told PTI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/senior-telangana-cop-succumbs-to-covid-19-days-before-retirement-877979.html
26-08-2020||South||Senior Congress leader from Andhra Pradesh dies by suicide after contracting Covid-19||The 55-year-old Vice-President of Kadapa District Congress Committee tested positive for Covid-19 and was undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Proddutur town. The leader tried leaving the hospital premises on Monday, but the security guards stopped him. The report adds that he left on his two-wheeler, under the pretext of knowing the hospital owner who wanted to speak with him. The alert guards notified the hospital management who informed the Kamala police. The search for Congress leader began and the body was found on the railway tracks near Sunnapurallapalle on Tuesday night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/senior-congress-leader-from-andhra-pradesh-dies-by-suicide-after-contracting-covid-19-877991.html
26-08-2020||South||Dogged by lockdown loneliness, Indians adopt man's best friend||When Lakshmi Sundar brought a malnourished stray puppy into her home in the Indian city of Chennai, she thought the brown-and-white bundle of energy would be a guest for just a few weeks. With the world marking International Dog Day on Wednesday, her household is one of a growing number across India to have adopted man's best friend to cope with the loneliness inflicted by the pandemic. "We bonded so well from day one, which is very rare... I don't bond that easily with anyone," Sundar, a 53-year-old who treats diabetes patients, told AFP of the pup her daughter named Meenakshi after a Hindu warrior goddess. "She's a bundle of joy," said Sundar as she explained how no-one in the house wanted to give Meenakshi to another family. "And she has had a very calming effect on my daughter." India -- which has more than three million coronavirus cases -- imposed a months-long lockdown to try and halt its spread. As case numbers grew and more people were stuck at home, early fears about pets being potential carriers turned into a search for love and friendship from the four-legged creatures. "When the lockdown was opened partially, people were rushing and coming to take puppies," Dawn William of the Blue Cross of India animal-welfare group in Chennai told AFP. In the first half of August, some 68 puppies were adopted from the group's shelter, he said. "There are people and children who have time to spend with a pet. You know you have to care for it, you have to give him a bath, you have to play with him... so it keeps you going." India has an estimated 30 million stray dogs, and animal activists have long encouraged people to adopt mixed-breed street mutts. But while a growing middle class is becoming open to having dogs as pets, many still prefer pedigrees, which are more of a status symbol. Shelter owners say, however, there has been a cultural shift -- with younger people more willing to adopt mixed-breed strays. Animesh Katiyar, who owns the Fur Ball Story dog cafe in Gurgaon near New Delhi, says there has been a jump in demand for his services from young professionals, many of whom are now working from home. The 27-year-old helps people find puppies to adopt, offers training for new owners and prepares pedigree and street pooches for animal-assisted therapy. "A pet just helps a lot because they're supposed to be providing unconditional love," Katiyar said, adding that the number of calls for his services has jumped from one per day to seven in recent months. One of Katiyar's regular customers is Avani Naresh, 29, an IT business owner who had a lifelong fear of dogs. Eager to overcome his phobia, he sought Katiyar's help last year and slowly learnt to become comfortable around mutts. When the pandemic hit, the cafe shut and Naresh -- unable to have a pet as he splits his time between Delhi and Gurgaon -- realised he missed the animals he used to run away from. "A dog can be a big, big game-changer in terms of an emotional journey. A dog absorbs your entire stress. They understand... what you are going through," Naresh told AFP. "I think if I had a dog during the lockdown, I think my anxiety levels, my stress levels would have been to the minimum."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dogged-by-lockdown-loneliness-indians-adopt-mans-best-friend-878001.html
26-08-2020||South||3,018 new Covid-19 cases in Telangana, 10 more deaths||Telangana posted 3,018 fresh coronavirus cases, the highest single day spurt so far, pushing the state's total infection count to 1.11 lakh. With 10 more fatalities the toll rose to 780, a state government bulletin said on Wednesday, providing data as of 8 PM on August 25. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corpoation (GHMC) registered 475 fresh infections, followed by Rangareddy 247, Medchal Malkajgiri 204), Nalgonda 190, Khammam 161, Warangal Urban 139 and other districts. All 33 districts in the state reported positive cases in double digits. While the number of fresh infections has been more or less stable in the GHMC, they are witnessing a considerable rise in few districts, including Karimnagar, Warangal Urban and Nizamabad in recent days. According to the bulletin, the case fatality rate in the state saw a marginal decline and stood at 0.69 per cent, while it was 1.84 per cent at the national level. The total number of people who recovered from the infectious disease so far was 85,223, while 25,685 were under treatment. The recovery rate in the state was 76.30 per cent in the state, while it was 75. 92 per cent in the country. The bulletin said 61,040 samples were tested on August 25, the highest for a single day so far. Cumulatively, the number of samples tested was 10.82 lakhs. The samples tested per million population was 29,146, the bulletin added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/3018-new-covid-19-cases-in-telangana-10-more-deaths-878009.html
26-08-2020||South||Padmanabha Swamy temple opens for devotees with strict Covid-19 protocols||The Lord Padmanabha Swamy temple here opened for devotees on Wednesday morning adhering to strict Covid-19 protocols. The temple had not allowed worshippers inside since March 21 in view of the pandemic. As many as 200 devotees offered worship this morning, temple sources said. Floor markings had been made for devotees to ensure social distancing. Congress MLA V D Satheeshan, who had moved the no-confidence motion against the Pinarayi Vijayan government on August 24 was among those who offered worship to Lord Vishnu, the presiding deity. Those wishing to offer prayers have to book for darshan online through the temple website www.spst.in, a day ahead of their visit to the shrine and keep a copy of the same and carry their original Aadhar card along with them during the temple visit. A counter has been set up at the North gate from where the devotees have to enter and they have to enter their details in a register, the sources said. Pilgrims were allowed to enter through spot bookings also after verification of their Aadhar cards. Only 35 devotees would be allowed inside the shrine at each point of time with a maximum of 665 visitors a day. However, those over 60 and children less than 10 years of age have been barred entry. The darshan is from 8 am to 11 am and from 5 pm to deeparadhana around 6.45 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/padmanabha-swamy-temple-opens-for-devotees-with-strict-covid-19-protocols-878052.html
26-08-2020||South||Covid-19: Except final semester, other exams cancelled, says Tamil Nadu CM||"Except for the final semester exams, students who have paid fees for subjects related to other semesters and are waiting for exams shall be exempted from taking the examinations and they would be awarded marks," he said. Accepting the request of students considering their welfare and as per the recommendations of a high-level committee, the decision has been taken, Palaniswami said in a statement. Also, the move is in sync with the guidelines of the University Grants Commission and the All India Council for Technical Education, he noted. Palaniswami said he has directed the Higher Education Department to issue a detailed Government Order on the matter. UG students in their first and second year pursuing polytechnic, arts and science and those in the first, second and third year of their engineering courses were exempted from writing their semester exams and allowed to move on to the next academic year by Palaniswami on July 23. Similarly, first-year postgraduate students of arts, science and engineering streams and first and second year MCA students were also given the exemption and allowed to advance to the next year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-except-final-semester-other-exams-cancelled-says-tamil-nadu-cm-878107.html
26-08-2020||South||Water cannon and tear gas used to disperse rampant protestors from Kerala secretariat||Police resorted to the use of water cannon and tear gas to disperse protesters at several places as various political organisations on Wednesday took out marches across the state alleging that "important files" were destroyed in the fire that broke out at the Secretariat here. Many workers were allegedly injured in the police action. The Congress and the BJP, their youth-wing organisations, women's wing organisations, and the Socialist Democratic Party of India (SDPI) took out marches at various places, including to the secretariat here, in protest against the left government. The workers alleged that the fire last evening was a "move to destroy the files" related to the gold smuggling case. The government maintained that none of the important files were destroyed as the state secretariat had a few years ago migrated all its files to the e-files system as part of the paperless secretariat initiative. Police resorted to the use of water cannon and tear gas at workers of Yuva Morcha, the youth wing of BJP, who tried to climb over the police barricade and enter the secretariat complex in Thiruvanathapuram. The BJP took out another rally which was followed by those of the Youth Congress, the Congress, and the SDPI. The Mahila Congress also marched to the secretariat, trying to break the the barricades which were set around the complex since early morning. Youth Congress activists burnt an effigy of the chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan at Kannur and Ernakulam, sources said. The Youth Congress activists also staged protests at various districts and there was a minor scuffle when police tried to arrest and remove them at Kollam, police said. The Yuva Morcha march to Kannur also allegedly turned violent, injuring many. Leader of Opposition in the state assembly Ramesh Chennithala launched a scathing attack on Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta and said he is now the "Avishwas Mehta." The files were destroyed to save Swapna Suresh (key accused in the gold smuggling case), Sivashankar (suspended senior IAS officer and former principal secretary to CM) and the chief minister, he alleged. "The government has appointed the Chief Secretary to defend them. He is not Vishwas Mehta anymore but Avishwas Mehta. When a fire broke out in the General Administration Department yesterday, Mehta chased away the media who came to find out what happened," Chennithala told reporters during a protest march in front of the secretariat. Chennithala also shot off a letter to Governor Arif Mohammed Khan urging him to "summon" the chief secretary and the chief minister to seek "explanation" over the "gross negligence" resulting in the fire. Meanwhile, BJP state chief K Surendran said the government's explanation on e-files was not satisfactory and the fire was "pre-planned." "Most of the employees were quarantined and the government is yet to release the details of those who have turned positive and the number of staff under quarantine. When the office was shutdown due to Covid cases, did the government inform the media?" Surendran asked. However, CPI(M) state chief Kodiyeri Balakrishnan alleged the Congress has been engaged in violence to hide the ignominy of defeat in the no-confidence motion in the state Assembly. He claimed both the Congress and the BJP were trying to incite violence together and it was evident that the BJP state chief Surendran and opposition Congress Leader Ramesh Chennithala reached the spot soon after the fire broke out. "The violence in the state capital is perpetrated by the Congress to hide the ignominy of defeat in the state Assembly and the differences of opinion from their own (UDF) Front. Both the Congress and the BJP have been trying to spin out a fake narrative even as it has been clear that only a few papers were partially burnt in the incident," Balakrishnan said in a statement. He pointed out that important files were in the e-filing system and the opposition was protesting and "inciting" violence despite knowing all the details. "The Opposition is well aware of all these details but still prefer to engage in fake narratives and violence. While probing the matter, the role of Congress and the BJP in this matter should also be investigated," Balakrishanan said. The youth wing of CPI, the AIYF, alleged the Congress and the BJP were trying to incite violence in the state capital. "Both the parties have crossed all limits and is engaged in this protest drama. The Opposition must explain why they are protesting. It seems like, there is a conspiracy behind this. Just minutes after the fire broke out, the BJP leaders reached the spot and it shows that there is a conspiracy behind the incident," the AIYF said in a statement. The state government has been drawing flak in the gold smuggling case involving a diplomatic baggage addressed to the UAE consulate and the matter is being probed by central agencies including the NIA, Customs and the Enforcement Directorate. The NIA has arrested many including former employees of the Consulate Swapna Suresh and Sarith. The state government had earlier suspended senior IAS officer and the then IT secretary M Sivashankar, who was also the principal secretary to the chief minister, after allegations came up that he had close connection with Swapna Suresh. The Congress had on Tuesday demanded an NIA probe into the matter, while the state BJP chief courted arrest for forcefully entering the complex soon after the fire broke out. The state government has appointed an expert panel to look into the incident and asked it to submit the report within a week, while the crime branch will also probe the matter. "A special team headed by Disaster Management Commissioner Kaushik has been appointed to probe the technical reason behind the fire that broke out in the secretariat, and to file the report within a week," the chief secretary's office said in a release. The crime branch team will be headed by ADGP Manoj Abraham. Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta and other senior officials, including members of the probe team, have already visited the spot. The incident happened on the second floor of the North Sandwich Block where certain sections of the General Administration and the tourism department are functioning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/water-cannon-and-tear-gas-used-to-disperse-rampant-protestors-from-kerala-secretariat-878111.html
26-08-2020||South||Kerala secretariat fire ignites a major political row, protests marches turn violent||Kerala witnessed state-wide violent protests on Wednesday in view of the fire at secretariat that raised suspicions of attempts to sabotage evidence pertaining to government's nexus with those accused in the gold smuggling case. While multiple agencies launched a probe into the incident and came out with preliminary findings that the fire broke out due to electric short circuit, the opposition Congress and BJP alleged that probe by agencies under the state government would not reveal the fact. They reiterated the demanded a probe by an independent agency. The fire at the secretariat on Tuesday afternoon assumed significance as it happened at the political section of general administration department close on the heels of NIA and other investigation agencies seeking diplomatic baggage related details from this section as part of the probe into the gold smuggling using diplomatic baggage as well as the supply of Quran by the UAE consulate. For these reasons, the Opposition parties were taking political advantage of the issue. The preliminary finding of the investigation teams was that electric short circuit following the collapse of a fan due to overheating led to the fire. A first-information-report of the police said that only files pertaining to government guest house booking were damaged in the fire. While ADGP (Headquarters) Manoj Abraham is leading the police investigation, a team led by disaster management commissioner A Kowsigan was also entrusted by the government to probe into the matter. Apart from these, technical wings of secretariat also launched a probe to ascertain the cause of the fire.  Various political parties launched protest marches to the Secretariat from Tuesday night. On Wednesday, many protests turned violent with the activist trying to break police barricades and burning Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in effigy. The Congress observed state-wide black day observed Wednesday. The protest march at various districts also turned violent. However, there were no major casualties. But the Covid-19 protocols were flouted during the protests. Congress and BJP leaders said that there were many mysteries in the incident. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala, who visited the spot on Tuesday night, said that there was no chance for a fan to get overheat at an office with centralised air condition. It was a clear case of destroying evidence of the unholy nexus of government with gold smuggling accused. Chennithala had also sought governor Arif Mohammed Khan's intervention into the matter. BJP state president K Surendran said that the section where the fire occurred was remaining closed over the last few days after an official got COVID infection. Even then two officials of the department were present at the spot. Meanwhile, a police case has been registered against the BJP state president on charges of barging into Secretariat premises on Tuesday evening and for flouting social distance norms during the time of Covid-19. Government lauds Chief Secretary's efforts While the act of Kerala Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta forcing the media and BJP state president K Surendran to go out of secretariat premises after the fire breakout invited criticisms, the state cabinet was learnt to have appreciated the Chief Secretaries act. Industry Minister E P Jayarajan said that the chief secretary did a laudable job after the fire broke out. He only discharged his duties, which need to be appreciated. Meanwhile, CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan also alleged that the BJP and Congress were trying to flare up riots in the state by using the fire incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-secretariat-fire-ignites-a-major-political-row-protests-marches-turn-violent-878113.html
26-08-2020||South||Six people including two minors rape woman in Telangana||A 26-year-old woman was allegedly raped by six people including two minors in Nizamabad district, police said on Wednesday. According to a police official,the woman had come to Nizamabad for her sister's treatment and the incident happened on August 24 midnight, when some people, on the pretext of offering her financial help, asked her to accompany them. They took her to a secluded area where six of them, including the two minor boys, allegedly raped her, the official told PTI. At around 1.30 am on Tuesday, a police patrol team spotted the group and when they stopped their vehicle, the six fled,the official said. The woman later narrated the incident to police and a case was registered.She was sent for medical examination, police said. While four were arrested, the minor boys were apprehended and sent to a juvenile home, the official added. The woman was facing financial problems and told police she was in need of money for her sister's treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/six-people-including-two-minors-rape-woman-in-telangana-878179.html
26-08-2020||South||Kerala landslide: Bleak chances of tracing five missing||As five more missing persons in the Pettimudi landslide near Munnar in Idukki remain untraced even three weeks after the mishap, the district administration is trying to convince their relatives that prolonging the search is now futile. While 65 bodies have been recovered so far after the landslide hit settlements of plantation workers on August 6 night, a seven-year-old girl, three youths and one middle-aged person are still missing. The search operation was temporarily stopped on Tuesday owing to rough weather and rise in the water level of the nearby river.  District collector H Dineshan told DH that already a meeting with the relatives of the missing persons has been convened and attempts made to convince them that there won't be much use in prolonging the search and the practical difficulties involved. However, considering the sentiments of the relatives, the search was again carried out at some spots suggested by the relatives. Once the water level of the river recedes, a further search would be conducted. "Afterwards, we will have to call off the search operation," he said. Idukki MP Dean Kuriakose, who has been directly monitoring the search operations, said that the rescue team had conducted searches at most difficult parts of the river to the maximum extent possible. Already the NDRF, fire and rescue services and forest department had put in the maximum effort to trace all the missing. Even radars and sniffer dogs were used. Many bodies were traced from about 10 kilometres away from the landslide spot. On Tuesday the search was carried out at a spot in the river about 15 kilometres from the landslide spot, called 'Bhootakuzhi'. Since the areas consisted of slippery huge rocks, experts were engaged for the search.  It may be recalled that at Kavalappra in Malappuram district that witnessed a major landslide last year, eleven persons could not be traced, while 48 bodies were recovered. Hence the government had called off the search and declared those missing dead so that the relatives got the due compensation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-landslide-bleak-chances-of-tracing-five-missing-878218.html
26-08-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh, Telangana witness record single-day Covid-19 spikes||Telangana has on Tuesday reported 3,018 new Covid-19 positive cases, the state’s highest single-day addition till now. This is the first time the daily count in the state has crossed the three thousand mark. The Chandrasekhar Rao government, which for long was accused of low testing rate, has improved its testing numbers lately. The state which was examining less than twenty thousand samples a day till recently has on Tuesday tested 61,040 samples. The state has so far tested 10.8 lakh samples with an average of 29,146 tests done per a million population.   Telangana has till Tuesday recorded a total 1,11,688 cases and 780 Covid-19 related deaths. “The mortality rate in the state is only 0.7 to 0.8 percent. The new cases could go up further but are expected to decline by the end of September,” health minister Eatala Rajender said. Health officials claim only 25,685 as the active cases while stating the situation as “in control.” According to the health bulletin, only 2438 out of the total 20,396 regular, oxygen and ICU beds made available in the government hospitals are occupied.    While the new cases from Hyderabad are on a decline (475 new cases on Tuesday), the cases from the districts are on the rise. Over 2000 health personnel in the state were affected by the novel Coronavirus and eight of them have succumbed, officials said. Record 10,830 new coronavirus cases in Andhra Pradesh Andhra Pradesh, where the Covid-19 cases are increasing at an alarming rate, has on Wednesday recorded its highest single-day addition of 10,830 cases. The previous high here was 10,820 registered on 9 August. The state has a total of 3.82 lakh cases out of which 92,208 are active. Covid-19 fatalities are 3541. The Jaganmohan Reddy government has conducted over 34 lakh tests with 64020 tests per million population.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-telangana-witness-record-single-day-covid-19-spikes-878231.html
26-08-2020||South||Sensitization drive for Andhra Pradesh cops after incidents of police excess||In the wake of a few recent cases of police excess in Andhra Pradesh, the DGP Gautam Sawang initiated a sensitization drive to help the state's cops deal properly with the public, especially women, and those from the weaker sections. On Wednesday, Sawang interacted with about 76,000 personnel of the Andhra Pradesh Police through video conferencing in an effort to inculcate a proper, compassionate response to the people approaching them for the resolution of various grievances. The orientation by the police chief comes a day after Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy underlined his government’s commitment to equal justice for all and called for such a session for all the policemen. Stating that nobody as above the law, Reddy had said that even inspectors had been booked under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. A Dalit youth named Vara Prasad was allegedly assaulted and tonsured at a police station in Seethanagaram of East Godavari district in July. Following protests by the Opposition TDP leaders and Dalit organizations, an enquiry was initiated, and one SI was suspended.   Earlier this month, a Dalit man was kicked by the circle inspector of the Kasibugga police station in Srikakulam district when he went to lodge a complaint regarding a land dispute. The police officer was suspended after a video clip of the incident started circulating on social media. “One inappropriate act committed by one officer brings disgrace onto the entire department. We need to introspect for a change to come about in our attitude, approach towards dealing better with the public who have entrusted us with the noble job. Our work should earn us public respect and criminals’ fear,” Sawang said. The DGP also called for special attention towards women visiting the police stations with grievance and instructed that women police should assist them at every step||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sensitization-drive-for-andhra-pradesh-cops-after-incidents-of-police-excess-878243.html
26-08-2020||South||NDA govt trying to reduce states to municipal corporations: Sitaram Yechury||The NDA government was trying to reduce state governments to the level of municipal corporations when it comes to decision making, CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury alleged on Wednesday. Addressing a "Telangana Online Public Meeting", he said about 15 crore people lost their jobs and their purchasing capacity during the first  three months of the lockdown period, while the rich become richer. Maintaining that the Centre failed to check the spread of the coronavirus, he alleged that the number of tests being done for the killer virus was one of the lowest in the world. On top of that, the government washed its hands off and left the people in the lurch with regard to the pandemic, he said. "There is greater responsibility and burden on states in tackling Covid-19 pandemic. (Centre should) support states. States are asking for GST tax dues from the Centre. The Centre says it has no money. On the other hand, our Prime Minister Modi created a private trust fund PM Cares Fund). Where is that money going? Thousands of crores of money. He gave tax exemptions to donations made to PM CARES," Yechury said. "You give that money (PM Cares Fund) to the state governments to overcome the crisis (Covid-19 pandemic). (You want) All the powers should be centralised. The present administration is going on by reducing the centre-state relations, by reducing the state to municipal corporation level. They say that you are not state governments, but just municipal corporations and we will decide from the centre, the CPI(M) leader alleged. He said the Modi Government did not give enough time for states to prepare for the lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus when it was announced initially in March. Yechury said the Centre merely talks about 'aatmanirbhar' or self-reliant India, but its actions of "selling off" PSUs amounted to 'aatmasamarpan' (surrender) of the country's resources to Indian and foreign capitalists. He further said the government is allegedly in the process of selling off PSUs, including railways and airports. Yechury alleged that the Narendra Modi-led Government completely neglected the coronavirus spread, though the first case was reported in January, "as it was busy in toppling some state governments, including in Madhya Pradesh." Yechury claimed that the Covid-19 spread was effectively controlled in socialist countries such as Vietnam and Cuba, while many capitalist nations failed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nda-govt-trying-to-reduce-states-to-municipal-corporations-sitaram-yechury-878247.html
26-08-2020||South||Two TN institutes to conduct second and third phase of Covishield trials||Tamil Nadu’s premier medical institute and a private medical college here will on August 31 begin trials for the second phase of Covishield, a Coronavirus vaccine candidate developed by the Jenner Institute of Oxford University. Madras Medical College (MMC) and Sri Ramachandra University are among the 17 institutes in the country that have been chosen for the phase-II and III of the Covishield vaccine. Already, another private medical college, SRM Medical College Hospital and Research Centre, here is conducting trials of Covaxin, another Coronavirus vaccine candidate developed indigenously by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR). Health Minister C Vijayabhaskar said in a statement on Wednesday that the vaccine will be administered to 300 volunteers in total by the two institutes as part of the trials. MMC attached with the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) is the premier medical institute in Tamil Nadu. He said the Director of Public Health (DPH) Dr T Selva Vinayagam has been appointed as the principal investigator of the study. “After the end of the phase-II trials, the phase-III trials will begin after which the vaccine will be administered to the common man,” Vijayabhaskar said. Dr Selva Vinayagam told DH that the second phase of trials in both institutes will be launched on August 31 with candidates receiving the vaccine shots. “The participation is purely voluntary and there are certain conditions that the candidates should not be Covid-19 positive and should not have antibodies to the virus. There are other safety precautions which are mandatory in every trial and that will be followed,” he said. The DPH added that a total of 300 persons – 150 each in the two institutes – will receive the shots and they will be monitored at regular intervals like day 29, day 59 and day 109. While the vaccine has been developed by the Jenner Institute, Pune-based Serum Institute of India has tied up with British-Swedish pharmaceutical firm AstraZeneca to produce 1 billion doses of the vaccine for use here. Prof S P Thyagarajan, Professor of Eminence and Dean (Research) Sri Ramachandra University, told DH that the ethical committee clearances have come, and the institute was in the process of getting the volunteers screened. “We are starting the second phase of trials at our institute on Monday. We have received all the necessary clearances. We will be administering shots to all the study subjects and will monitor them for about three months,” Prof Thyagarajan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/two-tn-institutes-to-conduct-second-and-third-phase-of-covishield-trials-878258.html
26-08-2020||South||Covid-19: Tamil Nadu Assembly session to be held in auditorium outside secretariat||Extraordinary situations call for extraordinary solutions. For the first time, the Tamil Nadu Assembly is likely to hold its session outside of the designated hall next month. Since it would be impossible to hold the session in the existing Assembly hall due to space crunch, Speaker P Dhanapal is understood to have decided to move the session to a much larger auditorium to ensure physical distancing among legislators. A multi-purpose auditorium in the rebuilt Kalaivanar Arangam, a few kilometres from the current Assembly premises, is likely to hold the monsoon session of the Tamil Nadu Assembly. While the session was always conducted inside the Fort St George, the seat of power of the Tamil Nadu government, the Assembly had functioned from the new secretariat for about a year in 2010-2011 during the DMK regime. However, the AIADMK government led by the then Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa moved the secretariat back to Fort St George in May 2011. The Assembly is likely to be convened mid-September, sources said, adding that it will be impossible to accommodate 234 legislators in the Assembly hall. “At a time when physical distancing is mandatory, we cannot conduct Assembly proceedings inside the small hall. So, the Assembly Secretariat is considering hosting the session from Kalaivanar Arangam which has every infrastructure that is needed to conduct the proceedings,” a government official said. Speaker Dhanapal and Assembly Secretary K Srinivasan have visited the Kalaivanar Arangam premises twice in the past week for an inspection. The new Kalaivanar Arangam was built after razing down the existing structure by the then Jayalalithaa government during 2011-2016.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-tamil-nadu-assembly-session-to-be-held-in-auditorium-outside-secretariat-878271.html
26-08-2020||South||Tamil Nadu to get a second capital? AIADMK demands||Nearly forty years after the then Chief Minister M G Ramachandran vainly attempted to shift Tamil Nadu’s capital from Chennai to Tiruchirappalli, the party founded by him, AIADMK, is now demanding a second capital for the state. Interestingly, the demands to make Madurai, the capital of the erstwhile Pandian Kingdom, or Tiruchirappalli, located at the centre of Tamil Nadu, from the leaders of the ruling party comes at a time when the state is gearing up for the crucial assembly elections in the first half of 2021. The demand to make Madurai, 465 km from Chennai, as the second capital was first mooted by Revenue Minister R B Udhayakumar and seconded by Cooperatives Minister Sellur K Raju as both belong to the historic city. Soon, Tourism Minister V Natarajan pitched Tiruchirappalli as the “ideal place” for Tamil Nadu’s second capital and invoked the late MGR’s idea. Though Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami indicated there was no such plan for a second capital with the government, the issue refuses to die down with Udhayakumar continue to pitch for the idea and the BJP also joining the chorus. Udhayakumar told DH that a second capital for Tamil Nadu is a necessity as people from Southern districts are forced to travel more than 400 km to Chennai for official work.  “Madurai is the gateway to Southern Tamil Nadu and the city has a rich history. We are only demanding that Madurai be made the second capital and it is for the Chief Minister to decide. We want the government to study the feasibility of a second capital for the state which is quite huge in size,” the Minister said. Veteran urban administrator and retired bureaucrat M G Devasahayam said that the time for a second capital has come as the current capital city of Chennai has outgrown itself. Chennai has very limited scope for expansion as the northern part is full of industries and polluted, the western and southern parts of the city are also overcrowded. “There is a necessity for a second capital for Tamil Nadu which is fairly a big state and people in many parts find it difficult to travel to Chennai. Apart from administrative difficulties, there is a logistical difficulty too. We need a counter-magnet for Chennai who seems to be the centre of attraction for all investments despite cities like Coimbatore and Madurai possessing good infrastructure. Time for the idea for a second capital has come,” Devasahayam told DH. However, the principal Opposition, DMK, feels the issue is being raked up only to gain political mileage ahead of the assembly elections. DMK spokesman and MLA from Madurai (Central) constituency Dr P Thiaga Rajan questioned why the AIADMK did not talk about the issue during the government’s tenure of 9.5 years. “The Government should be concerned about the decaying infrastructure, concentrate on the steps to improve the sewage and water systems, none of which have been focused in the last ten years. The efforts should be put on the development of the city and improving the livelihood, rather than naming it as a Capital or the best city,” he said. The Minister said the growth in cities should be on an equal footing and announcing Madurai as the second capital would set off another round of growth in the Southern part of the state. And this is not the first time that the state is witnessing a debate on the capital city or second capital. MGR had in 1981 announced that he would move the capital city from Chennai to Tiruchirappalli, 335 km from here, and the government even finalised land for building a new city. But the plan never took off. Two decades later, his successor J Jayalalithaa also decided to move the secretariat to Mamallapuram on the outskirts of the city. However, this plan also remained on paper.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-to-get-a-second-capital-aiadmk-demands-878281.html
26-08-2020||South||NIA makes 4 more arrests in Kerala gold smuggling case||The NIA has arrested four more people in the Kerala gold smuggling case for allegedly conspiring and financing the smuggled gold through import cargo addressed to the UAE consulate at Thriruvananthapuram, an official said on Wednesday. Jifsal C V, a resident of Kozhikode; Aboobacker P of Malappuram; Muhammed Abdu Shameem of Kozhikode; and Abdul Hameed P M of Malappuram in Kerala were arrested on Monday, an NIA spokesperson said. They were arrested for conspiring with the other accused and financing smuggling of the gold through import cargo addressed to the UAE consulate at Thriruvananthapuram, besides receiving such smuggled gold and proceeds from the smuggling, the official said. On Wednesday, searches were carried out at the houses of the accused in Malappuram and Kozhikode districts as well as at ‘Malabar Jewellery’ owned by Aboobacker, ‘Ameen Gold’ in Malappuram owned by Hameed and at ‘Ambi Jewellery’ in Kozhikode owned by one Shamsudheen, the official said. During the searches, several digital devices and incriminating documents were seized, he said. So far, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) has arraigned 25 accused in the case, out of whom, 20 have been arrested, the NIA official said. Further investigation in the case is underway, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nia-makes-4-more-arrests-in-kerala-gold-smuggling-case-878286.html
26-08-2020||South||Kerala sees biggest singe-day spike of 2,476 new Covid-19 cases||While Kerala recorded the highest single-day spike of 2,476 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, the Minister for Local Self Government A C Moideen was quarantined on Wednesday after eight of his personnel staff tested positive for coronavirus. Though the minister was working from his official residence over the last couple of weeks, one of the officials who tested positive visited him at his residence the other day and hence the minister became his primary contact. Moideen's antigen test result on Wednesday came negative. But he has to remain in observation for a few more days as per the Covid-19 protocol. The minister, as well as all other staff of his office and the entire staff of the fifth floor of the secretariat annexe building, were advised to remain in quarantine. They are being subjected to Covid-19 test also. In May Moideen was caught up in a row over after the Opposition alleged that he was not being advised to go to quarantine even after he addressed a meeting of those who returned from abroad. The controversy was triggered by the Opposition after several Congress MPs and MLAs were directed by health officials to remain in quarantine citing their interaction with those who returned from other states. Meanwhile, indicating the anticipated escalation of Covid-19 cases in the coming weeks, the state is witnessing a large number of fresh cases, recording new high in the last two days. Health experts suggested that the daily fresh cases may go up to 10,000 by September. Meanwhile, 1,351 patients recovered from Covid-19 on Wednesday, while 13 more died taking the total Covid-19 deaths in Kerala to 257. The number of active cases currently is 22,344.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-sees-biggest-singe-day-spike-of-2476-new-covid-19-cases-878290.html
26-08-2020||South||Cancel NEET, allow medical admission on plus-two marks: Tamil Nadu to Centre||Tamil Nadu government has written to the Centre seeking cancellation of NEET for the academic year 2020-21 due to Covid-19 and allowing admissions to medical and dental courses based on the marks scored by students in their plus-two exams. Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and Health Minister Dr C Vijayabhaskar have written two separate letters to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan contending that allowing NEET exams in the midst of a pandemic would put the lives of the students attending it at “great risk of infection.” In the letter to Union Health Minister Vijayabhaskar stressed the need to allow Tamil Nadu to follow its earlier pattern of using marks obtained in plus two examinations, is necessary, by promulgating an ordinance to keep in abeyance relevant sections of the concerned Acts and regulations. He reminded that Tamil Nadu as a policy has been consistently opposing NEET and has been taking all legal and legislative steps to overcome this. NEET is an emotive issue in the state with two young students ending their lives after failing in NEET despite scoring distinction in their plus-two exams. Last week, a medical aspirant in Coimbatore died by suicide due to pressure for preparing for the NEET exam. “I would like to request that the admissions to medical/dental courses for the academic year 2020-21 can be based on the marks secured by the students in their 12th Standard exams by dispensing with the NEET examination,” Vijayabhaskar wrote in the letter. He requested the ministry to promulgate an Ordinance to keep in abeyance the relevant sections of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 and Dentist Act, 1948 and connected regulations governing the Medical and Dental College admissions. The letter comes after the National Testing Agency (NTA) announced that NEET exams scheduled for September 13 will be held as per schedule, rejecting demands for postponement or cancellation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cancel-neet-allow-medical-admission-on-plus-two-marks-tamil-nadu-to-centre-878296.html
26-08-2020||South||Another judicial setback for Jaganmohan Reddy, this time on his three-capital plans||In yet another judicial setback for Andhra Pradesh chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy, the Supreme Court on Wednesday declined to examine his government’s plea challenging the state high court’s order, freezing the three-capital move. Hearing a bunch of petitions against the shifting of the capital from Amaravati, the Andhra Pradesh high court had on August 4 ordered a status quo barring the implementation of a legislation that allows formation of the executive capital at Visakhapatnam and judiciary at Kurnool. The Andhra Pradesh Decentralization and Inclusive Development of All Regions bill, 2020 and another one to repeal the Andhra Pradesh Capital Region Development Authority Act, 2014 that rips the sole mega capital status of Amaravati were approved by the YSRCP dominated assembly twice - on January 20 and June 16. Following governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan’s assent to these capital decentralization bills; a gazette notification of the acts was issued by the Reddy government on July 31. On Wednesday, the Supreme Court refused to interfere with the HC’s interim orders, while reportedly directing that the matter be decided at the earliest. The petitions opposing capital shift are scheduled to be heard again by the AP HC on Thursday, August 27. Despite the matter being pending in the courts, Reddy, while delivering his Independence Day address, had announced that the foundation for the executive capital at Visakhapatnam and judicial capital at Kurnool would be laid soon. In the past few months, the Reddy government had approached the Supreme Court on various matters when the state’s high court orders went against its plans. In June, the Supreme Court refused to entertain the Reddy government's petition challenging the AP High Court orders initiating the contempt of court proceedings against the state officials for their disinclination to remove the YSRCP party colors from the government buildings. Since August 2019, the Reddy government has been painting the Panchayat, etc., offices with blue, white, and green colours identified with the YSRCP flag. The same was challenged in the High Court, which directed the state to remove the new colors. Not abiding by the order, the AP government approached the apex court on the issue. The supreme court also refused to intervene in the matter of reinstatement of the state election commissioner, Nimmagadda Ramesh. Nimmagadda rejoined the SEC later, as per the HC orders.    The SC also upheld the SEC decision postponing the local body elections because of the Covid-19 pandemic in response to the YSRCP government’s appeal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/another-judicial-setback-for-jaganmohan-reddy-this-time-on-his-three-capital-plans-878300.html
26-08-2020||State||Foresters stumble upon hippo ivory, a first in Karnataka||Hippopotamus ivory seems to have replaced elephant ivory trade in Karnataka following extensive crackdown by foresters. The Forest Mobile Squad (FMS) in Shivamogga was in for a shock on Monday when they arrested three men who were trying to sell hippo ivory (teeth and tusks) by passing it off as jumbo ivory. Surprisingly, the miscreants also did not know that they were trading hippo ivory. The arrest in Chandragutti, a small town in Soraba taluk, has resulted in the recovery of nine pieces of hippo ivory weighing about 12 kg. The FMS staff identified the trio as Zakir Khan, Mohammed Danish and Muzaffar Hassan. Danish had sourced the tusk, believed to have been procured from Goa, R Ravishankar, Conservator of Forests, Shivamogga, told DH. “This is the first time that we have nabbed traffickers trading in hippo ivory in Karnataka. The three have been remanded in judicial custody. As India does not have hippos in the wild, they must have sourced it locally or smuggled it from outside the country. The samples will be sent to the Wildlife Institute of India for further verification,” he said.  Of late, hippo ivory is being used as a substitute for elephant ivory, said M Maranco, Regional Deputy Director (South), Wildlife Crime Control Bureau of India, Chennai. “Due to the high cost of elephant ivory, traffickers turn to hippo ivory. One or two cases were registered previously in Mumbai and Chennai. This is the first in Karnataka,” he said. Maranco said hippo ivory is either sourced from zoos or brought from Africa (Tanzania and Uganda) or Hong Kong, which is a major transit point for the trade. Hippo ivory (both canines and incisors) is not as strong or solid as elephant ivory. “Elephant ivory can be easily identified with schreger lines — a cross-hatching or engine turning like lines. Hippo ivory (especially canines) will be strongly curved and the lower part is triangular,” explained another forest official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/foresters-stumble-upon-hippo-ivory-a-first-in-karnataka-877853.html
26-08-2020||State||CM BS Yediyurappa woos Japanese investors with relaxed labour laws, single window application clearance||While the state readies ground for rejuvenating the economy hit by Covid-19 pandemic, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa has laid out the red carpet for Japanese companies to invest in Karnataka, assuring them of a congenial investment atmosphere. Addressing the gathering as part of the Indo-Japanese business forum organised by the Indian Chambers of Commerce, the Chief Minister said the state government had simplified the application process for investment by setting up a single window for investors and a policy-driven environment. Encouraging Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) from Japanese companies, Yediyurappa on Wednesday assured to provide all facilitation to make the investment process easier. "India and Japan share good trade relations. The state has a Japanese Industrial Township in Tumakuru. The township, spread across 519.55 acres, has all basic infrastructure. Permission has been given to heavy engineering, automotive, machinery and aerospace units in the township. There have been several developmental projects in coordination with Japanese companies." The state government stands second in FDI in the country, he said. Further, labour laws have been simplified over the last few months to attract investment, Yediyurappa said. "Keeping the investor-centric approach, our Government has launched the New Industrial Policy 2020-2025, to build a prosperous Karnataka and create employment opportunities for the youth," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cm-bs-yediyurappa-woos-japanese-investors-with-relaxed-labour-laws-single-window-application-clearance-878070.html
26-08-2020||State||Covid-19: N95 mask most effective in stopping cough spread||A 54-year-old Cardiothoracic surgeon from Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, Dr Prasanna Simha Mohan Rao and his 24-year-old son Padmanabha Prasanna Simha, an aerospace engineer at Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre, ISRO, have visualised and researched the cough flow fields under various common mouth covering scenarios.  They found that N95 masks are the most effective at reducing the horizontal spread of cough. This was published in the journal Physics of Fluids on August 24. It has also elicited the interest of The Optical Society of America who has reached out to the duo after the publication. Jayadeva's Director Dr CN Manjunath, a member of Karnataka's Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) plans to have the study findings on the meeting agenda of TAC so that a public advisory is sent out for naysayers who are spreading misinformation about the usage of masks. Dr Rao told DH that he was peeved with the videos on social media against the usage of masks and that is when he and his son used schlieren imaging, that shows the density of the cough droplets, its motion, velocity and spread. "Schlieren imaging measures temperature and density gradients. When you cough, there is warm air, which is less dense than the ambient air. So we could see how it travels. We positioned our subjects farther away from each other. When we cough, there is a contamination bubble around us where we can infect each other. With a three-ply surgical mask, the bubble is 0.5 to 1.5 metres," Dr Rao explained. "We are not suggesting everyone buy N95 masks. Wearing any mask, including cloth masks, is better than wearing none. An N95 mask is most effective because it limits the spread of the salivary droplets expelled while coughing between 0.1 and 0.25 metres. With a disposable mask on, the droplets travel up to 2.5 metres, and when the mouth is not covered, the droplets travel up to three metres," Dr Rao said. "There is also a reduction of velocity in the droplets by up to ten times when one is wearing an N95 mask," he added. The father-son duo started the study before the first lockdown in March in February when the first cases were being reported in the country. "We used five subjects including my son and his friends. In all, four men and one woman," said Dr Rao. He went on to explain that Indians tend to use their arms or elbows to cover their mouths while coughing which was proved to be ineffective during their study.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-n95-mask-most-effective-in-stopping-cough-spread-878206.html
26-08-2020||State||Fraudster hacks cop's facebook account, demands money from contacts||A fraudster reportedly hacked Facebook account of circle police inspector Sunil Kumar, attached to Sagar rural police station and demanded Rs 20,000 by sending messages to the contacts of the police. According to police, the fraudster sent messages to contacts in Hindi, requesting them to transfer money to his account as he is badly in need of it. Surprised by Hindi words, some Facebook friends of police asked him the reason for Hindi message. Fraudster told them that his Kannada is not good, so he messaged in Hindi. Later, they phoned to police inspector Sunil Kumar and shared it with him. After knowing this, police inspector lodged a complaint with the police station and requested all his Facebook friends not to transfer money to his account. Police are investigating the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/fraudster-hacks-cops-facebook-account-demands-money-from-contacts-878209.html
26-08-2020||State||Karnataka High Court seeks govt response on working of SWM rules||The High Court on Wednesday sought the response of the state government on the implementation of the provisions of the solid waste management rules, 2016. The court issued notice to the government and the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board in response to a PIL, regarding the garbage landfill disaster at Pachhanadi in Mangaluru last year. The PIL filed by the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority urged the court to appoint a district judge posted in Mangaluru or any reputed institution to submit a field report on the cause of the disaster at Pachhanadi in 2019. The petition contended that sliding of the landfill in Pachhanadi had damaged more than 18 acres of land.  The petition said several houses and places of worship were buried under solid waste. It sought direction to release Rs 22.4 crore as interim compensation to 50 affected families. The counsel appearing for the petitioner said though the government had made bylaws and rules for solid waste management, none of them is followed by the municipal administrations. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka said the interim relief sought by the petitioner will be considered in the next date of hearing. Citing other petitions filed on similar issues from various municipal jurisdictions, the bench orally told the government, “You must tell us whether there is a single authority in the state which has implemented substantially the solid waste management rules of 2016.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-high-court-seeks-govt-response-on-working-of-swm-rules-878240.html
26-08-2020||State||Karnataka High Court pulls up govt for not giving details on mask, sanitiser prices||The High Court has pulled up the state government for not filing information on prices at which it procured N-95 masks, hand sanitisers and other equipment to tackle Covid. The bench granted time till August 31 to file an affidavit along with information regarding availability of N-95 masks and hand sanitizers in the state. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar had directed the Union and the state governments to file affidavit on the pricing of N-95 masks and hand sanitisers. The Union government has filed an affidavit stating that N-95 masks and hand sanitisers were dropped from the list of essential commodities from July 1, in view of considerable increase in manufacturing.  The bench, however, took exception to the affidavit filed by the secretary to the department of Civil supplies and Consumer Affairs Manoj Kumar Meena. It observed that the government had not even made an effort to ascertain whether N-95 masks and sanitisers are available in adequate quantities across the state. “The question is whether these items are readily available in the market across the state at a reasonable price to the common man. Though sufficient time was granted to file a statement on the rates at which the state acquired masks and other items, even today the Additional Government Advocate seeks time to comply. We grant time to the state government till August 31 to file an affidavit on this behalf,’’ the bench said.  Meanwhile, the government has cited financial crunch and refused to enhance the relief of Rs 30 lakh to the families of people who die on Covid-19 duty. The court had asked the government to consider the relief on a par with the central government insurance scheme (Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Scheme) of Rs 50 lakh, which is being given only to health workers. The affidavit said that the relief of Rs 30 lakh by the state government is given to all those involved in activities which are less intensive than that of health workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-high-court-pulls-up-govt-for-not-giving-details-on-mask-sanitiser-prices-878248.html
26-08-2020||State||Suicide bid: Police rescue Bengaluru techie in Jog Falls||The police, on Wednesday, rescued a software engineer from Bengaluru, who attempted suicide at Jog Falls in Sagar taluk after he lost his job due to the Covid-19 pandemic. According to the police, Chetan Kumar, employed in Bagmane Tech Park at C V Raman Nagar in Bengaluru, arrived at Mysuru Bungalow area near Jog Falls at around 11 am and went towards the top of Rani Falls by hoodwinking Jog Development Management Authority security staff and threw his mobile phone and bag into the falls. Later, he sat on the rock. The security staff noticed him and alerted the higherofficials. Acting on a tip-off, a team of police, led by Sagar DySP Vinayaka, rushed to the spot and convinced him to come back. Later, Chetan reportedly told police that he was very upset after he lost the job. So, he decided to take the extreme step.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/suicide-bid-police-rescue-bengaluru-techie-in-jog-falls-878253.html
26-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||As Covid-19 keeps devotees away, revenue dries up for Karnataka temples||Nothing has come out unscathed from the economic havoc caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, not even temples. Data from the 20 wealthiest temples in the state has revealed a 72% average revenue drop in the first fiscal quarter of this year compared to the revenue earned in the 2019-2020 fiscal year.  The worst-hit temples so far have been the Kukke Subrahmanya Temple in Dakshina Kannada, which managed to garner just Rs 4.28 cr this quarter. Last year, the temple earned Rs 98 cr, with an average of Rs 24.7 cr per quarter.  Rohini Sindhuri, Commissioner, Religious Endowment Department, told DH that although temples had reopened from Unlock 3.0, many hundi and special sevas had not been permitted as they would prompt physical contact.  “The result has been that many temples have still not been able to generate revenue,” she said, adding that the situation at each temple was different.  According to the government, there are about 34,000 temples in Karnataka, out of which 500 are Grade A and Grade B. “While the government has been paying a monthly allowance to 60% of all temples in the state, it does not necessarily mean that the temples have been faring well,” Rohini said. She added that there had not yet been an accounting of revenue generation across all temples in the state. However, income data for the wealthy temples revealed a grim picture. Temples, much like other places of worship, are often reliant on offerings from visitors. According to data, while the average quarterly earnings for all 20 temples is about Rs 79 crore in total, this year, the temples have collectively generated only Rs 18 crore.  Other badly hit temples include the Mookambika Temple in Kollur, which only generated 40% of its average quarterly earnings (Rs 4.51 cr). Even the Banashankari Temple in Bengaluru fared poorly, generating only 58% of its average quarter earnings this year, or about Rs 1.3 cr.  In fact, six temples have earned revenue in single digits this year compared to last year, while only two have earned more than half of their average quarterly earnings. In marked contrast, the Nimishamba Temple in Srirangapatna, Mandya, has managed to earn more this quarter than it did in previous quarters, generating Rs 89.19 lakh rupees, which comprises a 109% increase when compared to previous quarters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/as-covid-19-keeps-devotees-away-revenue-dries-up-for-karnataka-temples-877849.html
26-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka cops come forward to donate blood plasma||As the nation continues its battle against coronavirus, several officers and constables of the Karnataka police have come forward to donate their blood plasma to treat Covid-19 patients, state Director General of Police Praveen Sood said. Till now 15 policemen, who have recovered from the viral infection, from state reserve police and state industrial security force have donated their plasma. Sharing the information on Twitter on Tuesday, Sood called them not just corona warriors but 'saviours' too. "They are not merely corona warriors but also Saviours. Six KSISF policemen donated plasma after recovering from Covid-19," the DGP tweeted. He also said nine KSRP personnel have donated their plasma while 40 more came forward to do their bit in the fight against the disease. Besides, many from the regular police force have donated their anti-body rich plasma. More than 2,000 policemen have been found positive for the virus so far, while a few succumbed to it. As on Tuesday, Karnataka reported 2.91 lakh Covid-19 cases including 2.04 lakh discharged patients, 82,410 active cases and 4,958 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cops-come-forward-to-donate-blood-plasma-878018.html
26-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka performing over 50,000 Covid-19 tests per day, crossed 25 lakh tests, says Minister||Steadily ramping up its testing capacity, Karnataka is clocking more than 50,000 tests per day, and has conducted more than 25 lakh so far, state Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar said on Wednesday. "Karnataka has steadily ramped up it's testing capacity increasing the number of labs from 02 to 108 today. In the last five days, we conducted 3,23,753 tests clocking more than 50,000 tests per day. Yesterday we crossed 25 lakh tests & so far we conducted 25,13,555 tests (sic)," Sudhakar tweeted. Out of 25.13 lakh samples tested so far till last evening, 59,787 were tested on Tuesday alone, and among them, 24,587 were rapid antigen tests. The Minister had recently said that the government plans to further enhance the testing to 75,000 per day soon.  Seen as a move aimed at increasing testing, Karnataka Covid task force had recently reduced the cost of the Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) tests by Rs 500. The cost of RT-PCR tests for those referred from government hospitals to private labs have been reduced from Rs 2,000 to Rs 1,500 and for those going directly to private labs cost has been reduced to Rs 2,500 from Rs 3,000. Aimed at ramping up the testing, the task force earlier this month had also decided to purchase 20 lakh new rapid antigen test kits and 18 lakh RT-PCR test kits. As of August 25 evening, cumulatively 2.91 lakh Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 4,958 deaths and 2,04,439 discharges. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 1.12 lakh infections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-performing-over-50000-covid-19-tests-per-day-crossed-25-lakh-tests-says-minister-878039.html
26-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa rolls out red carpet for Japanese investors||Even as the state readies ground for rejuvenating the economy hit by Covid-19 pandemic, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has laid out the red carpet for Japanese companies to invest in Karnataka, assuring them of a congenial investment atmosphere.  Addressing the gathering as part of the Indo-Japanese business forum organised by the Indian Chamber of Commerce on Wednesday, Yediyurappa said the state government had simplified the application process for investment by setting up a single window for investors and a policy-driven environment. Encouraging foreign direct investment (FDI) from Japanese companies, Yediyurappa assured to provide all facilitation to make the investment process easier. “India and Japan share good trade relations. The state has a Japanese Industrial Township in Tumakuru. The township, spread across 519.55 acres, has all basic infrastructure. Permission has been given to heavy engineering, automotive, machinery and aerospace units in the township. There have been several developmental projects in coordination with Japanese companies,” he said, adding that Karnataka stood second for FDI in thecountry.  Further, labour laws have been simplified over the last few months to attract investment, Yediyurappa said. “Keeping the investor-centric approach, our government has launched the New Industrial Policy 2020-2025, to build a prosperous Karnataka and create employment opportunities for the youth,” headded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-rolls-out-red-carpet-for-japanese-investors-878250.html
26-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Law exams postponed over Covid concerns||Considering the demand from students, the Karnataka State Law University (KSLU) has postponed the examinations scheduled to begin from September 21 for various Law courses. Though the university has agreed to promote students to next semester, it has made it clear that students have to clear the semester exams whenever they are conducted. After having a detailed discussion with university authorities and department officials on Wednesday, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J C Madhuswamy told media persons, “The examinations have been postponed and students will be promoted to next semesters. But, they have to appear and clear the exams for previous semesters wherever exams are conducted.” Considering that classes have not been conducted since March due to the lockdown, the university will commence online classes from September. “As students from outside Karnataka and rural part said it was causing inconvenience we have decided to postpone exams,” he added.  As explained by the officials of the university, the exams will probably be held in the month of October for all the students. Earlier, the Higher Education Department had decided to promote all undergraduate and postgraduate students to next semesters, and exams will be conducted only for final semesters. As the Law University comes under the Law and Parliamentary Affairs Department, it had taken a decision to conduct exams for all the semesters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/law-exams-postponed-over-covid-concerns-878254.html
26-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka has 28,500 surplus teachers, says Centre||Government schools have consistently grappled with the problem of shortage of teachers. However, a recent observation during the Project Approval Board (PAB) meeting of the Ministry of Education points out that Karnataka has more than 28,000 "surplus" teachers at the elementary school level. According to the PAB, the state has 28,548 surplus teachers in elementary schools. The PAB also suggests that the government consider the rationalisation of teachers, to ensure availability of the required number of teachers in all schools. In essence, the Centre suggests redistribution of the existing staff in a uniform manner. The meeting also noted that the Karnataka government had identified 6,836 surplus teachers in 2018-19 and redeployed them. Experts and government officials alike pointed out that this calculation by the Ministry was not reflective of the actual number of teachers on the ground. Some even saw this as a ploy by the Centre to restrict funding.  Speaking to DH, Niranjanaradhya V P, Senior Fellow, Centre for Child and Law, NLSIU, said the Ministry's perception came from "wrong interpretation" of the Right to Education Act (RTE). As per the Act, for classes 1 to 5, there have to be a minimum of two teachers for any number of students between 1 and 60. For schools where the strength is above 150, a teacher-pupil ratio of 1:30 will be considered. "The Ministry is applying the 1:30 ratio for all schools. As a result, they are finding excess teachers in schools with lower student enrollment. They need to understand that every school should have minimum teachers. Or at least ensure that there is one teacher per subject," he explained. If teachers are taken away from schools with lower enrollment, their quality will further deteriorate, leading to the closure of more government schools, he pointed out the larger risk.  Basavaraj Gurikar, vice president of All India Teachers’ Federation added that there were more than 30,000 teacher vacancies in the state waiting to be filled.   Principal Secretary (Primary & Secondary Education) SR Umashankar further explained that the current recruitment norms prescribed graduation as a prerequisite for teachers teaching class 6 to 8, while the earlier norms required graduation only for class 8. Owing to this change in cadre seeking higher qualification, those teachers in the existing system without graduation are also falling under the "surplus" category. One way for the government to set this right was by redeploying those with graduation to the higher classes. The other was to conduct recruitment where necessary, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-has-28500-surplus-teachers-says-centre-878265.html
26-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Former PM Deve Gowda threatens to stage protest for unaided school teachers||Former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda on Wednesday warned the government that he would personally lead a protest if the grievances of unaided school teachers are not addressed immediately. Stating that the government should immediately come to the aid of private school teachers, the JD(S) supremo said he has already written to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. "I urge the government to immediately address the demands of the teachers in unaided schools including special package, job security, releasing money related to the RTE dues and health insurance," Deve Gowda told reporters at the Mourya Circle where JDS members of Legislative Council staged a sit-in in support of unaided teachers. "If the demands are not met, I will personally agitate against it. This is only the first stage of the protest, which will intensify further," Gowda said. Gowda, who is a Rajya Sabha member, said the government should announce a special package for private school teachers. He said he would also bring the matter to the notice of the central government in the next parliament session. "The central government is going to implement uniform education, which will only cause many problems and not benefit anyone," he claimed. During the protest, representatives of various teachers' organisations participated. JD(S) state president H K Kumaraswamy, Council members R Chowda Reddy Thoopalli, Boje Gowda, KT Srikante Gowda, Thippeswamy, and former MLC T A Sharavana were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/former-pm-deve-gowda-threatens-to-stage-protest-for-unaided-school-teachers-878269.html
26-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka committed to Mekedatu project, to expedite dialogue with Centre, says Deputy CM C N Ashwath Narayan||Karnataka government was committed to the proposed Mekedatu project across river Cauvery, being opposed by lower riparian Tamil Nadu, and will expedite dialogue with the Centre, state Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan said on Wednesday. Narayan, who is also the Ramanagara district in-charge Minister, held discussion with officials of Cauvery Neeravari Nigam Ltd on issues concerning the implementation of the project. Mekedatu is a Multipurpose (drinking and power) project, which involves building a balancing reservoir, near Kanakapura in Ramanagara district. Tamil Nadu has been vehemently opposing the project, raising apprehensions that the state will be affected if the project takes shape. The project would ensure drinking water to Bengaluru and that the government will expedite the process for seeking its approval from the Union Jal Shakti Ministry and the Central Water Commission, Narayan was quoted as saying by his office in a release. Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi has already spoken to the Union Minister twice in this regard, and "we hope to get the approval soon," he said. The detailed project report was before the Central Water Commission and Karnataka would request it to review it soon, Narayan said. Also, if approval was required from the forest and environment department, efforts will be made to expedite it. The project will be helpful in releasing water to Tamil Nadu as per the Supreme Court order and also 400 MW power can be generated, he said, adding that the estimated cost of the project was Rs 9000 crore. On August 18, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami had reiterated the state's opposition to the project and wanted the CWC and the Cauvery Water Management Authority to reject the proposal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-committed-to-mekedatu-project-to-expedite-dialogue-with-centre-says-deputy-cm-c-n-ashwath-narayan-878310.html
26-08-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Former Mayor of Belagavi Sidddangouda Patil passes away ||Former Mayor of Belagavi Sidddangouda Patil passed away at his residence here on Wednesday, family sources said. He was 87. Patil was suffering from old age-related ailments. He is survived by wife and an adopted son, the sources said. His last rites would be performed in his native village of Mallapur in Belagavi, they said. Patil was first elected to the Belagavi municipal corporation in 1984 and became the first Kannada-speaking Mayor of the city. An ardent lover of Kannada, he had been participating in the Kannada movement since 1956, his close associates said. They said he was also the director of DCC Bank and the president of Consumer Redressal Forum.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/former-mayor-of-belagavi-sidddangouda-patil-passes-away-878129.html
26-08-2020||West||Maharashtra building collapse: 60-year-old woman rescued after 26 hours||A 60-year-old woman was rescued on Tuesday evening by the NDRF from the debris of Tareq Garden building in Mahad town of Maharashtra 26 hours after the incident, an official said. Mehrunnisa Abdul Hamid Kazi was trapped under the rubble of the five-storey building which collapsed on Monday evening. Kazi lived on the fifth floor of the building, the official said. After noticing some movement under a portion of the debris, personnel of the National Disaster Response Force succeeded in pulling her out by 9.35 pm, and sent her to hospital. Earlier, the NDRF had rescued four-year-old Mohammad Nadim Bangi safely from the rubble 19 hours after the incident. Twelve persons have been killed in the building collapse and nine injured. At least three more persons were suspected to be stuck under the debris.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-building-collapse-60-year-old-woman-rescued-after-26-hours-877865.html
26-08-2020||West||Serum Institute begins clinical trial of Oxford Covid-19 vaccine candidate; 6 people to get first dose today||In a significant development in Covid-19 vaccine development, the 'Covishield' vaccines developed by Serum Institute of India (SII) were administered to five persons in Pune, marking the commencement of clinical trial. The first batch of volunteers was administered the vaccine at the Bharti Vidyapeeth’s Bharti  Hospital & Medical College in Pune. “At around 12 noon, five persons of different age groups, genders were given the vaccine,” Bharati Vidyapeeth secretary Vishwajeet Kadam told reporters in Mumbai. The Serum Institute of India, Indian Council of Medical Research and Bharti Vidyapeeth Deemed University are jointly conducting the trials. Kadam, who is a senior Congress leader and Maharashtra minister of state for social justice, said that the trials are being done under the guidelines of the ICMR. “They would be monitored by the teams of Bharati Hospital and ICMR,” he said. “They would be monitored by the teams of Bharati Hospital and ICMR,” he said.“We hope to see the vaccine in two-and-a-half to three months in the market,” he said. The SII had partnered with biopharmaceutical company AstraZeneca to manufacture the experimental Covid-19 vaccine candidate developed by the University of Oxford.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/serum-institute-begins-clinical-trial-of-oxford-covid-19-vaccine-candidate-6-people-to-get-first-dose-today-877929.html
26-08-2020||West||Maharashtra govt gives nod to set up 5,000-bed Covid-19 hospital||This would be the biggest such facility in the country. The Kasturba Hospital in Sane Guruji Marg, which is run by the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), is the only dedicated hospital for infectious diseases in Mumbai and it has just 125 beds. As of now, several civic and government-owned hospitals in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) have been converted into Covid-19 hospitals to deal with the current pandemic. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has given a go-ahead to the project after a series of meetings with Chief Secretary Sanjay Kumar and Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal.  The BMC’s land acquisition department has invited Expression of Interest for land acquisition for the mega-project that is expected to be located in the northern suburbs of the commercial capital of India. The BMC has received two bids for the proposal. The BMC has implemented a 5T Covid-19 response process involving testing, tracing, triaging and containment, treatment and transparent communication. It has further implemented an IT-based solution for capturing all the essential details pertaining to Covid-19 and making it available effectively to the citizens. Most of the processes are online which includes notifying the availability of beds and allotment of beds to the virus-affected citizens. The EOI note states that the BMC took initiative for augmenting the existing health infrastructure as well as constructing jumbo facilities at various places in Greater Mumbai. Considering the large scale requirement of beds, the BMC is instrumental in putting up 22,756 beds capacity out of which 1,738 beds are  ICCU, 11,250 beds are oxygenated, 1054 beds are ventilator beds. The proposed 5,000-bed hospital may be located in the suburban region of Mumbai so that it serves the population of Mumbai as well as patients coming from MMR which also comprises the neighbouring districts of Thane, Palghar and Raigad. Further, the location of the proposed hospital would be in close proximity to either Eastern Express Highway or Western Express Highway. Any landowner/developer having undisputed vacant land excluding CRZ/ ND2/ forest land of any kind with clear and marketable title minimum 20 acres in size located in the suburban area of Mumbai was eligible to apply. After finalising the land parcel, the land under reservations shall be acquired under Section 126 (1)(a) & (b) of Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning Act and remaining land shall be acquired by mutual consent through negotiation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-gives-nod-to-set-up-5000-bed-covid-19-hospital-877944.html
26-08-2020||West||Maharashtra building collapse: Death toll rises to 15||With the recovery of two more bodies, the death toll in the building collapse incident in Maharashtra's Raigad district reached 15 on Wednesday, a police official said. There is no likelihood of any more people buried under the rubble, the official said. "The bodies of a 70-year-old man and a 60-year-old woman were recovered in the early hours. This took the death toll in the incident to 15," Superintendent of Police, Raigad, Anil Paraskar told PTI. The five-storey building - Tareq Garden- in Mahad town, around 170 kms from Mumbai, collapsed on Monday evening. The rescue teams comprising the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and police are working round-the-clock to save those stuck under the debris. "Although there is no likelihood of any more people stuck under the rubble, the search and rescue operation is still on. The debris is being cleared," Paraskar said. On Tuesday, a four-year-old boy and a 60-year-old woman had been rescued.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-building-collapse-death-toll-rises-to-15-877955.html
26-08-2020||West||Fire breaks out at Worli high-rise in Mumbai; 10 rescued||A fire broke out in a 15-storey building in Worli area of central Mumbai in the wee hours of Wednesday, officials said. Nobody was injured in the incident and 10 persons trapped inside the building were rescued, they said. "The fire erupted on the tenth floor of Sterling Seaface Apartment on Dr Annie Besant Road around 12.30 am," a civic official said. Fire tenders were rushed to the spot immediately and the blaze was brought under control after over three hours around 3.44 am, he said. A Fire Brigade official said, "During the fire fighting operation, 10 people trapped inside the building were rescued safely. Nobody was injured in the incident."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-breaks-out-at-worli-high-rise-in-mumbai-10-rescued-877982.html
26-08-2020||West||Trusts demand reopening of temples in Maharashtra||Mounting pressure on the Maharashtra government, several temple trusts across the state have united under one umbrella to demand reopening of temples. The Adhyatmik Samanway Samiti-Maharashtra, that is a conglomerate of various temple-trusts, has appealed to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to allow opening places of worship. Political parties like BJP, Raj Thackeray-led Maharashtra Navnirman Sena, Prakash Ambedkar-led Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi and Ramdas Athawale-led Republican Party of India have backed the demand. Recently, the Raza Academy also sent a letter to Thackeray, requesting the government to open mosques under the ‘Mission Begin Again’ initiative. NCP supremo Sharad Pawar’s grand-nephew Rohit Pawar, who is an MLA from Karjat-Jamkhed, too has backed the demand. The Maharashtra government has resisted the demand for reopening of places of worship. Recently, a bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice P V Tavade of the Bombay High Court had said the Covid-19 situation in the state had not improved and people must, therefore, pray at home. Adhatyamik Samanway Samiti convenor Tushar Bhosale has threatened a ‘ghantanad andolan’ on 29 August, to press for the demand. Trustees of Saibaba Sansthan-Shirdi, Swami Samarth Temple at Akkalkot, situated on the Maharashtra-Karnataka border, are also pressing for the reopening of its temples. VBA has supported the Vishwa Varkari Sena's demand for reopening all large temples in Maharashtra and permission to perform bhajans. Devotees of the Warkari sect, as well as chiefs of the various temple institutions, are going to hold a big agitation in Pandharpur town on August 31 against the continued lockdown of large temples in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/trusts-demand-reopening-of-temples-in-maharashtra-878008.html
26-08-2020||West||Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case: SHRC seeks information on Rhea Chakraborty's entry into morgue||Taking suo motu cognizance of actress Rhea Chakraborty’s entry to the morgue of Cooper Hospital where the late actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s body was kept, the Maharashtra State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has slapped a notice to the Mumbai Police and BrihanMumbai Police demanding an explanation. Treating the matter as a priority, the SHRC has ordered the police and civic authorities to submit their detailed explanation in the matter by Monday. Meanwhile, the Enforcement Directorate (ED), which is probing a money-laundering angle into the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput and has questioned his girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty, has referred some evidence to the CBI and the Narcotics Control Bureau about her alleged links to banned drugs, a charge vehemently denied by her lawyer. The officials said the central probe agency stumbled upon certain data and these "prima facie" inputs have been shared with the two federal agencies but did not give any details of the nature of evidence referred to the agencies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sushant-singh-rajput-s-death-case-shrc-seeks-information-on-rhea-chakrabortys-entry-into-morgue-878013.html
26-08-2020||West||Rescuers say no-one else believed trapped in India building collapse||The death toll from a collapsed apartment block in India rose to 16 overnight as rescuers said Wednesday they didn't expect to find anyone else trapped dead or alive in the rubble. Local officials had initially feared up to 200 residents of 47 flats were buried when the block collapsed late Monday in Mahad, south of Mumbai. But many were spared, having fled the town weeks earlier to wait out the coronavirus pandemic in their home villages. "We are in the final stages and don't expect anyone (else) trapped under the debris," Shiv Kumar, a spokesman for India's National Disaster Response Force, told AFP. Emergency workers rescued nine people from the wreckage, with the loudest cheers reserved for a four-year-old boy found alive on Tuesday afternoon. Shell-shocked residents said they had previously complained to the builder about the condition of the complex, with police launching an investigation against him and four other people in connection with the tragedy. Local politician Manik Motiram Jagtap told TV9 Marathi that the building was 10 years old and built on "weak" foundations. "It fell like a house of cards," he said. Building collapses are common during India's June-September monsoon, with old and rickety structures buckling after days of non-stop rain. In another incident highlighting the precarious state of India's infrastructure, a three-storey residential building collapsed in central Madhya Pradesh state on Tuesday following heavy rains. Emergency workers -- using shovels and in some cases their bare hands to remove debris -- rescued nine people, reports said. The monsoon plays a vital role in boosting harvests across South Asia, but also causes widespread death and destruction, unleashing floods, triggering building collapses and inundating low-lying villages. The death toll from monsoon-related disasters this year has topped 1,200, including more than 800 in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rescuers-say-no-one-else-believed-trapped-in-india-building-collapse-878014.html
26-08-2020||West||Delayed testing led to rise in Covid-19 deaths in Palghar||In an official statement, the collector said that 60 percent of Covid-19 deaths were of patients who succumbed to the infection within 72 hours of being admitted to hospitals. This indicates that majority of Covid-19 suspects don't come forward for testing at the right time and are admitted to hospitals in a critical condition at the eleventh hour, he said. In order to ramp up testing in the district, screening camps will be set up in villages or wards where there are more than five active patients, 500 RT-PCRs and over 200 antigen tests will be done every day, Dr Shinde said. The Dahanu MRHRU lab will be able to conduct 200 free tests from next week, he added. As on Tuesday, the Covid-19 tally in Palghar stood at 22,745, while the death toll was at 456.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/delayed-testing-led-to-rise-in-covid-19-deaths-in-palghar-878049.html
26-08-2020||West||Tribal man cremated on roadside in Gujarat village as family couldn't pay for crematorium||In a Surat village, the family of a tribal labourer was forced to perform his last rites on a roadside after they were prohibited from using the village crematorium reportedly because they could not pay Rs 2,500.  The incident was reported in Ena village in Palsana taluk of the Surat district in south Gujarat. Locals said that Mohan Rathod, a farm labourer in his early 40s, died on Tuesday after a prolonged illness. His family accompanied by community members went to the village crematorium in the afternoon but officials, who manage the place, refused to open the lock as the family couldn't pay Rs 2,500.  This angered the community members who set up the funeral pyre right beside a road and performed the last rites. "Till 20 days back, Rs 1,100 to Rs 1,200 was being charged from the villagers for every cremation. Suddenly, they increased it to Rs 2,500. Halpati tribe is poor and can't afford such high charges. This led to a situation where each family of the community contributed in collecting wood and then cremated the deceased on a roadside," said Bharat Rathod, a resident of Ena village who was present during the cremation.  When contacted, Surat Rural Superintendent of Police, Usha Rada told DH, "We are looking into it. An FIR was registered on Tuesday. The villagers are holding a meeting to sort out the dispute as they are claiming it to be their internal matter."  Meanwhile, according to local sources, a meeting was held on Wednesday afternoon between leaders from Halpati community, and Patels, who are the most affluent ones, where they discussed and tried to resolve the issue. Sources said that a resolution was passed wherein it was decided that "people from the Halpati community will not have to pay any money for the last rites. "They will not be charged but they will have to come with their own woods and also clean the place after the cremation." Ena village is known as an "NRI village" in the region as most houses have relatives in the United States, Canada among other foreign nations and have contributed in developing the village infrastructure immensely. They had shot to fame in 2009 when they brought teachers from the United States to teach English to children.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tribal-man-cremated-on-roadside-in-gujarat-village-as-family-couldnt-pay-for-crematorium-878050.html
26-08-2020||West||BJP demands discussion on drug mafia-Bollywood nexus||With the drugs angle surfacing vis-à-vis the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, the BJP on Wednesday demanded a discussion on the Bollywood-drugs mafia nexus during the forthcoming session of the Maharashtra legislature. BJP leader and MLA Ram Kadam made the demand, and it comes just ahead of the two-day monsoon session slated to be held on 7-8 September in Mumbai. Kadam has written to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray demanding a thorough probe and discussion in the legislature. “Who are the big people of Bollywood who are taking drugs, who are the people from the business world who are taking drugs…it is serious if drugs are being sold on the streets of Mumbai,” Kadam said. “This is extremely serious and no other actor or political leaders who are basically icons for youth should indulge in drug intake. Such political leaders and actors who consume drugs should quit public life,” he said and wanted to know how all these points did not surface when Mumbai police was probing. "Which politician they wanted to protect," he wanted to know. Kadam’s demand came a couple of days after BJP leader and Rajya Sabha member Subramanian Swamy claimed that on the day Sushant Singh Rajput died, a drug dealer met him. “In Sushant case, a Dubai compliant drug dealer Ayash Khan had met Sushant on the day of Sushant’s murder. Why?” Swamy said. In the wake of drugs angle surfacing in the Sushant Singh Rajput case, the Narcotics Control Bureau has initiated its own independent probe beside the ongoing separate investigations by the Central Bureau of Investigation and Enforcement Directorate. WhatsApp chats of Reha Chakraborty, the live-in partner of Sushant Singh Rajput reveals discussion on drugs. Rhea’s chat with on Jaya Saha led the agencies to focus on the drugs angle. "Also I'm sending across the CBD oil to Waterstone….Use 4 drops in coffee, tea, or water and let him sip it. Give it 30-40 minutes for it to kick in," reads Saha's text message to Rhea. Rhea's lawyer Satish Maneshinde has denied the allegations, saying that “Rhea has never consumed drugs in her lifetime. She is ready for a blood test.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-demands-discussion-on-drug-mafia-bollywood-nexus-878074.html
26-08-2020||West||Covid-19: Shripad Naik recovering, but HFNO to continue, says Goa CM Pramod Sawant||Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday said that Union Minister for Defence and AYUSH Shripad Naik would continue to be administered high flow nasal oxygen for the next four days.  The announcement came on a day when Goa Speaker Rajesh Patnekar was also admitted to a government hospital for medical examination. Four MLAs, in a House of 40 legislators, from both the ruling and opposition parties are already under treatment after they tested positive for Covid-19 over the last two weeks. Speaking to reporters in Panaji, Sawant said that Naik, whose blood saturation levels had dropped on Monday, sparking panic, is on the recovery path. “Union AYUSH Minister Shripad Naik has been admitted for the last 14 days. The team from (All India Institute of Medical Sciences) AIIMS has visited him for the second time. They have examined him and have opined that he does not need to be taken to AIIMS Delhi for treatment,” the Chief Minister said. “His health has improved further today. He is once again on high flow nasal oxygen. It will be required for another three to four days for him to be transferred to normal oxygen again. He is doing very well. His health is improving,” Sawant also said while interacting with reporters outside the Chief Minister’s official residence. Naik is a Lok Sabha MP from the North Goa parliamentary constituency.  Speaker of the state legislative assembly Rajesh Patnekar was also admitted to the Goa Medical College near Panaji earlier on Wednesday. “With regards to the recent news about my health, I would like to state that I had come to GMC on prior appointment for some routine check-up. My Doctor advised me to do some further tests for which I have been admitted to the hospital. I am feeling perfectly fine…” the Speaker Patnekar said in a social media post, soon after he was admitted to the top government facility. Four other MLAs, namely ex-chief ministers Churchill Alemao and Ravi Naik and former deputy Chief Minister Sudin Dhavalikar and BJP MLA Nilkanth Halarnkar have been tested positive for Covid-19. While Alemao and Dhavalikar are currently admitted to a private hospital, Naik and Halarnkar are undergoing treatment in home isolation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-shripad-naik-recovering-but-hfno-to-continue-says-goa-cm-pramod-sawant-878109.html
26-08-2020||West||CBI questions Sushant Singh Rajput's flat-mate for 6th day in a row||The CBI continued to grill Sushant Singh Rajput's flat-mate Siddharth Pithani in the actor's death case on the sixth consecutive day on Wednesday, a police official said. Pithani's questioning is going on since the last six hours at the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) guest house at Kalina in Santacruz, where the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) officials are staying, he said. Pithani, cook Neeraj Singh and domestic help Deepesh Sawant were present in Rajput's house at Mont Blanc Apartments in suburban Bandra when the 34-year-old actor was found hanging in his room on June 14. Meanwhile, a team of Bandra Police visited the DRDO guest house and left after an hour, the official said. Simultaneously, another team of the central agency visited the state-run Cooper Hospital in the city, where Rajput's autopsy had been performed. CBI sleuths had on Friday recorded the statements of Pithani and Neeraj Singh. On Saturday, they took Pithani, Neeraj and Sawant to Rajput's flat to reconstruct the sequence of events before he was found dead on June 14. The three were again taken to the flat on Sunday and questioned at the DRDO guest house. The Supreme Court last week upheld the transfer of an FIR, lodged by Rajput's father in Patna against actor Rajput's girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty and others for allegedly abetting his suicide and misappropriating his money, to the CBI. After Rajput was found hanging in his apartment, the Mumbai Police registered a case of accidental death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cbi-questions-sushant-singh-rajputs-flat-mate-for-6th-day-in-a-row-878114.html
26-08-2020||West||Maharashtra building collapse: Death toll reaches 16, consultant held||With the recovery of two more bodies early on Wednesday, the death toll in the building collapse incident in Maharashtra's Raigad district mounted to 16, officials said. The Raigad police on Wednesday arrested an RCC consultant of the building in connection with the incident. He is one of the five persons booked in the case, they said. The five-storey building - Tareq Garden- in Mahad town, around 170 kms from Mumbai, collapsed on Monday evening. According to a police official, the rescue operation was called off around 11.30 am on Wednesday. Fifteen persons died after being trapped under the rubble, but one person had died of a heart attack at a local hospital late on Monday night, hours after he was injured in the incident, he said. At least nine others, who suffered injuries in the incident, are undergoing treatment in a hospital, he said. "The bodies of a 70-year-old man and a 60-year-old woman were recovered in the early hours of Wednesday. This took the death toll in the incident to 15," Superintendent of Police, Raigad, Anil Paraskar told PTI. Another official said that one person had died on Monday night due to heart attack after getting injured in the incident. "So the death toll in the incident is 16," he said. The teams comprising the personnel of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and police, local disaster management team, trekkers and local residents, were involved in the rescue operation. Till late Tuesday night, bodies of 13 victims had been recovered from under the rubble. On Tuesday, a four-year-old boy was pulled out alive from under the rubble 19 hours after the incident. A 60-year- old woman was also rescued 26 hours after the building collapse. "Both of them are safe and undergoing treatment at hospital," the official said. The dead include nine women, he added. A Raigad police spokesperson said, "An RCC consultant of the five-storey building was apprehended from his residence early this morning. He has been identified as Bahubali Dhamane." He was produced before a court in Mangaon, which remanded him in police custody till Sunday, the official said. Besides Dhamane, the Mahad city police had on Tuesday registered an offence against builder Farooq Kazi, architect Gaurav Shah, civic body engineer Shashikant Dighe and chief officer of Mahad Municipal Council Dipak Zinzad under sections of 304, 304A, 337 and 338 of the IPC, he said. "The builder, RCC consultant and architect were booked for poor quality of construction and the civic officials for issuing occupancy certificate," he said, adding that a probe is underway. Meanwhile, as the work of debris removal is on, the NDRF team is still camping at the site.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-building-collapse-death-toll-reaches-16-consultant-held-878131.html
26-08-2020||West||Gujarat: BJP suspends 38 councillors for disrespecting directives||The BJP in Gujarat has suspended 38 of its councillors from six municipalities for "disrespecting" directives of the party during August 24 elections for the posts of presidents and vice-presidents, the state unit said on Wednesday. These councillors either remained absent during elections or did not vote in the favour of the party's officials candidates, according to a release issued by the BJP. While 14 of the 38 councillors are from Upleta municipality in Rajkot, 13 others are from Rapar municipality in Kutch, it said. Others are from municipalities of Harij, Tharad, Khedbrahma and Talaja in Patan, Banaskantha, Sabarkantha and Bhavnagar districts, respectively, the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-bjp-suspends-38-councillors-for-disrespecting-directives-878170.html
26-08-2020||West||Gujarat: Covid-19 patient under home isolation dies by suicide||A 64-year-old Covid-19 patient allegedly committed suicide while under home isolation in Varaccha area of Gujarat's Surat city, police said on Wednesday. The sexagenarian hanged himself from a hook of a swing in the room he was isolated in at his apartment in a housing society on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday, an official from Kapodra police station said. A suicide note was recovered from the scene, in which the man stated that he was taking the extreme step as he tested positive for the deadly infection and no one should be held responsible for his death, he said. The deceased had tested positive for the infection on August 20 and was stressed because of it, the official said. A case of accidental death has been registered in this regard, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-covid-19-patient-under-home-isolation-dies-by-suicide-878188.html
26-08-2020||West||Two held for killing man over refusal to buy them cigarettes||Two persons have been arrested for allegedly killing a man after he refused to buy them cigarettes in eastern suburb of Ghatkopar here, police said on Wednesday. The Pant Nagar police on Monday nabbed one Akash and Sardar Avinash alias Bala for allegedly attacking Yogesh Vijay Garud (24), while the hunt is on for another accused who is absconding, an official said. The incident took place in Kamraj Nagar locality on Sunday when the three accused allegedly beat up Garud after he refused to buy them cigarettes, he said. The victim was rushed to civic-run Rajawadi Hospital, where he was declared dead before admission, the official said. "We have arrested two accused under section 302 (murder) of the IPC and hunt is underway for the third person who is on the run," senior inspector Suhas Kamble of Pan Nagar police station said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/two-held-for-killing-man-over-refusal-to-buy-them-cigarettes-878233.html
26-08-2020||West||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Jadhav resigns||In a sudden political development, Shiv Sena MP from Parbhani Sanjay Jadhav tendered his resignation on Wednesday.  Jadhav resigned from all posts in a letter addressed to Shiv Sena President and Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray.  The party, however, has not yet responded to the letter.  "I have been a worker of Shiv Sena under Balasaheb (Thackeray).... if I cannot work for people, what is the point on remaining an MP?" he asked in the letter.  He was apparently upset with the local NCP unit dominating politics. Jadhav was a member of the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly from 2009-14 and was elected to the Lok Sabha from Parbhani in 2014 and 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shiv-sena-mp-sanjay-jadhav-resigns-878302.html
26-08-2020||West||Maharashtra: ABVP activists try to stop minister's car; cane-charged||Activists of the Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) on Wednesday tried to stop the car of Maharashtra minister Abdul Sattar in Dhule district demanding waiving of education fees, prompting the police to cane charge them, a senior officer said. The incident occurred in afternoon near the district collectorate when the animal husbandry minister was visiting the office, he said. "As the protesters tried to block the minister's car, police cane-charged them," the officer said. He said six persons were detained briefly till the minister left the area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-abvp-activists-try-to-stop-ministers-car-cane-charged-878304.html
26-08-2020||West||Maharashtra building collapse: Eknath Shinde to take care of two boys who lost kin||Maharashtra PWD Minister Eknath Shinde said on Wednesday that he would take care of two four-year-old children who lost their family members in the building collapse tragedy at Mahad. One of these boys, Mohammad Bangi, was pulled out alive from the rubble of the building after 18 hours, but his mother and siblings died. Shinde said that a foundation run by his family will take care of entire education of the two boys. The five-storey building - Tareq Garden- in Mahad town, around 170 km from Mumbai, collapsed on Monday evening. Sixteen persons died in the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-building-collapse-eknath-shinde-to-take-care-of-two-boys-who-lost-kin-878308.html
