27-08-2020||First Edit||Spend, boost demand, open credit taps||The Reserve Bank of India’s annual report, released on Tuesday, presents a bleaker picture of the economy for the current financial year than had been predicted till now. It has warned that “more protracted spread of the coronavirus pandemic, deviations of the monsoon from the predicted normal rains and global financial market volatility” are key downside risks to growth. The contraction will be severe, and it will take much time to regain even the slow growth of the months preceding Covid-19. The lockdown has badly hit consumption. Since the situation is still evolving, RBI has refrained from estimating how much the economy will contract. The report noted that the uptick in the economy noticed in June after the lockdown was partially lifted in some areas has been lost after the re-imposition of restrictions in July and August. It hopes to see a turnaround only in early 2021, when inflation, too, which is above the comfort level now, may ease. The RBI’s space for monetary policy action is limited when inflation remains above the target level.  In a situation in which consumption has taken a “severe shock” and production of goods and services has declined, the necessary push to the economy has to come from the government. The report has noted that the fiscal gains achieved in the previous two years have been lost in the current year and the targets set in this year’s Budget have become all the more challenging. But the only means to tackle the slowdown is to increase public expenditure and to put more money in the hands of consumers. Public funding of major infrastructure projects can stimulate private investment. The prolonged lockdown and the resulting loss of economic activity has affected all sectors and caused income losses among all classes. But the poorer sections have been more affected than white-collar employees, who have options like online working. So, the major requirement for economic revival now is to put more money in the hands of the largest number of people possible and increase their spending power.  The report has underlined the role of private consumption in driving the economy when the impact of Covid-19 reduces. Improvement of credit flows is an important requirement for the revival of the economy. Banks have failed to ensure this. The report has noted that “banking has to be liberated from the risk aversion that is impeding the flow of credit to the productive sectors of the economy and undermining the role of banks as the principal financial intermediaries in the economy.” This needs to change and banks need to open the credit taps and lower interest rates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/spend-boost-demand-open-credit-taps-878325.html
27-08-2020||In Perspective||Sushant Singh Rajput Case: Does CBI’s record inspire confidence?||Does the CBI possess a silver bullet to solve the Sushant Singh Rajput case? Will the large battery of CBI officials who have arrived in Mumbai be able to resolve whether the Bollywood ended his own life or was murdered? Going by the way the CBI has botched up several high-profile cases, the optimism expressed by both Rajput’s family and by his girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty may be far-fetched. The CBI’s handling of the death of actor Jiah Khan, a case that bears similarity to that of Rajput, does them no credit. Jiah was found hanging from a ceiling fan in her Juhu apartment on June 3, 2013. More than seven years have passed, and the case is still nowhere near resolution. One year after her death, the Bombay High Court ordered the case to be handed over to the CBI for further investigation. The CBI took over a year to conclude its probe but failed to file a charge sheet declaring its findings.  This, when Jiah had left behind a suicide note which alluded to some tension between her and her boyfriend Suraj Pancholi. It was only after the Special Women’s Court Judge AS Shende pulled up the CBI for unnecessary delay that on December 9, 2015, the CBI finally filed a charge sheet which termed Jiah's death as suicide and accused Suraj Pancholi of abetment. Interestingly, the Special Women's Court pulled up both the CBI and Juhu Police for shoddy work on the case as they failed to submit the dupatta by which Jiah had been found hanging or even the tracksuit she was wearing on that fateful day. The CBI claims it did not receive these items, but the Forensic Science Laboratory pointed out that these items had been placed in a sealed envelope and submitted to the court. Speaking recently to the media, Suraj Pancholi said that when this incident occurred, he was 21 years old. Today, he is 28, and the case still nowhere near a conclusion. Another high-profile case that the CBI bungled was the Aarushi murder case, over which two teams from the CBI gave diametrically opposite findings. The first CBI team, led by CBI Joint Director Arun Kumar, debunked the investigation done by the Noida police and concluded that Aarushi had been murdered not by her parents, the dentist couple Dr Rajesh and Nupur Talwar, but by Dr Talwar’s compounder Krishna and two domestic servants, Rajkumar and Vijay, who were witness to her murder as also that of their in-house help Rajesh. Arun Kumar’s report was debunked by the then CBI director and a new officer was brought in. Strangely, from then onwards, the CBI had only two suspects – Rajesh and Nupur Talwar.  This resulted in their imprisonment, till they were finally acquitted by the Allahabad High Court on grounds of lack of evidence. Nor did CBI cover itself in glory in the way it handled the double murder and rape of the Badaun sisters found hanging from a mango tree on May 27, 2014. Despite the post-mortem report showing that the girls had been raped and had died by strangulation, the CBI, when brought into the investigation, concluded that these teenage girls had ended their own lives. The CBI closure report was overturned subsequently by a POSCO court much to the discomfiture of the “country’s premier investigative agency”. More recently, a 12-member CBI team was brought in to investigate the Unnao rape case, which saw the powerful BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar being put behind bars. But even in this case, in which the rape victim’s father died in police custody and a key witness in mysterious circumstances, the CBI’s statement insinuating that the car in which the rape victim, two aunts and her lawyer were travelling to court in Rae Bareli “was going at great speed” is strange to say the least. The driver of the truck that bumped into the car was driving on the wrong side of the road and the accident resulted in the death of the rape survivor’s two aunts while she herself and her lawyer suffered serious injuries. And yet, the CBI chose to underplay it. The CBI has been described as a “caged parrot”. Others have described it as “His Master’s Voice”, known to act blatantly at the behest of the government of the day. It is no secret that it is being actively used against Opposition leaders. Each time either Mayawati or Akhilesh Yadav open their mouths to criticise the government, they are reminded of the disproportionate assets cases against them being investigated by the CBI. Closer home, Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa was let off by the court though he had been charge-sheeted by the CBI for accepting donations made to his trust by miners in return for hefty contracts. The moot point is, why did the CBI not appeal against the order? Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s chilling warning to the Congress and other Opposition parties “Jabaan sambhal kar rakho, warna mere paas aap ki poori janam patri padi hui hai (Keep your mouths shut, else I have all the details about you)” seems to have been taken seriously by our Opposition leaders who seldom take the government to task on crucial issues. In Mumbai, the CBI team has been handed over the case diaries of the Sushant Singh Rajput case and they have already started questioning his domestic staff.  They have also filed a FIR against Rhea Chakraborty on grounds of abetment of suicide and misappropriation of funds. Let us see if the CBI can do justice to this case which has now become highly politicised. (The writer is a Delhi-based senior journalist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/sushant-singh-rajput-case-does-cbi-s-record-inspire-confidence-878326.html
27-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Two die in Hiriyur taluk road accident||Two persons died and the other sustained severe injuries in a head-on collision between a car and a bus on Belagavi-Srirangapatna state highway near Gollahalli gate in Hiriyur taluk on Thursday. According to police, the deceased have been identified as Saibanna (35) and Venkatesh (30), natives of the Gowduru village, Lingasur taluk, Raichur district. Anand (33) sustained severe injuries in the incident and he was taken to Bengaluru for treatment. They were heading towards Hiriyur from Challakere in the car. The bus was heading towards Challakere from Hiriyur. Aimangala police registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-die-in-hiriyur-taluk-road-accident-878478.html
27-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Sangolli Rayanna's statue at Peeranwadi within legal parameters||Water Resources and District Incharge Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi said that decision on the installation of the statue of Sangolli Rayanna at Peeranwadi village in Belagavi taluk will be taken within legal parameters. There were guidelines of the Supreme Court regarding the installation of statues and they need to be followed. Jarkiholi told reporters at the Circuit House here on Thursday that meeting with leaders of Halumat Community and local leaders will be held later in the day. Leaders of different organisations who revere Sangolli Rayanna have organised a rally from Suvarna Vidhan Soudha demanding installation of a statue of Sangolli Rayanna at Peeranwadi. Deputy Commissioner M G Hiremath has been sent to receive their memorandum and ask them to send their representatives for the meeting. "Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Kaginele seer have spoken to him and asked to resolve the issue. All leaders will be taken into confidence. I shall speak with Leader of Opposition Siddharamaiah, Vishwanath, Revanna, Satish Jarkiholi and others. The decision for the good of the society will be taken," Jarkiholi stated. "Guidelines of the apex court and legal parameters have to be considered before arriving on a decision. We shall follow legal parameters and procedures and resolve the issue," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sangolli-rayannas-statue-at-peeranwadi-within-legal-parameters-878509.html
27-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Will seek explanation from H Vishwanath: Nalin Kumar Kateel on Tipu Sultan remark||Reacting to the remarks made by MLC H Vishwanath in favour of Tipu Sultan, State BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel said, he will seek an explanation from the MLC over the issue.  Speaking to reporters here on Thursday, Kateel stated statements on Tipu is his personal and clarified that the BJP stuck to its stand over Tipu.  Senior BJP MLC AH Vishwanath on Wednesday hailed erstwhile Mysuru ruler Tipu Sultan as “the son of this soil”, leaving the BS Yediyurappa administration red-faced over attempts to omit him from school textbooks. “Tipu Sultan doesn’t belong to any party, caste or religion. Tipu Sultan is the son of this soil. We shouldn’t reduce him to any one caste or religion,” Vishwanath told reporters when asked about the issue of whether or not school children should study the 17th-century ruler in textbooks. Refuting the Congress' charges that B Y Vijayendra is super chief minister, the BJP president said the grand old party lacked a leader similar to the stature of Yediyurappa. "He is capable and is delivering goods effectively. Vijayendra didn't meddle in the affairs of the state government," he clarified.  Congress leaders will create confusion when it is not in power. The violence erupted in Bengaluru is the outcome of internal bickerings in the Congress, Kateel alleged.  "The Congress is going to be an old age home. It is unable to appoint national president", he remarked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/will-seek-explanation-from-h-vishwanath-nalin-kumar-kateel-on-tipu-sultan-remark-878587.html
27-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Golfers unhappy over restrictions on entry to course||Golf players of the city are unhappy with the restrictions by Mysore Race Club (MRC), barring their entry into the course, within the racing track, before 10 am and from 3 pm to 5 pm. Honorary secretary of Jayachamaraja Wadiyar Golf Club (JCWGC) H D Thimmappa Gowda said that the MRC secretary has written a letter to JCWGC on August 19, on ‘Strict implementation of timings to restrict golfers from crossing into racing tracks’, to avoid injury to horses, riders, jockeys or any person. “Earlier also (as per the letter of MRC dated September 16, 2018), there were restrictions up to 8 am on Sundays and up to 8.30 am on other weekdays. There was no entry after 11.30 am on racing days. We were used to it and the players planned their games as per the restriction. Now, the extended restrictions result in substantial time reduction to play golf,” he said. Treasurer of JCWGC S L Narayan said that both MRC and JCWGC are inseparable and supplement each other over a century, since then maharaja Nalvadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar provided the lands at the foot of Chamundi Hill, for horse racing and also golf. “After the formation of an exclusive club in 1985, the JCWGC entered into a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the MRC in 1990. Only since 2012, there is some conflict, between the two clubs, due to some personal egos of office-bearers, following a spark of friction in 2009,” he recalled. Thimmappa Gowda said, "Despite being a separate club since 1985, both racing and golfing are held on the same premises from 1906. Most of the members of MRC are the members of JCWGC and they have certain privileges, compared to direct members of JCWGC. The privileges are a result of a ‘parently regard’ for MRC." "Earlier, the land, which is leased out by the Public Woks Department (PWD) due to various developments since 1976, used to be sub-leased to JCWGC on an understanding. But, on September 20, 2019, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa agreed to include JCWGC along with MRC in the lease agreement. Accordingly, a government order was issued on January 17, 2020,” he said. Narayan said, "As per the recent government order, JCWGC is urging the MRC to sign an MoU to resolve the issues. To end the problem of restrictions on crossing the racing tracks, we propose to lay under pass for entry after the 6th hole and for exit after the 14th hole of the golf course.” K S Sudhir Bhat, chairman of the course committee of JCWGC said that there are six professional and three amateur players, who have reached international-level. “Pranavi S Urs among girls and M S Yashash Chandra among boys were national number one for some time. Besides, among caddys, four are playing at the national-level, in the professional circuit. At present, JCWGC has 2,200 members and there are promising talents. If the issues are resolved, we can concentrate on sporting, which is also a tourist attraction,” he said. Neither MRC president Dr Nityananda Rao nor secretary Dr Jaganath were available for a comment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/golfers-unhappy-over-restrictions-on-entry-to-course-878777.html
27-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid effect: Youth resort to crime due to lack of jobs||Financial problems due to lockdown, induced by Covid-19, had made many youth to take to theft to manage their expenses. Besides, the number of family disputes were on the rise. Statistics showing an increase in theft cases under several police station limits is proof to this. The youth, who had returned from Mumbai, Gujarat and Bengaluru due to the rise in Covid cases, have allegedly taken to theft, according to the police, who have busted several such incidents. Additional Superintendent of Police B N Nandini said, theft cases reported in April was 72, May 104, June 85 and 60 in July. “The youngsters, who had returned to their native after the lockdown relaxation turned to petty crime, as they were not able to find jobs. During enquiry, they confessed that they had taken to stealing as a way to manage their expenses,” she said. The youth includes degree holders, college dropouts, who had gone to cities like Mumbai, Chennai and Bengaluru for jobs. After their savings exhausted, they choose to stealing to spend on smoking, gutka, alcohol and others. Many families, which had shifted to other places have returned to their native places. Once settled, they pick up quarrels related to ancestor’s house, property share and others. The cases booked related to this are 35 in April, 103 in May, 83 in June and 50 in July. The number of people approaching police station is more after lockdown relaxation, she said. Cases related to atrocities on women is also on the rise, due to lack of understanding among couples, arising mainly due to financial issues. Spandana division, which resolves issues related to women, counsels couples at women police station, Nandini said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-effect-youth-resort-to-crime-due-to-lack-of-jobs-878779.html
27-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Constable dies of Covid||A police constable died of Covid-19 on Wednesday night. It is alleged that he died due to the negligence of Health department workers to shift him from the ambulance to the hospital and due to non-availability of a ventilator. However, Health department and Police department officials denied the allegations and claimed that he died due to severe health issues on the way to the hospital from Nanjangud to Mysuru. The allegations were levelled after a video of a health worker trying alone to shift the constable from the ambulance, went viral. B Mahadevaswamy of Somanahalli in Gundlupet taluk of Chamarajanagar district, working at Nanjangud Rural Police station, is the deceased. He had tested positive for Covid, 10 days back, and was under home isolation at the police quarters in Nanjangud. According to a police officer, Mahadevaswamy died on the way to Mysuru and there was no delay, either in shifting or providing treatment. An ventilator was arranged at JSS Hospital, an official said. The officer said, as per the orders of Superintendent of Police (SP), all police personnel and officials were subject to rapid antigen test and three of them, including Mahadevaswamy, tested positive and were kept under home quarantine. The Health department officials tested two others on Tuesday and they tested negative. But, Mahadevaswamy was fit and fine and did not undergo test on the day. His test was pending for Wednesday. According to sources, Mahadevaswamy was diabetic and he did not disclose it earlier. Mahadevaswamy developed breathing problem by evening and was shifted to Nanjangud hospital, where the doctors advised shifting to Mysuru. “We (Police) contacted Health department and the bed with an ventilator was arranged at JSS Hospital. The doctors conducted test soon after the ambulance reached the hospital and declared him brought dead,” an official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/constable-dies-of-covid-878780.html
27-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Fake account seeks response on Wadiyar joining politics||A poll, under a fake Twitter account in the name of Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar, member of the erstwhile royal family, evoked nearly 5,000 responses over 24 hours, since Wednesday. The poll was on the question “Should I join Politics?”, with ‘Yes’ and ‘No’ options. The account Yadhuveer K.C. Wodiyar. has been created in 2015 and has 1,614 followers. The voting for the poll ends on Friday and 4,637 persons had voted till 5.20 pm on Thursday. It had been retweeted by 100 users, while 238 persons commented and 229 persons liked it. The office of Wadiyar clarified that Wadiyar does not have a Twitter account. “Wadiyar has only a Facebook account and an Instagram account,” a communication stated. The comments were a mix of varied reactions. While some said, he should not join either of the national parties, some sought to know which party he intends to join, for them to give their response. Some said that he should become the voice of the people. Some favoured his entry into politics. Meanwhile, on Thursday morning, an instruction ‘Fake account, please do not follow’ in the backdrop of the screenshot of the Twitter account, was posted on the Instagram account of Wadiyar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fake-account-seeks-response-on-wadiyar-joining-politics-878781.html
27-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru police arrest inter-state fraudster||The city police arrested an inter-state fraudster for cheating a jewellery shop owner of gold bullion weighing one kilogram and recovered valuables worth Rs 45 lakh. The arrested is S A Hameed Ali of Kasaragod district, Kerala. According to the police, he had cheated Indar Chand, a city-based jewellery shop owner, in October 2019. Ali developed friendship with Chand by introducing himself as a businessman from Kerala. He also gained confidence of Chand by purchasing gold ornaments a couple of times. Later, Ali claimed that he wants to open a jewellery shop and procured gold bullion on October 31, 2019. He paid some money and left the shop with the gold assuring of bringing the balance amount. But, he did not return. Chand lodged a complaint with Lashkar police, who cracked the case by arresting Ali in Kasargod. According to the police, Ali had broken the bullion into pieces and sold them to different persons in Bengaluru. He had purchased a car worth Rs 20 lakh with the money. The police recovered half kilogram of gold and also seized the car.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-police-arrest-inter-state-fraudster-878783.html
27-08-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka's Legislative Assembly to take decision on banning cow slaughter||Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chauhan said that cow slaughter will be banned in the state after discussing it in the forthcoming Legislative Assembly. Speaking in Kalaburagi on Thursday, he said, "the BJP had promised that it would ban cow slaughter if the party comes to power and hence, we will keep our promise". State BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel added that Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa would take a call on giving priority to the Kalaburagi district in the cabinet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnatakas-legislative-assembly-to-take-decision-on-banning-cow-slaughter-878491.html
27-08-2020||Karnataka Politics||Ask B S Yediyurappa to revoke Land Reforms ordinance, Siddaramaiah writes to PM Modi||Karnataka’s Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to direct Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to withhold the ordinance that removes restrictions on purchasing agricultural land.  Removing restrictions on purchasing agricultural land is “in tune to the interests of Bengaluru land mafia which is waiting for more land to be made available to make enormous profits through real estate,” Siddaramaiah warned in his two-page letter to Modi.   The Yediyurappa-led BJP government has promulgated an ordinance that liberalises agricultural landholdings by allowing anyone, even non-agriculturists, to acquire them. There were restrictions on buying agricultural land as per the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, which has been amended.  “The decision of the Karnataka government led by B S Yediyurappa will have a multi-pronged effect on the farming community and the political economy of Karnataka,” Siddaramaiah stated, calling it unilateral decision “without taking the farming community into confidence.” Siddaramaiah has been doggedly pursuing this issue by drumming up opposition to the ordinance, which the BJP government has termed as “landmark”.  “Historical efforts to make the tiller as the owner of the land will be undone and pave the era of the rich owning the land,” Siddaramaiah said. “The land reforms of 1961 and 1974 enabled marginalised sections, Dalits and other backward classes people to be the owner of the land. It broke the shackles of poverty and bonded labour, and liberated millions of peasants,” he said, adding that the ordinance would make farmers “vulnerable” again.  The state government has argued that people were buying agricultural land anyway because of corruption. The government has also said that removing restrictions on buying agricultural land will attract investments. “This exposes the incapability of government to contain corrupt practice and instead weaken the farming community,” Siddaramaiah said.  “The average landholding is about 3-4 acres per family and this attempt to double the land ceiling will further decrease the average land holding, which will have an adverse impact on the production capabilities of small and medium farmers,” he said, adding that 36,000 acres of undeveloped land identified by the KIADB can be utilised for industrial development instead. “The farmers and their families will be adversely affected and many will be forced to be the labourers, due to economic or social vulnerabilities, in the lands of industrialists or big farmers. There is more possibility of manifestation of the Zamindari system which was the main reason for the backwardness in rural areas,” Siddaramaiah said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/ask-b-s-yediyurappa-to-revoke-land-reforms-ordinance-siddaramaiah-writes-to-pm-modi-878541.html
27-08-2020||Karnataka Politics||Declining Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa’s offer, MLA asks him to woo SC (Right) community||BJP’s Mudigere legislator MP Kumaraswamy has formally declined his appointment as head of the Karnataka Market Consultants and Agencies Ltd (MCA), a month after Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa named him to this post. Instead, Kumaraswamy urged Yediyurappa to induct any one of the SC (Right) MLAs into his Cabinet so as to woo the community. “I have never asked you or the party to make me a minister or be appointed to any board or corporation. I will not decorate the post you have given me. Please don’t mistake me,” Kumaraswamy wrote in a letter to Yediyurappa. “All that’s important to me is the BJP government administered by you for the next three years.” The 3-time MLA also profusely thanked Yediyurappa for having supported him throughout his political career. “The SC (Right) community is a sizable population in the state. They are basically untouchables. There are three MLAs belonging to this community. If any one of them is made a minister over the next three years, it will encourage the SC (Right) community to support the BJP in a big way during the 2023 Assembly elections,” Kumaraswamy said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/declining-karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-s-offer-mla-asks-him-to-woo-sc-right-community-878804.html
27-08-2020||Main Article||Pandemic and prejudice||In a course on journalism that I taught years ago, one exercise I often asked was for the class to roam around Mumbai’s famous Mohammed Ali Road during the holy month of Ramzan and pick up the sights, sounds and stories as the fast is broken and the feasting begins at sunset. One of my students that year was a local area police officer who had in the past been asked to investigate how and why lodges and rooms for rent filled up with Muslims from across the country exactly at the time the police want to ensure that the festival passes off peacefully. That was a massive investigation one particular year, with entries from lodges, background checks, local intelligence, etc., amid suspicion that something was amiss. Wearing the hat of a student-journalist, this policeman came back surprised at what he found when he roamed free, with an eye not for the criminal but for the story. Thousands of people, he discovered, came to throng that road for small and tiny businesses –- selling henna to trinkets to some other local designs and delights of Lucknow and from the further interiors of India. This was the month they made enough to last and lived on it back in their town for the rest of the year. This was a religious festival, but it brought booming business and attracted thousands, most of them Muslims, year after year to Mumbai during the month. As the roles changed, the stories changed, and new facts came to light for this police officer. Call it prejudice, worry or abundant caution at a time of stress for the police –- what is clear is that who you are determines what you see, and what you see will be the colour of the lens you wear. It is one thing for police to do their duty with careful checking, particularly in times when Ramzan coincides with other festivals, as it does some years. It is a more serious matter when large parts of officialdom, led by the political establishment of the day, are so coloured with prejudice that we find actions that are wholly untenable and, in fact, bring down the stature of this great nation for citizens, visitors and in the eyes of the world. This is precisely what the Bombay High Court has found happened in the case of the Tablighi Jamaat –- loud and naked abuse of power to target a minority community and paint its members as a set of people who were on a mission not of faith but allegedly to spread Covid-19 in India.  Here is a landmark judgement that goes well beyond the immediate case to set out red flags on the way in which malicious propaganda is spread, scapegoats are found, and the law applied selectively on religious grounds. The judgement is unrelated to but comes coincidentally at a time there is a rising tide of support for the lawyer Prashant Bhushan as he stands up to a case of contempt in the Supreme Court for questioning the integrity of judges. Amid that fear and worry on the state of the judiciary, here is a case and a judgement that can allow all Indians to keep faith and look up to the judiciary as a beacon of hope and the protector of the rights of ordinary people. In fact, the Bombay High Court comes out shining as it grants cover in this case not to Indians but to minority community visitors coming in from other countries, who do not normally enjoy the protections accorded to citizens under Article 19 of the Constitution, and brings alive the very Indian ethos of atithi devo bhava.  How have we really treated visitors who were in India on valid visas doing what many have done years before them as they participated in the activities of the Tablighi Jamaat? To quote Justices TV Nalawade and MG Sewlikar, who delivered the 58-page order dismissing the police case against nine foreign nationals and two Indians for all manner of allegations, including staying in a Masjid (when did this become a crime?) and preaching (which they were not) their faith: “In our culture, there is (a) saying…that our guest is our God. The circumstances of the present matter create a question as to whether we are really acting as per our great tradition and culture,” the judges said. The Justices have demolished every single case sought to be made out against the members of the Jamaat and, in fact, made three important points: a) There was no intention of the police to go against the foreigners, but Maharashtra filed the FIR after getting directions from the central government to do so; b) The exercise was done by the central government with the presumption that the visitors were already infected when that contention cannot be substantiated; c) The propaganda against the Tablighi Jamaat  was unwarranted and it is now high time for the concerned to repent and to take some positive steps to repair the damage done by such action. The judges sensed “a smell of malice” against foreigners and Muslims as they sent out a message that needs to be told and heard again and again: “Social and religious tolerance is (a) practical necessity for unity and integrity in India…” Away from the judgement, common sense dictates that India should act differently. Would India have the Tablighi Jamaat, an Indian movement with over 90 years of standing, meet in India or would it rather have it meet in Afghanistan or Pakistan? Why should we cede the ground we proudly hold and why should India not welcome and offer space to people of all faiths from across the world to see and live the idea of tolerance? Except that tolerance is now history in our land and an Indian version of the Taliban is sought to be drafted by those in power. (The writer is a journalist and a faculty member at SPJIMR) (Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/pandemic-and-prejudice-878328.html
27-08-2020||Mysuru||Police constable dies of Covid-19; delay in shifting the patient alleged||A police constable died of Covid-19 on Wednesday night and it is alleged that the constable died inside the ambulance as he was not shifted to the hospital even after the ambulance reached the hospital. However, a police official said, he died on the way to the hospital. The authorities, who conducted tests soon after the ambulance arrived at the hospital, declared he was brought dead. Mahadevaswamy, a police constable of Nanjangud Rural Police station tested positive for Covid-19, ten days back and was under isolation at Police quarters in Nanjangud. According to sources, his health condition worsened and thus he was taken to hospital in an ambulance.  According to a police officer, Mahadevaswamy developed breathing problem and thus he was shifted to a hospital in Nanjangud. As per the suggestion of the doctors, it was decided to shift him to a hospital in which a bed with a ventilator was available in Mysuru.  The police department arranged for a ventilator bed at JSS Hospital.  The officer denied the allegation that the constable was shifted late from the ambulance to the hospital. As he was brought dead, his body was kept inside the ambulance for a while. He died on the way to Mysuru from Nanjangud.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/police-constable-dies-of-covid-19-delay-in-shifting-the-patient-alleged-878525.html
27-08-2020||Mysuru||Decision to install Sangolli Rayanna's statue on August 29, says Ramesh Jarkiholi||Water Resources and District Incharge Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi on Thursday said that decision regarding the installation of a statue of Sangolli Rayanna at Peeranwadi village in Belagavi taluk will be taken on August 29 during the visit of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa. Addressing a rally of Sangolli Rayanna admirers who had come from across the state demanding installation of Sangolli Rayanna's statue at Peeranwadi here on Thursday, Jarkiholi said that he had written to the government to install the statue of the freedom fighter at Peeranwadi village in the year 2018, but it could not materialise as Belagavi-Khanapur road widening works were in progress. Eshwarappa will visit Peeranwadi on Saturday. "We will take a decision that will be in the interest and good for the society," he said. Leaders of various organisations agreed to withdraw their protest after assurance from the minister that legal hurdles have to be overcome before deciding on the installation of the statue. Jarkiholi later informed reporters that a section of people want the statue to be installed at the venue selected by them at Peeranwadi. The meeting will be held with the officials regarding the venue and legal parameters in wake of Supreme Court guidelines. He said Sangolli Rayanna was not confined to any particular community and the freedom fighter was admired by all.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/decision-to-install-sangolli-rayannas-statue-on-august-29-says-ramesh-jarkiholi-878589.html
27-08-2020||National||Allahabad High Court denies bail to anti-CAA activist Osama||The Allahabad High Court has rejected the bail plea of an anti-CAA activist arrested on charges of being a participant of an unlawful assembly which made hate speeches and seditious statements during a protest against the last year's changes in the citizenship law. While denying bail to Azamgarh resident Osama on Tuesday, Justice J J Munir directed the lower court to complete the trial within six months. "It is a case where inflammatory speeches and seditious statements besides statements aimed at promoting enmity between different religions were made by the congregation of which the applicant was a member. The speeches were followed by an assault on police personnel and damage to public property,” the bench said while denying the bail. State government counsel opposed the bail plea arguing that the case involved the promotion of enmity between different groups on grounds of religion and race. He also submitted that the applicant along with other co-accused made seditious speeches to excite disaffection towards the government. In the FIR, it was alleged that all the accused jointed the crowd comprising thousands of men, women and children, brandishing sticks, rods, brickbats and other dangerous weapons. The accused indulged in inflammatory speeches against the government and the country, saying they would “snatch freedom at all costs”. Applicants counsel's pleaded with the court that allegations in the FIR were of general nature and the injury report of the policemen showed that all wounds were of simple nature. They also argued that all witnesses were police personnel who had given self-serving statements. The court, however, rejected the bail plea, saying that the accused cannot be enlarged at this juncture. Azamgarh police had on February 5 this year booked 135 people on charges of sedition for protesting against the Citizenship Amendment Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/allahabad-high-court-denies-bail-to-anti-caa-activist-osama-878338.html
27-08-2020||National||BJP spokesperson Syed Zafar Islam RS candidate from UP||The BJP on Wednesday named party spokesperson Syed Zafar Islam as its candidate for the Rajya Sabha bypoll to a seat from Uttar Pradesh.  The election has been necessitated due to the death of expelled Samajwadi Party MP Amar Singh.  Islam's victory is all but certain due to the BJP's overwhelming majority in the state assembly.  It is believed that Islam, a former investment banker, was involved in the party's efforts to bring the then Congress leader Jyotiraditya Scindia into its fold as both enjoyed warm personal relations dating back to the time before he had joined the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-spokesperson-syed-zafar-islam-rs-candidate-from-up-878350.html
27-08-2020||National||Further delay in conducting JEE, NEET will compromise students' future: Over 150 academicians to PM Modi||Over 150 academicians from various universities in India and abroad have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying that delaying the medical and engineering entrance exams -- JEE-Mains and NEET – any further will mean compromising on the future of students. Referring to the growing chorus against the conduct of these exams in September in view of the rising Covid-19 cases, the academicians said in their letter, "Some are trying to play with future of students to propel their own political agenda". "Youths and students are the future of the nation but in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, clouds of uncertainty have gathered over their careers too. There are lot of apprehensions about admission and classes which need to be resolved at the earliest,” they have said in their letter. Like every year, this year too millions of students have passed their Class 12 exams and are now waiting at home to eagerly take the next step, the letter said. "The government has announced the dates for JEE-Mains and NEET…any further delay in conducting the exams will result in waste of precious year for students. The dreams and future of our youth and students cannot be compromised at any cost. However, some are trying to play with the future of our students simply to propel their own political agenda and oppose the government,” it said. The signatories include academicians from the Delhi University, IGNOU, Lucknow University, JNU, BHU, IIT Delhi and Indian academicians from foreign universities such as University of London, University of California, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem and Ben Gurion University, Israel, among others. "We strongly believe that the central government will successfully conduct the JEE and NEET exams taking full precautions to ensure that the future of students is taken care of and the academic calendar for 2020-21 is rolled out," it added. Over 14 lakh admit cards for the medical and engineering entrance exams --NEET and JEE-- were downloaded after the National Testing Agency (NTA) released them on Wednesday, even as the issue was discussed extensively during a meeting of chief ministers of non-BJP ruled states who decided to jointly move the Supreme Court to seek deferment of these exams. The issue, which has been a matter of intense public discourse for the past few months, has evoked contrasting views with many backing the holding of the tests arguing that not doing so would result in a zero academic year for students, while the Opposition and a section of activists demanding their postponement in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The issue also took political undertones on Wednesday with opposition leaders attacking the Central government. While the NEET is planned on September 13, engineering entrance exam JEE Main is scheduled from September 1-6. Around 9.53 lakh candidates have registered for JEE-Mains and 15.97 lakh students have registered for NEET. These exams have already been deferred twice in the wake of the novel coronavirus pandemic. JEE-Main was originally supposed to be held from April 7-11, but postponed to July 18-23, NEET-UG was originally scheduled for May 3, then pushed to July 26. They were postponed again and are now scheduled in September.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/further-delay-in-conducting-jee-neet-will-compromise-students-future-over-150-academicians-to-pm-modi-878370.html
27-08-2020||National||DH Toon | 'Want Modi's full attention, can you help?'||Indian government consumption will continue to support current economic demand while private consumption will likely lead the recovery when it takes hold after the Covid-19 outbreak eases, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) said in its annual report on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-want-modis-full-attention-can-you-help-878378.html
27-08-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on August 27||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 31 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  3,375,674 as of August 27 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  61,566 393,090   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 19,19,842  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-august-27-878379.html
27-08-2020||National||Farmers driven to debt as banks turn risk-averse during Covid-19 pandemic||Last month, Dnyaneshwar Siddhanth, a farmer from India’s western state of Maharashtra, was in desperate need of money to buy seed and fertiliser as the monsoon sowing season approached. But after being rejected by his bank for a loan despite several attempts, Siddhanth finally borrowed 1,50,000 rupees from a moneylender at a rate of 60% annually. Amid India's worst economic slowdown in decades due to the novel coronavirus pandemic, millions of farmers like Siddhanth are being shunned by banks as lenders turn cautious due to rising bad loans. That is forcing them to turn to illegal moneylenders who are charging increasingly exorbitant rates, according to over a dozen farmers and bankers that Reuters spoke to. Agriculture accounts for near 15% of India's $2.8 trillion economy and is a source of livelihood for more than half of its 1.3 billion people. Higher interest rates will reduce farm earnings, impacting overall rural incomes which are key to reviving the economy. "Most of the profit goes to paying interest to a private moneylender," Siddhanth said. "Everything now depends on monsoon rains. If the crops fail, then I will have to sell land to repay the loan." Till last year private moneylenders were charging 24-36% interest, but are now asking for 48-60% as more farmers seek loans, said Prashant Kathe, another farmer who has borrowed 3,00,000 rupees at a 60% interest rate. Typically, banks charge anywhere between 4-10% for crop related loans. Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government has been instructing banks to increase lending, but bankers say they are choosing to be cautious. Economists forecast India's economy to shrink by 5.1% in the current fiscal year, the weakest performance since 1979. Lenders also complain that they are caught up by farm loan waiver schemes announced by several governments to win over farmers ahead of elections. "Even though some of the states announced the scheme years ago, the money has still not reached the bank so technically the farmer's account is a non-performing asset for us and we can't give more loans till the outstanding is cleared," said the head of agriculture lending at a large state-owned bank. Last year, the government in India’s richest state, Maharashtra, had announced that banks will write off loans of up to 2,00,000 rupees to distressed farmers. Siddhanth, who already owed a bank 1,78,000 rupees from a previous loan, was covered under the scheme. However, the state government is yet to provide funds to repay it, and nearly one-third of the loan remains outstanding. As of October 2019, 10 states that had announced farm loan waivers since 2014-15 had yet to complete the promised loan write-offs, according to local media reports. "Only about 30-35% of the promised amount by the various state governments has been sanctioned to the bank," said a senior banker who didn't wish to be identified. The high level of bad loans in the agriculture sector is another deterrent to more lending. The share of soured loans in the segment has risen from 8.4% as of September 2018 to 10.1% as of March 2020, at a time when the overall share of bad loans in the banking sector has been going down. "There is reluctance to lend in the agri segment due to poor asset quality, as a result banks are more keen to lend if there is gold as collateral, but otherwise fresh lending in the segment has been tepid," said Anil Gupta, analyst at credit rating agency ICRA. Between March and June this year, lending to the agriculture sector contracted 1.8%, according to the Reserve Bank of India. During June 2019-2020, lending to the sector grew by 6.7% compared to 11% in the same period the previous year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-driven-to-debt-as-banks-turn-risk-averse-during-covid-19-pandemic-878392.html
27-08-2020||National||Fact Check: Congress shares 2012 image of PM Narendra Modi with ducks as PR during Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently shared a video of himself with peacocks at his Lok Kalyan Marg residence. This was picked up by nearly every mainstream media outlet and soon attracted criticism on social media for propaganda during the ongoing pandemic. भोर भयो, बिन शोर,मन मोर, भयो विभोर,रग-रग है रंगा, नीला भूरा श्याम सुहाना,मनमोहक, मोर निराला। After the peacock video surfaced, several individuals began circulating pictures of PM Modi with ducks. The Congress party shared one such picture and wrote, “..leader of the 3rd most-affected country is making PR videos instead of helping his people.” Picture this: There's a global pandemic & economic recession but the leader of the 3rd most affected country is making PR videos instead of helping his people.   Image 1  Image 2  This picture also dates back to 2012. PM Modi can be spotted in the same clothes he has worn in image 1. Furthermore, there are other pictures of him on the blogpost by Madhav Das Nalapat where he can be seen reading the identical book on former US President Barack Obama.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-congress-shares-2012-image-of-pm-narendra-modi-with-ducks-as-pr-during-covid-19-878419.html
27-08-2020||National||PNB-scam-accused Mehul Choksi moves HC over Netflix's 'Bad Boy Billionaires' documentary||The Delhi High Court Wednesday asked video streaming platform Netflix whether it can provide pre-screening of documentary, ‘Bad Boy Billionaires’, to Mehul Choksi, an accused in the nearly USD 2 billion PNB scam. Justice Navin Chawla orally asked the counsel for Netflix to consider granting pre-screening to Choksi and cut short the controversy. The court listed the matter for further hearing on August 28. Choksi, the promoter of Gitanjali Gems, and his nephew Nirav Modi are accused in the Rs 13,500 crore Punjab National Bank fraud case. Choksi left the country last year and was granted citizenship of Antigua and Barbuda. The documentary, Bad Boy Billionaires’, which is scheduled to be released in India on September 2, is described on Netflix platform as “This investigative docuseries explores the greed, fraud and corruption that built up - and ultimately brought down - India’s most infamous tycoons”. It takes a look at controversial cases of infamous businessmen Vijay Mallya, Nirav Modi, Subrata Roy and Byrraju Ramalinga Raju. Advocate Vijay Aggarwal, representing Choksi, sought postponement of the documentary’s release. He said Choksi saw the trailer and has been receiving phone calls from across the world asking him whether he was part of the documentary and seeking comments. “Thereafter, the petitioner (Choksi) discovered that one of the persons seen speaking in the trailer was one Mr. Pavan C. Lall who had written a book titled 'Flawed: The Rise and Fall of India’s Diamond Mogul Nirav Modi' where also the petitioner’s name had been commingled with Nirav Modi’s,” the plea said. Aggarwal said he was not seeking a stay on the release but was asking that the documentary be shown to him prior to its release. During the hearing, senior advocate Neeraj Kishan Kaul, representing Netflix Inc and Netflix Entertainment Services India LLP, said the web series is on many people like Nirav Modi and only two minutes are devoted to Choksi. He said a general mandamus to regulate Over The Top (OTTs) cannot be passed and submitted that due to insufficient time he could not get instructions on the matter. He said he will seek instructions on the issue. In the petition, Choksi claims he has been falsely accused of various crimes in India and is presently under investigation or standing trial by and before various authorities and/or courts. “The petitioner is entitled in terms of Indian law, that is, Article 21 of the Constitution of India to a presumption of innocence and a free and fair trial. Reputation being a facet of a person’s life, the petitioner is also entitled to a right to a reputation,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pnb-scam-accused-mehul-choksi-moves-hc-over-netflixs-bad-boy-billionaires-documentary-878423.html
27-08-2020||National||Gujarat HC rejects Yatin Oza's 'unconditional apology' for contempt of court||Saying that a "loud and clear" message needs to be sent that judiciary is "open to every healthy criticism respecting the fundamental right of freedom of expression," but at the same time attempts to tarnish its prestige will not be tolerated, a division bench of Gujarat High Court rejected the "unconditional apology" of controversial advocate Yatin Oza who is facing criminal contempt of court proceedings. The bench of justices Sonia Gokani and N V Anjaria pronounced the order rejecting the apology of Oza on Wednesday while observing, "What speaks louder than the words is action. Words which have no backing of either intent or deed or action are hollow and lifeless. Words which are in fact lived with sincerity and commitment ingrained, only have the capacity to create an impact, or otherwise, they are words without soul and heart which wholly lack authenticity. Entire gamut of facts when dispassionately and objectively viewed, we are unable to accept these words as true words of remorse and contrition and therefore, request to accept apology even if termed as unqualified, cannot be acceded to. We are also alive to the genuineness of requests of both the learned senior counsels, whose towering support to the respondent also may not persuade us to act otherwise." Oza, President of Gujarat High Court Advocates' Association (GHCAA), had made several serious allegations on Facebook live press conference on June 5. He had remarked that  "The High Court is an absolute gambling den today, wherein only billionaires can gamble. If poor people gamble for five rupees at home, the police would arrest them. This is the situation of High Court. High Court can file a contempt petition against me." Oza had said this to make a point that during the lockdown it was difficult to get petitions listed for hearing in case the lawyers or clients were not influential. Subsequently, the division bench took Suo Motu cognisance of these remarks and started criminal contempt proceedings against Oza. Meanwhile, a full court of the high court also stripped Oza from his "senior counsel" designation unanimously. According to reports, another full court, barring justices Gokani and Anajaria since they are conducting the contempt plea, on Sunday refused unconditional apology. The bench headed by justice Gokani commented that "Any attempt to scandalise the court and browbeat the judges and thereby undermining the authority of the institution in our opinion cannot be taken lightly." In the 46-page long judgement, the bench has not believed Oza's argument that his remarks were a result of an "emotional outburst" and said "One cannot be oblivious that this institution for its credibility, trustworthiness and its independence, continues to rule in the hearts of common man to be its last resort against every kind of arbitrariness and violation of fundamental and human rights and to term it as a gambling den, as the Senior Advocate and the President of the Bar with authority, facts and figures and in the meeting of Press with ‘all requisite responsibilities’ could not be said prima facie to be the result of emotional upsurge or a momentary phase." The bench has also taken notes of Oza's past cases when he faced contempt proceedings and the courts accepted his apologies. The order said that those past acts "would definitely be one of the guiding factors for the court to hold that apology tendered is not bona fide and lacks sincerity and therefore, an unacceptable proposition." "Every time scurrilous remarks against the judges and the institution are made and when he realises that there is no escape route, the weapon of unconditional apology comes to his rescue.  This was permitted in the past upkeeping a rich tradition of Kshama Virsya Bhushanam (forgiveness is the jewel of the heroes) showing magnanimity every time he acted, even hoping, trusting and believing in the wise words that every saint has a past and every sinner a future, not only it has emboldened the person to go on attacking the institute with more fervency, if still permitted, this institution would be inviting for itself more and many such unsubstantiated, unsustainable and baseless attacks from various quarters," the bench of has mentioned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-hc-rejects-yatin-ozas-unconditional-apology-for-contempt-of-court-878431.html
27-08-2020||National||Masks for Covid-19 may end up eliminating tuberculosis by 2025||India had set a deadline to eliminate tuberculosis by 2025, five years before the World Health Organisation's target of 2030. The government’s announcement seemed ambitious as India reports 25 per cent of the world’s tuberculosis cases. However, after the outbreak of the coronavirus and the safety protocol implemented to curb the spread of Covid-19, the elimination of TB does not seem unachievable.  “If we continue using masks and remember to follow cough etiquette, the deadline no longer seems ambitious,” Dr Mehta added. A private-sector doctor said fewer new cases of tuberculosis were reported due to a lower risk of transmission. “People are staying home or moving out with masks, resulting in a lower risk of transmission, Moreover, families are now likely to pay attention to a cough that last more than two weeks and seek test and scans that will detect TB early,” he said, according to the report. One of the reasons reported for higher resistance to the coronavirus was attributed to a dosage of the BCG vaccine in India. tuberculosis detection rates dropped in March, but health officials said the services are slowly going back to normal. “The TB bacillus spreads through droplet released when a person coughs or sneezes. The microbe travels at the speed of Ferrari across a room, but even a handkerchief (as against face masks that have tinier pores and have two- to three-ply material) can stop it instantly,” said Dr Lalit Anande, a medical supervisor of the BMC-run tuberculosis hospital in Sewri, Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/masks-for-covid-19-may-end-up-eliminating-tuberculosis-by-2025-878432.html
27-08-2020||National||India reports record daily jump of 75,760 coronavirus infections; Tally tops 33 lakh||India reported on Thursday a record daily jump of 75,760 coronavirus infections, taking its total caseload to 3.31 million as cases surged across the country, data from the federal health ministry showed. India is the worst affected country in Asia and third behind the United States and Brazil in terms of total cases. It has posted the highest single-day caseloads in the world since August 7, according to a Reuters tally. Deaths in the same 24-hour period increased by 1,023, taking the death toll to 60,472.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-record-daily-jump-of-75760-coronavirus-infections-tally-tops-33-lakh-878437.html
27-08-2020||National||ISRO’s young scientist programme cancelled due to Covid-19 ||The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO’s) young scientist programme titled ‘YUVIKA’, which was scheduled to be conducted between May 11 to May 22, 2020, has now been cancelled. Registrations for the programme began in February. However, a nation-wide lockdown was announced on March 24th. On April 20, a notification on ISRO’s website announced that YUVIKA 2020 had been postponed until further notice due to the pandemic. “The Young Scientist programme (YUVIKA) was scheduled to be held during May 11-22, 2020. In connection with the measures taken in the wake of Covid-19, it has been decided to postpone the YUVIKA 2020 programme. The revised schedule of the programme will be informed subsequently,” it read. However, ISRO now decided to cancel the programme altogether due to the pandemic and the organisational challenges that would emerge due to it. “The Young Scientist Programme (YUVIKA) was scheduled to be held during May 11-22, 2020. In the wake of Covid-19 pandemic and the associated difficulties in organizing the programme,  YUVIKA 2020 stands cancelled,” a recent notice from the space agency read. The programme was expected to include interactive activities and sessions. Students would have interacted with ISRO scientists and attended lectures. Three students from each state would have been short-listed for the programme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/isro-s-young-scientist-programme-cancelled-due-to-covid-19-878440.html
27-08-2020||National||Former SC judge A R Lakshmanan dies at 78||Former Supreme Court Judge Justice A R Lakshmanan, who had once broken down in court and refused to hear a case relating to disproportionate assets (DA) involving former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav after he received an anonymous letter with “heinous contents and allegations” against him, passed away on Thursday. Lakshmanan (78), breathed his last in Tiruchirappalli on Thursday morning and is survived by two sons and two daughters. His demise comes within two days of his wife Meenakshi Lakshmanan's death. A champion of social justice, Lakshmanan served as Chief Justice of the united Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Kerala high courts before he was elevated to the Supreme Court in 2002. He was first appointed as a judge of the Madras High Court in 1990 after serving as a government pleader. After retiring from the Supreme Court, Lakshmanan also served as the chairperson of the 18th Law Commission and submitted 32 reports to the government in just about a year on improving the country’s judicial system. In one of his reports, Lakshmanan had recommended the establishment of regional benches of the Supreme Court in four zones of the country, including one in Chennai. Born in 1942 into an enterprising Nattukottai Chettiar family in Devakottai in Sivaganga district, Justice Lakshmanan graduated from St. Joseph’s College in Tiruchirapalli and pursued law from the Madras Law College in 1966. Two years later, he enrolled as a lawyer in 1968 and had an independent practice in varied branches of law and served as the government pleader in the High Court before being appointed as a permanent judge. A few days before he was to retire as a Supreme Court judge, Justice Lakshmanan broke down and refused to hear a review petition of former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav against the CBI probe into disproportionate assets (DA) case against him. Justice Lakshmanan had then told the court that he will not hear the case as he received a letter containing “heinous” allegations against him. He added that he and his wife were upset over the allegations and handed over the anonymous letter to the then Chief Justice of India K G Balakrishnan. Former Union Minister P Chidambaram condoled Justice Lakshmanan's death, saying he brought repute to Sivaganga and Tamil Nadu. DMK Rajya Sabha MP and senior counsel P Wilson said Justice Lakshmanan was a "very nice judge with humane and practical approach."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-sc-judge-a-r-lakshmanan-dies-at-78-878464.html
27-08-2020||National||Supreme Court reserves order on Vijay Mallya's plea in contempt case||The Supreme Court on Thursday reserved its judgement in a review petition filed by fugitive industrialist Vijay Mallya against his conviction in a contempt case in 2017. A bench of Justices U U Lalit and Ashok Bhushan wrapped up its hearing in the matter. The top court's judgement may deal with "lapses" on the part of its registry for not listing the review petition for three years. In June, this year, the court sought an explanation from its registry as to why a review petition filed by Mallya against his conviction in a contempt case in 2017, was not listed before it for consideration in the last three years. It has directed the officials to furnish all the details including names of the people who had dealt with the file concerning the review petition for the last three years. On May 9, 2017, the court had held beleaguered promoter of Kingfisher Airlines guilty of contempt of court for transferring $40 million to his children's accounts despite an order against it. Mallya, who evaded law enforcement authorities in India and stayed at the United Kingdom, has suffered setbacks after the court there allowed for his extradition. His date of return, however, is still uncertain due to undisclosed legal issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-reserves-order-on-vijay-mallyas-plea-in-contempt-case-878465.html
27-08-2020||National||Pranab Mukherjee continues to be in deep coma, says hospital||Former President Pranab Mukherjee continues to be in deep coma and on ventilator support, the hospital said in its latest report on Thursday. He is being treated for a lung infection and renal dysfunction and he is haemodynamically stable, the hospital said in a statement.  "Hon’ble Shri Pranab Mukherjee continues to be in deep coma and on ventilator support. He is being treated for lung infection and renal dysfunction. He is haemodynamically stable," the statement read.  Mukherjee is being treated for respiratory infection, which he developed at the hospital. He was operated for removal of a clot in the brain. He had also tested positive for Covid-19 at the time of his admission. Mukherjee was the 13th President of India from 2012 to 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pranab-mukherjee-continues-to-be-in-deep-coma-says-hospital-878489.html
27-08-2020||National||2005 verdict on sub-classification of SC/STs needs to be reconsidered, says SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday favoured a larger than five-judge bench to decide on the issue of making a sub-classification in the Scheduled Castes category for reservation. A five-judge bench, presided over by Justice Arun Mishra, held that such sub-categorisation can be made by the State legislature without violating the constitutional provisions or the Presidential List under Article 341. State legislatures may make laws to give preferential treatment to sub-castes within the Scheduled Caste categories, it said. This judgement differed with the E V Chinnaiah Vs State of Andhra Pradesh case (2005) where a five-judge bench held that such a class cannot be sub-divided so as to give more preference to a miniscule proportion of the Scheduled Castes in preference to other members of the same class. "If a class within a class of members of the Scheduled Castes is created, the same would amount to tinkering with the List. Such sub-classification would be violative of Article 14 of the Constitution," it had held. Following the difference of opinion between two five-judge Constitution benches, the issue is now to be decided by a larger bench. On Thursday, the court directed for placing the matter before the Chief Justice of India for setting up a bench of appropriate strength to decide the issue. The instant matter before the top court arose out of a decision by the Punjab and Haryana HC, which had quashed provisions of the Punjab Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes (Reservation in Services) Act, 2006, giving first preferences to 'Balmikis' and 'Mazbhi Sikh' in granting quota. The HC had then cited the Chinnaiah case to hold that only Parliament can make change to the Presidential list.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2005-verdict-on-sub-classification-of-sc/sts-needs-to-be-reconsidered-says-sc-878494.html
27-08-2020||National||Maharashtra: Infant undergoes Kasai surgery||A two-month-old baby underwent a successful Kasai surgery at the Wockhardt Group of Hospitals at Mira Road in Thane district in the far suburbs of Mumbai. A team led by Dr Lalit Verma, a paediatric gastroenterologist and liver transplant specialist, performed a successful complicated Kasai procedure on a 2-month-old baby. The baby was noticed to have increasing jaundice starting from 6 weeks of age. A systematic assessment and diagnosis showed that the baby suffered from rare congenital liver disease called Biliary Atresia. After a Kasai surgery, the baby presently now three months old and is accepting feeds, and passing regular stools. The baby now weighs 4.3 kg. The parents, residents of Mira Road, were elated on the birth of their first baby, a boy, Krisha. He developed jaundice six weeks after of birth. His parents noticed symptoms such as jaundice, pale stools, bloated stomach, dark urine and excessive irritability. They consulted Dr Samir Sheikh and Dr Lalit Verma about the baby's health. He was admitted to Wockhardt Hospital, Mira Road.Dr Verma said: “At 6 weeks, the baby came presented with jaundice and symptoms such as the increased size of liver on sonography and liver biopsy was conducted that indicated the baby suffered from a rare congenital liver disease known as Biliary Atresia (BA).” He said that it is a condition wherein the connecting duct between the liver and intestines is either absent or malformed since birth with an unknown cause. The bile becomes stagnant in the liver and causes permanent liver damage. It is a fatal congenital liver disease found only 1 in 5,000 which goes undetected. After counselling the family, the baby was scheduled for Kasai portoenterostomy procedure as it has to be performed within the 90 days of diagnosis.During the surgery, the surgeon’s Dr Kant and Dr Pankaj recreated a duct using a small intestine and then attached it to the liver. This provides a path that can allow bile to drain from the liver. Surgery is not a cure for biliary atresia but it helps the liver work better for many years as it corrects many of the symptoms caused by the atresia. The surgery lasted for 4 hours. The baby was in the ICU for 2 days and then shifted to the normal ward where he stayed for 5 days before getting discharged. The baby is tolerating feeds, passing stool and weighs 4.3 kgs on a Follow up after surgery.“Our world came crashing down on knowing about Krisha’s condition. Fortunately, he received timely treatment at Wockhardt Hospital, Mira Road. We thank the doctors for saving his life. Krisha is back on track now,” the baby’s father said.  The Kasai procedure involves removing the blocked bile ducts and gallbladder and replacing them with a segment of your child's own small intestine. This segment of intestine is sewn to the liver and functions as a new extrahepatic bile duct system.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-infant-undergoes-kasai-surgery-878501.html
27-08-2020||National||Fake news more dangerous than paid news, says I&B Minister Prakash Javadekar||Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar on Thursday said fake news is more dangerous than paid news and called for self-regulation while publishing digital content to curb the menace. "Paid news is much milder than what fake news is. Fake news has a very potent power of disturbing the peace. The manipulation of public opinion over social media platforms has emerged as a critical threat to public life," Javadekar said at a virtual event organised by industry body IAMAI. He said that several countries all over the world have been affected by the fake news menace and many are taking steps to curb it. "There should be a mechanism for self-regulation, otherwise everyone will have to bear the brunt of this menace. It is not limited to the political sector. Every sector is going to bear it. Fake news is more dangerous than paid news and we will have to be prepared to face it," Javadekar said. He said that digital content has become more powerful than print editions of newspapers and people tend to believe the content shared on social media platforms like WhatsApp. "... One WhatsApp message and the damage is done," he said. Javadekar said "earlier in the Press Information Bureau, we used to read newspapers, follow the channels. Every evening we use to issue releases giving clarification. Now if there is any tweet in the morning and you don't respond to it, then damage is done. It happens at the speed of light." He said that the government has taken an initiative to curb fake news by setting up a fact check team which checks and verifies information being floated in digital medium. "We are definitely taking note of fake news and therefore we started one attempt in 2019 October, PIB Fact Check Unit. We have established PIB Fact Check units in all the states," Javadekar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fake-news-more-dangerous-than-paid-news-says-ib-minister-prakash-javadekar-878507.html
27-08-2020||National||Puducherry reports 511 fresh Covid-19 cases, 10 deaths||Puducherry on Thursday recorded 511 new Covid-19 cases and 10 deaths pushing the toll in the union territory to 190. The fresh cases were recorded after examination of 1,486 samples during the last 24 hours, Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao told a virtual press conference. The overall Covid tally in the union territory rose to 12,434, he added. The Minister said while 4,483 cases of the total 12,434 were active (2,127 in hospitals and 2,356 in home quarantine), as many as 7,761 patients had recovered and were discharged so far. He said 275 patients were discharged Thursday. The Health Department has so far tested 68,888 samples and 55,120 of them were found to be negative. Result of the examination of the remaining specimens was awaited, the Minister said. The fatality rate was 1.53 per cent and recovery rate was 62.42 per cent, the Health Minister said. Rao said the territorial government was implementing fully in letter and spirit the guidelines of the Central government to combat the pandemic here. He said the door-to-door survey by health workers to zero in on people showing symptoms of the infection would be revived soon. The Health Minister said the two Central teams deputed by the ICMR had held discussions with him on Wednesday and the suggestions given by them particularly to ramp up testing would be implemented without delay.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/puducherry-reports-511-fresh-covid-19-cases-10-deaths-878529.html
27-08-2020||National||Plea claims Hockey India created posts in violation of sports code, HC seeks Centre stand||The Delhi High Court Thursday asked the Centre and Hockey India (HI) for their stand on a plea alleging that the sports federation has violated the national sports code by creating posts, like 'life member', 'life president' and CEO, which are not permitted under the rules. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan issued notice to the Sports Ministry, HI and the two persons who have been appointed in the sports body as life member and CEO, seeking their stand by September 28 on the petition by a former hockey player. Petitioner Aslam Sher Khan, who was part of the Indian team which won gold in the 1975 Hockey World Cup, has sought quashing of the articles in HI's Memorandum of Association (MOA) under which the posts of 'life member', life president' and 'CEO' with unlimited tenure and full voting rights have been created. Senior advocate Gopal Sankaranarayan, appearing for Khan, said these posts are not contemplated under the National Sports Code of 2011 and have been created in violation of the rules, circulars and guidelines governing functioning of the national sports federations (NSFs). The petition, filed through advocate Vanshdeep Dalmia, has also sought quashing of the appointments of Narinder Dhruv Batra and Elena Norman as 'life member' and CEO, respectively. Khan, in his plea, has alleged that "various acts of nepotism and favouritism" by Batra and Norman was "causing loss, financial and otherwise to the sport of hockey". He has contended that under the sports code and the model election guidelines for NSFs, only seven office bearers and five additional members are to be elected for specific durations and the three posts created by HI are not contemplated therein. He has also contended that similar provisions relating to creation of the post of 'life member' in the Amateur Kabaddi Federation of India have been quashed by the high court. The plea has also sought directions to Batra and Norman to provide accounts of money and financial benefits received by them from HI from their time of appointment and to refund the same. It has further sought that an administrator or ad-hoc committee of eminent sports persons be appointed to administer the affairs of HI and oversee its day to day functioning, until its MOA is amended and fresh elections in accordance with the guidelines are held. Khan has also sought a direction to the ministry to cancel affiliation of HI till its MOA is amended, appointments of Batra and Norman are terminated and fresh elections are held.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-claims-hockey-india-created-posts-in-violation-of-sports-code-hc-seeks-centre-stand-878557.html
27-08-2020||National||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh launches app for online training of NCC cadets||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday launched a mobile application to assist in online training of NCC cadets in the country. "In view of the restrictions imposed by Covid-19, training of NCC (National Cadet Corps) cadets has been affected adversely as it is mostly contact-based training," the Ministry of Defence said in a statement. Since schools and colleges are not likely to open in the near future, it was felt that training to NCC cadets should be imparted utilising the digital medium, it said. The mobile app, called "DGNCC", aims at providing NCC cadets all training materials, including syllabus, training videos and frequently asked questions, on one platform, the statement added. "The app has been made interactive by including a query option. By using this option, a cadet can post questions related to the training syllabus, and the same will be answered by a panel of qualified instructors," it said. Along with Singh, Defence Secretary Ajay Kumar, Director General NCC Lieutenant General Rajeev Chopra and other senior civil and military officials of the ministry were present on the occasion. After the launch, Singh said on Twitter that this app would be useful to NCC cadets in digital learning and overcoming the difficulties posed due to restrictions on direct physical interactions in view of Covid-19. "The NCC imparts values of unity, discipline, service to the nation. I interacted with the NCC cadets during the launch of the app and also answered their questions. I wish them success and a bright future," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/defence-minister-rajnath-singh-launches-app-for-online-training-of-ncc-cadets-878558.html
27-08-2020||National||SC notice to Centre, States on plea to address digital divide among school children||The Supreme Court on Thursday issued notice to the Centre and all States on plea for adopting uniform education practices to avoid discrimination and digital divide among school-going children due to Covid-19 pandemic. A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde sought a response from the Centre and States on the PIL filed by NGO Good Governance Chambers. The plea made by advocate Deepak Prakash contended that the steps taken to regulate elementary education in the time of Covid-19 were not only grossly inadequate but also created inequality among children and put those belonging to the weaker sections under perpetually disadvantageous position.  It sought a number of directions to effectively address the issues related to elementary education of children in the age group of six to 14 years, which was recognised as a fundamental right under Article 21 A of the Constitution and covered under the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009. The plea wanted the court to ensure the formulation of alternative strategies, keeping in mind the children who were unable to access or benefit of online education or e-learning programmes. It also sought to lay down guidelines to encourage students affected by reverse migration due to the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-states-on-plea-to-address-digital-divide-among-school-children-878559.html
27-08-2020||National||79% Indian students use smartphones to study online: Vidyasaarathi||Majority of students - a whooping 79 per cent -  use smartphones to study online reveals ‘India Lockdown Learning,’ a report by Vidyasaarathi. The report goes on to state that only 17 per cent of students attend their online classes using laptops and computers and rest 4 per cent students attend it through mediums like tablets. Vidyasaarathi is one of the largest scholarship management portals in India - promoted by NSDL e-Governance. Vidyasaarathi’s ‘India Lockdown Learning’ report is based on a nationwide survey conducted by collecting data from over 10,000 students across 400 cities to understand the transformation happening in the educational eco-system - in the new normal. The report that provides unique insights and perspectives on the e-learning scenario in India further finds that WhatsApp and Zoom Calls to be the most preferred medium of 59% students for conducting online classes; followed by 30% of students using their school’s or college’s online platform to attend online classes.    While online classes are part of the new normal, 75% of the students still prefer physical classrooms over online learning. Poor internet connection was highlighted by 57% of students as their biggest challenge for e-learning. 31% of students finding it difficult to focus and 12% finding it difficult to get doubts clarified while studying online. Interestingly, over 60% of the students spend around 1-4 hours on e-Learning; followed by 31% spending 4-8 hours and 8% spending 8-12 hours studying online. This shows that despite the challenges, the students’ willingness to learn and the commitment of teachers towards online education. Moreover, among the total number of students who are utilizing online classes, 62% of them are using it for curricular and 38% for extra-curricular activities. Amongst the extra-curricular activities, 39% are taking online courses on art & craft. This indicates a shift from traditional learning methods. Majority of the students who took the survey were in the age groups of 12 to 28 years where 62% were males. The respondents are in their undergraduate and postgraduate courses. They come from middle-class families, with around 90% students belonging to families with annual incomes below Rs 7 lakh,  a press statement said. Students are also well aware of the benefits of online classes. Majority of them cited that the biggest advantage of e-learning is the accessibility of the course content any time. Students also highlighted ease of use and convenient doubt clarification to be the other motivators for online education.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/79-indian-students-use-smartphones-to-study-online-vidyasaarathi-878563.html
27-08-2020||National||IIT-Madras coordinating "national efforts to create crash courses" for rural learners||The Indian Institute of Technology Madras (IITM) on Thursday said it was coordinating a "national effort to create crash courses" for rural learners affected by the coronavirus-induced lockdown and the lectures will be telecast on educational television channels. Around 300 hours of video lectures have already been created under this initiative, aimed at helping students who could not attend classes due to the lockdown, the premier institute said in a release. "The core objective is to help rural students who could not attend classes due to the Covid-19 Lockdown. The focus is to create crash courses with an emphasis on the problem- solving approaches. The lectures were recorded by faculty from various central universities from their homes," it said. The schedule of lectures are available and will be updated on the website of DTH channel for education, Swayam Prabha, www.swayamprabha.gov.in. Swayam Prabha is a group of 32 DTH channels devoted to telecasting of high-quality educational programmes on a 24X7 basis using the GSAT-15 satellite, it said. The content would be repeated several times during the day for students' convenience, it said. The contents are provided by NPTEL, IITs, UGC, CEC, IGNOU, NCERT and NIOS. The first broadcast is scheduled for Friday. This new content will broadcast on NPTEL (National Programme on Technology Enhanced Learning) channel 11-18 till August 31 and rescheduled on channels 11-16 from September 1, it said. The project was initiated by B S Balaji, Associate Professor, School of Biotechnology, Jawaharlal Nehru University, and supported by Prof. K Mangala Sunder, Head, Department of Chemistry, IIT Madras, and Chief Coordinator, DTH SWAYAM Prabha, Union Ministry of Education N Parameswaran, Advisor, SWAYAM, and a pool of academic faculty members from various central universities, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iit-madras-coordinating-national-efforts-to-create-crash-courses-for-rural-learners-878567.html
27-08-2020||National||SC refuses to entertain plea against Madras HC order on Patanjali's use of 'Coronil'||The Supreme Court Thursday refused to entertain a plea challenging the Madras High Court decision to stay a single Judge order, which had restrained Patanjali Ayurved Ltd from using the trademark 'Coronil'. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde said “If we prevent the use of word "Coronil" during the pandemic on the ground that there is some pesticide on its name, it will be terrible for the first product.” The bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, noted that matter is already listed for hearing in September before the high court. It allowed the petitioner to withdraw the plea with liberty to pursue it before the high court and the matter was dismissed as withdrawn. A single bench of the high court had passed the interim order on the plea of Chennai-based company Arudra Engineering Private Limited which has claimed that ''Coronil'' is a trademark owned by it since 1993.  According to the company, which makes chemicals and sanitisers for heavy machineries and containment units, it has registered ''Coronil-213 SPL'' and ''Coronil-92B'' in 1993 and has been diligently renewing the trademark since then.  "Currently, our right over the trademark is valid till 2027," the company said. Claiming that its products with the trademark have a global presence, the company said that its clients include BHEL and Indian Oil.  To substantiate its claim, the petitioner produced sales bills of the products for the past five years. "The mark adopted by Patanjali for its drugs are clearly identical to the marks registered by the company.  Though the products sold by the company are different, use of identical trademarks would still amount to infringement of our intellectual property right, the company said.  "Permitting Patanjali to continue to use the mark will directly affect our reputation and the goodwill created over the mark for over 26 years in both international and domestic markets," the petitioner added. After Patanjali launched Cornonil, the Union AYUSH Ministry had, on July 1, said the company can sell the drug only as an immunity booster and not as a cure for Covid-19. The company's co-founder Ramdev had reacted to the criticism on the efficacy of Coronil, saying some people were hurt by the rise of indigenous medicine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-refuses-to-entertain-plea-against-madras-hc-order-on-patanjalis-use-of-coronil-878571.html
27-08-2020||National||Coronavirus hits Great Andamanese tribe||Ten members of India's dwindling Great Andamanese tribe have tested positive for the coronavirus, officials said Thursday, fuelling concerns about the safety of the group and other indigenous people in the remote archipelago. Out of the 10, six have recovered and have been put in home quarantine, while the rest are undergoing treatment in a local hospital, officials told AFP. Just over 50 Great Andamanese people survive today and live on the tiny Strait Island where the Indian government looks after their food and shelter. The Andaman and Nicobar Islands, a chain of islands in the Indian Ocean with a population of some 400,000, has reported 2,268 coronavirus cases so far with 37 deaths. Indian authorities sent a team of health officials to Strait Island on Sunday after six members of the tribe tested positive in the archipelago's capital Port Blair recently. Some of the tribe's members travel to Port Blair where they have government jobs. "The team tested 37 samples and four members of the Great Andamanese tribe were found to be positive. They are admitted in hospital," Avijit Ray, a senior health officer in charge of the disease management in the Andamans, told AFP. Sanjiv Mittal, a senior government officer for tribal welfare, told AFP authorities were doing their best to keep all the members safe and healthy.   Anthropologists and activists for isolated tribal communities say more than 5,000 Great Andamanese lived in the islands when British settlers arrived in the 19th century. However, hundreds were killed in conflicts as they defended their territories from British invasion, and thousands more were wiped out in epidemics of measles, influenza and syphilis, according to Survivor International. In recent days, concerns have grown for the safety of the Great Andamanese and other tribes, including the remote Jarawa and the Sentinelese people. Poachers continue to invade their territory despite strict government restrictions. Last week, eight fishermen were arrested for illegally entering the Jarawa's territory, local media reported. In 2018, a 26-year-old American missionary seeking to convert the nomadic hunter-gatherer tribe was killed after he secretly visited the North Sentinel island. His body was never retrieved. Outsiders are banned from visiting the island to protect the Sentinelese way of life and avoid exposing them to infectious diseases. As one of the most isolated tribes in the world, the Sentinelese are extremely vulnerable to diseases from outsiders, especially during a global pandemic such as the coronavirus, experts say. "The Andaman authorities must act urgently to prevent the virus reaching more Great Andamanese and to prevent infection in the other tribes," said Sophie Grig, a senior researcher with Survival. "The waters around North Sentinel must be properly policed and no outsiders should enter the territories of any of the Andaman tribes without their consent." India is the third worst-hit country in the world behind the US and Brazil, with more than three million coronavirus cases. Some 60,000 people have died from the infection so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-hits-great-andamanese-tribe-878572.html
27-08-2020||National||Indian Railways aims for net-zero carbon emissions by 2030||Indian Railways has set a target of becoming a 'net zero' carbon emitter by 2030 through various initiatives, including electrification of broad gauge and increasing use of renewable energy. Increasing the electrification of railway lines and reducing usage of diesel, improving energy efficiency of locomotives and trains and fixed installations, green certification for installations/stations, fitting bio-toilets in coaches and switching to renewable sources of energy are parts of its strategy of achieving net-zero carbon emissions, the Railways said. "By 2030 we will be a net-zero emission railway, our carbon emission will be zero. Indian Railways transports nearly 8 billion passengers and 1.2 billion tonnes of freight every year. Ours will be the world's first Railways of this scale to go green," Railway Minister Piyush Goyal tweeted. The Railways is planning to use its surplus land to generate 20 GW of renewable energy from 'Made in India' solar or wind equipment to power its network, said Goyal. He said Indian Railways will be a 100% electricity-driven rail network in coming years which would make it the largest such network in the world. The Railways has also taken a number of initiatives to promote solar energy. Indian Railways is working to harness the potential of 500 Mega Watt (MW) energy through roof top solar panels (Developer model), said an official. Till date,100 MW of solar plants have been commissioned on roof-tops of various buildings including 900 stations. Solar plants with a combined capacity of 400 MW are under different stages of execution. Tenders are already awarded for 245 MW and the target for completion of these plants is December 2022, the official added. Besides, Indian Railways is trying to produce power from land-based solar installations for running trains. The Railways has 51,000 hectare of land potential of installing 20 GW land-based solar plants, said the official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-aims-for-net-zero-carbon-emissions-by-2030-878584.html
27-08-2020||National||CBI questions TMC's Kunal Ghosh in Saradha chit fund scam case||The CBI has questioned Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Kunal Ghosh in connection with the Saradha chit fund scam nearly a month after he was appointed national spokesperson of the party, ending doubts about his association with the Mamata Banerjee-led political outfit. The agency questioned Ghosh on Wednesday, officials said. Ghosh was the CEO of Saradha Media, an arm of the Saradha Group which was busted in 2013 for its illegal operations, and was arrested by Bidhannagar police in 2013 for his alleged involvement in the chit fund scam, they said. The TMC had reportedly suspended him for anti-party activities months before his arrest but there had been no formal statement or communication from the party on his status as its leader. "I had read in the newspapers that the party had suspended me. But I have never received any communication from the party in this regard. I was always in touch with the party. I am thankful to our leader Mamata Banerjee for allowing me to serve as spokesperson," Ghosh had told PTI after his appointment as the party's national spokesperson last month.  The CBI has pressed the paddle on its probe into the Saradha and other chit fund cases with its chief RK Shukla asking the officers to register all pending 102 FIRs before next year.  West Bengal, where the majority of chit fund cases were reported, is scheduled to go for assembly elections in April-May next year when BJP and other parties will try their best to unseat Banerjee who will complete a decade as Chief Minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-questions-tmcs-kunal-ghosh-in-saradha-chit-fund-scam-case-878606.html
27-08-2020||National||NGT directs DPCC to report on plea against de-sealing of scrapping units in Mayapuri||The National Green Tribunal Thursday directed the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) to submit a report on a plea against de-sealing of scrapping units operating illegally in Mayapuri Industrial Area here. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel asked DPCC look into the allegations and take remedial action in accordance with law and file a report before the next date by e-mail. “The applicant may furnish set of papers to the DPCC and file an affidavit of service within one week. A copy of this order be sent to the DPCC by e-mail for compliance,” the bench said. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by NGO Society for Alternative Fuel and Environment (SAFE) alleging that many illegal scrapping units are still functioning at various sites. The National Green Tribunal had earlier directed the Delhi chief secretary to furnish a status report on illegal scrap units, which do a business of around Rs 6,000 crore per annum, in Mayapuri here. It had also directed the AAP government to furnish a performance guarantee of Rs 5 crore within a month for failing to act against illegal scrap units in Mayapuri here after taking note of an English newspaper report about the scrap business in Mayapuri.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngt-directs-dpcc-to-report-on-plea-against-de-sealing-of-scrapping-units-in-mayapuri-878609.html
27-08-2020||National||SC declines permission to carry out Muharram procession across country||The Supreme Court on Thursday refused a plea to issue general direction for allowing Muharram processions across the country, saying it would lead to chaos and targeting of a particular community. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian also said taking out a procession at different places during the Covid-19 time would give a bad name to the community. "We don't want that. We, as a court, cannot risk health of all the people," the bench said. The court was hearing PIL by prominent Shia leader from Uttar Pradesh, Syed Kalbe Jawad. As petitioner's counsel cited instance Lord Jagannath Rath Yatra, the court said the comparison was not justified as it was only from one point to another. On this, the counsel sought permission for the city of Lucknow only. The court then asked him to approach the Allahabad High Court. “You are asking for a general order and then if we allow this there will be chaos. Particular community will be targetted for spreading Covid. We don't want that. We as a court cannot risk the health of all the people,” the bench, which heard the matter through video conferencing, said. The bench allowed the petitioner to withdraw the petition with the liberty to approach the high court with limited prayer of holding procession in Lucknow. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-declines-permission-to-carry-out-muharram-procession-across-country-878612.html
27-08-2020||National||Maharashtra: Thane cops help woman who gave birth on footpath||Personnel from the Thane police came to the rescue of a destitute woman who delivered a baby on a footpath in the city on Thursday, an official said. Rekha Gunjalkar (27), who lived on the pavement under SATIS bridge, delivered a baby girl in the early hours of the day and was lying in a state of pain when a passer-by chanced upon her and alerted the Thane Nagar police station, the official said. A team comprising beat marshals and a few women personnel rushed to the scene to find the mother and child with the umbilical cord still attached and arranged for an ambulance to take them to a hospital in Kalwa, he said. Doctors attended to the woman and infant, who are both in good health, the official said. "I am proud of the personnel who rushed to help the destitute woman," senior inspector R M Somavanshi of Thane Nagar police station said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-thane-cops-help-woman-who-gave-birth-on-footpath-878613.html
27-08-2020||National||Over 15 lakh people covered under specialised Covid-19 policies: IRDAI chief||Need for demand-based insurance schemes has grown post the coronavirus pandemic, with more than 15 lakh people already being covered under the recently launched specialised Covid-19 policies, Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) Chairman Subhash C Khuntia said on Thursday. Insurers must come to the rescue of the policyholders during these difficult times, he added. After watching the industry for some time, IRDAI was compelled to come out with standard coronavirus policies -- Corona Kavach and Corona Rakshak, Khuntia said. He was speaking at industry chamber Ficci's annual insurance conference 'FINCON 2020: India Insurance in the post-COVID World', that took place virtually. "We must understand that in difficult times, insurance companies have to come to the rescue of the policyholders. It is the changing needs of the customers that we need to assess carefully, and we have to cater to that. I am happy that all of you have collaborated in bringing out these products and we have allowed the pricing (freedom) to the insurance companies. "More than 15 lakh lives have already being covered under these two products within a period of about a month and that shows what is the demand of the customers," he said. Corona Kavach is a reimbursement-based policy, while Corona Rakshak is a fixed benefit cover against Covid-19. The health insurance providers launched products after the first week of July, in compliance with Irdai's timeframe. Urging insurers to play a greater role in bad times, the IRDAI chairman asked them to be innovative both in terms of products and business operations. He said there is a need for simple and transparent products to cater to the changing needs of the customers, and it will be easier for the distribution channels also to solicit business. Khuntia highlighted that insurance industry operations are anti-cyclical in nature, meaning nobody needs protection in good times but wants to have adequate coverage as soon as emergencies or adverse times come. So there is huge scope for the companies to do business and grow during these times, which will be good both for the public and insurers, he stressed. The Irdai chief also tried to allay concerns raised by some insurers that the business prospects are likely to be dampened this year, saying insurers need to get out of this mindset and stop thinking that they should also float along with others as the economy is down. Khuntia said there is a huge business opportunity from small and medium enterprises (SMEs) as workers would like to ensure protection through group insurance policies, if they are not already covered, as and when they get back to work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-15-lakh-people-covered-under-specialised-covid-19-policies-irdai-chief-878619.html
27-08-2020||National||West Bengal: Building collapses in Kolkata, one dead||An elderly woman was killed when a portion of a dilapidated building in the city's Beliaghata area collapsed in the early hours on Thursday, police said. The about 150-year-old building collapsed after a heavy shower, the police said. The woman, who was in her early 70s, her son and grandson were residents of the building on Beliaghata Main Road. They were trapped under the debris when it collapsed at around 5 AM on Thursday, they said. Police along with the personnel of the disaster management department faced a tough time while rescuing them, a senior officer of Kolkata Police said. "The woman was rescued from under the debris in a very critical condition. She has declared brought dead by the hospital where she was rushed," he said. The son is undergoing treatment in a hospital, the officer added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west-bengal-building-collapses-in-kolkata-one-dead-878624.html
27-08-2020||National||ED arrests co-op society director in Bangalore||A director of a Karnataka-based cooperative society has been arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in Bangalore on money laundering charges, the central agency said on Thursday. The man, N Nanjundaiah, was arrested by the agency under sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) on Wednesday and he was produced before a local court that sent him to ED custody till September 1, it said. Nanjundaiah is the director of the Sree Kanva Souharda Co-operative Credit Limited, it said. The arrest has been made in connection with a money-laundering probe linked to alleged "embezzlement" of the funds of the society, it said. The PMLA case has been filed on the basis of three FIRs filed by the Bangalore Police against Nanjundaiah in the past. "Nanjundaiah is the mastermind of the fraud that took place in the said society and had diverted more than Rs 180 crore funds to Kanva group of companies where he was one of the directors. "Also, loans of huge amount were sanctioned to dubious members of the society without proper surety and security that resulted into huge losses to the society and its bona fide members," the ED alleged in a statement issued here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-arrests-co-op-society-director-in-bangalore-878627.html
27-08-2020||National||Delay in JEE, NEET will lead to 'zero year'; quick alternatives can have cascading effects: IIT heads||Further delay in conducting medical and engineering entrance exams NEET and JEE will lead to a 'zero academic year' and any quick alternative to the crucial exams will dilute the quality of education and have cascading effects, according to Directors of several Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs). Amid the chorus for postponement of the two exams in view of the rising Covid-19 cases, the IIT Directors appealed to students to trust the institutions conducting the exam. "The pandemic has already disrupted the academic plans of many students and institutions and we don't see the virus going away anytime soon. We should not let this be a zero academic year as it might have consequences on the bright future of several students," Ajit K Chaturvedi, Director, IIT Roorkee, told PTI. He also said students and their parents need to have faith in the system. "The decision to conduct these exams has been taken after considering every aspect of the current situation. The government has been ensuring that all necessary arrangements are made to safeguard the health and safety of the students. Delaying the exams would have a cascading effect so we should come together in understanding its importance and support the system in conducting it seamlessly," he added. According to Virendra Tewari, Director, IIT Kharagpur, "The exams have a global reputation for seeking excellence and are considered one of the toughest and prestigious examinations in the world. A quick alternative to these tests will certainly not be as gratifying as competing for this examination by all fair means." He said an alternative could be misused as a precedent to dilute the entire admission process to the IIT system which may prove to be harmful for the quality of undergraduate education at the IITs. "I urge the aspirants to take it up as a challenge and show their mettle and sincerity to the world," he said. Sarit Kumar Das, Director, IIT Ropar, who is also a member of the Joint Admission Board (JAB) of IITs, said the decision to conduct the exams in September has not been taken overnight but after due consideration. "We have been discussing and looking at the possibilities of conducting the exam for quite some time. We have looked at the infrastructure, the safety of the students, how we can maintain the distancing and other norms and make it as safe as possible not only by discussing (amongst) ourselves but also with health experts and most importantly the conductors of the examination," he said. Das said the public may not be aware that a lot of effort has gone into preparing to conduct the entrance exams amid the pandemic and after that experts have taken a technical decision to hold the exams in September with appropriate security measures, health norms and the same has been endorsed by the government. "So the perception that the government has taken a decision overnight and we are just going to execute it is absolutely improper," he said, adding that nobody can predict how the situation is going to be after three months and having a "blank academic year" will be bad for both students and the institutes. "Does anyone have an idea how the situation is going to be after three months or five months ? Even if the exam is held in September, we won't be able to start classes before the middle of November at the earliest. That itself means almost a loss of a semester. Further delay will do nothing other than loss of a year and then next year you will have two first years batches. Are our institutions ready with the infrastructure to handle such a situation?" he asked. While the NEET is scheduled to be held on September 13, engineering entrance exam JEE Main has been planned from September 1-6. Around 9.53 lakh candidates have registered for JEE-Mains and 15.97 lakh students have registered for NEET. These exams have already been deferred twice in the wake of the novel coronavirus pandemic. JEE-Main was originally supposed to be held from April 7-11, but postponed to July 18-23, NEET-UG was originally scheduled for May 3, then pushed to July 26. They were postponed again and are now scheduled in September. According to data available with the National Testing Agency (NTA), over 17 lakh students have already downloaded the admit cards for the two exams. "There is no doubt that we are in an unprecedented health crisis due to the global pandemic and the parents' and students' concern is understandable. But we must also think about the future of our students who have been preparing for this for many years," said Sudhir K Jain, Director, IIT Gandhinagar. "The pandemic seems to be here to stay until we find an effective vaccine. Hence, it is important that we keep moving towards our significant individual goals, one step at a time," he said. T G Sitharam, Director, IIT Guwahati, said, "JEE exam is held multiple times in a year and students who don't appear this time can write after six months. Keeping in mind the effort put in by students who have prepared, it is critical that the exams are conducted as scheduled. Delay in holding the exams will lead to serious repercussions for the students as well to IIT's and most of the year 2020 will be washed out."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delay-in-jee-neet-will-lead-to-zero-year-quick-alternatives-can-have-cascading-effects-iit-heads-878630.html
27-08-2020||National||Shiv Sena hits out at Congress leaders who wrote letter to Sonia Gandhi||The Shiv Sena on Thursday alleged that the letter written by 23 senior Congress leaders to Sonia Gandhi over their demand for a "full time" party president was a "conspiracy to finish off Rahul Gandhi's leadership". Where were these leaders when the BJP was indulging in "below the belt attacks" on Rahul Gandhi, and after he quit as the Congress president why these leaders did not take up the challenge to revive the party, an editorial in Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' sought to know. "When people from within are involved in the national conspiracy to finish off Rahul Gandhi's leadership, the party is sure to meet its 'panipat' (defeat)...these old guards have sabotaged Rahul Gandhi internally, a damage which even the BJP hasn't inflicted on him," it said. None of them are even district-level leaders, but have become chief ministers and Union ministers riding on the leadership of the Gandhi-Nehru family, said the Sena, which tied-up with the Congress and NCP to form government in Maharashtra last year after a fallout with the BJP. "In all states, the (Congress) heavyweight leaders are interested only in their position and not of the party. If they don't have their way, they shift to the BJP. This is the only activeness they show. What can Rahul and Sonia Gandhi do about it? This is a new political coronavirus," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shiv-sena-hits-out-at-congress-leaders-who-wrote-letter-to-sonia-gandhi-878636.html
27-08-2020||National||Students want JEE, NEET exams to be conducted: Pokhriyal||Amid fierce political opposition on holding NEET/JEE examinations, Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank on Thursday said students want the exams to be held at any cost. “It is not proper for the students to waste one academic year. It would affect their career,” Nishank said adding that education should be above politics. The minister said the response he had received from students was an indicator that they want the examinations to be held “at any cost”. He pointed out that 7.5 lakh students, out of the total 8.58 lakh who have applied to appear for the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE), have already downloaded their admit cards. For the NEET examinations, more than 10 lakh students, out of the total 15.97 lakh, have downloaded their admit cards. Meanwhile, over 150 academicians from various universities in India and abroad have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in support of conducting the exam, contending that any further delay in JEE-Mains and NEET will mean compromising the future of students. The signatories include academicians from the Delhi University, IGNOU, Lucknow University, JNU, BHU, IIT Delhi and Indian academicians from foreign universities such as University of London, University of California, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem and Ben Gurion University, Israel, among others. JEE-Main was scheduled from April 7-11, but postponed to July 18-23, due to the Covid-19 pandemic. NEET-UG was originally scheduled for May 3, then pushed to July 26. JEE-Main is now to be held from September 1-6, while the NEET (UG) is scheduled for September 13. Congress President Sonia Gandhi, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and several other leaders have urged the Centre to further postpone the NEET/JEE exams citing the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/students-want-jee-neet-exams-to-be-conducted-pokhriyal-878652.html
27-08-2020||National||Just 24% of Indian households have internet facility to access e-education: UNICEF||Just 24 per cent of Indian households have internet connections to access e-education, and there is a large rural-urban and gender divide that is likely to widen the learning gap across high, middle and low-income families, according to a new UNICEF report. The Remote Learning Reachability report, issued by UNICEF on Thursday, expressed concerns over children from economically disadvantaged families struggling with access to remote learning. "Available data indicates that approximately a quarter of households (24 per cent) in India have access to the internet and there is a large rural-urban and gender divide. The learning gap is likely to widen across high, middle and low-income families, as children from economically disadvantaged families cannot access remote learning," it said. The report further said that students, especially girls, from most marginalised communities do not have easy access to smartphones, and even if they do, internet connectivity is poor, and quality education content is often not available in vernacular languages. "In India, over 1.5 million (15 lakh) schools have been closed due to the pandemic affecting 286 million (28.6 crore) children from pre-primary to secondary levels, (of which 49 per cent girls) This adds to the 6 million (60 lakh) girls and boys who were already out of school prior to the Covid-19," the report said. Noting that the Centre and the state governments have put in place several initiatives through digital and non-digital platforms to facilitate continuity of learning at home, the UNICEF called for multiple pathways and outreach strategies to improve access and use of learning materials by children/students, especially in reaching the unreached because of the digital divide. UNICEF India Representative Yasmin Ali Haque called for blended approaches involving communities, parents and volunteers to reach children and support their learning in these times. "We know that in any crisis, the young and the most vulnerable suffer disproportionately. Schools are closed, parents are out of work and families are under growing strain. An entire generation of children have seen their education and learning interrupted," Haque said. "Access to digital education is limited and by itself cannot solve the learning gap. Blended approaches are needed involving communities, parents, volunteers to reach children and support their learning in these times," she said. At least a third of the world's schoolchildren – 46.3 crore children globally – were unable to access remote learning when Covid-19 shuttered their schools, according to the new UNICEF report released as countries across the world grapple with their 'back-to-school' plans. The report uses a globally representative analysis on the availability of home-based technology and tools needed for remote learning among pre-primary, primary, lower-secondary and upper-secondary schoolchildren, with data from 100 countries. The data include access to television, radio and internet, and the availability of curriculum delivered across these platforms during school closures. Although the numbers in the report present a concerning picture on the lack of remote learning during school closures, UNICEF warns that the situation is likely far worse. "Even when children have the technology and tools at home, they may not be able to learn remotely through those platforms due to competing factors in the home, including pressure to do chores, being forced to work, a poor environment for learning and lack of support in using the online or broadcast curriculum," it said. The UNICEF urged governments to prioritise the safe re-opening of schools when they begin easing lockdown restrictions. When reopening is not possible, UNICEF urged governments to incorporate compensatory learning for lost instructional time into school continuity and reopening plans. "School opening policies and practices must include expanding access to education, including remote learning, especially for marginalised groups. Education systems must also be adapted and built to withstand future crises," the report said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/just-24-of-indian-households-have-internet-facility-to-access-e-education-unicef-878653.html
27-08-2020||National||Number of Covid-19 recoveries goes past 25 lakh in India, says Health ministry||The number of Covid-19 recoveries has surpassed 25 lakh in the country while the case fatality rate has further declined to 1.83 per cent, the Union health ministry said on Thursday. Meanwhile, the cumulative number of Covid-19 tests conducted in the country has reached nearly 3.9 crore, it added. The strategic approach of the country as regards Covid-19 response and management -- "test, track, treat" -- emphasises the key principle of the high level of testing on a sustained basis, leading to early diagnosis, the ministry said. A timely diagnosis furnishes opportunities to isolate or hospitalise the positive cases adequately in advance for appropriate treatment, it said, adding, "This, in turn, facilitates lower mortality rates and speedy recovery." A record 75,760 cases were added to the country's Covid-19 tally in a day, taking it to 33,10,234. The death toll due to the disease climbed to 60,472, with 1,023 fatalities reported in the last 24 hours, health ministry data updated at 8 am showed.  Besides, 9,24,998 lakh Covid-19 tests were conducted across the country in a span of 24 hours, taking the total number of such tests performed to 3,85,76,510. "With more patients recovering and being discharged from hospitals and home isolation, India's total Covid-19 recoveries surpassed 2.5 million today," the ministry highlighted. The recovery of 25,23,771 patients was made possible because of effective implementation of the Centre-led policies by the states and Union territories, it said. A total of 56,013 Covid-19 patients have recovered in the span of 24 hours, the ministry's data showed. The recovery rate among Covid-19 patients in the country stands at 76.24 per cent, the ministry said. The country has registered nearly 18 lakh (17,97,780) more recoveries than the number of active cases (7,25,991, which are under active medical care). The sustained high recoveries have ensured that the actual caseload of the country -- the active cases -- accounts for 21.93 per cent of the total cases, the ministry said. A focus on the standard of care protocol as described in the Clinical Management Protocol of the Ministry of Health, better-skilled doctors in the ICUs and hospitals, improved ambulance services, use of non-invasive oxygen and investigational therapies have led to the national case fatality rate maintaining its downward slide, it added. "It has further slumped to stand at 1.83 per cent as on date," the ministry said. Ten states and UTs are faring better in terms of the recovery rate than the national average. Delhi has the highest recovery rate at 90 per cent, Tamil Nadu at 85 per cent, Bihar at 83.80 per cent, Gujarat at 80.20 per cent, Rajasthan at 79.30 per cent and both Assam and West Bengal at 79.10 per cent. In terms of the case fatality rate, Assam has recorded 0.27 per cent, Bihar 0.42 per cent, Telangana 0.70 per cent, Andhra Pradesh 0.93 per cent, Chhattisgarh 0.95 per cent and Jharkhand 1.09 per cent, according to the ministry's data. The exponential rise in countrywide testing has been made possible through a graded expansion of the laboratory network, the ministry said. The number of testing laboratories has risen to 1,550 in the country so far -- 993 in the government sector and 557 private ones, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/number-of-covid-19-recoveries-goes-past-25-lakh-in-india-says-health-ministry-878655.html
27-08-2020||National||From The Newsroom: Bengaluru metro services to resume soon, says Karnataka CM Yediyurappa||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, B S Yediyurappa says Metro services will be soon restarted; Congress leader Kapil Sibal hits out at a section of party workers for seeking the ouster of Jitin Prasada and Vital health parameters of the two Covid-19 Oxford vaccine volunteers normal.  Here are the top news of today, Thursday: August 27, 2020: Congress leader Kapil Sibal on Thursday hit out at a section of party workers for seeking the ouster of Jitin Prasada, who was one of the 23 signatories to a letter seeking sweeping changes within the organisation. “Unfortunate that Jitin Prasada is being officially targeted in UP. Congress needs to target the BJP with surgical strikes instead of wasting its energy by targeting its own,” Sibal said. Former union minister Manish Tewari, also among the dissenters, concurred with Sibal. “Prescient,” said Tewari, who represents Anandpur Sahib in the Lok Sabha. The Lakhimpur Kheri district Congress Committee had adopted a resolution seeking action against Prasada and 22 other signatories to the letter seeking a more “visible and active” leadership and a full-time Congress President to steer the Congress party. The letter to the Congress President was seen as a dissent against the leadership and its authors were slammed by colleagues at a meeting of the Congress Working Committee on Monday. Though the letter writers were slammed by the leaders, Congress President Sonia Gandhi adopted a forgive and forget approach and had asked the party to move ahead. The CWC also announced that Gandhi, 73, would continue as Congress President till her successor is elected at a session of the AICC. The CWC had also decided to appoint a four-member committee to assist the Congress President in the day-to-day functioning of the party. The dissenters have stood their ground saying they would wait and watch on how the party responds to their call for changes in the organisation. Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday said Metro services in the city will be restarted soon, as normalcy is being restored in public life step by step. "Despite Covid-19 pandemic normalcy in public life is being restored step by step. Taking all the necessary precautionary measures, Metro services will be restarted soon," Yediyurappa said. Speaking to reporters here after naming a flyover in the heart of the city after revolutionary freedom fighter Sangolli Rayanna, he said his government is committed for the all-round development of the state including Bengaluru. Five months after its operations were halted due to Covid-19 lockdown, the Metro is yet to get clearance from the government for restarting operations. Officials have said that they are waiting for Unlock 4.0 guidelines (from September 1) from the Centre and hope to get approval for resuming operations in it. They have also drawn a standard operating procedure (SOP) for restarting the service. Yediyurappa said improving the basic infrastructure in Bengaluru is the government's goal and in this direction, all the necessary measures are being taken. Vital health parameters of the two volunteers, who have been administered the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine candidate at a medical college in Pune as part of phase II clinical trial, are normal, a senior official from the medical facility said on Thursday. Two men, aged 32 and 48, were given the first shot of the 'Covishield' vaccine, being manufactured by Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), at Bharti Vidyapeeth's Medical College and Hospital on Wednesday. The dose will be repeated after one month, an official said. "Since yesterday, our medical team is in touch with the two volunteers and both are fine. They do not have any pain, fever, injection-side reaction or systemic illness post-vaccination," the medical college and hospital's deputy medical director Dr Jitendra Oswal said. After the vaccine was administered on Wednesday, both the volunteers were observed for 30 minutes and later allowed to go home, he said. "They have been given all the necessary emergency numbers (to contact in case of need) and our medical team is also conducting follow-ups with them," he added. The vaccine dose will be repeated on both the volunteers after one month, the hospital's medical director Dr Sanjay Lalwani said on Wednesday. He said in all, 25 candidates will be given the vaccine in the next seven days. Indian cricket team captain Virat Kohli on Thursday announced that he and his wife, actor Anushka Sharma are expecting a child. Kohli and Anushka made the announcement on their official social media handles with the caption: "And then, we were three! Arriving Jan 2021", with a photo of himself and Anushka Sharma. Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-bengaluru-metro-services-to-resume-soon-says-karnataka-cm-yediyurappa-878661.html
27-08-2020||National||Reliance Retail warns of fake JioMart websites seeking franchisees||Reliance Retail Ltd's online grocery shopping portal JioMart has warned of fake websites seeking franchisees in its name, saying it is not operating any dealership or franchisee model at present. "We have been informed about certain unscrupulous individuals who are creating fake websites, pretending to be us or associated with us and duping innocent individuals under the pretense of granting franchisee of JioMart services," the firm said in a notice. Reliance Retail said it has recently launched online grocery service under the brand JioMart. "We would like to inform the public at large that we are not operating any dealership or franchisee model currently nor have we appointed any franchisee or any agent for... appointment (of) any dealer or franchisee in any manner whatsoever," it said. "Further we do not charge any amount under the pretense of appointing a person as a franchisee." Reliance in May started its online grocery shopping portal across India. The JioMart shopping app connects local kirana stores with consumers via WhatsApp. "The public, manufacturers, traders, and dealers are hereby cautioned against such unscrupulous individuals and their online fraud activities; and are hereby warned that we will not be responsible any business dealing with such dishonest individuals," the company said in the notice. It also warned of initiating legal proceedings against those misusing its brand to protect its "goodwill and reputation".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/reliance-retail-warns-of-fake-jiomart-websites-seeking-franchisees-878663.html
27-08-2020||National||Congress should revive itself as country needs strong opposition: Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Thursday said the Congress should revive itself as the country needs a strong opposition party. Talking to reporters, Raut who is the executive editor of party mouthpiece 'Saamana', said that Rahul Gandhi is the only leader in the Congress, who has "unanimous acceptability" in the party. "Sonia Gandhi is ageing and I don't see Priyanka Gandhi in full-time politics. There are many senior leaders in the party, due to whom Rahul Gandhi is not being able to work," he said. "'Saamana' has put forth its stand on the issue. As a journalist and editor, I don't see a non-Gandhi leader in the Congress as the party president," he said. "The country requires a strong opposition party and the Congress has a pan-India identity. The party should recover from the present turmoil and resume work," the Sena MP said. Raut's remarks come in the backdrop of the controversy over the letter written by 23 Congress leaders, to Sonia Gandhi, in which they called for far-reaching reforms within the party, such as having a "full time, active and visible" leadership, devolution of powers to state units and revamping the CWC in line with the party constitution. The Congress Working Committee (CWC) on Monday unanimously urged Sonia Gandhi to stay on as the party chief till a new president is appointed and authorised her to bring about organisational changes to take on the challenges within. In an editorial in 'Saamana' on Thursday, the Shiv Sena alleged that the letter written by 23 senior Congress leaders to Sonia Gandhi was a "conspiracy to finish off Rahul Gandhi's leadership". Where were these leaders when the BJP was indulging in "below the belt attacks" on Rahul Gandhi, and after he quit as the Congress president why these leaders did not take up the challenge to revive the party, it asked. "When people from within are involved in the national conspiracy to finish off Rahul Gandhi's leadership, the party is sure to meet its 'panipat' (defeat)...these old guards have sabotaged Rahul Gandhi internally, a damage which even the BJP hasn't inflicted on him," it added. None of them are even district-level leaders, but have become chief ministers and Union ministers riding on the leadership of the Gandhi-Nehru family, said the Sena, which tied-up with the Congress and NCP to form government in Maharashtra last year after a fallout with the BJP. Meanwhile, Raut said that Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray should establish himself at the national level too. To a question if Thackeray should lead the UPA in Maharashtra, Raut said, "The UPA leader is at present Sonia Gandhi. Sharad Pawar is an important leader here. Uddhav Thackeray should also lead the anti-BJP front if state issues are not resolved. Maharashtra should lead the way." He said the coordination in the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) was "excellent". Raut said the decision on reopening of gyms and temples in the state will be taken after September 1. On the letter written by Congress MLAs to the chief minister about "inequitable distribution' of funds, Raut said, "There are always issues over disbursal of funds among elected representatives." "The Centre has frozen the MP fund and there is lot of resentment over it. When the BJP-Sena were in power, our MLAs would complain that the BJP got more funds," he said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-should-revive-itself-as-country-needs-strong-opposition-sanjay-raut-878666.html
27-08-2020||National||Nirav Modi UK extradition judgment to be delivered after Dec 1||The judgment in the extradition trial of fugitive diamond merchant Nirav Modi over the nearly USD 2 billion Punjab National Bank (PNB) fraud and money laundering case will be handed down in the UK after December 1. At a scheduled hearing at Westminster Magistrates Court in London on Thursday, District Judge Samuel Goozee agreed the timetable for the second leg of Modi’s extradition trial scheduled between September 7 and 11. The hearings next month will complete arguments on establishing a prima facie case against 49-year-old Modi and also deal with the additional extradition request, made by the Indian authorities and certified by UK Home Secretary Priti Patel earlier this year, which add on the charges of "causing the disappearance of evidence" and intimidating witnesses or “criminal intimidation to cause death” against him. Additional hearings have also been scheduled for November 3, for the judge to rule on the admissibility of evidence presented before him, and December 1, when both sides will make their final submissions. Therefore, any judgment in the case is now expected only after the final hearing in December. During the course of Thursday’s hearing, Modi’s lawyers also raised concerns over allegations of “party political bias” against one of their expert witnesses from India. Modi’s barrister Clare Montgomery told Justice Goozee that after Retired Justice Abhay Thipsay had given his witness statement on the concept of “criminal breach of trust” in Indian law during the first leg of the extradition trial in May, he came under attack and was accused of political bias. “We may have to put in an application for reporting restrictions around the reporting of his [Thipsay] evidence to avoid further public commentary on it,” said Montgomery, indicating that the retired Indian high court judge will be among the witnesses for the second leg of Modi’s trial scheduled to begin from September 7. Asked by Goozee for the reason behind such an application, Modi’s barrister said the “Indian ministry of justice” held a press conference “attacking" Thipsay for the evidence he had given in the UK court and accused him of “party political bias”. During the hearing in May, Retd Justice Thipsay appeared via videolink from India as a legal expert to back Modi’s defence team’s efforts to try and highlight legal flaws in the government of India’s case. "Unless a person is deceived there can be no cheating under Indian law," he said at the time. The Crown Prosecution Service (CPS), arguing on behalf of the Indian authorities, had countered his witness statement and later in India, Thipsay, a former judge of the high court in Mumbai and Allahabad, had been accused of acting on the behest of the Congress party. The retired judge had countered the allegations, saying he was not appearing in defence of Modi but as an expert witness to give his legal opinion, which the UK court may consider or disregard. The hearing in London on Thursday was scheduled as a case management hearing to set the timetable for evidence to be presented to compete Modi's extradition trial. Modi, who has been lodged at Wandsworth Prison in south-west London since his arrest in March last year, will remain remanded into custody until the start of the trial on September 7 – when he will appear via videolink. The hearings next month will again be held in part remote settings, given the coronavirus lockdown restrictions. His defence team also made a reference to his “deteriorating” mental health in Wandsworth, one of England’s most overcrowded prisons, as among a number of “additional issues” it is likely to raise. The charges against the diamond merchant centre around his firms Diamonds R Us, Solar Exports and Stellar Diamonds making fraudulent use of a credit facility offered by the Punjab National Bank (PNB), known as “letters of undertaking” (LoUs). Modi’s team has sought to counter allegations of fraud by deposing witnesses to establish the volatility of the gems trade and that the LoUs were standard practice. The CPS sought to establish that a number of PNB staff conspired with Modi to ensure LoUs were issued to his companies without ensuring they were subject to the required credit check, without recording the issuance of the LoUs and without charging the required commission upon the transactions. This resulted in a fraud amounting to nearly USD 2 billion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nirav-modi-uk-extradition-judgment-to-be-delivered-after-dec-1-878669.html
27-08-2020||National||DH Sparks | Social media, not just fun and games anymore?||Our next edition of DH Sparks, slated for August 28, focuses on 'Social media: Not just fun and games anymore?'. Remember a time when social media meant tacky photos, status updates and games like Farmville? In the past decade, social media's influence has grown tremendously, and not always in the right direction. Today, it is a potent tool for agenda pushing and propaganda, available for the right (or wrong) person to take advantage of. This week we are talking about how social media is being used by professionals to mould public opinion and how this can either have a good effect or cause terrible damage. Date: August 28, 2020 Time: 6:00 PM Speakers:1. Gurshabad Grover, Senior Policy Officer, Centre for Internet and Society  2. Mishi Choudhary, Legal Director, Software Freedom Law Center  3. Pratik Sinha, Co-founder, Alt News  This show will be moderated by Gurshabad Grover.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-sparks-social-media-not-just-fun-and-games-anymore-878671.html
27-08-2020||National||India's self-reliance in defence sector to boost its global standing: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday that his government's resolve for 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' is not inward-looking, but aimed at boosting India's capabilities and global peace, and also for helping the world economy become more stable. Speaking at a defence industry outreach seminar, Modi said India's self-reliance on defence capabilities will boost its standing of being a net security provider in the Indian Ocean and make it a defence supplier for many friendly countries, depending on strategic ties. Wooing private players, he asserted that the import embargo on a number of defence equipment is not only aimed at curbing imports but also giving a boost to the domestic industry. He said more items will be added to this import embargo list later. He noted that India has long been one of the biggest defence importers in the world and rued that enough attention was not paid to augmenting domestic production in the past despite the country having inherited a capable ecosystem at the time of Independence. Asserting that a new mindset has emerged on his government's watch, he said it is working to boost domestic manufacturing and developing new technologies with the maximum role for the private sector. His government has opened the way for 74 per cent FDI (Foreign Direct Investment) in defence production through automatic route, he noted. Referring to recent labour reforms in a number of states, Modi said the reform exercise is not going to stop. The work on building defence corridor is also on at a rapid pace in states of Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, he said, while adding that Rs 20,000 crore investment would be made for this in the next five years. Modi said his government has always worked to remove red-tape and roll out red carpet for the private sector, while asserting that it is a win-win situation for everyone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-self-reliance-in-defence-sector-to-boost-its-global-standing-pm-modi-878673.html
27-08-2020||National||Hate speech against Muslims by Sudarshan TV attracts strong criticism||A pro-Hindutva Hindi channel targeting the Muslims for making into civil service and calling it "UPSC Jihad" has invited widespread criticism with serving and former bureaucrats and activists calling it "communal and irresponsible" while demanding action against him. Sudarshan TV Chief Editor Suresh Chavhanke tweeted the promo of a programme tagging Prime Minister Narendra Modi and RSS in which he is accusing the minority community members of "infiltrating" into the civil services and citing a conspiracy on the "increasing" number of Muslims entering the bureaucracy. In the video, Chavhanke asked whether people would agree with a "Jamia Jihadi" becoming their district magistrate or Secretaries in Ministries. After Chavhanke's tweet, there was huge condemnation of the message with Twiterrati demanding suspending his account for hate speech. Soon, #SuspendSureshChavhanke started trending with the IPS Association questioning the channel, "A news story targeting candidates in civil services on the basis of religion is being promoted by Sudarshan TV. We condemn the communal and irresponsible piece of journalism." Chavhanke has earlier said that he has been a member of the RSS since his childhood and worked as a reporter with pro-RSS newspaper Tarun Bharat. He launched Sudarshan News in 2005 where he is presently the chairman, managing director and editor-in-chief. Not new to remarks characterised as hate speech, Chavhanke was arrested in 2017 on charges of promoting religious enmity when he described Sambhal as a “centre of terrorism” in his show 'Bindas Bol'. In 2016, he was accused by a woman employee of his channel of raping her since 2013 after promising to marry her. As his post triggered huge reactions, Chavhanke sought to defend himself and claimed, "not only the terror group, but the leader of all the terror groups Zakir Naik is involved in this conspiracy." He accused the IPS Association of "twisting without knowing the issue. Issue is sudden spike in no of people of certain category selected in UPSC Civils in the last few years." Senior IPS officer R K Vij said it was "disgusting. Condemnable. This must be stopped". IAS officer Rahul Kumar tweeted, "this is not free speech. This is sheer poison and against the fabric of our constitutional institutions", as he urged Twitter to take action against Chavhanke. IPS officer Niharika Bhatt tweeted, "a despicable attempt at hate mongering. To question the credentials of officers on the basis of religion is not only laughable, but should also be dealt with strictest legal provisions. We are all Indians first." Tehseen Poonawalla, a regular at TV debates, filed a complaint with Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava against Chavhanke accusing him of instigating communal hate and spreading violence by tweeting a video promo of a programme to telecast on Friday. He said Chavhanke is seen making baseless remarks on the UPSC selection process and making communal statements against one particular community. India Police Foundation said the hate story carried on a Noida TV channel against minority candidates joining IAS/IPS is "dangerous bigotry" and they "refrain from retweeting it because it is pure venom. We hope News Broadcasting Standards Authority, UP Police and concerned government authorities take strict action." RTI activist Saket Gokhale said he has written to the UPSC Chairman asking him to take an urgent stand against the "communal dog-whistle instigated" by Chavhanke against Muslim UPSC candidates and officers. "As a Constitutional body, it is the duty of UPSC to speak up against this hate and  reassure Muslim candidates," he added. Former IPS officer N C Asthana said it was an offence and by casting doubts on the integrity and impartiality of a constitutional body like the UPSC in the selection of officers for All-India Services, he is spreading "disaffection for the constitutional scheme of governance". He said UPSC must respond and initiate legal action.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hate-speech-against-muslims-by-sudarshan-tv-attracts-strong-criticism-878679.html
27-08-2020||National||VHP demands 'harsh punishment' for Bengaluru rioters||Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) General Secretary Milind Parande on Thursday welcomed the Karnataka government's action against rioters involved in the recent violence in the city and demanded harsh punishment for them. Parande, on a visit to the city, also appealed to the people to boycott all Chinese goods and expressed hope that the work on Ram temple at Ayodhya would be completed in 2-3 years. "VHP feels that it is a good thing that the state government of Karnataka has taken strict action against the rioters in the recent Bengaluru riots. "As many vehicles, houses and national property was destroyed by fire during the riots by a section of Muslim society, we feel that the damages must be paid by the rioters," Parande was quoted as saying in a VHP press release. In Delhi and many other places in the country, such senseless violence targeting the Hindu society had been orchestrated by a section of Muslims "deliberately on flimsiest of excuses", the VHP leader said. "Thus, such violent tendencies and actions must be punished harshly. Forces and people inciting such violence and supporting it, must also be dealt with harshly," he added. Police have arrested hundreds of people in connection with the violence on August 11 night and investigation is on. The government has moved the high court for appointment of a Claim Commissioner for assessment of damage caused to properties during the violence and recover the cost from the culprits. The violence in D J Halli and adjoining areas on August 11 night was unleashed by hundreds of people over an inflammatory social media post allegedly put out by P Naveen, a relative of Pulakeshinagar Congress MLA R Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy. The MLA's residence and a police station at D J Halli were torched by rioters who also set many police and private vehicles afire and looted the belongings of the legislator and his sister. Parande said Chinese goods should be boycotted as buying them was as good as strengthening the hands of the "enemy" as he referred to the border skirmish with China recently near Ladakh, in which 20 Indian Soldiers and officers were martyred. He said the VHP expected that lord Shri Ram Lalla will sit in the sanctum sanctorum of the Ram Janmabhoomi temple in next two to three years. "If in the next 3-4 months, an appeal is made to make donations for building of the temple by Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirtha kshetra Nyas, VHP is committed to support it wholeheartedly with all the strength at its disposal." Parande said that during the corona pandemic VHP has served the society and over 1,74,00,000 people have been fed with prepared food and over 40 lakh families have been given dry rations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vhp-demands-harsh-punishment-for-bengaluru-rioters-878682.html
27-08-2020||National||Ten from Great Andamanese tribe tests Covid-19 positive||Ten members of India's dwindling Great Andamanese tribe have tested positive for coronavirus, officials said Thursday, fuelling concerns about the safety of the group and other indigenous people in the remote archipelago. Six of the 10 have recovered and are in home quarantine, officials told AFP, while the rest are undergoing treatment at a local hospital. Just over 50 Great Andamanese people survive today and live on the tiny Strait Island where the Indian government looks after their food and shelter. The Andaman and Nicobar Islands, a chain in the Indian Ocean with a population of some 400,000, has reported 2,268 coronavirus cases so far with 37 deaths. Indian authorities sent a team of health officials to Strait Island on Sunday after six members of the tribe tested positive in the archipelago's capital Port Blair recently. Some of the tribe's members travel to Port Blair where they have government jobs. "The team tested 37 samples and four members of the Great Andamanese tribe were found to be positive. They are admitted in hospital," Avijit Ray, a senior health officer in charge of disease management in the Andamans, told AFP. Sanjiv Mittal, a senior government officer for tribal welfare, told AFP authorities were doing their best to keep all the members safe and healthy. Anthropologists and activists for isolated tribal communities say more than 5,000 Great Andamanese lived in the islands when British settlers arrived in the 19th century. However, hundreds were killed in conflicts as they defended their territories from British invasion, and thousands more were wiped out in epidemics of measles, influenza and syphilis, according to Survival International. In recent days, concerns have grown for the safety of the Great Andamanese and other tribes, including the remote Jarawa and the Sentinelese people. Poachers continue to invade their territory despite strict government restrictions. Last week, eight fishermen were arrested for illegally entering the Jarawa's territory, local media reported. In 2018, a 26-year-old American missionary seeking to convert the nomadic hunter-gatherer tribe was killed after he secretly visited the North Sentinel island. His body was never retrieved. Outsiders are banned from visiting the island, to protect the Sentinelese way of life and avoid exposing them to infectious diseases. As one of the most isolated tribes in the world, the Sentinelese are extremely vulnerable to diseases from outsiders, especially during a global pandemic such as the coronavirus, experts say. "The Andaman authorities must act urgently to prevent the virus reaching more Great Andamanese and to prevent infection in the other tribes," said Sophie Grig, a senior researcher with Survival. "The waters around North Sentinel must be properly policed and no outsiders should enter the territories of any of the Andaman tribes without their consent." She added: "We've certainly seen in the US, in Brazil, in Peru, indigenous communities (being) disproportionately hit. In Brazil where there are more than a hundred uncontacted tribes still living, (the) fear of the disease is getting into those communities." The virus has already hit tribes in Brazil and Peru hard, including some of the isolated Amazon tribes. According to the Brazilian Indigenous Peoples' Association, 26,000 indigenous people have been infected and 690 have died during the country's pandemic. India is the third worst-hit country in the world behind the US and Brazil, with more than three million coronavirus cases. There, some 60,000 people have died from the infection so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ten-from-great-andamanese-tribe-tests-covid-19-positive-878690.html
27-08-2020||National||Delhi aims at 25 per cent green cover by 2023||The Delhi government has set an ambitious target to increase the city's green cover from 22 percent at present to 25 percent in the next three years, officials said on Thursday. According to the latest India State of Forest Report (ISFR) released in 2019, Delhi's green cover, comprising forest and tree cover, is 324 sq km or 21.9 percent of the total area at present. It was 305.4 sq km or 20.6 percent in 2017. “According to our assessment, Delhi's green cover can be increased to 25 percent of its total area of 1,484 sq km. It means 45 sq km land is available with various departments in Delhi for afforestation purposes,” Principal Conservator of Forests Ishwar Singh said. “This is the maximum green cover achievable in the city. Thereafter, we will work on a five-year plan to improve the quality of our forest cover which will improve its carbon sink capacity,” he said. The National Forest Policy aims at bringing a minimum one-third of India's total geographical area under green cover. The green cover should be at least 66 per cent of the total area in hilly regions and 20 percent in the plains. “We can achieve this target in the next three years if land is available,” Singh said. The Forest Department has already asked the Delhi Development Authority and the development commissioner to create a “forest land bank” which can be utilized in the future for compensatory plantation by various departments and agencies. The creation of a land bank will simplify the process of compensatory plantation and avoid delays in projects, Singh said. “There will be no need to identify a new piece of land for compensatory afforestation every time a project comes up,” he said, adding most of the land needed is available on Yamuna floodplains. “No development activity can be taken up on the floodplains. It is the most suitable area for afforestation activity,” the PPCF said. However, environmentalists have opposed using Yamuna floodplains for afforestation purposes, claiming any compensatory afforestation can result in an "avoidable alteration in the natural functions of the floodplains". On this, Singh said that plantation exercises will be undertaken on the extended part of the floodplains where river water does not reach often. “We are not going to plant trees immediately along the river, it will alter its flow. Enough area will be left for the river to swell during monsoon. Even if the flood water reaches the trees, it will only for a few days… which will not cause any harm,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-aims-at-25-per-cent-green-cover-by-2023-878709.html
27-08-2020||National||Venkaiah Naidu holds mock sitting of Rajya Sabha ahead of Monsoon session||All set for the first-of-its-kind sitting of Parliament during the Covid-19 pandemic, Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Thursday held a mock sitting of the Upper House with the help of the officers posing as MPs. Getting himself acquainted with the new norm of sitting where MPs are spread across Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha chambers and four galleries, Naidu conducted the mock proceedings to ascertain the difficulties that could arise during the session. The new seating arrangement to ensure physical distancing norms will require the Chairman to keep a close eye on six different locations from where the MPs will be participating in the proceedings, officials said. Officials of the Rajya Sabha were made to sit in the chambers of both the Houses and the galleries of Rajya Sabha for the mock proceedings during which Naidu examined various elements of the proceedings, including the MPs seeking to raise various issues from different locations by raising hands, raising Points of Order, participating in Voice Vote and voting. He also tested audio quality along with simultaneous interpretation during participation of Rajya Sabha members from both the Houses of Parliament. Officials said Naidu expressed satisfaction over the systems put in place for the first of its kind multi-location proceedings of the House. As a backup, a hotline communication facility has been set up between the chambers of the two Houses for communicating any message regarding participation of members in case of any technical emergency. Chambers of both the Houses are connected by 500 metre long optic-fibre and audio-video cables for real time transmission of signals to enable members seated in both the Houses to watch the proceedings from both the places. For enabling members of Rajya Sabha to sign the attendance register as required under the law, the Chairman has also directed the officials to distribute the members at six counters as against the present arrangement of signing in one register so as to minimize the physical contact.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/venkaiah-naidu-holds-mock-sitting-of-rajya-sabha-ahead-of-monsoon-session-878717.html
27-08-2020||National||Arrange travel for disabled DU students for exams: HC||The Delhi High Court Thursday asked the Ministry of Railways to consider arranging travel for disabled students from distant places to the national capital for the exams to be conducted by Delhi University. The high court said the ministry also consider the feasibility of issuing confirmed tickets to such students at subsidised rates at least five days before the second round of exams commences on September 14. A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad directed the Ministries of Human Resource Development and Social Justice and Empowerment to collectively approach the Ministry of Railways and request for arranging travel of students in the persons with disability (PWD) category from far off places like Bihar, Chhattisgarh and Eastern UP to Delhi to appear in exams through physical or online mode. The bench, which issued notice to the Railways Ministry to streamline the process for PWD students, directed the three ministries to file separate affidavits on the steps taken by them and listed the matter for further hearing on September 1. The court said the PWD and Visually Impaired (VI) students who wish to come to Delhi from remote areas may indicate in exams form to the DU as to whether they want to appear physically or submit papers through email and avail scribes. The court was also informed by DU counsel that results of those students who appeared for online Open Book Examinations (OBE) will be declared at the end of October if things go well. The online OBE for final year undergraduate students commenced from August 10 and will end on August 31. The students who will be left out of online exams will be given an opportunity to appear in physical examinations, to be held from September 14. Senior advocate S K Rungta, appearing for petitioner National Federation of Blind, said the court may see if the central government or DU can bear the cost of transportation of students and he will provide them food and accommodation. When the court asked can the benefit of PWD Act be extended to these students to this extent, Rungta said yes it can be done during a disaster. The court also raised the question of reservation as there is only one train coming from some areas. Rungta said these students are mostly from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Chattigarh and some are from Madhya Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab. Senior advocate Sachin Dutta, representing the DU, said the figures will show that 90 per cent students in the PWD category have appeared in the online OBE. Rungta claimed that DU does not have the data of PWD students and according to his information about 222 confirmed VI students are there who did not sit for online OBE.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arrange-travel-for-disabled-du-students-for-exams-hc-878718.html
27-08-2020||National||India slams Pakistan for evading responsibility for Pulwama terror attack||India shared with Pakistan “enough evidence” of the role of terrorists and terrorist organisations based in the neighbouring country in orchestrating the February 14, 2019 attack on its paramilitary personnel at Pulwama in Jammu and Kashmir, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said in New Delhi on Thursday. Anurag Srivastava, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), said that the Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM), which had claimed responsibility for the attack on the Central Reserve Police Force personnel at Pulwama in Jammu and Kashmir, was based in Pakistan. “The organisation and its leadership are in Pakistan. It is regrettable that Masood Azhar (the JeM chief), the first accused in the charge-sheet, continues to find shelter in Pakistan,” he told media persons in New Delhi.  “Enough evidence has been shared with Pakistan, but it continues to evade responsibility.”     His comment came a day after the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Government of Pakistan said that New Delhi had shared with Islamabad some “incomplete, patchy and unsubstantiated” information about the February 14, 2019 terror attack. The Pakistan Government issued the statement on Wednesday – reacting to the submission of a charge-sheet by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) of India on the terror attack, which killed 40 CRPF personnel. The NIA named Masood Azhar, his brothers Abdul Rauf Asghar and Ammar Alvi, nephew Umar Farooq and several others in the charge-sheet. Islamabad claimed that India had failed to provide “any credible evidence for its invective” and had “instead been using the attack for its malicious propaganda campaign against Pakistan”.    “The charge sheet has been filed after investigation of a-year-and-a-half since the attack took place on February 14, 2019. It has been filed to address the act of terrorism and to bring perpetrators of such a heinous crime to justice. Our aim is not to simply issue statements or notifications,” said Srivastava.   He also noted that the Pakistan Government had not yet taken any credible action against perpetrators of the November 26-28, 2008 terror attack in Mumbai, which resulted in the loss of 165 innocent lives, including 25 foreign nationals. New Delhi also slammed Islamabad for its flip flop on acknowledging the presence of India’s most wanted terrorist and underworld don, Dawood Ibrahim, in Pakistan. “Pakistan has never taken any credible and verifiable action against terror entities or listed individuals, including the most wanted ones,” said Srivastava.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-slams-pakistan-for-evading-responsibility-for-pulwama-terror-attack-878720.html
27-08-2020||National||Supreme court allows sub-classification of SC/STs for quota||The Supreme Court on Thursday said states can make sub-categorisation among the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and other backward classes for granting reservation. The court said that the entire basket of fruits cannot be given to the mighty at the cost of others, under the guise of forming a homogenous class. A five-judge bench presided over by Justice Arun Mishra said it would be permissible to make such sub-classification on a rational basis, to provide the benefit of reservation to all, to bring equality. If this is denied, it would defeat the right to equality, by treating unequal as equal, it said. "It would not amount to exclusion from the list (of Scheduled Castes) as no class (caste) is deprived of reservation in totality," the bench, also comprising Justices Indira Banerjee, Vineet Saran, M R Shah and Aniruddha Bose, added. In case benefit is permitted to be usurped by a few castes, who are adequately represented, have advanced and belong to the creamy layer, then it would tantamount to creating inequality, whereas in case of hunger, every person is required to be fed and provided bread, the bench said.    "There are unequals within SC/STs and socially and educationally backward classes. Reports indicate that SCs/STs do not constitute a homogenous group. The aspiration of equal treatment of the lowest strata, to whom the fruits of the reservation have not effectively reached, remains a dream. At the same time, various castes by and large remain where they were, and they remain unequals. Are they destined to carry their backwardness till eternity," the bench asked. The court differed with the ruling laid down in a five-judge bench in E V Chinnaiah vs State of AP and Others case (2005), which had held that such a sub-classification would amount to tinkering with the List under Articles 341, 342 and 342A of the Constitution. The judgement is set to trigger a massive debate on providing quota within quota and introducing creamy layers among the SC/STs. The court passed its judgement on a reference by a three-judge bench dealing with a case arising out of the Punjab government's decision to give preference to Balmikis and Mazbhi Sikhs in granting quota. The court said the E V Chinnaiah judgement was required to be revisited. It asked the CJI to set up a seven-judge or a larger bench to settle the matter. In the 78-page judgement, the court held that sub-classification does not in any manner tinker with the Presidential list under Article 341 or 342. It relied upon the decisions in Indra Sawhney (1992) (Mandal Commission case), permitting sub-classifications of backward classes and in the Jarnail Singh case (2018), in which it was opined that the 'creamy layer concept' for exclusion of benefit can be applied to the SC/STs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-allows-sub-classification-of-sc/sts-for-quota-878722.html
27-08-2020||National||Visas granted to Indian students to study in UK more than doubles||Visas granted to Indian nationals to study at universities in the UK have more than doubled over the past year, according to official statistics released here on Thursday. The Office for National Statistics (ONS) found that Indian nationals accounted for 17 per cent of the total 299,023 sponsored study visas granted by the UK Home Office in the year ending March 2020, with the number more than doubling from 2019 to hit a total of 49,844 grants – a continuous rise since 2016. The ONS data found that after China, which accounted for 40 per cent of all study visas, India has been driving up Britain's overseas student arrivals to reflect an increase in the country's migration statistics. However, the coronavirus lockdown post-March is yet to be accounted for in the figures, which could also impact numbers from India. "After a period of stability, we were seeing migration levels begin to increase in the past 12 months leading up to the coronavirus pandemic. This was being driven by increases in non-EU student arrivals, mainly from China and India," said Jay Lindop, director of the Centre for International Migration at the ONS. "The IPS [International Passenger Service] data were collected up to March 2020 and do not take into account the significant impact the pandemic has had on international migration since then," said Lindop. The UK's new post-study work visa, or Graduate Route, comes in force from the 2020-21 academic year. It is expected to have a further positive impact on Indian student applications to UK universities, given the option of being able to apply for work at the end of a degree course. However, there is some concern among British universities that many overseas students may choose to defer their plans for study abroad amid the coronavirus lockdown travel restrictions. The National Indian Students and Alumni Union UK (NISAU-UK) had conducted a survey of Indian students to assess the impact of the lockdown on the higher education sector and found that nearly half of Indian students with an admission offer to a UK university from September 2020 were unsure whether to accept. However, 45 per cent had accepted their offers and intended to carry on with their education in the UK as planned and only 5 per cent chose to defer their offers to the next academic year. The findings coincide with those of the UK's Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS), which found that amid an overall spike in university applications for the year, most applicants from India were planning to start a course from the autumn semester, which begins next month. In the latest ONS migration data, Indian nationals also accounted for nearly half (48 per cent) of all skilled work visas granted in the year ending June 2020, but the number of grants decreased by a quarter (25 per cent) compared with the previous year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/visas-granted-to-indian-students-to-study-in-uk-more-than-doubles-878754.html
27-08-2020||National||India best place for defence manufacturing: PM Narendra Modi tells foreign players||Wooing foreign players to join his push for defence manufacturing in India, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday that producing defence equipment in the country is the best option for them considering the big size of its market and underscored his government's commitment to creating a robust ecosystem for all manufacturers. Addressing a seminar on 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' in defence manufacturing, Modi said his government has ushered in a "win-win" situation for all players, from the public sector to private and foreign manufacturers, and asserted that the concept of a self-reliant India is not "inward-looking". The goal of this mission is to make India work towards larger global peace, and also to help the world economy become more resilient and stable, he said. The defence sector having self-confidence is necessary for making a modern and self-reliant India, the prime minister said, asserting that a new mindset has emerged on his government's watch. "India has the potential to become a dependable supplier of defence equipment to many friendly countries. This will further deepen India's strategic partnership and boost its role of being a net security provider in the Indian Ocean region," Modi said. Asserting that the recent announcement of an import embargo on 101 defence equipment is not merely confined to curbing imports but also aimed at giving a boost to the domestic industry, he said more items will be added to this list later. His government's efforts are aimed at developing technology in India and expanding the private sector's role in this sector to the most, Modi said. He said his government has opened the way for 74 per cent FDI (Foreign Direct Investment) in defence production through automatic route. This is an outcome of the self-confidence of a new India, he added. Modi noted that India has long been one of the biggest defence importers in the world, and rued that enough attention was not paid to augmenting domestic production in the past despite the country having inherited a capable ecosystem of over 100 years old at the time of Independence. Very few nations had India's abilities and potential and many countries which started (defence manufacturing) later than India have gone far ahead in the last 50 years, the prime minister said. Referring to a number of economic reforms since his government first came to power in 2014, he also mentioned the recent labour reforms in a number of states. The reform exercise is not going to stop, he said. The work on building defence corridor is also on at a rapid pace in the states of Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, he said, while adding that Rs 20,000 crore investment would be made for this in the next five years and a state of the art infrastructure will be developed. To boost domestic manufacturing, the licensing process has been reformed, the level-playing field created, export system simplified and offset provisions reformed, he said. The focus is now on having a "co-production model" by going for joint ventures with foreign partners, the prime minister said. "Considering India's market size, the best option for our foreign partners is to manufacture in India," he said. The government is speeding up the procurement process, and the size of the domestic industry is set to increase in coming days, he said. Technological up-gradation is necessary for developing self-reliance, he said, adding that research is being encouraged in the government-run DRDO, private sector and also academic institutions. India's ordnance industry is being corporatised which will be a boost to its workers and also security forces, Modi said. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and three service chiefs also attended the seminar, and the prime minister lauded the "tireless" efforts of his Cabinet colleague who, he added, has been working in a "mission mode" to make the exercise successful. Modi said his government has from the beginning worked with the mantra of "reform, perform and transform" and to remove red-tape and roll out the red carpet for the industry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-best-place-for-defence-manufacturing-pm-narendra-modi-tells-foreign-players-878762.html
27-08-2020||National||Delhi records August's highest single-day spike of 1,840 Covid-19 cases; death toll 4,369||Delhi recorded 1,840 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday, the highest single-day spike in August in the city, taking the tally to over 1.67 lakh, while the death toll mounted to 4,369, authorities said. Twenty-two fatalities have been recorded in the last 24 hours, according to the latest bulletin issued by the Delhi Health Department. This is the third successive single-day spike this month. On Wednesday, 17 deaths were reported and the daily count of cases was 1,693, the previous highest single-day spike in August. On June 23, the national capital had reported the highest single-day spike of 3,947, till date. The tally of active cases on Thursday rose to 13,208 from 12,520 the previous day.  The death toll from Covid-19 in Delhi stood at 4,347 on Wednesday. The bulletin on Thursday said the death toll from coronavirus infection has risen to 4,369 and the total number of cases has climbed to 1,67,604.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-records-augusts-highest-single-day-spike-of-1840-covid-19-cases-death-toll-4369-878764.html
27-08-2020||National||States assure Centre of utilising Rs 1 lakh cr agri infra fund for farmers' welfare||States have assured the Centre that they will utilise the Rs 1 lakh crore agriculture infrastructure fund to create post-harvesting and other facilities at village level for the benefit of farmers, especially small and marginal ones, an official statement said on Thursday. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar held a detailed discussion with chief ministers and state agriculture ministers on recent agriculture market reforms and the new Central Sector Scheme of financing facility under the Agriculture Infrastructure Fund of Rs 1 lakh crore, it said. The event conducted through video conference was attended by Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackerey. Besides, Agriculture Ministers of Rajasthan, Kerala, Chhattisgarh and Telangana were present. Union Ministers of State for Agriculture Purshottam Rupala and Kailash Choudhary also participated in the discussion. Tomar emphasized that the focus of the fund is to improve post-harvest management infrastructure and availability of community farming assets, and it is to be ensured that small and medium farmers receive the full benefit, the statement said. "The Chief Ministers and State Agriculture Ministers gave full assurance that no stone will be left unturned in ensuring utilization of the Rs 1 lakh crore fund, and new infrastructure will be created in all the villages," the statement said. Tomar said the Centre is committed to ensuring the welfare and sustainability of livelihoods for farmers. He said that the new ordinances brought in by the government to reform agri-marketing are for the welfare of farmers. Tomar highlighted a few key initiatives including the Rs 6,865 crore scheme for “Formation and Promotion of 10,000 FPOs”, three recent ordinances, benefits released under PM-KISAN, KCC (Kisan Credit Cards) drive for farmers, and the increased focus on digital agriculture. Tomar said FPOs (Farmers Producers Organisation) would have a big role in increasing production, productivity and value realization, and reducing the cost of cultivation of small farmers. The ministers discussed the benefits of the scheme and how it will help states drive growth in investment, create new jobs in the agriculture and allied sectors, and improve farmer income. There was a detailed discussion on the opportunity across states to invest in post-harvest management solutions and community farming assets like modern silos, cold chains, integrated pack-houses, and IoT/ precision agriculture. Tomar asked states to explore convergence with multiple central and state schemes to improve the economics of the investments under the Agriculture Infrastructure Fund. Assuring that the UP government will work with full dedication for welfare of farmers under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat package, Adityanath informed Tomar that more than 2.14 crore farmers have benefitted from the PM-KISAN scheme in the state. As many as 12 lakh new KCCs are being given in addition to the 1.44 crore already issued. One FPO is being formed in each of the 825 blocks in the state. Uddhav complimented the Centre for formulating and implementing a national scheme for agricultural development at a fast pace. To make farmers self-reliant, he said it was essential to create basic facilities for them, for which provision has been made in the Agriculture Infrastructure Fund. "The Chief Ministers assured expeditious implementation of the scheme in the states to enable farmers to realize benefits," the statement said. The Agriculture Infrastructure Fund is a medium to long term debt financing facility for investment in viable projects for post-harvest management infrastructure and community farming assets through interest subvention and credit guarantee. The duration of the scheme shall be from FY2020 to FY2029 (10 years). Under the scheme, Rs 1 lakh crore will be provided by banks and financial institutions as loans with interest subvention of 3 per cent per annum and credit guarantee coverage under Credit Guarantee Trust for Micro and Small Enterprises (CGTMSE ) for loans up to Rs 2 crore. The beneficiaries will include farmers, FPOs, Marketing Cooperative Societies, SHGs, Joint Liability Groups (JLG), multipurpose cooperative societies, agri-entrepreneurs, startups, and central/state agency or local body sponsored Public-Private Partnership projects.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-assure-centre-of-utilising-rs-1-lakh-cr-agri-infra-fund-for-farmers-welfare-878769.html
27-08-2020||National||Andhra Pradesh: Guntur cops bust gang altering age in Aadhaar of people||The Guntur police have busted a gang altering the date of birth on the Aadhaar cards of people in order to make them eligible for the Jaganmohan Reddy government’s welfare schemes like YSR Cheyutha. The group of eight men, most of them in their twenties, were forging the signatures of the gazetted officers and using counterfeit rubber stamps creating fake documents for the authentication purpose. Two youth - Adapala Sai (23) and Shaik Khaja (38) – are operators of the Aadhaar centres at two nationalized banks, who joined hands with others. After confirming their illegal activity, the Guntur police arrested them on Wednesday, and seized laptops, iris camera, GPS devices, fingerprint scanner, rubber stamps, Aadhaar update forms etc., and some cash.   The gang was operating from a rented room in a market complex on Pedakakani Road in Guntur town and offering their fraudulent services to several people, especially women from the district, through the help of agents. Andhra Pradesh chief minister Reddy had, earlier this month, launched a welfare cum entrepreneurial program for women named “YSR Cheyutha”. Under the handholding scheme, approximately 23 lakh women aged between 45 and 60 years hailing from the SC, ST, BC, and minority communities are given Rs 18,750 per year for four years aggregating to Rs 75,000, to help them build a sustainable livelihood. “The gang was altering the age of women between 35-44 to over 45 years on their Aadhaar cards to make them Cheyutha beneficiaries. They were collecting Rs two to five thousand from each gullible woman,” R Suresh Babu, inspector of the Old Guntur Police station told DH. “We have sought information from the UIDAI to know how many such false cards/records were made. We suspect it to be at least in hundreds,” Babu says. Those less than 60 years old were also shown as senior citizens to make them avail old age pensions, officials said. The men are booked under various IPC sections like 420 (cheating), 467 (document forgery), 473 (making or possessing counterfeit seals etc.,).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/andhra-pradesh-guntur-cops-bust-gang-altering-age-in-aadhaar-of-people-878773.html
27-08-2020||National||Delhi woman's SOS to UK PM alerts MEA, police; suicide averted||A 43-year-old women's SOS to UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson made the Indian Embassy in London, the Ministry of External Affairs here and the Delhi Police swing into action and prevent her from killing herself. "If help is not met in next two hours, would commit suicide" was the message emailed on Wednesday night by the woman, who is apparently suffering from some psychotic disorders due to breakdown of her marriage, police said. The Indian Embassy in London was immediately informed, which contacted the Ministry of External Affairs officials here and sought quick response as the life of the woman appeared to be on stake, a senior police officer said. The matter was reported at Rohini’s Aman Vihar police station following which police launched an intense exercise late night to locate her with house-to-house search in the area as she did not mention her complete address in the email and also was not receiving phone calls. The officer said the women had sent the email to the Prime Minister of United Kingdom apparently seeking help, sounding to be in an extremely distressful state of mind. The police officer said that the woman has a huge financial burden due to loans and lives in a rented accommodation in Delhi's Rohini area. "The information reached Aman Vihar police station in Rohini area. The woman did not write her full address in the mail. Police reached area, but failed to locate her as her complete address was not mentioned," Deputy Commissioner of Police (Rohini) P K Mishra said. Starting around 1 am, the police checked each house in the locality and managed to locate her house after two hours of search, the DCP said. Initially, the woman did not open the door despite repeated persuasions, raising alarm bells among the police who called the fire brigade to break open the door, the DCP said. Just after two-three minutes of fire brigade operating on the door, the woman came outside, looking fraught with anxiety and fear, the police officer said. The woman said she was ok and requested the fire brigade and the police to go back, following which most staff left the spot, Mishra said, adding some staff went inside her house on her request. Around 16 to 18 cats were roaming around and the entire house was stinking, suggesting that it was not cleaned for years, he said. The woman herself was smelling so foul that it was almost impossible to stand next to her, police said. She said she used to be a teacher in an MCD school, but left the job due to some personal reasons. She is a divorcee and had incurred some loans a few years but failed to pay EMIs for some reasons, the DCP said. The woman refused to give details about her relatives, police said. Two psychologists and a doctor were called in immediately to address her problems or to advise if the police should obtain the requisite assent of the magistrate concerned to shift her in the Institute of Human Behaviour & Allied Sciences (IBHAS) hospital for further treatment, police added. She was allowed to stay at her home and is being counselled, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-womans-sos-to-uk-pm-alerts-mea-police-suicide-averted-878778.html
27-08-2020||National||Centre's talk on make in India, 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' hypocritical: HC||The change in eligibility criteria to participate in tenders for providing ground handling services in various regional airports was on Thursday criticised by the Delhi High Court which said the central government was being "hypocritical" with regard to promoting local entrepreneurs. The high court was critical of the political leadership and said it was "pained" that on one hand the government talks of 'make in India' and being 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' and on the other, it floats tenders which would oust small entities from participating in ground handling operations in regional airports. "What really irks is that if you really want to oust these people (small entities), then say so. Don't be hypocritical in your speeches. Your political leaders speak of make in India, they speak of Atmanirbhar Bharat, they speak about encouraging local industry, but your actions don't match your words. You are being completely hypocritical," a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rajnish Bhatnagar. The bench asked Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Jain, appearing for the Centre and Airport Authority of India, to speak to the political leadership that if they want to proceed in this manner then why are they making the speeches on the make in India. "Are they (political leadership) even aware of this being done," the bench asked. "We are saying stop importing from this country or that country and on the other hand we are also failing our own entrepreneurs," the bench said. Referring to the tender eligibility criteria like having an annual turnover of over Rs 35 crore and experience of having worked with scheduled airlines, the high court said,"You want big players with big pockets, and maybe foreign tie-ups, to come in". It also said that the smaller players would have worked at regional airports where flights of scheduled airlines are few or not at all and therefore, their experience of ground handling with non-scheduled or chartered airlines was being ignored. "if you (Centre and AAI) want to oust them, then say so. Don't be hypocritical about it. If this is your policy, then have the courage to say so. "Then don't talk about indigenisation or make in India, provide in India. Don't talk of all these things," the bench said and added, "we are pained that you are wanting to oust the smaller players". The high court said if smaller players are not allowed to grow, then there will only be the established bigger players who due to their market dominance would start dictating terms to the government. "Today we are talking of this nationalistic feeling that we must produce in India, serving in India, that we must be Atmanirbhar Bharat. What is happening to all that? is this the way to approach the situation," the bench told the government during the hearing via video conferencing. It further said that the country was being "indifferent and insensitive" to promoting our own entrepreneurs and there were many instances where people have shut shop and moved out saying it was difficult to manufacture or run a business here. The observations were made by the bench while hearing a plea challenging the change in eligibility criteria to participate in the latest tenders floated by the Airports Authority of India (AAI) for providing ground handling services (GHS) at various regional airports in the country. It was hearing the plea by Centre for Aviation Policy, Safety and Research (CAPSR), an association representing agencies providing ground handling and various other services at airports in the country. The high court issued notice to the Centre and AAI seeking their stand on the plea by CAPSR, which was represented by advocate S S Mishra. The bench said the award of the tenders would be subject to the further orders in the petition. CAPSR in its plea has sought quashing of the tenders floated by AAI with regard to GHS at smaller airports in the country or directions to AAI to alter the eligibility criteria so that everyone, including the existing ground handling agencies, can participate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centres-talk-on-make-in-india-atmanirbhar-bharat-hypocritical-hc-878786.html
27-08-2020||National||Two Goans arrested for smuggling hippo teeth to Karnataka||In a multi-agency joint operation involving Forest Department officials from Goa and Karnataka, two persons were arrested involved in a racket of smuggling hippopotamus teeth and tusks to potential buyers in Karnataka, bypassing them off as elephant tusks.  Speaking to reporters Goa Police Crime Branch Superintendent of Police Shobhit Saxena said that the duo of Vishnu Harmalkar (24) and Anil Parsekar (30) was arrested on Thursday.  “Vishnu had procured the contraband and had paid Anil money to transport it across the border in Karnataka,” Saxena said, adding that the duo was a part of a gang which operated in Goa and Karnataka’s Shivamogga district, which tried to pass off hippo teeth and tusks as elephant tusks.  The investigation in Goa followed a sting operation conducted by Forest Department officers from Shivamogga on August 25, when they posed as buyers of wildlife contraband and arrested three persons and seized three persons with nine hippo teeth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-goans-arrested-for-smuggling-hippo-teeth-to-karnataka-878808.html
27-08-2020||National||JNU biologists blaze a trail in malaria fight, to find a novel therapy||Charting a new course that may lead to a novel therapy against malaria, biologists at the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) have found a unique way to cripple the malaria parasite before it can enter the safe haven of red blood cells for multiplication. Though it’s early days, the discovery opens up the doors to look at options to improve the efficacy of existing drugs like chloroquine and artemisinin as the parasites are getting resistant to these medicines. India’s first case of artemisinin resistance was reported in 2018. The strategy adopted by JNU scientists works by blocking the route that Plasmodium falciparum (the one that causes the more dangerous cerebral malaria) parasites take to invade the red blood cells (RBCs). From a library of thousands and thousands of synthetic molecules, the researchers spotted one that blocks interaction between two crucial proteins the parasite uses to enter the blood cells. The proteins are known as Myosin A and its interacting partner, MTIP (Myosin A Tail Interacting Protein). The synthetic molecule that binds to the Myson-MTIP complex is called ZA1. "The idea here was to break the cycle of the parasite at the very first step when it is trying to invade our RBCs. The binding of Myosin A to its physiological interacting partner (MTIP) is crucial for generating the force for parasite’s motility,” said JNU scientist Anand Ranganathan, one of corresponding authors of the study. Ranganathan and his team collaborated with another JNU group headed by Shailaja Singh and Nishant Joshi at Shiv Nadar University, Greater Noida, to identify a new drug target and shortlist the right candidate for the job. “We found a potently strong interaction between ZA1 and Myosin A. The interaction doesn’t allow Plasmodium’s motor machinery to function the way it should,” said Zill e Anam, lead author of the study. The team truncated the molecule further to create a smaller unit (named ZA1s) that maims the parasite even better. “The next step is to crystallise the ZA1s, which we could not do in the last six months due to the lockdown. The process of drug development would start once the crystal structure of the molecule is understood,” Ranganathan told DH. “A major hurdle that we currently face in malaria treatment is the parasite’s non responsiveness to artemisinin and chloroquine. Our study is a step forward in that direction,” said Shailja Singh, who is also the corresponding author of the paper. India remains the only country outside Africa that contributes to 80% of the global malaria burden and death. The JNU study has been published in the International Journal of Molecular Sciences.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jnu-biologists-blaze-a-trail-in-malaria-fight-to-find-a-novel-therapy-878816.html
27-08-2020||National||India reports more than 75,000 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hrs; Ten states told to pull up their socks||With the number of fresh Covid-19 infections crossing the 75,000-mark for the first time, a top bureaucrat at the Centre on Thursday asked ten states with high mortality including Karnataka to pull up their socks to reduce new corona infections and deaths. At a review meeting, Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba told the states to proactively take steps towards reducing case fatality to less than 1% across all districts.  States have also been told that in 80% of new positive cases, all close contacts should be traced and tested within 72 hours. Other nine states that participated in the meeting are Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Gujarat, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir. The three Indian states with the maximum death rates are Gujarat (3.3%) Maharashtra (3.2%) and Punjab (2.6%).  "It was observed that out of the total deaths in the country in the last two weeks, 89% are in these nine states and one union territory (J&K)," the Union Health Ministry said in a statement. For a week, India’s fresh Covid-19 cases hovered between 69,500 and 60,000. It breached the 70,000-mark on Thursday to reach a figure of 75,760 cases as per the Union Health Ministry data. The total number of deaths stands at 60,472 including 1023 that were added in the last 24 hours. The total number of Covid-19 cases stands at more than 33 lakhs. The states have also been told to ensure a minimum of 140 tests per million every day in all districts while trying to achieve a positivity rate of less than 5%.  While rapid antigen tests have been advised for the containment zones, every negative test is to be rechecked with the RT-PCR tests.  Regular monitoring of home isolation patients (tele-calling and home visits), ensuring timely admission to healthcare facilities if blood oxygen level falls below the designated and weekly monitoring of fatality rates for each health facility with particular focus on vulnerable patients (people with co-morbidities and those who are over 60 years’ age) were also stressed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-more-than-75000-new-covid-19-cases-in-24-hrs-ten-states-told-to-pull-up-their-socks-878820.html
27-08-2020||National||India says PLA must pull back troops to China’s side of LAC||China must withdraw its soldiers from India’s side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) to complete the process of disengagement the two sides had agreed upon in order to end the military stand-off in eastern Ladakh, New Delhi said on Thursday. The process of disengagement or mutual withdrawal of troops from the face-off points along the LAC – the de facto boundary between India and China – remained stalled, although a week has passed since the senior diplomats of the two nations had a video conference and agreed to expeditiously resolve the “outstanding issues” to end the stalemate and resolve the stand-off. Beijing on Thursday claimed that both the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) had made progress in withdrawing front-line troops along the LAC. “Since the Galwan Valley clash, China and India have held several rounds of talks through military and diplomatic channels, and progress has been made in disengaging the frontline troops of both sides, the spokesperson for the Ministry of National Defence of the Chinese Government, Senior Colonel Wu Qian, said in Beijing. A source in New Delhi, however, dismissed the claim made by the Sr Col Wu in Beijing, stating that the process of disengagement had remained stalled since the second week of July, as the Chinese PLA declined to withdraw troops completely from several areas on India’s side of the LAC, including Depsang Y junction, Gogra Post and the northern bank of the Pangong Tso (lake). Anurag Srivastava, the spokesperson of the MEA, said that “complete disengagement” would require “re-deployment of troops” by both sides “towards the respective regular post on their respective sides of the LAC”. “It is natural that this can be done only through mutually agreed reciprocal actions,” he told journalists, adding: “Thus it is important to bear in mind that achieving this requires agreed actions by both sides.” He quoted External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar stating in an interview to a web portal that any solution to the current stand-off along India-China disputed boundary in eastern Ladakh “must be predicated on honouring all agreements and understandings and not attempting to alter the status quo unilaterally”. He also referred to the External Affairs Minister’s comment that India and China had resolved all such stand-offs in the past through diplomatic engagements. Chief of Defence Staff, Gen Bipin Rawat, recently stated that India had military options to deal with transgression by the Chinese PLA in Ladakh, but it would be exercised only when talks between the military officials and the diplomats of the two nations would fail. The senior diplomats of India and China so far had four rounds of talks to resolve the stand-off, with the last one on August 20. The senior commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA too had five rounds of talks till August 2. Jaishankar had talks with Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on June 17 – just two days after the Indian Army lost 20 of its soldiers in a violent clash with the PLA in Galwan Valley. Wang and India’s National Security Advisor Ajit Doval – the Special Representatives of India and China for boundary negotiations – talked over the phone on July 5. Meanwhile, the Global Times newspaper, which is run by the Communist Party of China, reported that over 80 per cent people of the communist country would favour use of force against India in case of “another border conflict”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-says-pla-must-pull-back-troops-to-china-s-side-of-lac-878821.html
27-08-2020||National Politics||7 non-NDA CMs vow to unitedly take on Centre over GST||Chief ministers of seven non-NDA ruled states on Wednesday vowed to put up a united fight over the issue of non-payment of GST compensation to states by the Centre and to protect the federal structure. At a meeting called by Congress president Sonia Gandhi, the chief ministers of Maharashtra, Jharkhand, Punjab, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Puducherry, where her party is in power on its own or in an alliance, and West Bengal called for a joint action on the GST issue and decided to collectively petition the prime minister at the earliest. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and his Puducherry counterpart V Narayanasamy even suggested a rethink on the implementation of Goods and Services Tax (GST). The remarks came ahead of the GST Council meeting on Thursday which is likely to be a stormy affair as opposition-ruled states unite to pressure the Centre to give them the promised compensation for loss of revenue arising from the implementation of GST. Supporting the demand for postponement of NEET and JEE examinations in view of the coronavirus pandemic, the chief ministers also decided to jointly move the Supreme Court on the issue, sources said. Sonia Gandhi, who had convened the virtual meeting to discuss a range of issues ahead of the Parliament session, set the ball rolling for opposition offensive on the GST matter, accusing the Centre of "betrayal". She said the government has reportedly told the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Finance that they are not in a position to pay the mandatory GST compensation of 14 per cent for the current year. "This refusal to compensate the states is nothing short of betrayal by the Modi government and a betrayal of trust of the people of India," she said at the meeting. Gandhi noted that the GST was enacted as an example of "cooperative federalism" and the GST regime came into existence because the states agreed to forego their constitutional powers of taxation in the larger national interest and on the solemn promise of compulsory GST compensation for a period of five years. She also argued that the issue of GST compensation being paid to states on time according to the laws passed by Parliament is crucial but this is not happening and dues have accumulated and the finances of all the states have been affected badly. All the chief ministers rallied behind Sonia Gandhi and accused the Centre of squeezing their funds in COVID times. Chief ministers Mamata Banerjee, Uddhav Thackeray and Hemant Soren also called for an aggressive opposition strategy to counter the BJP. "We should decide whether we have to fight or fear," Thackeray said at the meeting. Gandhi said she agreed with Banerjee and Thackeray that all opposition-ruled states should together fight the Centre for their rights. "We have to work together and fight together against the central government," said an assertive Gandhi, who had on Monday survived a challenge to her leadership by a section of her party colleagues. Banerjee earlier said the situation was "very serious" and opposition-ruled states should fight unitedly. She also alleged that state governments are being "bulldozed" and their rights are being curtailed by the Centre in the name of cooperative federalism. "Our government is yet to get Rs 53,000 crore from the union government. The federal structure is being bulldozed. It is using central agencies against the state government. No one is allowed to talk against the central government," she said. Sonia Gandhi, in her opening remarks, said that the government was looking at the students' issue "uncaringly". Banerjee then urged other CMs to jointly move a review petition in Supreme Court seeking postponement of JEE-NEET competitive exams, saying the students are facing a lot of hardships. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh endorsed her demand, saying the atmosphere is not conducive for holding exams physically as the number of COVID cases were rising. It was the first such meeting of non-BJP chief ministers since the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic. Thackeray said the country needs to think if the old tax regime was better than the GST, and also expressed worry about the alleged "concentration" of power. He said the federal structure of the country must be protected. "The GST share of states expected from the Centre is rising. I have been writing letters for expeditious release (of state's share). But since April we haven't got any. If we get reply, we don't get money," he said. "If we are in opposition, it is not that we don't wish well for other political parties. We too are representatives of people. We also have rights," said Thackeray, who broke off his party's alliance with the BJP last year. Talking about former PM Rajiv Gandhi introducing Panchayati Raj to usher in decentralization of power, he alleged that all power is concentrated in one hand now. It was important to protect the federal structure of the country as envisaged in the Constitution, Thackeray said. "If we don't respect the Constitution, what is the use of democracy?" he asked. Amarinder Singh said, "We have given all the powers of taxation through the GST, and now they say they may not be able to pay. So how do we run our states?" Calling upon the states to work together and fight together for their rights, he said, "If the Government of India does not give us our GST compensation how do they expect us to function." Hemant Soren said the opposition was looking "weak" in the country presently and "we all need to unitedly fight against the Centre's wrong policies". He sought adequate GST compensation for the states to fight pandemic crisis. Soren alleged that the Centre's "discriminatory" approach towards the opposition ruled states was "clearly visible" which should be fought together and called for strengthening opposition unity. "The central government is trying to create differences between the opposition parties so that they remain busy fighting each other and do not point fingers on their wrongdoings," he said, and called for efforts to "foil the conspiracy". He raised the issue of GST and made a strong case for compensating the states to help them fight problems arising due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Puducherry CM Narayanasamy said if the Centre does not pay them their dues and does not provide compensation as per laws, they would rather return to the old system and collect their own taxes. The 41st meeting of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council, to be held via video conferencing, has just one agenda for discussion -- making up for a shortfall in states' revenues, sources said. The options being explored are market borrowing, raising cess rate or increasing the number of items for levy of compensation cess.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/7-non-nda-cms-vow-to-unitedly-take-on-centre-over-gst-878354.html
27-08-2020||National Politics||Covid-19 vaccine access strategy should have been in place, govt's 'unpreparedness' alarming: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday asserted that a fair and inclusive Covid-19 vaccine access strategy should have been in place by now and said the government's alleged "unpreparedness" is "alarming". Gandhi had earlier demanded that the government clearly define an inclusive and equitable vaccine access policy to ensure its affordability and fair distribution. "A fair and inclusive Covid vaccine access strategy should have been in place by now. But there are still no signs of it," he said in a tweet. "GOI’s (Government of India) unpreparedness is alarming," the former Congress chief said, tagging his August 14 tweet in which he said India will soon be one of the COVID-19 vaccine-producing countries and the government must spell out its strategy. Human trials on various Covid vaccines are currently underway across the world, including in India. The Centre has set up an expert committee to engage with all stakeholders including state governments and vaccine manufacturers and its terms of reference include selecting suitable vaccines, their procurement and delivery and prioritising groups to administer them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/covid-19-vaccine-access-strategy-should-have-been-in-place-govts-unpreparedness-alarming-rahul-gandhi-878435.html
27-08-2020||National Politics||Target BJP, not us: dissenters tell Congress||Congress leader Kapil Sibal on Thursday hit out at a section of party workers for seeking the ouster of Jitin Prasada, who was one of the 23 signatories to a letter seeking sweeping changes within the organisation. “Unfortunate that Jitin Prasada is being officially targeted in UP. Congress needs to target the BJP with surgical strikes instead of wasting its energy by targeting its own,” Sibal said. Former union minister Manish Tewari, also among the dissenters, concurred with Sibal. “Prescient,” said Tewari, who represents Anandpur Sahib in the Lok Sabha. The Lakhimpur Kheri district Congress Committee had adopted a resolution seeking action against Prasada and 22 other signatories to the letter seeking a more “visible and active” leadership and a full-time Congress President to steer the Congress party. The letter to the Congress President was seen as dissent against the leadership and its authors were slammed by colleagues at a meeting of the Congress Working Committee on Monday. Though the letter writers were slammed by the leaders, Congress President Sonia Gandhi adopted a forgive and forget approach and had asked the party to move ahead. The CWC also announced that Gandhi, 73, would continue as Congress President till her successor is elected at a session of the AICC. The CWC had also decided to appoint a four-member committee to assist the Congress President in day-to-day functioning of the party. The dissenters have stood their ground saying they would wait and watch on how the party responds to their call for changes in the organisation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/target-bjp-not-us-dissenters-tell-congress-878551.html
27-08-2020||National Politics||Akhilesh Yadav writes open letter slamming Centre's decision to hold NEET, JEE exams amid pandemic||He said the BJP-led government at the Centre is unnecessarily putting the students' health at risk. "Funny and illogical things are being spread by the BJP that when people can come out for other work, why can't they give exams? It has forgotten that people are moving out in compulsion and even those who want to stay at home to save themselves are now being forced to come out of their homes in the name of examinations," Yadav said in the letter. The SP chief asked who will be held responsible if students contract the infection. He claimed that the saffron party is only concerned about people who vote for it. "It appears that the BJP has come to know that the youth dealing with unemployment problem would no longer vote for them therefore, it is acting in a revengeful manner against the youth and their guardians," Yadav alleged. Supporting the demand for postponement of NEET and JEE examinations in view of the coronavirus pandemic, seven chief ministers of non-BJP ruled states on Wednesday had decided to jointly move the Supreme Court on the issue. While the NEET is scheduled to be held on September 13, engineering entrance exam JEE Main has been planned from September 1-6.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/akhilesh-yadav-writes-open-letter-slamming-centres-decision-to-hold-neet-jee-exams-amid-pandemic-878573.html
27-08-2020||National Politics||India only country which is able to stare down China; Chinese will realise their strategic mistake: Varun Gandhi||India is the only country that has been able to stare down China with the might of its border troops and the Chinese will be forced to realise the strategic mistake they are making by provoking a powerful neighbour, BJP leader Varun Gandhi said on Thursday. In an interview with PTI, the saffron party MP from Pilibhit (Uttar Pradesh) also said it was "a dream come true" for him as a devotee of Lord Hanuman that the Ram Temple was being built in Ayodhya after years of struggle. Relating August 5, the day when Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone of the temple, with the country's Independence Day, Gandhi said, "India once had a tryst with destiny in August 1947. It has woken up anew, reconnecting with its civilisational ethos." He said a successful resolution of the Ayodhya dispute is a hallmark of India's system of governance, democracy and judiciary, while it also depicts a remarkable amity among people of different creeds and faiths in our country. "As a bhakt of Hanumanji, the establishment of the foundation stone of the Ram Janambhoomi temple is a dream come true for me," the 40-year-old leader said. "Lord Ram is not just for Hindus, he is a remarkable emblem of the Indic civilisation," he added. On the recent stand-off between India and China at LAC, Gandhi said China has been notably aggressive across most of its border areas in the recent past, with tension observed in South China Sea, Senkaku Islands, Taiwan and in Tibet, but "India remains the only country that has been able to stare down the Chinese, using its border troops." He further said many policy commentators voice apprehensions about China's armed might, but it is often forgotten that India possesses the world's largest and most experienced mountain fighting troops. Describing death of India's troops in Galwan Valley as a "seminal moment" in Indo-China relations, the BJP leader said he is confident that India's armed forces, under Prime Minister Modi leadership, will hold forth and force the Chinese to realise the strategic mistake they are making in provoking India. Gandhi said it will cost China dearly to lose an economic powerhouse like India as a partner, while the Modi government's push for bolstering its defence forces, while revising its overall strategic posture, will stand us well in the long-term. The BJP leader, who first became an MP at the age of 29 years in 2009, also hailed Prime Minister Modi for steering the country through the Covid-19 pandemic. "It was due to Modi ji's strong leadership and vision that the lockdown was a success, as he was able to galvanise the nation towards a hard lockdown. A weak leader would not have been able to do this," he said. Gandhi said the government utilised the lockdown period effectively for ramping up healthcare infrastructure, due to which the country now has a testing capacity of 10 lakh per day and has transformed from being an importer of PPE kits to a net exporter. Asserting that various policy measures taken by the government have also helped improve the Covid-19 recovery rate in a big way, Gandhi said all this would not have been possible without the "laser minded focus" of the Modi government. He further said the country is also in a much stronger position now to deal with the pandemic on the economic front. "Letting no crisis go waste, this government has pushed for full liberalisation, enabling weaker PSUs (barring a few in strategic sectors) to be sold off or privatised or wound down," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-only-country-which-is-able-to-stare-down-china-chinese-will-realise-their-strategic-mistake-varun-gandhi-878639.html
27-08-2020||National Politics||Outrageous and insensitive to conduct JEE-NEET now: CPI(M)||The CPI(M) on Thursday asked the government to hold the JEE-NEET entrance exams in abeyance till Covid-19 situation is under control while describing the insistence in going ahead with the schedule as "most outrageous" move that displays "insensitivity". In a statement, the party Polit Bureau said it is firmly opposing the move to unilaterally push the conduct of JEE-NEET exams for admission to professional courses across the country. "What is most outrageous is the insensitivity to hold these examinations in the physical mode across the country at a time when the pandemic is surging both in the number of infections, as well as, the mounting counts of deaths," it said. It said the concern about starting the academic session in these institutions for the sake of the future of the students and those courses is valid and understandable.   "However, the present situation is grossly premature for undertaking such a venture.  It completely undermines the health concern for almost a million of some of the brightest of our youth," the party said. Urging the government to hold the examinations in abeyance till some control over the spread of the infection is achieved, the CPI(M) said the entrance examinations must be rescheduled in a manner whereby the students are protected from losing the academic year. On Wednesday, seven Opposition Chief Ministers, including West Bengal's Mamata Banerjee, attended a meeting called by Congress chief Sonia Gandhi to finalise a strategy on opposing the government's move. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and his Kerala counterpart Pinarayi Vijayan did not attend the meeting. Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia wrote to the Central government on Wednesday against conducting the JEE-NEET and said an alternative method should be evolved for admissions in professional colleges this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/outrageous-and-insensitive-to-conduct-jee-neet-now-cpim-878649.html
27-08-2020||National Politics||Why no interest waiver on loans for middle class, asks Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday attacked the government over interest on deferred loan payments and asked why it gave tax benefits of Rs 1.45 lakh crore to businesses but did not waive interest on loans for the middle class. In a tweet, he said, "1450000000000 tax cut benefit given to big businesses. But no interest waiver on loans for the middle class" and dubbed the government of being a "suit boot ki Sarkar". He also attached a news report stating that the Supreme Court slammed the Centre and asked it to clarify its stand on the charging of interest on deferred loan payments. The court had earlier asked the Centre and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to review the move to charge interest on EMIs during the moratorium period introduced under the scheme due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/why-no-interest-waiver-on-loans-for-middle-class-asks-rahul-gandhi-878654.html
27-08-2020||National Politics||AAP asks BJP to stop 'crying' over lack of funds to MCDs||The AAP on Thursday said the BJP should immediately hand over the civic bodies in Delhi to it, instead of "crying" over lack of funds. Hitting back, the BJP said it is not the saffron party but the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) that needs to shed its mixture of biased and childish behaviour towards the municipal corporations. AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj said before coming to power in the municipal corporations, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was aware of the fund allocations and despite that, "they cry about lack of funds". "When the BJP came to power in the MCDs, it was aware of the budget of each MCD. It had all the information regarding the budget from which they are supposed to pay the salaries of the employees. But we always see that BJP leaders cry about lack of funds," he said. Bhardwaj said if the BJP cannot run the municipal corporations, they must immediately resign and the AAP will run the MCDs better than the saffron party. "On behalf of the AAP, I have a very simple demand that the BJP should immediately stop this drama of complaining and crying about lack of funds. We demand that if the BJP believes that it cannot run the MCDs, they should resign from the MCDs," he said. "The AAP will ensure that the same municipal corporations are run with the same funds and budget, but we will pay everyone their salaries. We will run it better than them," Bhardwaj said. Reacting to the AAP leader's comments, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said it is not the saffron party but the AAP that needs to shed its mixture of biased and childish behaviour towards the municipal corporations. "First start giving the Municipal Corporation funds as per the already accepted 4th Delhi Finance Commission recommendations. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Saurabh Bhardwaj need to tell Delhi why are they not releasing the municipal funds as per the 4th Delhi Finance Commission at least," he said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aap-asks-bjp-to-stop-crying-over-lack-of-funds-to-mcds-878716.html
27-08-2020||National Politics||Lalu's son meets him in RIMS, retracts comment on Raghubansh Singh||Senior RJD leader Tej Pratap Yadav on Thursday visited his jailed father Lalu Prasad and after a reprimand from him for his utterances against senior party leader Raghubansh Prasad Singh and described the former union minister as "guardian" against whom he bore no ill feeling. Yadav stayed for nearly two and a half hours with Prasad in the director's bunglow of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences, where the RJD chief was shifted recently as precautionary measure for Covid-19. The RJD chief who has been convicted in several cases of multi-crore fodder scam is lodged in RIMS, Ranchi. Emerging out of the RIMS, Yadav told reporters that Singh was a "guardian" to him to whom he talks regularly. had made castigating remarks against Singh over his resignation from RJD's vice-president post protesting the efforts to induct  LJP MP Rama Singh into the party Yadav, elder son of Prasad, had made castigating remarks against the former union minister recently over his resignation from RJD's vice president post in protest against efforts to induct muscleman former LJP MP Rama Singh into the party, saying "RJD is an ocean and Singh is like a mug of water of it whose coming/going will have no impact on the party." Prasad is believed to have chided his son for unsavoury comment on Singh and asked him to refrain from making such statements during election time. Singh, who served as union rural development minister in UPA-1 and a long time companion of the RJD supremo, anger had further aggravated after Yadav's remark and there was speculations in the political circle that he might quit the party. Yadav is also understood to have discussion with his father about assembly election in Bihar due in October-November. His father-in-law Chandrika Roy recently left RJD to join JD(U) and has hinted that his daughter Aishwarya might enter in the poll fray. Yadav's marriage with Aishwarya has broken and their divorce case is pending with a Patna court. The former Health minister of Bihar is currently an MLA from Mahua in Vaishali district and there is speculations in the media that his estranged wife might fight against him in the election. Yadav was allowed to go inside RIMs in Ranchi only after he tested negative in rapid antigen test for coronavirus, sources in the state-run hospital said. There has been reports of skirmishes between Yadav's supporters and locals who protested the road jam created by them outside the hospital. BJP spokesman Pratul Shadeo demanded action against Yadav and his supporters over the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lalus-son-meets-him-in-rims-retracts-comment-on-raghubansh-singh-878731.html
27-08-2020||National Politics||BJP not converting India into Hindu state: Subramanian Swamy||BJP MP Subramanian Swamy on Thursday said the party is not converting India into a Hindu state and the Constitution also forbids it while asserting that it will remain in power till its Hindutva ideology remains intact. Claiming that the Congress formed governments in the past by uniting minorities and dividing Hindus, Swamy said politically, Hindus should be united as a community by sinking their differences. He made these remarks at a webinar organised by the Foreign Correspondents Club, where AIMIM Chief Asaduddin Owaisi was also invited to put forth his views. "For years and years, the Congress was able to divide the Hindus and unite the minorities and therefore, it was able to form governments easily time after time," Swamy said. The Hindus were allegedly divided by the Congress on the basis of "bogus" historical ideas such as the Aryans and Dravidians, castes and so on, he said. The BJP leader said the vote share of the saffron party has gone up because of its Hindutva ideology. "If the Hindutva ideology is intact, then we are going to win elections after elections no matter what the economic performance is unless it goes to really bad," he said. Urging Hindus to sink all their differences and unite to become a community, Swamy said, politically, they must not let themselves get divided on the basis of caste, region or language. Countering the BJP leader's pitch for Hindutva, Owaisi said the beauty of India, where people of different religions live, is in its diversity. "But Swamy, for his Hindutva ideology, is only concerned about the people who believe in this ideology and not even Hindus," he said. Owaisi said the idea of Hindutva clearly says a majority religion can have primacy over other religions and people who do not subjugate themselves to that religion will be treated as second-class citizens.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-not-converting-india-into-hindu-state-subramanian-swamy-878732.html
27-08-2020||National Politics||Centre arm-twisting states on GST compensation: Congress||Congress on Thursday accused the Modi government of arm-twisting the states over GST compensation payouts, accusing it of thrusting a solution on state governments and forcing them to borrow from the RBI. “The Centre is arm-twisting the state governments by saying that accept the solution presented by us or forego the GST compensation,” Chhattisgarh Finance Minister T S Singh Deo told reporters. Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy, who participated in the GST Council Meeting, said he was aghast at the Centre’s claim that it was not legally bound to compensate the state governments in case of a shortfall in indirect tax revenues. “The government of India is duty bound to pay compensation. At least, it should honour the assurance given by the then Finance Minister Arun Jaitley to the state governments on compensation payouts,” Narayanasamy said. Reacting to Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s proposal that the states should borrow to make for the losses on account of non-payment of GST compensation, Congress representatives at the meeting said a solution should not be “forced” on them. Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal sought activation of the disputes resolution mechanism in the Council as provided for in Article 279 of the Constitution. “The Centre should not force solutions on states. We need to activate the dispute resolution mechanism in the GST Council, so that states have legal recourse to what they do not agree upon,” Badal said. Badal said the GST Council Meeting did not take place in a very cordial atmosphere as there was a trust deficit between the Centre and the states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-arm-twisting-states-on-gst-compensation-congress-878739.html
27-08-2020||National Politics||Congress appoints Gaurav Gogoi as deputy leader in Lok Sabha||Congress president Sonia Gandhi appointed Gaurav Gogoi as the party's deputy leader in the Lok Sabha and Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu as its whip in the Lower House of Parliament on Thursday. Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, the leader of the opposition party in the Lok Sabha, and K Suresh, its chief whip in the Lower House, confirmed the development. The appointments came ahead of the Monsoon Session of Parliament, which is likely to commence from September 14. It is seen as a move by the Congress to strengthen its team of floor leaders in the Lower House, party leaders said. The opposition party did not have a deputy leader in the Lok Sabha till now. A three-time MP from Punjab, Bittu has been entrusted with the responsibility of the Congress whip in the Lok Sabha. Another MP from Kerala, Manickam Tagore, is the other whip of the party in the Lower House. Gogoi hails from Assam, where Assembly polls are due early next year. The MP from the Kaliabor Lok Sabha constituency was the party's whip in the House till now and has been elevated. Gogoi is the son of former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi. He was blessed with a daughter earlier this week. During the previous Lok Sabha, Amarinder Singh was the deputy leader of the Congress, before he became the chief minister of Punjab.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-appoints-gaurav-gogoi-as-deputy-leader-in-lok-sabha-878785.html
27-08-2020||National Politics||Sonia, Mamata bonhomie creates buzz||The bonhomie between Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee, in opposing the Centre over the issue of holding NEET and JEE amid the Covid-19 pandemic, has created abuzz in the political circles in West Bengal. According to sources, a section of leaders in both the parties is keen to know if the central leadership of the Congress will join forces with the TMC to keep the BJP at bay in the state. The development comes at a time when the Assembly elections in Bengal are just a few months away and the CPM-led Left Front and the Congress are keen to come together to take on the TMC. However, a section of state Congress leaders said that there is “nothing confusing” about it as the political compulsions at the state and national level often considerably varies. They pointed out that, earlier, the Left Front had supported the Congress-led UPA government at the Centre, when Congress was in the Opposition during the Left Front era in Bengal. “Things do not always happen in a straight forward manner in politics. Considering what the BJP government is doing in the name of holding examinations, the Congress president can take a decision in collaboration with chief ministers of Opposition ruled states including Mamata Banerjee. But that does not mean that the Congress’ position as an Opposition party in Bengal will get compromised,” said senior state Congress leader and MP Pradip Bhattacharya. However, a section of Congress leaders is not very keen on the possibility of the party joining forces with TMC. They pointed out that the alleged defection tactics of the ruling party in Bengal has done considerable damage to the Congress. They also pointed out that the TMC was once an alliance partner of the BJP. Urban Development Minister Firhad Hakim, a senior TMC leader, has said that the CPM and the Congress are trying to survive in Bengal by clinging on to each other and what the Congress is doing in the state is not very important.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sonia-mamata-bonhomie-creates-buzz-878794.html
27-08-2020||National Politics||Loyalists land key roles in Congress; party sets up 5-member committee to examine Modi govt's ordinances||The Congress appears to be sidelining ‘dissenters’ as loyalists have been handed over key responsibilities in the organisation. Young leaders Gaurav Gogoi and Ravneet Singh Bittu were appointed deputy leader and party whip in the Lok Sabha respectively, ignoring the claims of Manish Tewari for a role in the organisation. The Congress has also set up a five-member committee with senior leader Jairam Ramesh as the convenor to examine the ordinances issued by the Modi government during the intersession period. The panel has senior leaders P Chidambaram and Digvijaya Singh, Gogoi and IAS-officer-turned Lok Sabha member Amar Singh as members. The appointment of Digvijaya Singh to the committee marks his return to central politics after a hiatus in state politics. The two-term Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister and Rajya Sabha member was removed as AICC General Secretary in 2017, following which he focused his energies on state politics. Curiously, the new appointments do not find a place for any of the 23 letter-writers who has sought sweeping changes in the party. The party has sought the legal expertise of former Union Finance Minister P Chidambaram over former Law Minister Kapil Sibal, who has been the ‘go to’ person for the party in all matters legal. The choice of Amar Singh, a first term Lok Sabha member, is seen as a snub to former union minister Tewari, who was one of the signatories to the letter that caused much upheaval in the organisation. Among the 23 dissenters, Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad has been vocal about the issues raised in the letter, including on organisational elections, leading to much discomfort within the party. “I have been silent for four days on recent events in Congress because once Congress President says the issue is behind us, it is the duty of all of us to work together constructively in the interests if the party. I urge my colleagues to uphold this principle and end the debate,” Shashi Tharoor, another signatory to the letter, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/loyalists-land-key-roles-in-congress-party-sets-up-5-member-committee-to-examine-modi-govts-ordinances-878823.html
27-08-2020||North and Central||IAF rescues man stranded on island in J&K's Rajouri||In a swift action, the Indian Air Force on Wednesday rescued a civilian who was left stranded on a marooned island in Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir, a defence spokesman said. Heavy rains battered most parts of Jammu region, including Rajouri, over the past two days, leaving the water bodies swollen. “A message was received in the evening regarding an individual stranded on a marooned island following overflowing river south of Naushera. An Indian Air Force (IAF) helicopter of the Helicopter Unit captained by Squadron Leader Ganesh Prasad Honakuppe was immediately pressed into service to rescue him,” the spokesman said. He said the helicopter reached the spot at 6.15 pm. “The crew quickly selected an appropriate spot to position the helicopter close to the ground since no suitable space was available for landing. Two Garud special forces commandos were then lowered onto the island and reached the individual who was in shock and was unresponsive,” the spokesman said. The man was then evacuated to the nearest landing ground available at Naushera Army area and handed over to the authorities for further treatment, he said. “The IAF responded swiftly and rescued the individual before the water level could rise to dangerous levels during the night. The overall mission was very closely coordinated by Group Captain Sandeep Singh,” the spokesman added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/iaf-rescues-man-stranded-on-island-in-jks-rajouri-878368.html
27-08-2020||North and Central||Man injured in Monday's shooting incident in Ghaziabad dies during treatment; one person arrested||A person who sustained bullet injuries when assailants opened indiscriminate fire and killed a 29-year-old man in Modinagar here died at a Meerut hospital on Wednesday while undergoing treatment, police said. The incident had taken place on Monday night when the assailants targeted Akshay Sangwan outside his Krishna Kunj Colony residence in Tibra village when he was celebrating his birthday. They had called Sangwan on his phone, asked him to meet them outside the house and fired on him the moment he stepped out. Sangwan was immediately rushed to a private hospital, where doctors declared him dead. Police said Anurag Tyagi was also injured in the attack and was taken to a private hospital in Kankar Khera town adjacent to the Meerut cantonment area. Tyagi died during treatment on Wednesday, SHO of Kankar Khera police station Bijendra Rana said. The police said CCTV footage was being inspected to determine where Tyagi was during the attack and how he was shot. Tyagi was reportedly a friend of Ashwani, one of the prime accused in the case. Meanwhile, Modinagar police have arrested a man identified as Rahul, brother of Ashwani, for allegedly sheltering the assailants after the attack, Superintendent of Police, Rural, Neeraj Kumar Jadaun told PTI. Five people -- Ashwani, Vikas, Sapoo Gurjjar, Amit, alias Chuiya, and Aditya, alias Vasu -- have been booked for the murder of Akshay Sangwan, while three others -- a woman named Ruby, BJP MLA Manju Shivach's husband Devendra Shivach, and Ashish, husband of the village head of Tibra -- have been named under section 120B of the IPC for hatching the conspiracy of murder. Sangwan's post-mortem report reveals that he sustained four bullet wounds in the attack, Jadaun said, adding that police were raiding possible hideouts of the culprits to nab them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-injured-in-mondays-shooting-incident-in-ghaziabad-dies-during-treatment-one-person-arrested-878369.html
27-08-2020||North and Central||Cloudy skies followed by rain predicted in Delhi||Cloudy skies are expected to keep the mercury in check in the national capital on Thursday while a fresh spell of rain is likely towards the evening, the weather department said. The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to settle around 33 degrees Celsius and 26 degrees Celsius, respectively.   The India Meteorological Department had on Tuesday issued an alert for "moderate to heavy" rains in the national capital from Wednesday to Friday.   The rain is likely to inundate low-lying areas and disrupt traffic on roads, it had warned. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the IMD, said the monsoon trough will remain close to Delhi-NCR till Friday.  Delhi has recorded 213.3 mm rainfall against the normal of 228.2 mm in August so far, a deficiency of 7 per cent. Overall, it has gauged 531.9 mm precipitation against the normal of 504.3 mm since June 1, when the monsoon season starts, the Met department said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cloudy-skies-followed-by-rain-predicted-in-delhi-878444.html
27-08-2020||North and Central||Water level in Yamuna rising but likely to stay below warning mark: Official||The water level of the Yamuna in Delhi rose slightly on Thursday morning and the river was flowing precariously close to the warning mark, officials said. The water level was recorded at 203.68 metres at the Old Railway Bridge at 6 pm on Wednesday. It rose to 203.77 metres at 10 am on Thursday morning, an official of the irrigation and flood control department said.    “The water level is likely to remain below the warning mark of 204.50 metres unless a very large amount of water, at least 2 lakh cusec, is released into the river from the Hathnikund barrage in Haryana's Yamunanagar district,” the official said.  Water was being released into the Yamuna at the rate of 18,111 cusec at 8 am from the Hathnikund barrage. “The flow rate was 24,994 cusec at 2 pm on Wednesday, the maximum in the last 24 hours,” he said. One cusec is equivalent to 28.32 litres per second. The river had swollen to 204.38 metres on Monday, which was just a metre below the danger mark of 205.33 metres. The water discharged from the barrage — which provides drinking water to Delhi — normally takes 36-48 hours to reach the capital. Normally, the flow rate at the Hathnikund barrage is 352 cusec, but the discharge is increased after heavy rainfall in catchment areas. Last year, the flow rate had peaked to 8.28 lakh cusec on August 18-19, and the water level of the Yamuna had hit the 206.60 meter-mark, breaching the danger mark of 205.33 meters. The Delhi government had to launch evacuation and relief operations after the overflowing river submerged many low-lying areas. In 1978, the river had swollen to the all-time record water level of 207.49 meters. In 2013, it had risen to 207.32 metres. Delhi's Water Minister Satyendar Jain had Monday said the government was ready to deal with any flood-like situation. The India Meteorological Department has also warned of "heavy to very heavy" rainfall in northwest India, which is likely to increase water levels of the river.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/water-level-in-yamuna-rising-but-likely-to-stay-below-warning-mark-official-878482.html
27-08-2020||North and Central||12-year-old girl raped in Uttar Pradesh's Greater Noida, accused held after gunfight||A 12-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a man in Uttar Pradesh's Greater Noida and the accused arrested after a gunfight with police personnel, officials said on Thursday. The incident took place in Ecotech 3 police station area on Tuesday afternoon after which an FIR was lodged, and the accused was identified and nabbed on Wednesday, the officials said. "The case was challenging as the accused was wearing a face mask at the time of the crime and there was no eyewitness of the incident. The victim too had seen the accused for the first time. Police teams swung into action and the accused was identified," Deputy Commissioner of Police (Women Safety) Vrinda Shukla said. "When a police team reached the location of the accused, he tried to run away from the spot. He also opened fire on the team in his bid to escape but was overpowered and caught," Shukla said. The officer said she met the minor girl, whose parents are daily wage earners, and she was in a stable condition and getting adequate medical care. Further legal proceedings in the case are underway, Shukla added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/12-year-old-girl-raped-in-uttar-pradeshs-greater-noida-accused-held-after-gunfight-878492.html
27-08-2020||North and Central||Internal war in Jammu and Kashmir Congress: Voices go shriller for changing president||At a time when Congress is battling with leadership crisis at the national level, voices have started emerging within the party’s Jammu and Kashmir unit regarding the change of president in the Union Territory (UT). Sources told Deccan Herald that J&K Congress vice-president G N Monga and a group of eight to ten other senior leaders have shot a letter to the party President, Sonia Gandhi seeking removal of incumbent president, GA Mir from the position. Similarly, they said, another communication has been sent to the party high command by a group of former legislators of the Congress seeking removal of Mir as the party president. “The signatories of the letter include, former ministers, Peerzada Mohammad Sayeed, G M Saroori, Tara Chand and Manohar Lal, former legislators, Jugal Kishor, Jehangir Mir, Mohammad Amin Bhat and others,” they claimed. In both the letters addressed to Sonia Gandhi, party sources said, the J&K leaders have warned the high command that more and more workers will leave the party “if Mir is not removed.” Mir, who had been appointed as the president of J&K Congress in March 2015, contested 2019 Lok Sabha polls from south Kashmir’s Anantnag constituency, but lost to National Conference candidate Hasnain Masoodi. “There is an internal war going on within the Congress and Mir has lost grip over the party affairs creating a huge leadership vacuum,” a senior Congress leader wishing anonymity told DH. “In Jammu, where the party has a huge vote base, the leadership is totally annoyed with the policies of Mir. The party has failed to counter the rise of the BJP and if immediate steps are not taken by the high command, there is possibility that the Congress may be wiped out from the J&K,” he warned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/internal-war-in-jammu-and-kashmir-congress-voices-go-shriller-for-changing-president-878539.html
27-08-2020||North and Central||Unfortunate that Jitin Prasada is being targeted in UP: Kapil Sibal||Congress leader Kapil Sibal, who was among those who wrote a letter to party chief Sonia Gandhi seeking organisational overhaul, on Thursday alleged that party leader Jitin Prasada is being targeted in Uttar Pradesh and termed it as "unfortunate". Prasada, a former union minister, was among the signatories to the letter that sought an active and full-time party president. Prasad is also a special invitee to the CWC. "Unfortunate that Jitin Prasada is being officially targeted in UP.Congress needs to target the BJP with surgical strikes instead of wasting its energy by targeting its own," Sibal said on Twitter. Reacting to it, another Congress leader, Manish Tewari who was also a signatory to the letter, posted a single word "Prescient" on Twitter.   The Lakhimpur Kheri District Congress reportedly passed a resolution demanding action against Prasada, a leader from Uttar Pradesh, and has accused his family of being against the Gandhi family. Jitender Prasad, the father of Jitin Prasada, had also unsuccessfully contested for the post of Congress president against Sonia Gandhi in the past, the DCC reportedly said. The charge comes three days after the Congress Working Committee urged Sonia Gandhi to continue as party president and bring about organisational changes. The CWC was convened to discuss the leadership issue and the letter written by over 20 leaders on the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/unfortunate-that-jitin-prasada-is-being-targeted-in-up-kapil-sibal-878545.html
27-08-2020||North and Central||Incessant rains continue in most parts of Jammu and Kashmir; no immediate threat of floods||Incessant rains continued in most parts of Jammu and Kashmir for the third consecutive day on Thursday, leading to increase in the water level in major rivers and streams but there was no immediate threat of floods, officials said. The 270-km Jammu-Srinagar national highway, the only all-weather road linking Kashmir with the rest of the country, also remained closed for the third day, while landslides triggered by overnight rains led to the closure of several other hilly roads in different parts of the Jammu division this morning, they said. "The situation so far is under control though the water level in major rivers and streams across Jammu region is increasing due to heavy rains in the catchment areas. However, there is no immediate threat of floods," Superintending Engineer (hydraulic Circle), Irrigation and Flood Control department Jammu, Sumit Puri told PTI. He said the water level in river Tawi in the city at noon was 10.30 ft which is seven feet below danger mark while the gauge in river Chenab near Akhnoor in the outskirts of Jammu read 29 feet which is also almost six feet below the danger mark. "Our teams are monitoring the water level regularly and have already sounded an alert, asking people not to come closer to the swollen water bodies as a precautionary measure," he said, adding that people need to exercise caution as the weatherman has predicted more rains during the day. He said the water level in Tawi and other water bodies was expected to increase by two to three feet in the next couple of hours. Five persons, including a couple, were killed and a number of cattle perished in separate incidents of landslides and house collapse in different parts of the Jammu region, while a bridge and dozens of thatched hutments belonging to Gujjar and Bakarwals were washed away over the past two days. The residents in many areas also faced a lot of hardships after water from overflowing streams entered their homes and pedestrians had to walk through water-logged roads to reach their destination. A number of roads in various localities were also damaged by the rains, the officials said, adding that a clear picture about the extent of damage would emerge after a detailed assessment. The officials said thousands of vehicles, mostly trucks, remained stranded on Jammu-Srinagar national highway which remained closed for the third day on Thursday. The highway was closed for vehicular traffic on Tuesday after a massive landslide struck the arterial road at Dalwas in Ramban district but the road clearance work was hit by inclement weather which triggered fresh landslides and shooting of stones from the hillocks overlooking the highway at nearly a dozen places between Banihal-Nashri sector. "The highway is still closed as overnight rains triggered fresh landslides and shooting of stones at various places including Panthiyal, Digdole, Samroli, Dalwas, Kunfer, Monkey Morh and Moum Passi," a traffic department official said, adding that despite inclement weather, the restoration work is going on to ensure early reopening of the road. He said landslides also forced the closure of different hilly roads, including Basohli-Kathua, Kotranka-Rajouri, Paddar-Kishtwar, Basant-Dudu and Doda-Bhaderwah, this morning and the men and machines are on the job to restore these roads.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/incessant-rains-continue-in-most-parts-of-jammu-and-kashmir-no-immediate-threat-of-floods-878577.html
27-08-2020||North and Central||Two illegal buildings owned by Mukhtar Ansari demolished in Lucknow||In an operation against encroachment on government land on Thursday morning, the authorities here demolished two illegal buildings owned by gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari in the posh Dalibagh area, officials said. Government officials and police personnel were present in large numbers in the area when the buildings were being demolished, a government spokesman said. "UP police today demolished illegal property of gangster Mukhtar Ansari. All the expenses for the demolition will be realised by the Yogi government from the gangster. Criminals should either give up crime or be ready to face such tough decisions," Mrityunjay Kumar, media adviser to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, said in a tweet. The building had been constructed on "nishkrant sampatti", belonging to people who have migrated to Pakistan, the government spokesman said. Expenses of the demolition will be recovered and an FIR will also be lodged, he said, adding that the responsibility of officials under whom this illegal construction took place will be fixed. The map of the property was not passed by the Lucknow Development Authority (LDA), the spokesman said. The state government had recently seized properties of aides of Mukhtar Ansari, the sitting BSP MLA from Mau, and also suspended arms licences of four of his aides in Ghazipur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-illegal-buildings-owned-by-mukhtar-ansari-demolished-in-lucknow-878581.html
27-08-2020||North and Central||Inter-state public transport resumes in Chhattisgarh||The Chhattisgarh government has allowed operations of inter-state public transport, which were shut since mid March due to the coronavirus outbreak, an official said on Thursday. State Transport Commissioner Kamalpreet Singh on Wednesday issued an order for resumption of the inter-state bus service and movement of other public transport with India tourist permit in the state with immediate effect for people's convenience, the public relations department official said. "But to prevent the spread of coronavirus infection, the transporters will have to follow certain guidelines issued by the transport department while operating the passenger buses," he said. As per the guidelines, buses will be permitted to stop at designated points only while during the journey, travellers, as well as the bus staff, will have to keep their faces covered, he said. "While boarding and de-boarding of passengers, the bus operator will have to ensure strict compliance of social distancing norms. Even during the travel, social and physical distancing will have to be followed inside the vehicle," he said. The buses will have to be sanitised regularly and for its sanitisation, chemicals like sodium hypochlorite will be used, he said. During the travel, cigarette, paan, gutka, tobacco consumption and spitting will be strictly prohibited, he said. The bus operators will have to keep a date-wise record of the route, details of passengers and bus staff so that it could be presented before district administration for contact tracing purposes whenever required, he said. The government had last month allowed intra-state operations of public transport. Till Wednesday, Chhattisgarh had reported 24,550 COVID-19 cases. However, of these cases, 10,174 were active cases as 14,145 people have been discharged and 231 have died.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/inter-state-public-transport-resumes-in-chhattisgarh-878590.html
27-08-2020||North and Central||Hunger, hopelessness drive migrant workers back to cities||It's been five months since the pandemic struck, forcing the government to impose a nationwide lockdown in phases, and triggering a wave of migration from Delhi, Mumbai Bengaluru, Hyderabad among other cities - with many labourers hoping to start their life afresh in their hometowns. The Centre had launched Rs 50,000-crore Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan for the migrants in June, and the state governments had also assured them jobs. Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar had promised the over-20 lakh migrants who returned to the state that his government would create jobs for them so that they are not forced to venture outside out of "majboori" (compulsion). The wait for employment, however, only got longer. With flight services having now resumed and special trains made available for interstate travel, the migrant workers in the two eastern states are making a beeline for leaving their hometowns. The employers, many of whom had virtually abandoned the migrant labourers, are sending them train and even flight tickets to fetch them back as factories whir back to life, construction activities pick up and the sowing season sets in. Pappan Singh, a Delhi-based mushroom grower who had sent 10 of his workers back to Bihar in May, has now booked air tickets worth over Rs 1 lakh, for them to return. Singh said his business was taking a hit in the absence of the labourers. Bhupesh Negi, Director, Jayprakash Narayan Airport in Patna, told PTI, "Flights to Mumbai, Delhi, Hyderabad and Bengaluru are running full. Almost 80 percent of the passengers are migrant labourers. Our staff members are helping them complete the travel formalities." Mail and express trains to places like Ahmedabad, Amritsar and Bengaluru are also running to capacity. This is in sharp contrast to the scene a few months ago, when desperate migrant workers returned home from these cities -- many of them walking, some cycling and others in trucks. The average occupancy in Muzaffarpur-Ahmedabad special train is 184 percent, Jaynagar-Amritsar special 160 percent, Danapur-Bengaluru city special 176 percent, Darbhanga- Ahmedabad special 164 percent, Darbhanga-Lokmanya Tilak Terminus 182 percent and Rajgir-New Delhi special 175 percent, a chart released by East Central Railway revealed. Binod Paswan of Samastipur's Khanpur block flew back to Indore recently, courtesy his employer at a flour mill. "How long could I have waited for an alternative source of income at home? So when the factory owner telephoned me, I agreed to return to Indore," he said. According to officials, the flight of migrants from Darbhanga, Araria and Bhagalpur, however, has slowed down due to floods wreaking havoc in these areas over the past month. Official figures in Bihar suggest that a total of 193.63 lakh job cards have been issued so far. The state has also created 259.6 lakh mandays under MGNREGA. Bihar Minister of Information and Public Relations Department, Neeraj Kumar, told PTI that the government has been working sincerely to provide employment to the returnees. "During the RJD rule, when there was no such public health crisis, mass exodus of people from Bihar had happened, and nobody wanted to return. Now people chose to return to their homes as they have full faith in the Nitish Kumar government. Many of them have also got jobs," he said. Viswanath Shah of Muzaffarpur district, who returned to Gujarat to rejoin work as a mason, has a different story to share. "It was difficult to get a job in my hometown ... My family was finding it difficult to make ends meet. I had no option but to return to work." In Odisha, where over seven lakh people had returned from different parts of the country due to the coronavirus- triggered lockdown, the situation is no different. More than four lakh migrant workers returned to Ganjam district alone with the district shortly after turning into a Covid-19 hotspot. Lack of employment opportunities is now pushing the returnees to embark on a reverse journey to their workplaces in Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. Special buses are being arranged by employers to transport the labourers to their workplaces, one of the returnees said. According to Harihar Pal, an Odia industrialist based in Surat, the migrant labourers are returning to the cities as they failed to secure jobs in their native places. Also, factories in Gujarat, where labourers from the eastern coastal state form a major chunk of the workforce, are finding it difficult to run without them, he said. Odisha Industries and MSME Minister Dibya Shankar Mishra claimed only a few labourers who returned to their native places in the state due to the lockdown have gone back. "Those who chose to stay back will surely be provided employment," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hunger-hopelessness-drive-migrant-workers-back-to-cities-878594.html
27-08-2020||North and Central||Two migrant labourers found hanging at their homes in Uttar Pradesh||The body of a 33-year-old man was found hanging from the ceiling fan in his room in Aliha village on Wednesday, they said. The man, identified as Chutku, used to work as a labourer in Haryana and had recently returned to his hometown, SHO of Bisanda police station Akhilesh Mishra said. In another incident, 40-year-old Rambabu was found hanging at his residence in Dighwat village, the police said. Rambabu was a daily wager and had returned from Delhi during the lockdown, SHO of Chilla police station Ramashray Singh said. The reason behind the suspected suicides was yet to be known, according to the police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-migrant-labourers-found-hanging-at-their-homes-in-uttar-pradesh-878607.html
27-08-2020||North and Central||Union Minister Krishan Pal Gurjar tests positive for Covid-19||Union Minister Krishan Pal Gurjar on Thursday said that he has tested positive for Covid-19. The 63-year-old MP from Faridabad requested all those who came in contact with him recently to get themselves tested for coronavirus. The minister of state for social justice and empowerment said he took some health problems seriously and got himself tested for coronavirus.   “I consulted doctors and will undergo treatment. I urge all those who came in my contact over the past few days to take coronavirus seriously and get themselves tested,” Gurjar said in a tweet in Hindi. Earlier, BJP MPs from Karnal, Hisar and Kurukshetra—Sanjay Bhatia, Brijendra Singh and Nayab Singh Saini- had tested positive for coronavirus. Eight BJP MLAs from Haryana have also tested positive for coronavirus which includes Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, State Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma and Agriculture Minister J P Dalal. Meanwhile, Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja said she has home quarantined herself for a week after coming in contact with a person who later tested positive. In a tweet, Selja said she took the step as a precautionary measure. As of Wednesday, the state reported over 58,000 Covid-19 cases. As many as 634 people have died due to the virus in the state so far. Faridabad district is the hardest-hit with 12,093 cases and 166 fatalities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/union-minister-krishan-pal-gurjar-tests-positive-for-covid-19-878617.html
27-08-2020||North and Central||PDP leaders detained while trying to protest against detention of Kashmiris||Several PDP leaders and supporters were detained on Thursday after they tried to take out a protest march here against the detention of Kashmiris, including politicians, officials said. The PDP leaders and supporters assembled at the party office near the Sher-e-Kashmir Park here and tried to take out the march, the officials said. They added that the protesters raised slogans demanding the release of Kashmiris jailed in and outside the Union Territory and political prisoners, including PDP Chief and former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti. The protesters tried to march towards the city centre, however, police stopped them, the officials said. Some of the protesters were taken into custody, they added. The party said the police stopped a peaceful protest against the detention of political prisoners, the "harassment" of youngsters, the "gag" on media and "gross human rights violations". "Police stops peaceful protest of @jkpdp leaders against the detention of political prisoners, the harassment of youth, the gag on media & rights violations. Police have now detained PDP leaders Rouf Bhat, Hamid Qousheen, Shanti Singh, Arif Laigroo & Mohd Amin," the party said on its official Twitter handle. Meanwhile, Mufti's daughter Iltija took to Twitter over the police action and said "enforced normalcy through institutionalised repression" stood exposed. "PDP's Hamid Kohsheen, Rauf Bhat, Arif, @HarbakshDr, Mushtaq & Omar protesting against illegal detention of Kashmiris in & outside J&K have been arrested in Srinagar. Enforced normalcy through institutionalised repression stands exposed. Peaceful protest is also sedition," she wrote on her mother's Twitter handle, which she has been using since last year after Mufti was taken into custody.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pdp-leaders-detained-while-trying-to-protest-against-detention-of-kashmiris-878632.html
27-08-2020||North and Central||After a decade, Rohtang Tunnel ready for opening next month||The Rs 4,000-crore Rohtang Tunnel, the world's longest motorable roadway at an altitude of over 3,000 metres, is ready for opening next month following the completion of civil works that began a decade ago. The tunnel will be opened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi by mid-September, Satish Paretkar, Director of Hydro & Underground business unit at Afcons told PTI. A joint venture of Shapoorji Pallonji Group-run Afcons and Strabag of Austria won the Engineering Procurement & Construction (EPC) tender for Rs 1,458 crore from Border Road Organisation in 2009. The cost of the project has crossed Rs 2,500 crore now, he said. The civil works started in 2009 and were to be completed within 6.5 years. Paretkar said the exact date of opening of the tunnel is yet to be finalised. The 9.02 kilometres-long Atal Tunnel, named after former Prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, passes under the Rohtang Pass in the eastern Pir Panjal range on the Leh-Manali highway at an altitude of 3,060 metres at the lowest and 3,078 metres at the peak. The tunnel is 10.5 metres wide and has a height of 5.52 metres and a car can zip through at 80 kmph. According to Paretkar, the horseshoe-shaped single-tube, double-lane tunnel has many firsts. With a length of 9.02 km, it is the longest in the world at an altitude of over 3,000 metres or 10,000 feet mean sea level, he said. Further, it is also the country's first tunnel to have an escape tunnel within the main tunnel because of the topography. Globally, escape tunnels are built separately along the main tunnel. This is also the first tunnel to deploy the Rowa flyer technology, which allows engineers to work at inverted levels, he said. Paretkar said the delay in completion of the tunnel was mainly due to the 410-metre long Seri Nalla, a brook. "Seri Nalla was emitting over 125 litres of water per second, making work really hard. In my entire engineering life, this was the toughest job to execute. It took us more than three years to drill 410 metres along the Nalla," he said. In the Seri Nalla zone in the South Portal, engineers faced a regular collapse of the tunnel face due to extremely poor geological conditions. Afcons deployed over 1,000 workmen and 150 engineers. The engineering design was done by the Australian Snowy Mountain Engineering Company. The tunnel has consumed 14,508 metric tonnes of steel and 2,37,596 metric tonnes of cement, and excavated out 14 lakh cubic metres soil and rocks, using the drill and blast technique for excavation and the New Austrian Tunnelling method for construction, Paretkar said. At the peak, the tunnel is 2.5 km deep in under mountain belly at the South Portal side and the lowest overburden is 1.5 km, Paretkar said. His team is also building the world's highest single-arch railway bridge across the Chenab in J&K. The terrain is so dangerous that there are 13 avalanche zones around the tunnel, yet there was not a single fatal accident in all these 10 years of the project life, he said, adding that each worker is given an electronic chip that will warn of any danger. The all-weather tunnel connects Manali to Lahaul and Spiti Valley throughout the year reducing the distance on the Manali-Rohtang Pass-Sarchu-Leh road by 46 kilometres and drive-time by 4-5 hours between Manali and Lahaul-Spiti. It is along one of the only two routes into Ladakh and will become key to resupplying military garrisons. The tunnel was conceived way back in 1983 by the Indira Gandhi government to make the Manali-Leh road all-weather. But it was only in 2002, that the then Atal Bihari Vajpayee government declared the construction of the tunnel and laid the foundation for the approach road to the tunnel. The project began to move only in September 2009.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-a-decade-rohtang-tunnel-ready-for-opening-next-month-878662.html
27-08-2020||North and Central||After letter to Sonia, UP Congress leaders demand to expel Jitin Prasada||After the fiery Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting following the 'letter bomb', factional fighting came to the fore in the Uttar Pradesh Congress with many senior state leaders gunning for the heads of the signatories to the letter. Many leaders have demanded the expulsion of former Union minister and senior Congress leader Jitin Prasada, who was among the 23 party leaders who had signed the letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi seeking overhauling in the party organisation, from the party. A resolution regarding this was also adopted at a meeting of the Lakhimpur Kheri district unit of the Congress on Thursday, according to the party sources here. "Prasada has committed an act of indiscipline by signing such a letter...he should be acted against...he should be expelled," district Congress president Prahlad Patel said. Former MP from Lakhimpur Kheri Zafar Ali Naqvi also supported the demand. Scores of Congress workers, who had gathered at the party office, also raised slogans against Prasada. Prasada, who had earlier lent support to former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, when the latter had rebelled, has been spearheading the party's campaign to corner the UP government on alleged 'persecution' of the 'Brahmins' in the state. Prasada, who is a 'Brahmin', had recently undertaken a 'Pad Yatra' (foot march) during which he had met the 'Brahmin' families, whose members had been killed in the past few months. Meanwhile, former Congress MP Kapil Sibal slammed those demanding Prasada's expulsion and asked the party leaders to attack the BJP instead of targeting their own party leaders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-letter-to-sonia-up-congress-leaders-demand-to-expel-jitin-prasada-878698.html
27-08-2020||North and Central||Centre should take loan from RBI and give to Delhi govt: Manish Sisodia||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia Thursday said that under the existing system, the city government cannot take a loan from the RBI to meet its revenue shortfall. “However, under the current hybrid system (of governance), the Delhi government cannot take a loan from the RBI. The Centre should take a loan from the RBI and give it to the Delhi government," he said. Sisodia also charged the Centre with failing to fulfil its promise to the states at the launch of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime four years ago. "The Centre had promised that it will pay GST compensation to states at the rate of 14 per cent for five years in case of a revenue shortfall. But, today at the GST Council meeting, the Centre refused it, saying there was no provision for compensation in situations like a pandemic," Sisodia said in a briefing. The Delhi government is expected to have a revenue shortfall of around Rs 21,000 crore in the current financial year, Sisodia said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-should-take-loan-from-rbi-and-give-to-delhi-govt-manish-sisodia-878706.html
27-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi's containment zones likely to increase with doubling of Covid-19 tests, further relaxations: Officials||The number of Covid-19 containment zones in Delhi, which currently stand at 716, may be increased owing to further relaxations under 'Unlock' and doubling of coronavirus tests, officials said on Thursday. Covid-19 tests in Delhi will be doubled to 40,000 per day within a week as there has been a marginal increase in the number of coronavirus cases in the city, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had said on Wednesday, asserting that aggressive testing and isolation will remain his government's strategy to fight the disease. The number of Covid-19 containment zones in Delhi has risen from 539 on August 1 to 716 on August 27. Officials said the rise in the number of containment zones has also been congruent with the increase in cases in the national capital. Officials in some districts said the number of containment zones may rise with the number of Covid-19 tests getting doubled and further relaxations under unlock. However, testing is the way to detect and isolate the positive cases to spread the check of coronavirus, they said. A north east district official said the numbers of containment zones keep on changing frequently since the specifications have been changed. On Wednesday when the national capital recorded 1,693 cases, the city's highest single-day spike this month so far, taking the tally to over 1.65 lakh, the containment zones were increased to 716. Wednesday's figure was also the highest single-day spike in the national capital in the last 45 days. As many as 1,781 fresh cases were reported on July 11. According to data, the number of containment zones had decreased to 496 in the national capital on August 2 and had witnessed a marginal increase to 499 on August 4. The following days, the number declined to 481 and 466. On August 12, the number of containment zones went past 500. On August 23, the number went past 600 and on August 26, it went past 700, data showed. On June 26, it was decided to re-map the containment zones to divide those into micro-clusters for better surveillance and contact-tracing. There were 280 containment zones in Delhi on June 26. On July 20, the number was 696. In July, the number of containment zones in Delhi was more than 700, but it gradually declined in August owing to the government allowing the "red" zones to be denotified 14 days after the discharge of the last confirmed case, instead of the earlier norm of 28 days. The number of containment zones was 716 in Delhi on Wednesday, according to a list available on the revenue department's website. The maximum 150 active containment zones is in southwest district, followed by west (92), north (67) and south (60). All the other districts have less than 50 active containment zones, with New Delhi having the least number of such zones at 18, according to data. Two to three zones come up daily and almost an equal number are decontained. Delhi has seen a fluctuation in the number of coronavirus cases since August 1. On August 1, the number of daily cases reported was 1,118 while for the next three days, the number of infections reported in a day stayed below the 1,000-mark. From August 5 to August 9, the number of fresh Covid-19 cases again stayed above the 1,000-mark, only to come down to 707 on August 10. As many as 1,404 cases were recorded on August 8, the previous highest single-day spike of August. Three days between August 11 and August 22 saw less than 1,000 fresh cases being reported -- August 13 (956), August 16 (652), and August 17 (787). Coincidentally, the days on which the number was below 1,000, the number of tests conducted was also less than the average in the national capital, which is 20,000 daily. The number of active cases in Delhi has also risen from 10,596 on August 1 to 12,520 on August 26.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-containment-zones-likely-to-increase-with-doubling-of-covid-19-tests-further-relaxations-officials-878707.html
27-08-2020||North and Central||Rains resume in Madhya Pradesh, red alert issued for 4 eastern districts||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Thursday issued a red alert stating that extremely heavy rainfall is very likely in four districts of eastern Madhya Pradesh, where monsoon activities have revived in the last 24 hours. It also issued orange and yellow alerts for some other districts in the state. All the alerts are valid till Friday morning, an official said. The red alert, issued by the IMD's Bhopal office, said that extremely heavy rainfall with thunderstorm and lightning is likely to occur at isolated places of Balaghat, Tikamgarh, Damoh and Sagar districts. The orange alert warned that very heavy rainfall along with thunderstorm and lightning is likely at isolated places in 12 districts, including Jabalpur and two divisions of the state- Rewa and Shahdol. Besides, the yellow alert forecast heavy rainfall and thunderstorm with lightning at isolated places in four districts Rajgarh, Shajapur, Guna and Ashok Nagar. Similarly, another yellow alert warned of thunderstorm and lightning at isolated places in 12 districts, including Bhopal. Last week, many parts in western Madhya Pradesh were inundated following good rainfall. "A well-marked low-pressure area is advancing over eastern MP. It is likely to cause good rainfall in next two-three days in the state," Uday Sarwate, a senior meteorologist with the IMD's Bhopal office said. "Many eastern districts have already received showers," he added. The state has received normal rainfall in the ongoing monsoon season so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rains-resume-in-madhya-pradesh-red-alert-issued-for-4-eastern-districts-878719.html
27-08-2020||North and Central||People will not vote in Modi's name in 2022: Uttarakhand BJP Chief||Uttarakhand BJP President Banshidhar Bhagat on Thursday said MLAs in Uttarakhand cannot hope to win the 2022 assembly elections on the strength of the Modi wave and asked them to perform if they wanted to get votes. "People are not going to vote in the name of Modi. They have already voted enough in his name," Bhagat told reporters here. "Your performance alone can win you votes. Those hoping that their boat will sail through in the name of Modi are wrong," he said. The BJP president said the 2022 assembly election in Uttarakhand is a major objective before the party and he has made it clear to the legislators to go to their constituencies and work hard. "Tickets will be distributed on the basis of individual performances," he said.  However, he added that he expected most of the performances to be good. Opposition Congress said Bhagat in his statement admitted that the Modi wave had come to an end.   "We congratulate Bhagat for issuing a right statement which he seldom does. He has admitted that the Modi wave has come to an end. So he is advising his MLAs and leaders to bank upon their own performances for votes," Congress Vice President Suryakant Dhasmana said. It is also an admission of the fact that the party had won the 2017 Uttarakhand Assembly polls and the 2019 parliamentary elections only in the name of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/people-will-not-vote-in-modis-name-in-2022-uttarakhand-bjp-chief-878750.html
27-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt, MHA at loggerheads over Kejriwal decision to double testing in capital||Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government and the Centre are once again locked in a tussle on tackling Covid-19, with the former on Thursday accusing the Amit Shah-led Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) of putting pressure on the state officials not to double the testing to 40,000. However, the MHA denied the allegations, saying it was "without any basis" while emphasising that it has "only proposed" that the views of Dr VK Paul-led Expert Committee may be taken for technical guidance on various issues such as a mix of RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen Tests, categories of geographical areas and demographics. The confrontation came a day after Kejriwal announced that the number of Covid-19 testing will be increased in the capital from the existing around 20,000 to 40,000 in a week, keeping in mind the recent trend of increasing cases. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday wrote to Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla protesting against the move, which the AAP-led government called pressurising its officials. In a press conference, AAP MLA Raghav Chadha said the MHA has acted in an "unconstitutional" way by keeping the Delhi government in the dark. "This order is inexplicable, unexplainable, incomprehensible, shocking, surprising and flabbergasting," he told a press conference. He demanded that the Centre roll back this "illegal, unconstitutional order which has a massive negative impact" over the health situation of Delhi. Chadha said the World Health Organization (WHO) and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) have clearly stated that the only way to fight the pandemic is "testing, testing and testing" and Kejriwal kept this in mind when he took the decision to double the number of testing. On Thursday, Delhi reported 1,840 cases and 22 deaths. For the past few days, the number of cases has been on the rise. Denying the allegations, an MHA spokesperson said it was "false and baseless". The spokesperson said the number of daily tests in Delhi, which was averaging around 4,000 per day till mid-June, rose to around 18-20,000 only after the intervention of Shah. "The marked improvement in the Covid-19 situation in Delhi has been possible due to this enhanced testing and other containment measures...As such, any allegation that MHA is putting pressure on Delhi Govt not to increase testing in Delhi is absolutely without any basis," the spokesperson said. The Centre and Delhi government were at loggerheads earlier over a variety of issues, including on home isolation, reserving hospital beds only for Delhi residents and opening of hotels.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-mha-at-loggerheads-over-kejriwal-decision-to-double-testing-in-capital-878765.html
27-08-2020||North and Central||Punjab minister Brahm Mohindra tests positive for Covid-19||Punjab Parliamentary Affairs Minister Brahm Mohindra tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, a day before the monsoon session of the state assembly begins. The Punjab Legislative Assembly will convene a one-day monsoon session on Friday amid the coronavirus pandemic. Mohindra is the fifth minister of the Amarinder Singh-led state government to have contracted the disease. "I developed fever late yesterday (Wednesday) evening, upon which I got myself tested for Covid-19, as per protocol. The tests have returned positive, and I am now isolating myself. I request everyone who came into contact with me over the past few days to do likewise. God Bless everyone," said Mohindra, the MLA from Patiala (rural), on his Facebook page. Earlier, Rural Development and Panchayats Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Revenue Minister Gurpreet Singh Kangar, Jails Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Industries Minister Sunder Sham Arora had tested positive for Covid-19. Bajwa has recovered from the disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-minister-brahm-mohindra-tests-positive-for-covid-19-878797.html
27-08-2020||North and Central||AIMIM leaders & workers booked for holding meeting in violation of coronavirus lockdown norms||Police registered an FIR against 200 leaders and workers of Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi headed All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) Thursday for organising a meeting near party office here in violation of Covid lockdown. An FIR, naming four AIMIM leaders and rest unknown, has been lodged on the basis of a written complaint by Circle Officer Samir Kumar, police and sources in the civic adminstration said. The Circle Officer acted following direction by District Magistrate Aditya Prakash, who took cognizance of the matter after coming to know about it. Those named in the FIR included- Kishanganj district AIMIM chief Isahaque Alam, former Baisi MLA Rukmuddin, party leaders Abu Samad and Mazahrul Hasan- the CO said. AIMIM leaders held a meeting Wednesday near party office in violation of the lockdown imposed in the state as per which any congregation, rally, procession and crowding of place have been banned, he said. The meeting was organized the previous day where former Baisi MLA Rukmuddin along with his supporters took partys membership. Police have launched the probe into the matter after lodging the FIR in this regard, he added. AIMIM gained a foothold in Bihar winning minority muslims dominated Kisanganj assembly seat in a bypoll in 2019 end. The party is preparing to contest state polls due in October- November.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aimim-leaders-workers-booked-for-holding-meeting-in-violation-of-coronavirus-lockdown-norms-878811.html
27-08-2020||North and Central||Centre has assured MSP system will continue: SAD chief||The Centre has assured that the farm ordinances will have no bearing on the existing crop procurement policy and that the minimum support price (MSP) system will continue, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal said on Thursday. He had written to Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar last month, expressing apprehensions of Punjab’s farmers on the implication of three farm ordinances passed by the Centre. These ordinances are the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance. "There is no change in the present policy of the purchase of agriculture produce through MSP through state agencies," Badal said referring to a letter written to him by Tomar on Wednesday. The SAD chief said the Government of India has further declared that the "official procurement and MSP will not only continue but "will continue to be the priority of the central government". The ruling Congress in Punjab and several farmers' outfits have been opposing these three farm ordinances. They have expressed apprehension that these will pave the way for dismantling of the MSP system. They have also claimed that the ordinances are against the country's federal structure. Badal said that the Centre's assurances have come only after deliberations at the highest level. The SAD chief said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has assured him that these commitments would be reflected in the legislation to turn this ordinance into an Act. "The state APMC (Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee) Act and institutions established under such statutes will continue to operate and are not affected in any way by these ordinances," Badal said while referring to the letter. The SAD chief shared details of the letter at a special meeting of the party's core committee. Addressing a virtual press conference, Badal said, "As long as I am alive, I will not let procurement at MSP to discontinue. This is a cause for which I do not and will not hesitate to make any sacrifice." He said that the SAD wanted to respond to the criticism of its stand on ordinances only after concrete and unequivocal written assurances from the Centre. These assurances are in black and white, and the issue of continuation of procurement of crops at MSP is settled once and for all. Procurement will continue at MSP as before, he said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-has-assured-msp-system-will-continue-sad-chief-878815.html
27-08-2020||Oasis||The vicious cycle of comparison||“Every minute you spend wishing you had someone else’s life is a minute spent wasting your life.” How significant is this message! We make comparisons with others’ lives and become restless and sad. We must learn to value what God has given us, instead of pining for something else which will drag us into a self-created zone of distress. How this vicious cycle is formed can be understood by this very simple story. A crow lived in the forest and was absolutely satisfied in life. But one day he saw a swan and thought, “Ah this swan is so white, and I am so black. The swan must be the happiest bird in the world.” However, the swan who saw a parrot, which had two colours and thought that the parrot was the happiest bird in creation. The parrot was happy until it saw a peacock with multiple colours, and felt low about having only two colours. On hearing all this, the crow then went to see a peacock in the zoo, and saw that hundreds of people had gathered to see him. After the people had left, the crow approached the peacock and said “Oh peacock you are so beautiful, thousands of people come to see you. When people see me, they immediately shoo me away. I think you are the happiest bird on the planet. The peacock replied, “I was happy with my beauty, but because of my beauty, I am entrapped in this zoo. I looked around the zoo very carefully, and I have realized that the crow is the only bird not kept in a cage, so I think that if I were a crow like you,  I could happily roam everywhere. I think you are the happiest.” This is the vicious cycle of comparison and concomitant dissatisfaction. We must remain grateful for what was conferred on us naturally that makes us unique individuals. Instead of being happy with what we have, we always compare ourselves with others and complain about not having what they have. The story repeats from their side too. They see something in us that they lack.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/the-vicious-cycle-of-comparison-878334.html
27-08-2020||Opinion||Why period leave is an empowering idea||The concept of period leave is not new. But the was ball set rolling on the issue once again on August 8, 2020 when Zomato announced 10 days of period leave for their women and transgender employees. As always, there were voices who spoke up for and against the decision. What’s noteworthy is the view of important and powerful women on the issue. Journalist Barkha Dutt tweeted: “Sorry Zomato, as woke as your decision on #PeriodLeave is, this is exactly what ghettoizes women and strengthens biological determinism. We cannot want to join the infantry, report war, fly fighter jets, go into space, want no exceptionalism and want period leave. PLEASE”. Her statement came as a shock to many. After all, this is still a country where topics such as period and menstruation continue to remain a huge taboo. The concept of ‘period leave’ is alien to many because society either refuses to acknowledge the pain that women experience or demonstrates double standards in their behaviour while doing so. In this circumstance, the move to grant period leave actually challenges accepted regressive notions about periods, as well as moving towards an inclusive approach in recognising the issue of pain and discomfort associated with menses. Stigma associated with menses It’s been well documented that menstruation and other reproductive processes are widely stigmatised. While discussing women’s bodies, whether or not we realise it, we have an inherent bias and a strong stereotype that guides our thoughts in the conversation. Menses are generally considered disgusting, and any contact with (or even sight of) someone else’s menstrual blood is something to be avoided, studies have shown. A 2011 study showed that just being seen with products (such as tampons or pads) associated with stigma or speaking openly about one’s personal interest in a stigmatised matter, can shift stigma from the products or the topic to the individual. There is also extensive literature that explains how ‘periods’ can be a painful time for menstruators. The intensity of the pain and discomfort that women experience differs from person to person, but it is a given fact that it is not a smooth time for menstruating individuals. As Chris Williams, former executive director of the UN-body, Water Supply and Sanitation Collaborative Council, argued powerfully in an article written  in 2012: “Girls suffer if they aren’t empowered to manage their menstrual cycle without pain and shame each month”. Changing mindsets Many women and menstruating individuals are not in favour of this policy because they are worried, and rightly so, that they won’t be hired, promoted, given a raise and so on because of this policy. However, what was done in the past need not be repeated. The collective mindset of people needs to undergo a complete shift. It must be understood that while making workplaces equal for all genders, the concept of equity must be followed as well. Our bodies are not identical, and hence our needs are different. In the garb of ‘workplace equality’, let us not reinforce the same patriarchal culture that has led women and all other menstruating individuals to suffer in silence, struggling to hide their pain and tears, lest they open their mouths and jeopardise their careers. Mass media has a big role to play here. If it could genuinely open up and depict the ‘truth’ behind menstruating bodies and experiences, by showing the liquid on the sanitary pad as ‘red’ and not ‘blue’, by not naming sanitary pads as ‘Whisper’ (further stigmatisation) and staying away from stereotypes that depict the menstruating individual being shunned by family members or sitting away from male members, it would truly help in bringing about a change. Companies that want their workplace to be diverse and inclusive in the real sense of the word need to understand that they need to engage with the basic needs of all employees. For centuries menstruation has been dealt with through silence, indifference and neglect. It is more than time that we changed that. (Moitrayee Das is a PhD scholar at Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-period-leave-is-an-empowering-idea-878453.html
27-08-2020||Opinion||600 and swinging: James Anderson’s ascent to pace peak||For extended stretches on the fourth and the fifth days at the Ageas Bowl in Southampton earlier this week, it seemed as if the elements and his own teammates were conspiring to delay James Anderson’s tryst with history. When it wasn’t raining, which wasn’t very often, England’s fielders were shelling catches with the regularity of falling autumn leaves. Anderson had decimated the Pakistan top order with the first four wickets to fall, yet it wasn’t until the final ball of the first innings, that, finally, he was able to complete his 29th five-wicket haul in Test cricket. In a bizarre ten-ball burst late on the fourth evening, England put down three catches no more than straightforward. Not prone to histrionics, Anderson’s face hardened, his darkening mood reflecting the angry skies overhead. When Dom Sibley, at long last, did grab a low chance at third slip to end the Pakistani first innings, Anderson couldn’t even bring himself to smile. The long wait between that slice of action and the resumption of hostilities after scheduled tea on the last day, once Pakistan had been asked to follow on, would have done little to cheer the 38-year-old up. He was perched on 598 Test wickets, no one was sure when England would play another Test match in these Covid-swept times. England’s most prolific wicket-taker was so near, yet so far from becoming the first paceman to reach 600 Test wickets. That truly is a magical number. Before Anderson, only three other men had persevered long enough to reach that milestone – the spin triumvirate of Muttiah Muralitharan, Shane Warne and Anil Kumble. To put things in perspective, when Fred Trueman, the England paceman, became the first in the world to 300 Test wickets, he was asked if he thought anyone would break his record. Typically feistily, the Yorkshireman had replied, “Aye, but whoever does will be bloody tired.” After a frustrating wait that lasted upwards of four playing hours, Anderson toiled for 86 deliveries in Pakistan’s second knock, deep into the last evening, to seal his place in the pantheon. His 600th was a worthy scalp – Azhar Ali, the Pakistan captain who had made an unbeaten 141 in the first dig – and came in the manner that best encapsulates Anderson. Caught at slip, with a delivery that jagged just that little bit away from the right-hander. Here was a Lancastrian, from the other half of the War of the Roses, doubling Trueman’s tally. In an extraordinary 156th appearance, with his 33,717th ball in Test matches. Only Muttiah Muralitharan, who took six fewer deliveries, has reached 600 faster. Fair to say that Anderson was ‘bloody tired’ by the time Joe Root wrapped his hands around the ball. Anderson’s fascinating Test journey has just ticked over to its 18th year. Over time, he has gotten meaner, more dangerous, more versatile, more complete. And he has done all this alongside his staunchest ally, swing. Easily the premier exponent of his era, if not of all time, of a dying art, it’s understandable for clearly obvious reasons why there is a distinct skew between his home and away numbers. England is the home of swing bowling largely because there is no other cricket-playing country where the atmospheric conditions are as favourable. The Duke ball used in England, which retains its shine and bite longer, facilitates swing for longer periods. These are constants for pace bowlers of all ilk; what has singled Anderson out and made him consistently dangerous for so many years are his relentless accuracy, his exceptional wrist and seam positions, and a burning fire that hasn’t dimmed one bit despite so many miles in the legs. There are very few cricketers who possess better records overseas than at home. Anderson is no exception – a whopping 384, or 64 per cent, of his wickets have come in England, at an average of 23.83 and a strike rate of 50.2, both significantly superior to corresponding career numbers of 26.79 and 56.2 respectively. Does that detract from his legacy? Did it make Warne a lesser bowler because he didn’t enjoy the same success in India as elsewhere? Is Ponting not a behemoth because, like his fellow Aussie, he wasn’t quite as prolific in India as in other corners of the globe? The answer, one supposes, is obvious. Anderson’s career has overlapped for the large part with his great mate and destroyer in arms, Stuart Broad – ironically, Broad’s debut in Sri Lanka in 2007 came at Anderson’s expense. Between them, they have more than 1,100 Test wickets; Anderson himself has easily outlasted a few generations of England quicks, turning up each day in an unrelenting, uncompromising quest for perfection. At 38, it isn’t his spirit alone that is willing. (R Kaushik is a Bangalore-based cricket writer with nearly three decades of experience) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/600-and-swinging-james-anderson-s-ascent-to-pace-peak-878508.html
27-08-2020||Panorama||In Hyderabad, Amazon builds its largest office yet||The austere building is hardly distinguishable in the landscape of glass and concrete buildings making up Asia’s Silicon Valley, as Hyderabad is known. It is one of Amazon’s latest developments, the online retailer’s largest office building in the world. With plans to cement its place as the centre of gravity around which online retail revolves, Amazon has turned to India, the world’s fastest-growing market for internet users. And it has picked Hyderabad, a city of nearly 10 million as its base of operations there. But the project faces challenges, including pushback from local businesses and politicians. Hyderabad has emerged in a few short years as a technology and financial centre and a beacon for young talent. The city, which saw the biggest surge in tech office space last year, is already a base in India for other multinational tech companies such as Facebook, Google, Microsoft and Apple, which spent $25 million for the development of its offices there. “Hyderabad is a known software tech talent centre, and the government has been an enabler for us to have a campus this size,” said Minari Shah, an Amazon spokeswoman. “This is an important confirmation of how India continues to be important to Amazon.” Over the past decade, the technology behemoth has woven itself into the fabric of Indian life. And now, four years after construction began, the Hyderabad office, Amazon’s first fully-owned office outside the United States, joins 40 other offices, 67 shipping centres, 1,400 delivery stations and a workforce of more than 60,000 (plus 155,000 contractors) in the country. The record size of the building — 1.8 million square feet — and the total campus area are equal to nearly 65 football fields. They have come to symbolize a defining feature of India’s booming tech industry: the inexorable presence of international tech companies. When Amazon’s founder, Jeff Bezos, visited India in January, he was met with an antitrust case by Indian regulators, who are investigating Amazon and Indian e-commerce giant Flipkart, which is owned largely by Walmart. India bans foreign direct investment in retail, a shift from policy in the United States and Britain. By law, Amazon and other foreign-owned e-commerce firms are required to be neutral marketplaces reliant on independent sellers. But Praveen Khandelwal, founder and general secretary of the Confederation of All India Traders, which oversees 70 million traders and 40,000 trade associations, argues that the firm has hurt domestic trade, resulting in the closure of thousands of homegrown businesses across the country. Amazon’s new Hyderabad office, he said, is merely a way to “push for control and dominance over Indian retail trade in a more structured way.” Khandelwal led protests against Amazon’s trade practices this year. India’s retail regulator is investigating Amazon over allegations that it is using deep discounts and preferred sellers, said Satish Meena, a senior analyst for global technology research firm Forrester. “There are loopholes they’re exploiting; everyone knows that,” Meena said. The challenges emerging in India echo stories in the United States, where American tech giants have squeezed smaller rivals and business owners. Amazon is facing antitrust charges in the European Union, and Bezos and other tech titans were grilled by U.S. lawmakers in July about their anticompetitive practices. Amazon’s 15-story Hyderabad office opened last year. It features prayer rooms, a small synthetic cricket pitch, 49 elevators, a helipad and a cafeteria open 24 hours a day on a campus that, according to the company, is made of 2.5 times more steel than the Eiffel Tower. It’s home to 7,000 employees out of an expected workforce of 15,000, largely comprising technology teams focused on using machine learning and software development to innovate services — such as Amazon Pay’s cash load service for digital transactions in a country with 190 million citizens who do not use banks — as well as customer service workers. Representatives for Amazon declined to comment on the cost of the development but revealed to Bloomberg that it cost “hundreds of millions of dollars” to build. (The campus is Amazon’s largest, but the company plans to open a second headquarters in Arlington, Virginia, which could be as large as 8 million square feet.) Amazon and Flipkart bill themselves as e-commerce marketplaces, matching buyers with independent sellers. That has enabled Amazon to sell products by sellers such as Cloudtail, at prices lower than independent sellers. The effect of Amazon’s strategy has been noted. For the past couple of years, Satinder Wadhwa has struggled to keep his business alive in Greater Kailash, South Delhi, amid the growth of online retail. His speciality watch store, Time & Style, used to be filled with throngs of locals. Now, Wadhwa estimates he gets half as many customers. “People have stopped coming to the market; that means they’re buying online,” Wadhwa said. “If they’re getting a better price and delivery at home, why will they come to us?” As India’s reliance on international tech companies grows, the recent antitrust investigation is only the latest in a chain of events that has led the government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to rein in foreign investment. Meena says there is a panic among local sellers, who feel they are being pushed out of the marketplace as others are given preference, and are now seeing the government raise questions about large tech companies’ business practices only after they have developed their own e-commerce platforms. To circumvent the latest wave of unrest, Bezos announced a $1 billion investment during his visit in January to help small and midsize businesses bolster their online growth. It follows Amazon’s promise of $5 billion in investments in the country in 2016 and another $500 million pledged in food e-commerce the next year. Since the pandemic, however, with e-commerce as the only channel for selling products for months, more small businesses are realizing the potential in working with companies such as Amazon and Flipkart, Meena added. Within the United States, the European Union and now India, Amazon’s ascendancy as a retail giant has been met with antitrust investigations and increased scrutiny over data and tax regulations. But the backlash is hardly a problem for Amazon, Meena said. “It’s not only in India; they will face challenges from regulators all over the world,” he said, adding that Amazon was likely to serve as a blueprint for other international retailers. “Ultimately, they think they have enough value and time to capture the Indian market,” he said. “That’s what they are hoping for.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/in-hyderabad-amazon-builds-its-largest-office-yet-878332.html
27-08-2020||Panorama||Do we have the teachers to implement NEP?||The New Education Policy has set ambitious goals. It is short, however, on how these goals will be achieved. Several of the goals, particularly for early education, are laudable and necessary. A focus on learning by doing, a multi-disciplinary perspective and increased emphasis on creativity and inquiry, would indeed be game-changers if successful. Where will we find teachers who will be able to deliver these? How will we replace or transform inadequately prepared and poorly incentivised, and often absent, teachers that currently exist? A suggestion is to make the qualifications required for a teacher’s job to be more demanding. After all, don’t we want our teachers to be better qualified? The answer, counter-intuitively, is a resounding no for the twenty-first century. It is a mistake to think of the teacher as an expert. It is better to think of the teacher as a motivator, an inspirer, a counsellor, a guru. In the gurukul tradition, the guru played exactly that role. The guru was not an expert. How could the guru possibly have been an expert in several fields? An expert, by definition, means someone who has deep knowledge in one field. But the guru, or our twenty-first-century teacher, need only know where to find the expertise. The knowledge is now efficiently stored and can be retrieved easily using modern technology. For example, the best computer science course is more likely available as an online class by a top professor at Stanford or MIT that can be made available to hundreds and thousands of students anywhere in the world. But we will still need a wise teacher to tell us where to find the right information. Thus, the teacher becomes a curator. This is not a trivial job. But the skills required are markedly different and I believe that many more people can be taught to become effective curators of knowledge than become experts and content creators themselves. This is good news because we need a lot more people who can become teachers with less onerous training and qualifications. Technology optimists may go further and even suggest that curators can be completely replaced by technology and intelligent search engines (an AI-enhanced Google search, for example). I disagree. That is because I think a teacher, a guru, is more than a curator. Much more. A guru is someone with whom the disciple establishes a deep relationship not much unlike the relationship that a therapist develops with a client and a disciple did with the guru in the gurukul tradition. In psychology, there is a crucial point at which a transference takes place after which the bond between the therapist and the client becomes deep and trusting. With more than three decades of experience as a teacher, I can tell you that many of my students’ preferred learning from me rather than from a really good textbook which is arguably more complete than the lessons I imparted. It is because, my students develop a trust-based relationship on which I could subtly guide them by emphasising what is important and what is not, what is meaningful and what is trivial, by using examples, analogies, humour, the Socratic method and other pedagogical devices. My claim is that is what a guru did in our Indian gurukul tradition. So, to prepare a large pool of effective teachers in the twenty-first century, we do not need an army of teachers with advanced degrees like PhD’s or Master’s, but instead, we need more humanists who know where to find the right resource, the right expertise and the right information, but more importantly those who can be guides and counsellors. In other words, an effective solution for education will be a hybrid solution. The best content will be developed by experts and made available in forms such as online videos, recorded conversations, interactive exercises. But we will still need people to handhold the students, to make sure they are motivated, follow up and do the exercises. Furthermore, the disciples will need inspiration without which little learning can take place. (The writer is a Professor of Finance at the Indian School of Business (ISB) and taught at the University of California, Los Angeles for nearly thirty years)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/do-we-have-the-teachers-to-implement-nep-878333.html
27-08-2020||Right in the Middle||Flowers of the sky||He brings home flowers. It’s the early part of the morning and I am in the kitchen making breakfast when I hear the latch of the gate open. A peep through the large window tells me what I already know. It’s my husband, back from his jog. I used to feel guilty that I am not an early bird. Blame it on my love for proverbs.   This has no bearing on what’s coming ahead; simply an aside to the main course. Somewhat like a dash of salt in a sweet dish--an enhancer. May be it tells you a little about me and why I don’t accompany him on his morning jaunts.  There has been a shift in the order. Very subtle and almost easy to miss. Then I realize that the years have passed. Or is it just that he is a true Mysorean now? This is still a retired people’s city when compared to its more famous neighbour. People have time, rather they make time to stop, look at the sky as the sun gives ‘darshan’. It won’t be an odd sight to see them slide their footwear down their heels, offer a quick namaskara to the sun and continue their morning walk.  Where else will you see men stop to pluck flowers from roadside shrubs or even tug at an overhanging branch of someone else’s home? Don’t miss the ones who bend down to collect the delicate blooms of Parijatha that fall as a drizzle. There’s another tree that rains down its blossoms. Akasha Mallige.  I am not fussy about flowers, but there is one I am partial to--the tuberose or Rajnigandha. The grey tarred surface is peppered with white, a tall majestic tree on the side is the culprit. As I walked closer to my destination, my hands held a few stalks, its heady fragrance filling my senses. Little did I realize that this was observed by him. As I said earlier, time has a wonderful way of making things happen. On this day, it so happened that he came in, flushed from having burnt calories, set the milk vessel on the stove,took his cup of green tea and walked on to pick up threads of a working day. But, wait, there was one tucked around the corner though; well past our breakfast together and my other sundry chores. I walk to the alcove where my inner being gets its recharge, and am instantly transported to a space that can only be called Ananda. I breathe in deep taking in the scent, smiling as I light the deepa.  It’s the small gestures that speak what is many a time unspoken.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/flowers-of-the-sky-878330.html
27-08-2020||Second Edit||SC order relief for flat buyers||The Supreme Court order that flat buyers are entitled to compensation in excess of what is stipulated in the agreement with the developer, for delayed handing over of possession and failure to provide basic amenities, should come as a relief to thousands of people investing on their dream homes. While the Real Estate Regulatory Act (RERA), 2016, has a provision for refund with interest or damages in case of a delay in completion of the project, the apex court order is significant as it provides for compensation beyond what has been agreed upon by the developer and the buyer in the agreement. In the instant case, 339 buyers had approached the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC) which, while agreeing with their grievance over delayed possession and failure to provide the promised amenities, had held that they were not entitled to any additional compensation other than Rs 5 per square feet per month as provided in the flat purchase agreement. Setting aside the NCDRC order, the top court directed that the appellants be paid an additional 6% on the total amount of money advanced for the flat for the period of delay and cautioned that an additional 9% penal interest would be imposed in case of failure to comply with the order. Home buyers are often swindled of their lifelong savings by unscrupulous builders who do not fulfil many of the tall promises made at the time of booking a flat. While delay in handing over possession is common, even some reputed builders default on basic utilities like power and water supply, besides other assured amenities like a clubhouse or health centre. While in some cases, even land papers are not in order, illegal construction in violation of the sanctioned plan is another major problem. Often, the buyer is left high and dry, as in the case of Amrapali Group case, in which the Supreme Court held that nearly 50,000 people were cheated by the company which had sold them non-existent flats. While the apex court order on compensation may serve as a warning to builders and offer some succour to buyers, it would nevertheless be prudent for investors to exercise abundant caution while getting into real estate deals and not be swayed by glossy publicity material. RERA, no doubt, has come as solace to home buyers but many builders continue to violate even RERA court orders. The real estate sector desperately needs a clean-up in its own interest, but for that to happen, the unholy nexus between developers, civic authorities, police and politicians should first end.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/sc-order-relief-for-flat-buyers-878324.html
27-08-2020||South||Telangana reports 2,795 new Covid-19 cases; eight deaths push toll to 788||Telangana reported 2,795 new Covid-19 cases, pushing the state's overall tally of positive infections to 1,14,483. The death toll rose to 788 with eight more fatalities, a state government bulletin said on Thursday, providing data as of 8 pm on August 26. Out of the 2,795 fresh cases, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) recorded 449, followed by Rangareddy (268), Nalgonda (164), Khammam (152), Karimnagar (136), Warangal Urban (132), Medchal Malkajgiri (113), Siddipet (113) and Nizamabad (112) districts. All 33 districts in the state reported positive cases in double digits. According to the bulletin, the case fatality rate in the state was 0.68 per cent, while it was 1.84 per cent at the national level. The total number of people who recovered from the infectious disease so far stood at 86,095, while 27,600 were under treatment. The recovery rate in the state was 75.2 per cent in the state, while it was 76.28 per cent in the country. The number of individuals in-home/institutional isolation was 20,866. The bulletin said 60,386 samples were tested on August 26, the highest for a single day so far. Cumulatively, the number of samples tested was 11,42,480. The samples tested per million population was 30,772, the bulletin added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-reports-2795-new-covid-19-cases-eight-deaths-push-toll-to-788-878496.html
27-08-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh HC extends freeze on Jagan's three capital move till September 21||In a major impediment to Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy’s plan to establish a three-capital structure in Andhra Pradesh, the state high court has extended its status quo orders barring any such move till September 21. The Supreme Court had, on Wednesday, declined to examine the YSRCP government’s special leave petition challenging the high court’s earlier order freezing any development on its three-capital plans. On Thursday, the Andhra Pradesh High Court resumed hearing of about 70 petitions from the local farmers, NGOs, and public representatives which challenged the implementation of the two legislations — one stripping the Amaravati region of its sole capital status and other to set up three capitals for Andhra Pradesh — the executive at Visakhapatnam, legislative capital at Amaravati and judiciary at Kurnool. The petitioners contested that the three capitals violate the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act 2014. A three-judge bench contemplated hearing of the matter on a day-to-day basis from September 21. The court gave the government time till September 11 to file counter-affidavits while the petitioners can submit objections till September 17. The Reddy government had on July 31 notified the Andhra Pradesh Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions act, 2020 and another one repealing the Andhra Pradesh Capital Region Development Authority Act, 2014 following governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan’s assent. The much contentious blueprint is being opposed by the Opposition TDP and other parties. The Amaravati locals, especially the region’s farmers, who parted with about 33,000 acres of their farmlands for a mega, world-class capital as planned by former chief minister Chandrababu Naidu are in an agitation mode since December 17 when Reddy first announced his three capital idea. The Save Amaravati protests which recently completed 250 days are on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-hc-extends-freeze-on-jagans-three-capital-move-till-september-21-878714.html
27-08-2020||South||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan's multi-pronged plan of imposing Hindutva tag on Congress||With the upcoming assembly polls in mind, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan seems to have a multi-pronged political strategy of repeatedly imposing the 'Hindutva' tag on the Congress. Political analysts feel that apart from tapping the minority vote banks, especially the Muslim community, Vijayan is also trying to split the Hindu vote bank for the Kerala Assembly elections that are scheduled to happen in eight months. Vijayan's reaction to Congress national leaders' stand on the Ram Temple issue as well as a recent reply to the no-confidence motion in the Assembly, had emphasised that the Congress was no more a secular party, but a Hindutva party with many Congress leaders eagerly awaiting an invite from the BJP camp. By creating an impression that the Congress and the BJP were two sides of the same coin, the decisive minority and secular vote bases could be turned in the favour of the Left Front. Moreover, the Hindu votes may get divided between the Congress and the BJP. The upcoming polls are more crucial for the CPM than they are for the Congress as Kerala is the lone state where the CPM is in power.  According to political analyst Josukutty C A, the main intention of giving the Hindutva tag to the Congress would be to attract the minority votes which are a decisive factor in electoral politics in many constituencies in Kerala as well as the secular vote banks. The hardcore Hindu vote bank would remain with the BJP. Political analyst Joseph Mathew said that, of late, Kerala was witnessing CPM leaders projecting the BJP as a better opposition than the Congress. CPM leaders have often said that the BJP state president K Surendran reacts first to issues and Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala of the Congress follows him. Surendran had stated that every action of the Kerala government against coronavirus need not be criticised and Vijayan had reciprocated by justifying Surendran's travel from Kannur to Thiruvananthapuram during the lockdown. From all these incidents, it seems like the CPM was building some sort of understanding with the BJP eyeing the upcoming polls. It is unfavourable for Kerala's secular fabric, he said. Meanwhile, the Indian Union Muslim League leader and MP E T Mohammed Basheer said that the party never felt that the Congress was becoming Hindutva. The CPM's propaganda was only aimed at minority vote banks, which would not work, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayans-multi-pronged-plan-of-imposing-hindutva-tag-on-congress-878729.html
27-08-2020||South||Tamil Nadu's Covid-19 tally crosses 4 lakh-mark with 5,981 new cases||Tamil Nadu on Thursday crossed four lakh Covid-19 cases while the death toll touched 6,948 with 109 more fatalities. The addition of 5,981 new infections took the tally to 4,03,242 with the state capital accounting for 1,286 fresh cases, a health department bulletin said here. The active cases were only 52,364 with 3,43,930 total recoveries, including 5,870 on Thursday, it said. Notably, from 3,02,815 cases on August 10, the state has added one lakh plus cases in a matter of about 16 days. In less than two months (from July 3 to till date) it has seen a whopping three lakh new infections. It was on July 25, Tamil Nadu crossed the two lakh-mark (2,06,737 cases including 6,988 reported on that day) and on July 3, the state surpassed one lakh cases. The add-up of relatively more cases also reflected an aggressive testing strategy with as many as 76,345 samples getting tested on Wednesday alone, the biggest number so far, and cumulatively 44,98,706 specimens have been examined. Tamil Nadu follows only the RT-PCR tests and does not use alternatives like the Rapid Antigen Diagnostic Test and there are 146 Covid-19 labs — 63 in government and 83 in private facilities. Of the fresh fatalities, as many as 101 had comorbidities, the bulletin said. A man and woman, both 90-year-old, a 28-year-old woman, and three men aged between 30 and 37 were among the latest fatal victims.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadus-covid-19-tally-crosses-4-lakh-mark-with-5981-new-cases-878736.html
27-08-2020||South||Netizens trend anti-BJP hashtags to send a 'message' to Annamalai||Out of the blue, #GoBackModi, a hashtag that had hit the headlines in 2018 for trending worldwide, was trending along with a few anti-BJP hashtags on Thursday. #GoBackModi, #RajaBabuPM, #TamizharEthiriBaJaKa (BJP is enemy of Tamils) and another hashtag on former IPS officer K Annamalai, who joined the BJP on Tuesday, were trending in India for the whole of Thursday, leaving Twitter users confused. Apparently, Tamil Twitter decided to trend these anti-BJP hashtags to “send across a message” to Annamalai who had alleged such hashtags are trended for money by Dravidian parties through accounts from countries like Georgia and Chile. During an interview with a YouTube channel, Annamalai had said most criticisms against the BJP originating from Dravidian parties and those associated with them are paid. “If someone makes a serious allegation, you can respond. But if they target you with a meme or something without any logic, why should we take it to our heart. We know someone sitting in Georgia or Ukraine is trending it for money. I have studied the origin of these tweets and most of them are motivated. If you pay Rs 200, someone will tweet against you. Why should you treat him as equal and respond?” he asked. “I think most criticism especially those originating from Dravidian parties are paid and you will know that if you check the origin of the internet connection. If you give USD 10 to someone in Georgia, he will trend any hashtag. You want to trend #GoBackModi, you pay, and they will trend the hashtag,” Annamalai alleged. #GoBackModi became a favourite hashtag for Tamil Twitter as it trended it every time the prime minister came to Tamil Nadu, triggering a strong reaction from BJP which had alleged that they were being trended from Pakistan. The hashtag first trended in 2018 when Tamils took to Twitter to register their protest against Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the Cauvery issue when he visited Chennai. As part of the interview went viral, thousands of tweets and memes against Modi, BJP and Annamalai flooded the micro-blogging site as people asked the IPS officer to check the antecedents of those tweeting them. A Twitter user, who tweets using the handle @tamilgramsi, summed it up for those who were clueless. “All my friends outside TN, today we Tamils are trending this hashtag just for fun. A new BJP member gave an interview and he told this hashtag was promoted by Georgian and Ukrainian people. So, to show him who did the trend we are doing a sample all-India trending,” he wrote.   Some users also reminded BJP leaders that security expert Elliot Alderson had rejected allegations of the tweet originating from Pakistan and shared a list of influencers who trended the hashtag – all of them were from Tamil Nadu. They also sought to know how the IP address can show the location as a different country when the person tweeting it is from India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/netizens-trend-anti-bjp-hashtags-to-send-a-message-to-annamalai-878737.html
27-08-2020||South||Coronavirus Lockdown: Chennai’s Koyambedu Market to open in phases from Sep 18||Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex, the largest in Asia, will reopen in phases with strict regulations, four months after it was closed down. The market’s shutters were closed on May 5, 2020 after it emerged as a major Covid-19 cluster. While the whole grains wholesale shops will open from September 18, the vegetable vendors will set up their shops from September 28, following which the fruit shops will open. The government has imposed several restrictions like allowing heavy vehicles into the market complex only between 6 pm and 10 pm and should leave the complex before the end of the day. It has also banned auto-rickshaws and two-wheelers inside the complex, while imposing traffic restrictions. The government said every shop should equip itself with sanitisers, ensure that everyone working there should wear masks and wear identity cards. The decision comes hours after deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam, who holds the urban development portfolio, conducted an inspection of the sprawling campus. The market became a major Covid-19 cluster as thousands of people converged there every day to buy vegetables during the first two phases of the Covid-19 lockdown. The government and traders came under attack for not arriving at a decision to close down the market in the first few weeks of the lockdown after it became clear that people were converging in large numbers. Why is the Koyambedu market largest in Asia? Over 6,000 vendors who procure vegetables, fruits, and flowers from across the country and sell them. Nearly 3,200 shops. 15,000 labourers. A footfall of more than 50,000 and movement of 1,000 lorries every day. This in nutshell is the Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex built in an area of nearly 65 acres in the heart of Chennai – the unbuilt area is much larger with the entire area earmarked for the purpose spreading across 295 acres. The market comprises 1,889 vegetable shops, 828 that sell fruits and 470 flower shops. The market complex, huge in size with 18 entry and exit points, was inaugurated in 1996 after which all wholesale vendors shifted here from the over-crowded market in the narrow lanes of Kothavalasavadi in the city. Since then, Koyambedu is the go-to place for any vegetable wholesale vendor in Tamil Nadu. It will not be an exaggeration to say that the market never sleeps as it is abuzz with some activity or the other round-the-clock. Koyambedu is one of the largest perishable markets in Asia, generating crores of rupees in revenue every day, as vegetables, fruits, and flowers are sold in tons. Supplies for the wholesale market come from across Tamil Nadu, neighbouring states like Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, and Telangana and even from far-away Maharashtra and West Bengal. Lorries from various places arrive at the market a little after midnight to unload vegetables and other supplies after which the wholesale market comes to life about 4 am. The supplies from here are not sent just to various parts of Tamil Nadu, but to Kerala and Andhra Pradesh, while specific items are transported to cities like Bengaluru. After wholesale business ends, vendors also get into retail business from 7 am as thousands of people come to the market to buy “fresh vegetables and fruits.” Besides, people also come in good numbers to purchase vegetables for marriages, family functions, temple festivals and other mass gatherings as it will be cost-effective to buy from the wholesale market rather than retail outlets in their own towns and cities. Koyambedu is located in proximity to the by-pass road that connects Chennai with Bengaluru and vehicles carrying vegetables need not enter the city while coming to or going from the market.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-chennai-s-koyambedu-market-to-open-in-phases-from-sep-18-878784.html
27-08-2020||South||CM cancels arrear exams in Tamil Nadu; students erupt in joy||One placard in Tamil Nadu, which is notorious for erecting banners everywhere, has caught the state's attention. The banner erected in Erode district on Thursday brought a smile on everyone’s face and has also gone viral. “King of arrear students, Edappadi K Palaniswami. Long Live,” read the banner with a picture of the chief minister smiling. The banner was erected after Palaniswami announced the cancellation of arrear exams for all college students except final year. Twitter and other social media sites were  flooded with messages from “arrear students” who expressed their joy and called Palaniswami their “god.” As the banner hit headlines and reporters asked Palaniswami about the joy of students, the chief minister grinned and explained that the move to cancel arrear exams was taken to ensure that students are not stressed. Ever since the announcement on Wednesday, social media was abuzz with memes and videos on “arrear students” thanking Palaniswami for his “large-heartedness.” Sanjay, a student from Tiruchirappalli, released a video in which he made no efforts to hide his joy. “I have a few arrears and I thank the Chief Minister for cancelling all the arrear exams and I consider him as god. More than the students, parents of those who have arrears are the happiest,” a gleaming Sanjay said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cm-cancels-arrear-exams-in-tamil-nadu-students-erupt-in-joy-878798.html
27-08-2020||South||Tamil Nadu registers 12.4% dip in students applying for NEET||Tamil Nadu, which has been opposing conduct of NEET for admission into medical colleges since the beginning, has registered a 12.4 per cent dip in the number of students applying for the entrance exam this year when compared to the last academic year. The decrease is despite the number of exam centres in Tamil Nadu witnessing a spike from 188 to 238. The dip is calculated to be 12.4 per cent. With the NEET being conducted in the middle of a pandemic, experts warn, the pass percentage in the exams could also slide down due to a variety of factors like stress and economic reasons. Educationists and experts told DH that the lack of confidence among students from Tamil Nadu, especially those coming from rural areas, on clearing NEET is the major reason for the dip in the number of people applying to get into medical colleges. They also said lack of coaching centres in rural areas and the Tamil Nadu government “loading the syllabus” at one go could have also contributed to the decline. NEET is an emotive issue in Tamil Nadu and the state government has been opposed to its conduct since the beginning with the Assembly passing staff-specific laws seeking exemption from the exams. However, the laws are still pending with the court. Two young students – S Anitha and S Prathiba – ended their lives in 2017 and 2018 respectively after they failed in NEET despite scoring distinction in their plus-two exams. Prince Gajendrababu, activist and general secretary of State Platform for Common School System (SPCSS –Tamil Nadu), said the decline in the number of applications vindicate the stand of activists and others in the state that NEET would take away the confidence of students who want to pursue medicine. “We have been maintaining that NEET does not ensure a level-playing field as students from rural areas who do not have enough facilities to prepare for an entrance exam are forced to compete with those who get the best of education in cities. NEET actually takes really qualified students out of the race,” he told DH. Dr G R Ravindranath, the General Secretary of the Doctors’ Association for Social Equality, said “mistrust” on the NEET examination is one of the reasons for the decline in the number of people applying for the exam. “Teachers should also encourage students to take up NEET preparation. Students in rural areas should be made aware of NEET and teachers should clarify doubts of the students if any,” he told DH. Gajendrababu feels NEET has only increased the existing inequality between rural and urban students. “The state government has also loaded the syllabus during revision last year and rural students who have little facilities are not able to cope with it,” he added. The statistics released by the government last year also does not project a happy situation. Only 2 per cent of the students who got admission into government and self-financing medical colleges in the state cleared the NEET exam without stepping into a coaching centre to prepare for the entrance test. According to the data, only 48 students out of the 3,081 who got admissions into medical colleges have been able to clear the NEET exam without going to coaching classes. In the self-financing engineering colleges too, the figure is very less – out of the 1,650 who got admissions only 52 were able to clear the exam without any coaching class.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-registers-124-dip-in-students-applying-for-neet-878799.html
27-08-2020||South||Probe into Secretariat fire has begun: Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday said a probe into the fire incident at the Secretariat here has begun, even as the opposition suspected it to be a "sabotage" to "destroy important files" related to the gold smuggling case. According to preliminary assessment, a few files were partially burnt in the blaze and two teams have been appointed to look into the matter. "A team headed by ADGP Manoj Abraham has started investigating the matter. An expert panel headed by Disaster Management commissioner A Kaushikan is looking into the technical reason behind the accident," Vijayan said. The expert panel comprises Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) member secretary, Fire and Rescue Technical Director, PWD chief engineer and the Chief electrical inspector of the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB). "The teams will ascertain the cause of the fire, assess the loss suffered and suggest steps to be taken to avoid such incidents in the future. The expert panel has been asked to submit a report within a week," he said. Targeting the Left government over the incident, the opposition Congress and BJP said they suspected a "sabotage" to "destroy important files" pertaining to the gold smuggling case. Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Ramesh Chennithala demanded an NIA investigation into the fire, terming it a clear case of "sabotage". "Important files related to gold smuggling were destroyed in the fire incident. NIA should investigate the case", Chennithala told reporters in Thrissur. He said the Congress-led UDF will continue its protests seeking a probe by the central agency into the incident. He also said the opposition did not have faith in the inquiry being conducted by an expert panel appointed by the state government. Chennithala further said Governor Arif Mohammed Khan has agreed to look into the matter on the basis of the letter sent by him urging to "summon" the chief secretary and the chief minister to seek "explanation" over the "gross negligence" resulting in the fire. Addressing a press conference in Thiruvananthapuram, BJP state president K Surendran also alleged "sabotage" in the fire on the second floor of the North Sandwich Block where certain sections of the General Administration and the tourism department are functioning. Criticising state Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran for his statement that there was no sabotage in the fire incident, the BJP state chief asked if it was the stand of the state government, then why did the government order an investigation into the incident. Some ministers are making statements to deviate the probe into the case, the BJP leader alleged. "The ministers want to derail the probe into the gold smuggling matter. The government has destroyed all the files related to the gold smuggling in order to escape from the case," Surendran alleged. The government has maintained that none of the important files was destroyed as the state secretariat had a few years ago moved all its files to the e-files system as part of the paperless secretariat initiative. The workers of Congress, the BJP, the Youth Congress, Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha and others had organised protests in Thiruvananthapuram, Kochi, Kannur, Kollam among other places since Tuesday seeking resignation of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Police have resorted to the use of water cannons to disperse protesters in Kollam. The workers alleged that the fire was a "move to destroy the files" related to the gold smuggling case. The state government has drawn flak in the gold smuggling case involving diplomatic baggage addressed to the UAE consulate and the matter is being probed by central agencies including the NIA, Customs and the Enforcement Directorate. The NIA has arrested many including former employees of the Consulate Swapna Suresh and Sarith. The state government had earlier suspended senior IAS officer and the then IT secretary M Sivashankar, who was also the principal secretary to the Chief Minister after allegations came up that he had a close connection with Swapna Suresh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/probe-into-secretariat-fire-has-begun-kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-878810.html
27-08-2020||South||Kerala MP writes to Centre to help nurse on death row in Yemen||Rajya Sabha MP from Kerala Binoy Viswam has written a letter to External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar urging the Centre to extend assistance to a Malayali nurse who is facing death sentence in Yemen. Nimisha Priya, from Palakkad district, has been charged with the murder a Yemen national Talal Abdu Mahdi. Paying Rs 70 lakh is one option for her release, which her family can’t afford. Her husband, who is eking out a living by running an autorickshaw, is already under neck-deep debt. Nimisha, who has been working in Yemen since 2008, was associated with Mahdi in setting up a clinic in 2014. But later she came to know that Mahdi cheated her as the entire investment was in his name. He also tried to fake documents claiming that they were married. Nimisha decided to sedate him to take her passport from him. But he died due to overdose. She was awarded the death sentence in 2018 and it was upheld by an upper court recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-mp-writes-to-centre-to-help-nurse-on-death-row-in-yemen-878812.html
27-08-2020||South||Secretariat fire not to affect gold smuggling probe: Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Thursday some files were partially damaged in the fire and there would not be any issues with handing over of the files sought by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). The NIA and other investigations agencies already sought details from the General Administration Department, where the fire took place, and the state had offered to give all details, said Vijayan. The Opposition Congress and BJP stood firm on the allegation that the fire was an attempt to destroy evidence pertaining to the government's nexus with gold smuggling accused and demanded the NIA probe into the fire also. Meanwhile, coordinating editor of Malayalam news channel Janam TV, Anil Nambiar, was quizzed by the customs department on Thursday as he was found to be associated with Swapna Suresh, one of the main accused in the gold smuggling case. With the Janam channel said to be a BJP-backed channel, Pinarayi Vijayan said it was for the BJP to comment on the matter. Anil Nambiar was earlier accused in a case pertaining to fake intelligence report against a minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/secretariat-fire-not-to-affect-gold-smuggling-probe-kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-878817.html
27-08-2020||South||Kerala keeps fingers crossed as Onam festival makes markets live||With the onset of Onam festival season and the relaxation of lockdown, Kerala is keeping fingers crossed as health experts already projected that the daily fresh Covid-19 cases, which is now below 2,500, may go up to 10,000 by next month. Most shops and commercial streets across the state have already started witnessing almost normal rush. Though the government prescribed strict social distancing norms like the number of persons in shops at a time, those were being followed more in the breach. Police enforcement has also lost its fizz as the cases were mounting alarmingly and many police personnel involved in Covid-19 containment activities got infected. Apart from the existing restrictions, the government also decided to allow inter-district public transport services from Thursday in view of the Onam festival season. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan also said the situation was alarming and the people need to be very cautious in following social distancing norms. The government has already imposed restrictions on Onam gatherings and celebrations. Even flowers from other states for making floral carpet were restricted. A major chunk of flowers for floral carpet in Kerala used to be brought from Tamilnadu. A representative of a leading ready-made dress material retain chain showroom in Thiruvananthapuram city said compared to the previous Onam seasons, sales were hardly 25% this time. However, even that 25% is really worth for the shops at this time of the pandemic. Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja and head of state government's experts' committee on Covid-19 Dr B Ekbal had recently stated that the state would witness further spike in Covid. The Indian Medical Association, Kerala chapter, also raised a high alert on the chances of Covid-19 spike during the season. The crowd at shops and markets were posing a high risk of Covid spike in Kerala. Unless utmost care was taken to avert a spike, the situations would go beyond control and consequences would be alarming, said IMA state secretary Dr P Gopikumar. Though Kerala witnessed the people abiding by the lockdown norms during the initial weeks of lockdown down, once the norms were relaxed the situations seemed to have gone beyond control. Spread of Covid-19 through the local transmission that was around 10% till July first week later witnessed a spurt and now it is around 75%. A section of health activists feels that the government was now more concerned about the revenue fall it suffered during the lockdown and hence it was now opening up the markets, despite alerts of Covid-19 spike. At least stringent enforcement of social distancing norms at shops and markets need to be ensured to keep things under control.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-keeps-fingers-crossed-as-onam-festival-makes-markets-live-878818.html
27-08-2020||South||Under-construction bridge on NH bypass collapses in Kerala||An under-construction bridge in North Kerala collapsed on Wednesday, raising questions over the quality of public works again, especially since the state recently witnessed a flyover being shut within three years of commissioning owing to low-quality construction. The bridge in question was under construction carried out by the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) on the Thalassery-Mahe National Highway bypass in Kannur district and collapsed on Wednesday evening. A beam under construction collapsed after the scaffolds used for support got displaced. Since there were no one at the site, there were no casualties. An Ernakulam-based firm is constructing the bridge. An official of the NHAI said that prima facie, there seem to be no quality issues in construction. The displacement of the support given from the river to a 45-metre span, possibly due to some changes in water flow, could be the reason. The NHAI regional office in Thiruvananthapuram would be conducting a probe into the matter. The construction company will be meeting the entire loss caused. It is an engineering-procurement-commission mode project, said the official. Kerala public works minister G Sudhakaran also sought a report from the NHAI on the matter. The bridge is part of an 18.5-kilometre bypass being constructed at a cost of Rs. 1,181 crore. The bypass comprises four bridges, one rail over the bridge and 19 culverts, said the minister. Kerala has been witnessed a row over the Palarivattom NH flyover in Kochi. The flyover that was commissioned in October 2016 was recently shut in 2019 May owing to safety concerns. The flyover was constructed at a cost of Rs. 42 crore and an expert team led by 'Metro Man' E Sreedharan recommended total reinforcement work, which would cost around Rs. 20 crore. A retired IAS officer and top officials of the construction firms were arrested by the Kerala Vigilance wing in a related corruption case, while former public works minister V K Ebrahimkunju is under the scanner. Meanwhile, the Congress has demanded a detailed probe into the quality of construction of the bridge. The bypass in the scheduled to be commissioned by May 2021. But it would be delayed further owing to Covid-19 as well as the fresh collapse.  NHAI sources said that in view of the collapse of the under-construction bridge, the quality of all the other four bridges being constructed by the same firm would be examined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/under-construction-bridge-on-nh-bypass-collapses-in-kerala-878828.html
27-08-2020||State||Covid-19 cases cross 11,000-mark in Dakshina Kannada||The Covid-19 graph in Dakshina Kannada (DK) district continued to surge with the district administration recording 314 fresh Covid-19 cases and 11 fatalities on Wednesday.  With this, the total Covid-19 cases crossed 11,000-mark in the district. DK Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V said the total cases in the district stood at 11,092. While, 8,423 had recovered and been discharged from hospitals, Covid care centres and from home isolation. Of the fresh cases, Influenza Like Illness contributed to 129 cases. While, 19 infected were suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). The contact tracing of 78 infected were underway while 88 infected are the primary contacts of the already positive patients, explained the DC. Among the infected, 158 were asymptomatic. Of the fresh cases, Mangaluru contributed the highest of 215 cases followed by 52 in Bantwal, 27 from other districts, 10 from Belthangady, 8 from Puttur and 2 from Sullia. On Wednesday, 296 recovered persons were discharged. Among the discharges, 245 were from home isolation, 49 from hospitals and 2 from Covid-19 care centres. The district recorded the highest number of 11 fatalities for Covid-19, thus taking the total tally of deaths to 330. Among the victims, four were from Mangaluru taluk, one from Bantwal and six were from other districts. All the victims were suffering from comorbidities along with Covid-19 infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-cases-cross-11000-mark-in-dakshina-kannada-878414.html
27-08-2020||State||Karnataka Education Minister Suresh Kumar orders teachers to drop satirical chapter on 'Yaga'||The Minister for Primary and Secondary Education, S Suresh Kumar, has ordered teachers not to teach a lesson in the social science text book of the sixth standard that satirically speaks on ‘Yaga’, the staff of Admar Mutt said. Admar Mutt seer Eshapriya Theertha Swami had raised objections on the lesson prescribed for students. The lesson had spoken on yaga, yajna and religious beliefs in a lighter tone and was criticised on social media. The seer had informed the minister that there are a few rules and regulations for yaga in Bhagavatha. All achievers will not get mukthi after performing the yaga, according to the Bhagavatha 5,000 years ago. There are a few wrong issues on yaga in the lesson. Reacting to the seer, the minister said, “The controversial lesson was not printed this year. The syllabus has not been revised this year. Controversial lessons will be removed from the text book from next year. As the text book has already reached the children, it is not possible to remove the lesson. The government will take utmost care to ensure that such mistakes do not recur in the future.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-education-minister-suresh-kumar-orders-teachers-to-drop-satirical-chapter-on-yaga-878426.html
27-08-2020||State||Actors, musicians in Karnataka under scanner after NCB busts drug racket, seizes 'ecstasy' pills||Some "prominent musicians and actors" in Karnataka are under the scanner after the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) cracked a drug trafficking racket in Bengaluru that deals in party drugs like 'ecstasy'. The NCB arrested three persons -- Anikha D, M Anoop and R Ravindran -- on August 21 following seizure of banned drugs acting on a specific input, the NCB said on Thursday. At first, the NCB team seized 145 MDMA (methylenedioxy-methamphetamine commonly known as ecstasy) pills (60 gm) and Rs 2,20,500 in cash from Royal Suites hotel apartment in Bengaluru's Kalyan Nagar. The follow-up action led to the seizure of another 96 ecstasy pills (40 grams) and 180 LSD blots at from Nikoo Homes in Bengaluru. Further, the investigators zeroed in on Anikha, who is allegedly the kingpin of the racket, and recovered another 270 ecstasy pills from her house in Doddagubbi in Bengaluru. "The preliminary investigation has revealed that the accused used to supply drugs to affluent sections of the society including prominent musicians and actors as well as to college students and youngsters. More persons are likely to be apprehended in this connection by the Bangalore unit," Narcotics Control Bureau Deputy Director (Operations) K P S Malhotra said. The NCB officials have not revealed the names of the customers on the grounds that it will hamper further investigations. This was the second drug haul by the NCB in Bengaluru in the past three weeks. On July 31, 750 ecstasy pills (159 grams) that were sourced from Germany were seized at the Foreign Post Office in Bengaluru. This racket was using the parcel route to deal in drugs. The intended receiver of the parcel Rahman K, who was on the run, was arrested on August 19. "Rahman had been selling ecstasy pills and other party drugs among students of his college and neighbouring ones. The investigation also revealed that the accused had placed the order of MDMA pills online in exchange of bitcoins," Malhotra said. In another operation in Goregaon (West) and Navi Mumbai, a couple were arrested in connection with dealing in ecstasy pills. The NCB Mumbai unit had seized 3,010 ecstasy polls sourced from Brussels in Belgium at DHL Express India (P) Ltd in Goregaon. "The pills were seized from a parcel containing soft toys, concealed inside the false cavity in the cardboard box containing the consignment. In a quick follow up action, NCB team further recovered 46 tablets (17.5 grams) of MDMA from the Navi Mumbai residence of a couple. The NCB is investigating the linkages of this case to the wider syndicate trafficking supply of party drugs into India," Malhotra said. The MDMA or ecstasy is a party drug that alters mood and perception and is chemically similar to both stimulants and hallucinogens and produces feelings of increased energy and pleasure. As per UNODC World Drug Report 2020, ecstasy pills continue to be manufactured primarily in Europe, most notably in Western and Central Europe. Europe accounts for two thirds of the “ecstasy” laboratories dismantled worldwide. The total quantity of ecstasy pills seized worldwide has doubled over the period 2009-2018 and this is also reflected in the rapidly increasing popularity of such synthetic drugs in India, Malhotra said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/actors-musicians-in-karnataka-under-scanner-after-ncb-busts-drug-racket-seizes-ecstasy-pills-878596.html
27-08-2020||State||Covid-19: 30 lakh people lost jobs in Karnataka's tourism sector, says Minister CT Ravi||The Covid-19 pandemic has snatched away the livelihoods of 90% of those employed in the tourism sector, Karnataka Tourism minister CT Ravi said on Thursday. Speaking on the occasion of having completed one year in office, Ravi estimated that 28-30 lakh people had lost jobs over the last five months. These include tourist operators, taxi drivers, hotels, tourist guides, those owning petty shops among others. "These are temporary job losses. Once the industry recovers, they will be able to secure their jobs back," he assured. However, the rate of revival in the tourism sector was slow, he observed. "While Jungle Lodges have seen some improvement, KSTDC and private hotels have seen only 10 percent imrovement in their revenues. There are still not many tourists as people are living in the fear of the pandemic. We hope that the situation will improve in the coming months," he said adding that the estimated loss to Jungle Lodges was at Rs 1.5 crore to Rs 2 crore, while that of KSTDC was Rs 3 crore. He pointed out that the tourism sector mainly depended on private players, while the government's share of revenue in the sector was but a small percentage. Further, the state government is in the process of developing a new Tourism Policy, with an ambition of increasing the number of tourists in the state by four times in the coming years. The draft of the new policy will be tabled in the next Assembly session for approval, the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-30-lakh-people-lost-jobs-in-karnatakas-tourism-sector-says-minister-ct-ravi-878605.html
27-08-2020||State||D V Sadananda Gowda assures to supply urea to Karnataka||Union Chemicals and Fertiliser Minister D V Sadananda Gowda on Thursday assured Karnataka that his Ministry will take all steps to supply sufficient quantity of urea to meet the increased demand. After receiving a memorandum from Karnataka Agriculture Minister B C Patil, Gowda said at present sufficient quantity of fertiliser available in the state. However since Karnataka asked for additional quantity due to increased demand, the same will be made available, Gowda said. "Requirement projected in Karnataka for the entire Kharif 2020 season was  8.50 lakh tonne. Correspondingly, the requirement from 1st April to 26th August was 6.46 lakh tonne against which Department of Fertilisers has ensured availability of 10.24 lakh tonne including the opening stock of 3.16 lakh tonne. During this period, the sales of urea have been 8.26 lakh tonne as compared with the sale urea of 5.20 lakh tonne during the corresponding period last year,"said a statement from the Fertiliser Ministry. Gowda also assured the Minister that the government will closely monitor the fertiliser availability in Karnataka and supply additional quantity if required. Patil, who met Gowda here,  said that as on August total 68.26 hectares of land sown which was 20 % higher than compared to past 5 years average. Patil demanded the Union Minister take immediate step to release additional  1 lakh urea to meet the demand. He also said that due to widespread rain in the state brisk sowing took place across the state. Following this, the demand for fertilizer gone up, he said. Separately meeting Union Agriculture Narendra Singh Tomar here, Patil requested him to sanction Rs 1,500 crore every year from 2020-21 to 2029--30 to  Karnataka under New Generation Watershed Programme from the Department of Land Resources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/d-v-sadananda-gowda-assures-to-supply-urea-to-karnataka-878659.html
27-08-2020||State||SC again refuses to stay criminal proceedings by IT authorities against D K Shivakumar||The Supreme Court on Thursday again refused to stay the criminal proceedings initiated by the Income Tax authorities against former Karnataka minister and state Congress president D K Shivakumar for alleged recovery of undisclosed wealth following raid conducted at his premises in 2017. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian gave two weeks additional time to I-T department to file their response to the petition by Shivakumar. The court gave one week to the petitioner to file rejoinder and put the matter for consideration after four weeks. Senior advocates Mukul Rohatgi and S Ganesh asked the court to stay the proceedings but the court decided to await a response from the I-T department. The court had on July 20 issued notice to the Income Tax department on a special leave petition filed by Shivakumar. It had then also refused to stay the proceedings. In his plea, the petitioner challenged validity of the Karnataka High Court's order of November 12, 2019, declining to give him relief. The HC had then dismissed his criminal revision petition against the order passed by Additional Sessions judge, Bengaluru, rejecting his plea for discharge in a complaint filed by deputy director, Income Tax investigation for having committed offence under the tax laws and provisions of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sc-again-refuses-to-stay-criminal-proceedings-by-it-authorities-against-d-k-shivakumar-878680.html
27-08-2020||State||SC allows G Janardhana Reddy to visit Ballari for two days||The Supreme Court on Thursday allowed former Karnataka minister and mining baron Gali Janardhana Reddy to visit Ballari for two days to attend the last rites ceremony of the mother of a close associate of his. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari granted permission to Reddy to visit his home town only for a period of two days. The court told him categorically that he should not try to influence any witness during his visit. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Reddy, sought relaxation in his bail conditions for two days only, in connection with the ceremony. Reddy cannot visit Ballari as per the conditions of bail granted on January 21, 2015, by the top court. The top court had, in 2015, enlarged Reddy on bail in a case of illegal mining, with the condition that he should not visit Ballari, Anantapuram and Cuddapah.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sc-allows-g-janardhana-reddy-to-visit-ballari-for-two-days-878701.html
27-08-2020||State||Inventor of device to neutralise coronavirus says device is not medical||The inventor of a coronavirus neutralising device, Dr Rajah Vijay Kumar, shot to fame earlier this year in March when he claimed his device Shycocan could kill the S protein of the coronavirus, the anchor that the virus uses to latch on to healthy cells. Now with 1,600 units of his device already manufactured, he says since the device is not medical, it does not require the nod of the Indian regulators. Shycocan received the United States Food and Drug Administration (US FDA)'s emergency use authorisation, and a European CE mark last month that clears it to be sold in the US and the European Union. Dr Kumar told DH, "Five companies: Mysore Science and Technology Services, Psychocare Health, Medwin Healthcare, Godrej and Eureka Forbes, now have manufacturing licences for production of Shycocan. The understanding is that since it has approvals of foreign regulatory bodies, it does not require Indian regulatory approvals." Despite not qualifying as a medical device, he has submitted papers for review to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, he said. However, a nod from the CDSCO is not something that the companies are waiting for to mass produce Shycocan. Medwin Healthcare CEO Debashis Bose in a press conference on August 25 said that the company had already made 1,600 Shycocan machines and have a target to make 1,30,000 machines for the first year. Though the 1,600 machines are currently being tested by the company for safety, '500 of these have already been distributed including to Ramakrishna Mission Hospital,' Bose said. Physicists Ajay Kumar Sood and Arindam Ghosh, both professors at IISc, have been following the announcements made with regard to Shycocan. A glaring question that both raise is the absence of safety and efficacy studies of Shycocan in the public domain, and why the device was not tested in an Indian Biosafety Level (BSL)-3 lab.Sood told DH, "There are many BSL-3 labs in the country. Why test in Mexico? Also, there is no scientific evidence available in the public domain on the parameters in which the studies were conducted, the viral load that the device was exposed to and the duration for which it was exposed." Ghosh reviewed the seven page technical write-up shared by the company on Shycocan and told DH, "The basic mechanism is unclear. It is not known whether if you create a large number of electrons around the S protein of the coronavirus, it will get mitigated or deactivated. It could be an empirical observation but I do not know of any biological or other scientific basis behind it." There is no clear peer-reviewed publication regarding this, Ghosh said. "There has to be data. There has to at least be a scientific paper. It may not be a medical device but are there any heath hazards of having a charged atmosphere? We have a BSL-3 lab at IISc itself, a lab next door in the same city." Dr Kumar responded in the August 25 saying, "We could not get the device tested in any Indian BSL-3 lab or above as the labs were busy in doing Covid-19 tests and doing research in Covid-19 treatment. The US FDA approval came on June 26 while the European CE aaproval came on July 20. We will soon be publishing our findings in a leading international peer-reviewed journal."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/inventor-of-device-to-neutralise-coronavirus-says-device-is-not-medical-878734.html
27-08-2020||State||Increase supply of oxygen, Karnataka govt tells units||The state government has directed all medical oxygen manufacturers in the state to "augment the production and supply" in order to meet the demand.  In a circular, Commerce and Industries Principal Secretary Gaurav Gupta said the government had noted a delay in the supply of liquid oxygen to hospitals. "The supply of medical oxygen in adequate quantity is an important requirement of managing moderate and severe cases of Covid-19,” Gupta stated. "Despite this, it is noticed that there is delay in supply of liquid oxygen to health institutions/hospitals/refilling units by the stakeholders. This tantamount to denial of supply of requisite quantity of medical oxygen to needed persons which in turn amounts to violation of provisions of law (sic).” All manufacturers of medical oxygen have been directed to "augment production and supply" of liquid oxygen without any interruptions to meet the proportional demand irrespective of the exclusivity of the vendors as per the MoU entered into between the hospital and the supplier, the circular said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/increase-supply-of-oxygen-karnataka-govt-tells-units-878748.html
27-08-2020||State||SOP for panchayat polls soon, poll panel informs Karnataka High Court||The state election commission on Wednesday informed the Karnataka High Court that it is in the process of finalising the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for the conduct of elections to 5,800 gram panchayats in the state. The high court has directed the state government to look into the proposal by the commission for the funds required to hold the elections. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka passed the direction on the basis of the affidavit filed by the state election commission. The PIL is filed by Congress MLC K C Kondaiah and others. Appearing for the state election commission, senior advocate K N Phaneendra, informed the court that the publication of the final voters list for all the gram panchayats was expected to be issued by August 31. The affidavit further stated that the election commission had also sought the preparation of the SOP from the Health department. The SOP was expected to be finalised shortly. The counsel informed that the commission had estimated that the funds required for the elections will be around Rs 185 crore. The additional expenditure for undertaking safety measures due to Covid-19 has been estimated at Rs 65 crore. The commission has requested the state government to immediately release the funds.  "We direct the state to look into the proposals and take a decision at the earliest with a view to enable the holding of elections which are overdue," the bench said. The matter has been posted for further hearing on September 18.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sop-for-panchayat-polls-soon-poll-panel-informs-karnataka-high-court-878755.html
27-08-2020||State||Property tax can't be exempted during Covid-19 crisis, Karnataka govt tells HC||The state government has filed an affidavit before the Karnataka High Court informing that it has rejected the request of a petitioner for waiver property tax. The PIL was filed seeking directions to grant exemption on payment of property tax for the current year 2020-2021 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka had issued notice to the state government on a petition filed by K Gurudhatta, a city-based advocate. The court had directed the state government to consider the representation of the petitioner. The state government affidavit also includes a note by the Urban Development department. The note stated that the waiver of property tax was not feasible since the municipal corporations and other urban local bodies in the state depend on the property tax to provide basic facilities to the people. Waiver of property tax would place additional burden on the civic agencies and also further deteriorate the financial condition. The petitioner had contended that the owners of the residential and non- residential buildings have sustained huge loss and are facing hardship on account of non-payment of rentals in view of the lockdown. The petitioner stated that apart from the various schemes announced by the Union government, the state government also announced exemptions on payment of road tax for the period from March 24, 2020 to May 23, 2020. The state government has also announced support prices for seeds and maize. The petitioner contended that the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) had granted a rebate of 5% on the property tax which was extended till May 2020. Plea by pvt schools The high court has issued notice to the state government on the petition filed by the Karnataka Private Schools Committee challenging the circulars directing the managements not to increase the fees for the academic year 2020-21. The committee that has filed the petition claims to represent the managements of around 100 unaided schools. The petition said the government has stated that if any management is intending to collect the fees lesser than what has been collected in the previous year, they are at liberty to do so. The petitioners sought an interim prayer to permit them to collect the unpaid fees for the previous academic year and at least 50% of the fees for the present academic year (2020-21) by, on or before September 1, 2020. Justice R Devdas ordered issuance of notice and indicated that the court will consider granting interim relief only after hearing the state government. The petitioners have cited an interim order by the Madras High Court in a similar matter wherein unaided schools were allowed to collect 40% of the fees for the present academic year by August 31 and previous year’s dues by September 30.  The managements contended that the institutions are incurring higher expenditure than what has been prescribed under the rules while going for online education.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/property-tax-cant-be-exempted-during-covid-19-crisis-karnataka-govt-tells-hc-878757.html
27-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Colleges to reopen in October in Karnataka||The state government on Wednesday said it will reopen colleges from October and begin classes for undergraduate and postgraduate students, even as the pandemic shows no signs of abating in the state. Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan directed vice chancellors to start preparing for the commencement of physical classes from October based on the UGC guidelines. The government had previously stated that online classes will begin from September for the 2020-21 academic year. Even though the Centre is yet to come out with guidelines for conducting physical classes, the higher education department in Karnataka has decided to prepare the pitch for their resumption from October. Speaking to mediapersons, Dr Ashwath Narayan said, "We are awaiting guidelines from the Centre to hold offline classes. But in the meantime, we are preparing ourselves to resume classroom activities." The Deputy Chief Minister said the government will be ready to resume classes by the time the Centre issues guidelines.  Interestingly, several hostels in various universities have been used for Covid quarantining purposes, and in a few places, they have been converted into Covid Care Centres (CCCs). Senior officials of the department explained to DH that even the universities require time to sanitise the buildings before they can resume classroom activities. "As per the earlier order, we will be beginning online classes from September. From there on, we will be getting about a month's time to prepare ourselves for resumption of classroom activities," a vice-chancellor of one of the state-run universities told DH. K'taka supports NEETThe state government has extended its support for conducting the National-Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET). "I feel those who are opposing NEET have vested interest. When we have conducted K-CET for more than 1.90 lakh students by allowing even those tested positive for Covid-19, why should NEET be cancelled?" he asked. "The state government is well prepared to conduct NEET without any hurdles," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/colleges-to-reopen-in-october-in-karnataka-878327.html
27-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt spending hits a pandemic roadblock||State government departments are struggling to meet their expenditure targets, with the economic havoc caused by the pandemic affecting the execution of critical development works across the state. According to the latest progress report of the Karnataka Development Programme (KDP), barring for the month of July, during which the government spent 267% more than its target, the highest in recent years, development works have yet to pick up pace.  The government’s overall expenditure stands at 18.75% up to July this fiscal, which is lower than 23.19% in the corresponding period last year. The spike in July is attributed to the unlocking of Covid-19 restrictions, which allowed the government to resume development works. Still, the average progress till July has been about 20% in the past. Government expenditure is a common way to measure progress and administrative efficiency.  “Yes, expenditure is low, but where’s the money to spend,” Karnataka State Planning Board vice-chairman B J Puttaswamy asked, referring to the loss of revenue due to the Covid-19 pandemic.  Development works in the areas of urban development, housing, irrigation, highway development, agriculture among others have taken a beating because of the pandemic that put everything else on the back-burner.  According to data, expenditure in 16 government departments is in single digits, including the departments of Infrastructure Development and Public Enterprises that have not spent any money.  Usually, government expenditure sees a rush towards the final quarter of a fiscal. By October, the average spending is about 40% and Karnataka will have to slog to surpass that.  The government will look to augment spending by focusing on specific programmes. For example, the RDPR department is looking at road works and other developmental activities, which are currently in the red for low spending.  “We have tendered the works under the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana and execution will begin now,” RDPR principal secretary LK Atheeq said.”Rains are delaying the works in some parts, but the project is on track. Expenditure will start coming October onwards.”  In 2019-20, the state’s growth slipped to 6.8% from 7.8% due to factors such as large-scale floods and a general slowdown in the economy. For 2020-21, growth rate is expected to drop further to 6.3% as per the medium-term fiscal plan.  “The unlocking of the economy is helping. We expect revenues to start flowing November onwards and the situation will improve,” Puttaswamy said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-spending-hits-a-pandemic-roadblock-878348.html
27-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Dilip Buildcon bags Rs 1,274 cr highway project in Karnataka from NHAI||Dilip Buildcon on Thursday said it has won a Rs 1,274 crore project in Karnataka from the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). The project to widen a section of NH 648 falls under the Bharatmala Pariyojana. "Dilip Buildcon Limited has received letter of acceptance (LOA) for a new HAM project viz 4-laning from km 42 to km 80 of Dodaballapur Bypass to Hoskote section of NH-648 (Old NH-207) on Hybrid Annuity Mode (HAM) under Bharatmala Pariyojana in the state of Karnataka (Package-II)," the company said in a regulatory filing. The project is scheduled to be completed in 24 months, it said. The operation period of the project is 15 years from the commercial operation date, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dilip-buildcon-bags-rs-1274-cr-highway-project-in-karnataka-from-nhai-878560.html
27-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Siddaramaiah questions Centre for being adamant over holding NEET, JEE||Registering his objection to holding the NEET and JEE examinations, former Karnataka Chief Minister Siddaramaiah on Thursday sought to know should the students "pledge their lives to take the exams." Siddaramaiah joined the bandwagon of the opposition parties seeking that the two important examinations for admission to medical and engineering courses in premier institutes of India be deferred. In a series of tweets, the Karnataka Congress Legislature Party leader said, "Despite opposition from everyone, @BJP4India govt is adamant on conducting NEET & JEE." "The Covid-19 cases are increasing rapidly in the country and yet students are being forced to take risk. Should they pledge their lives to take the exams?" Siddaramaiah pointed out. Ridiculing the government's decision, he said travelling is not safe for students, accommodation is difficult, public transportation is not fully functional and yet students are expected not to be anxious to write exams. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi should be more sensitive towards young students & postpone exams," he tweeted. Siddaramaiah had also opposed conducting the Secondary School Leaving Certificate Examinations in the state, which took place between June 25 to July 4. Yet, the Karnataka government went ahead with the exam. Taking a cue from the SSLC experience, Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan, who holds the higher education portfolio, said he saw no reason for putting it off and claimed some "vested interests" were trying to disrupt the medical entrance exam since its inception.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/siddaramaiah-questions-centre-for-being-adamant-over-holding-neet-jee-878618.html
27-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Over 50 Karnataka blood banks have permit but not all offer plasma||There are 52 blood banks in Karnataka that have approval from the state drug controller to do plasma apheresis (in which the blood of a person is passed through an apparatus that separates plasma and returns the remainder of the blood for circulation) but not all are offering convalescent plasma for Covid-19 patients. While some don't have enough donors to function as a bank that can give units to other hospitals since the demand is huge (for every unit of plasma donated, 25 Covid-19 patients are waiting to be transfused), others don't have a team to run the system. "The bank needs to have blood bank officers who can contact donors, counsel them, and coordinate follow up. Every district requires a government-owned plasma bank," said Dr Vishal Rao, head of HCG hospital's plasma bank. For example, Gulbarga district relies on two private banks for plasma. Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences doesn't even have an apheresis machine. Dr Rajashree Ingin, HOD, Pathology, GIMS, said, "For now, two private blood banks -- Medicare and Navajeevana -- are providing convalescent plasma to the Covid-19 patients who need it in the district. We are in the process of buying an aphaeresis machine." Dr Sithalakshmi Subramanian, Professor and HOD, Transfusion Medicine, St John's Hospital said though they have all the facilities, since their patients haven't had a need for plasma, they haven't harvested plasma from recovered patients at the hospital. Dr Ram Kaulgud, in-charge of plasma donation, at Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences, Hubbali, said, "The demand is huge. For every two units of plasma donated, we have 25 to 30 patients waiting for it. Four people who were administered plasma at our institute were within the ICMR's clinical trial. 27 other patients were given plasma outside of the trial. We don't have enough donations to give units to other hospitals or patients who approach us." Dr Sreelatha R, HOD, Transfusion Medicine, Victoria Hospital, said, "Out of the 42 units of plasma harvested at Victoria Hospital, 33 patients in Victoria hospital were administered with it but the rest of the units were given to Bowring hospital, districts of Chamrajnagar, Hubbali, Dharwad, Narayana Health, Sakra Hospital, AGM hospital, Excel and Deepashree hospitals in Bengaluru."She said while lack of dedicated 24/7 blood bank officers was one hurdle, "blood banks are not coming forward for plasma apheresis because they are apprehensive of the normal blood donation operations taking a hit. It requires a separate room and blood banks are not coming forward because of the stigma attached to Covid-19 patients. They think other blood donors won't visit the banks anymore if recovered Covid-19 patients donate plasma at the banks." Vijayanagar Institute of Medical Sciences in Ballari also has the apparatus but hasn't started plasma therapy. It's Director Dr B Devanand said that they have the plasma apheresis machine but haven't harvested plasma from any recovered Covid-19 patients, yet. ESI Hospital, Rajajinagar, also has an approval according to the state drug controller but the hospital sends its patients requiring plasma to other hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/over-50-karnataka-blood-banks-have-permit-but-not-all-offer-plasma-878728.html
27-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Hike tax on luxury goods, tobacco and pan masala, we need money: Karnataka govt tells Centre||Karnataka told the GST Council on Thursday that luxury goods, tobacco and pan masala should be taxed higher while making a desperate plea for more money to face the Covid-19 pandemic anticipating a shortfall in tax revenues. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who represents the state in the GST Council, said Karnataka would find making financial progress difficult given the circumstances. “The total tax revenue in Karnataka is estimated to be Rs 1.80 lakh crore. The is likely to come down because of the Covid-19 pandemic and the flood situation. Therefore, it will be difficult for Karnataka to make financial progress and there’s a need for additional money to face Covid-19,” Bommai said. According to Bommai, Karnataka has to get Rs 13,764 crore GST compensation from the Centre for the last four months, which he said is necessary for the state’s economy. “Despite Covid-19, the rate of GST collection in the state for the last four months is 71.61%, which is higher when compared with other states,” he pointed out. While asking the Centre to borrow in order to compensate the state, Bommai also pitched for higher taxation of luxury goods, tobacco and pan masala. The GST structure has four tax slabs - 5, 12, 18 and 28 per cent. A cess is levied on top of the highest tax slab, which is used to compensate states for revenue losses. “Since the cess gets remitted directly into the Centre’s compensation account, it will be difficult for the states to borrow loans. Plus, the Centre has the power to levy a special tax to repay the loan, which can be extended beyond 2023. So, it’s appropriate for the Centre to borrow and compensate the states,” Bommai argued. A reduced share in Central taxes, delay in GST compensation and loss of revenue due to the Covid-19 lockdown have put Karnataka under financial stress, a problem compounded with back-to-back floods. Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa has maintained that the government was ready to even borrow to fund developmental works.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hike-tax-on-luxury-goods-tobacco-and-pan-masala-we-need-money-karnataka-govt-tells-centre-878744.html
27-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka sees biggest one-day spike of 9,386 Covid-19 cases||Karnataka on Thursday reported its highest single-day spurt of over 9,300 new cases of coronavirus and 141 related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 3.09 lakh, the health department said. The day also saw 7,866 patients getting discharged after recovery. With 141 deaths, the toll in the state mounted to 5,232. Out of 9,386 fresh cases reported on Thursday, 3,357 cases were from Bengaluru urban alone. As of August 27 evening, cumulatively 3.09 lakh positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 5,232 deaths and 2.19 lakh discharges, the health department said in its bulletin. Out of 84,987 active cases, 84,240 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 747 are in ICU. Out of the total deaths reported on Thursday, 59 are from Bengaluru urban, followed by Mysuru 18, Dakshina Kannada 7, Ballari 6, Belagavi, Haveri and Koppal 5, and others. Most of the dead are either with a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Influenza-like illness (ILI). Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru urban accounts for 3,357, Mysuru 895, Ballari 550, Davangere 391, Belagavi 318, followed by others. The twin coastal districts of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi recorded 506 new coronavirus cases and eight deaths. While Dakshina Kannada recorded 297 new cases and seven Covid-19 deaths, Udupi logged 209 positive cases and one death. Bengaluru urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 1.18 lakh infections, followed by Ballari 19,596 and Mysuru 15,775. A total of 26.48 lakh samples were tested so far, out of which 68,187 were tested on Thursday alone. Among the samples tested today 29,004 were rapid antigen tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sees-biggest-one-day-spike-of-9386-covid-19-cases-878763.html
27-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP says Tipu was a bigot, steers clear of Vishwanath’s comments||BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel on Thursday said he would seek an explanation from MLC AH Vishwanath for hailing 18th century Mysuru ruler Tipu Sultan, even as the saffron party distanced itself from his stand.  Speaking to reporters in Kalaburagi, Kateel said: “I came to know about his statement on Tipu through media. I will seek an explanation. It is his personal view. The BJP, which has been critical of Tipu’s rule, sticks to its stand.” Meanwhile, BJP spokesperson Ganesh Karnik also dismissed Vishwanath’s statement as something that was said in “individual capacity”. In an official statement, Karnik said that the BJP distances from these remarks. “BJP is of the unanimous and considered view that Tipu Sultan is a fanatic bigot and his rule was tyrannical. History bears testimony that he killed thousands of Hindus in Kodagu district and Christians in Mangaluru district in his bid to establish Islamic Rule.  “Tipu Sultan was zealous in converting people by the threat of sword. Tipu Sultan had made Persian as the official language of his kingdom and hence he was against Kannada. BJP cannot and will not accept Tipu Sultan as a noble ruler.” The BJP was left red-faced when Vishwanath hailed Tipu Sultan “the son of this soil.” Vishwanath also decried attempts to associate Tipu Sultan with a party, caste or religion. The Congress, which views Tipu Sultan as a patriot, welcomed Vishwanath’s stand.  Meanwhile, speaking to reporters in Kalaburagi, Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chauhan said the anti-cow slaughter bill would be presented in the upcoming Assembly session.  “The law has already been implemented in Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and other states. A team of experts which studied these laws in the aforesaid states are preparing the Karnataka Anti-Cow Slaughter Bill, 2020. The centre had returned the bill sent earlier,” hesaid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjp-says-tipu-was-a-bigot-steers-clear-of-vishwanath-s-comments-878789.html
27-08-2020||West||Aurangabad jail prisoners weave 2,000 sarees in Unlock phase||Prisoners of the Aurangabad Central Jail in Maharashtra have weaved 2,000 sarees since the easing of coronavirus-induced restrictions began in June, a senior prison official said. The work has been undertaken on five to six old power looms lying in the prison and this has provided employment to 25 prisoners of the jail, located in Harsul area of the city, the official told PTI. The project was started five to six months back. It was first studied during the lockdown, and the process of making sarees began in June, he said. "Twenty five prisoners are working on this project and each of them is earning Rs 55 per day. We now have a stock of 2,000 sarees. Earlier, the prisoners used to make shirts, pants and masks. Now, they are making cotton sarees," he said. Under the project, 25 to 40 metres of cloth is weaved in a day which then dyed in different colours to make sarees, the official said. "The sarees are currently not for sale. Once the Covid-19 situation comes under control, we will start selling them," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/aurangabad-jail-prisoners-weave-2000-sarees-in-unlock-phase-878427.html
27-08-2020||West||Fire at building in Mumbai's Fort area doused after 6 hours||A fire which broke out in a four-storey building in Fort area of south Mumbai was doused in the early hours of Thursday after hectic efforts for about six hours, a civic official said. A 22-year-old man received burn injuries in the fire which erupted in Bahubali building on Kawasji Patel Road in Fort around 7.15 pm on Wednesday. It was initially tagged as a 'level-2' fire, but later escalated to 'level-3' (major) around 10.30 pm as it spread to various parts of the building, the official said. Several fire engines were rushed to the spot and firefighters managed to douse the flames at around 1.30 am on Thursday, he said. A major part of the building was gutted in the fire, sources said, adding that a short-circuit was suspected to have triggered the blaze, but the exact cause was not yet known.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-at-building-in-mumbais-fort-area-doused-after-6-hours-878441.html
27-08-2020||West||Maharashtra: Three hospitals sealed for operating without fire NOC||Three private hospitals in Kalwa area here in Maharashtra have been sealed for operating without the NOC from the fire department and not having the biomedical waste treatment facilities, officials said. The Thane Municipal Corporation issued an order on Wednesday for sealing the Sai Seva Health Centre in Bhaskar Nagar, and the Jana Seva Hospital and Sri Matoshri Arogya Kendra, both in Waghoba Nagar. The civic body said the Bombay High Court in an earlier order directed for closure of hospitals not having the fire department's no-objection certificate (NOC) and functioning without the biomedical waste treatment facilities. These three hospitals were earlier issued notices as they were operating without complying with the civic body's regulations, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-three-hospitals-sealed-for-operating-without-fire-noc-878455.html
27-08-2020||West||Gujarat: Fire at ink factory in Valsad; no casualty||A major fire broke out at an ink manufacturing factory in Gujarat's Valsad district on Thursday morning, a senior district official said. There was no report of any casualty, Collector R R Raval said. The blaze erupted in the factory located in Sarigam industrial area of Valsad around 6 am, he said. Eight fire tenders were rushed to the spot and they managed to douse the flames after about three hours, he said. The cause of the fire was yet to be ascertained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-fire-at-ink-factory-in-valsad-no-casualty-878472.html
27-08-2020||West||Oxford Covid-19 vaccine trial: Vital signs of volunteers normal, says doctor||Vital health parameters of the two volunteers, who have been administered the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine candidate at a medical college here as part of the phase II clinical trial, are normal, a senior official from the medical facility said on Thursday. Two men, aged 32 and 48, were given the first shot of the 'Covishield' vaccine, being manufactured by Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), at Bharti Vidyapeeth's Medical College and Hospital on Wednesday. The dose will be repeated after one month, an official said. "Since yesterday, our medical team is in touch with the two volunteers and both are fine. They do not have any pain, fever, injection-side reaction or systemic illness post-vaccination," the medical college and hospital's deputy medical director Dr Jitendra Oswal said. After the vaccine was administered on Wednesday, both the volunteers were observed for 30 minutes and later allowed to go home, he said. "They have been given all the necessary emergency numbers (to contact in case of need) and our medical team is also conducting follow-ups with them," he added. The vaccine dose will be repeated on both the volunteers after one month, the hospital's medical director Dr Sanjay Lalwani said on Wednesday. He said in all, 25 candidates will be given the vaccine in the next seven days. Dr Sonali Palkar, in-charge of the medical college's research cell, said four to five persons were screened on Wednesday and a decision to administer the vaccine to them as part of the clinical trial is subject to their Covid-19 and antibody test reports. SII, the world's largest vaccine maker has signed an agreement to manufacture the potential vaccine developed by the Jenner Institute of Oxford University in collaboration with British-Swedish pharma company AstraZeneca.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/oxford-covid-19-vaccine-trial-vital-signs-of-volunteers-normal-says-doctor-878473.html
27-08-2020||West||Maharashtra: Covid-19 tally in Thane crosses 1.17 lakh||The number of Covid-19 cases in Thane rose to 1,17,739 on Thursday after 1,326 more people tested positive for the disease in the Maharashtra district, officials said. The district also reported 38 deaths on Wednesday, taking the total number of fatalities to 3,386, they said. Thane city is close to the 25,000-mark as it has so far reported 24,906 Covid-19 cases, an official here said. Kalyan town in the district has so far reported the highest number of 27,412 cases, accounting for 23 per cent of the total cases in the district, he said. The Thane city and Navi Mumbai township each account for 21 per cent of the total cases in the district. As of now, there are 12,249 active cases in the district while 1,02,104 patients have recovered from the viral infection, the official said. The Covid-19 recovery rate in the district was 86.72 per cent while the death rate stood at 2.88 per cent. The neighbouring Palghar district has so far reported 22,982 Covid-19 cases and 463 deaths due to the disease, a district official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-covid-19-tally-in-thane-crosses-117-lakh-878514.html
27-08-2020||West||Goa health services director tests coronavirus positive||Goa's health services director Dr Jose DSa has tested positive for coronavirus and is admitted in a private hospital near Panaji, a state health department official said on Thursday. DSa was taken to the hospital on Wednesday after he complained of cough and fever. He later tested positive for Covid-19, the official said, adding his condition is stable. Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat questioned the Goa government's preparedness to tackle the pandemic situation after DSa got admitted in a private hospital and not in a state-run facility.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-health-services-director-tests-coronavirus-positive-878520.html
27-08-2020||West||4 feared trapped as part of 3-storey building collapses in Mumbai||A septuagenarian woman and her 12-year-old granddaughter were killed after a portion of a three-storey dilapidated building collapsed on their shanty in Nagpada area of south Mumbai on Thursday, officials said. The incident occurred around 1 pm, they said. "The toilet block portion of Mishra Building on Shuklaji Street collapsed," an official of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. "Aliya Riyasat Kureshi (12) and her grandmother Noor Kureshi (70) were pulled out from under the rubble. They were rushed to the JJ Hospital where they were declared dead," he added. Another woman, Saumitra Bano (35) suffered minor injuries and was admitted to JJ Hospital. Local Congress MLA Amin Patel said the building was undergoing repairs and vicitms lived in shanties below. Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar visited the spot. According to a release from her office, locals informed her that the building had been handed over to its owner and a developer for redevelopment some time ago, but no redevelopment took place. The municipal corporation had declared the building as dangerous, and issued notices to the developer from time to time, the mayor said. Pednekar directed the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (MHADA) officials to cancel the no-objection certificate issued to the developer. This action should be taken if such incidents happened in future too, she said. Rescue teams had to clear the debris manually as JCB machines could not reach the site. Meanwhile, two women were injured after portions of residential structures fell on them in separate incidents in eastern suburbs of Chembur and Deonar in the afternoon. A 54-year-old woman suffered serious injuries on her head and chest and was admitted to the ICU of Rajawadi Hospital after part of a balcony collapsed at Mahatma Phule Nagar in Chembur East. Another woman sustained minor injuries when a portion of a two-storey structure collapsed in Gautam Nagar area in Deonar. She was admitted to the nearby Shatabdi Hospital, the civic official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/4-feared-trapped-as-part-of-3-storey-building-collapses-in-mumbai-878579.html
27-08-2020||West||Cops escort Rhea Chakraborty's father out of house for ED questioning||A team of Mumbai police reached the residence of actress Rhea Chakraborty, who is accused of abetting actor Sushant Singh Rajput's suicide, in Santacruz here on Thursday and took her father along for a questioning by the Enforcement Directorate (ED), an official said. The police team reached Chakraborty's house as per the request made by the ED, the official said. "The ED requested the Mumbai police to reach their house and escort Rhea's father Indrajit out as it wants to question him," the police official said. "Accordingly, some police personnel reached their residence in the afternoon and took her father along for a questioning by the central agency," he added. However, he did not specify whether her father was taken to the ED office in south Mumbai or some other location. Earlier in the day, Rhea said in a social media post that there was a threat to her and her family's life and requested the Mumbai police for protection. She took to Instagram and shared a video where her father was seen being hounded by the media outside her building compound.   The ED is probing a money laundering angle into the death of Rajput and has questioned Rhea twice earlier. It has obtained "deleted WhatsApp messages" after forensic examination of her phone. Rajput was found hanging at his flat in Bandra on June 14. His father had lodged a complaint against Rhea Chakraborty and other, accusing them of abetting his son's suicide and misappropriating his money. The Supreme Court had last week upheld the transfer of probe into the FIR, lodged by Rajput's father in Patna, to the CBI. Earlier in the day, Rhea's brother Showik Chakraborty arrived at the DRDO guest house here for questioning by the CBI, a police official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cops-escort-rhea-chakrabortys-father-out-of-house-for-ed-questioning-878635.html
27-08-2020||West||Man arrested for giving extortion threat to Mahesh Manjrekar||A 34-year-old man from Mumbai, who attempted to extort Rs 35 crore from actor and film-maker Mahesh Manjrekar, was nabbed from the coastal Konkan district of Ratnagiri. The accused, Milind Tulsankar, is a resident of Diva in Thane district near Mumbai. Tulsankar had made threat calls from August 23-25 to Manjrekar, posing as a member of the gang of jailed underworld don Abu Salem. He demanded Rs 35 crore as extortion money to be delivered via ‘hawala’ and warned Manjrekar that if he failed to comply, he will be bumped off. Manjrekar approached the Dadar police station and the case was taken over by the Anti-Extortion Cell of the Crime Branch-CID of Mumbai Police, which started the probe with 3 teams that fanned out in Thane and Ratnagiri. Finally the accused was nabbed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-arrested-for-giving-extortion-threat-to-mahesh-manjrekar-878675.html
27-08-2020||West||Sushant Singh Rajput's death case: Rhea Chakraborty’s brother grilled by CBI, father by ED||On a day of hectic developments, the late actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty’s father and brother were grilled by the Enforcement Directorate and the Central Bureau of Investigation, respectively, on Thursday. Meanwhile, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) team from New Delhi has landed in Mumbai and has commenced the investigations into the fresh drug-angle that has surfaced. The CBI is also set to summon Rhea Chakraborty. The CBI questioned Rhea’s brother Showik was questioned at the DRDO and IAF guest house, while their father Lt Col (retd) Dr Indrajit Chakraborty was taken to Axis Bank’s Vakola branch to check his bank locker and document and then questioned by the ED. The CBI is cross-questioning Showik with the statements of Sushant’s flatmate Siddharth Pithani, cook Neeraj Singh and household help Dipesh Sawant. Based on the FIR filed by the late actor's father Krishna Kishore Singh in Patna – that has been taken over by the CBI, the ED, that is part of the probe team, is investigating the missing Rs 15 crore which Rhea Chakraborty and her kin are accused of siphoning off. Sushant and Rhea stayed in the duplex-flat at Mont Blanc at Carter Road in Bandra, where Showik was a regular visitor. He is Rhea’s brother and was also Sushant’s friend and business partner - both directors of Rhealityx Private Limited. Earlier, Rhea, Showik and  Lt Col Chakraborty were grilled by the ED. Meanwhile, NCB officials visited the ED office to collect documents related to their investigations. Based on the FIR filed by the late actor's father Krishna Kishore Singh in Patna – that has been taken over by the CBI, the ED, that is part of the probe team, is investigating the missing Rs 15 crore which Rhea Chakraborty and her kin are accused of siphoning off.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sushant-singh-rajputs-death-case-rhea-chakraborty-s-brother-grilled-by-cbi-father-by-ed-878704.html
27-08-2020||West||Gujarat govt seeks Rs 12,000-cr GST compensation from Centre||The Gujarat government on Thursday said the state is supposed to get a compensation of Rs 12,000 crore from the Centre under the Goods and Services Tax (GST) Act. Though the state is in dire need of "financial assistance" in the form of GST compensation, Gujarat Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel said the Centre's hands are also tied due to its dwindling cess revenue. Patel, who holds the finance portfolio, took part in the crucial GST Council meet via video conference on Thursday. The main agenda of this meeting, attended by finance ministers of all states, was to find out a way to compensate states for the revenue shortfall due to coronavirus. "Gujarat is supposed to get Rs 12,000 crore towards GST compensation," Patel said in a statement. "Though we need money to smoothly run the state, the Centre says its difficult to pay this time," said Patel. He added that the total GST compensation figure for all states comes to around Rs 3 lakh crore. Under the Central GST Act, states are entitled for a compensation for any loss of revenue in the first five years of GST implementation from July 1, 2017. "Till now, the Centre was using cess revenue on luxury items to give us compensation. But this time, chances of compensation from that source are less because the Centre's cess revenue has also taken a hit," said Patel. The options deliberated at the GST Council meeting included the Centre taking loan to pay compensation to states, said Patel. States have been asked to revert with their suggestions in seven days, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-govt-seeks-rs-12000-cr-gst-compensation-from-centre-878740.html
27-08-2020||West||Rape victim found to be 'living' at Gujarat police station for over a month||In a shocking case, a rape victim was found to be "living" at the police station in Ahmedabad for over a month after she filed an FIR there. A city sessions court, while strongly questioning the "conduct" of the policemen for keeping the victim at the police station instead of a shelter home, has ordered the police commissioner to look into it. What is more surprising is the fact that the victim and the accused, who were on police remand, stayed together for a week at the same police station. Ahmedabad police commissioner Sanjay Srivastava told DH he has come to know about this case and has ordered an inquiry. The matter came to light during the hearing of a bail application moved by the accused, Masuk A Kureshi alias Sonu (27), a resident of Sarkhej, originally from Jaunpur in Uttar Pradesh. It has been found that Sonu befriended the victim in Hyderabad some two years ago and on the pretext of marriage brought her back to Ahmedabad. Records reveal that she was living in Ahmedabad before her family took her to Hyderabad where her other relatives live. The victim is originally from Assam. According to court records, Sonu allegedly had a physical relationship with her but never married. He allegedly forced the 20-year-old victim into prostitution. A month before the registration of FIR, the victim was allegedly sold to one Shahzadi Gulam Rahul Kureshi alias Suman, a resident of Khokhra in the city. On July 23, the victim made a distress call to the police from a hotel and was rescued by Vatva GIDC police. It has been found that local police inspector G D Gohil didn't send the victim to any shelter home and instead kept her at the police station. Accused Sonu, his friend Mohammed Firoz Ansari (38) were arrested on July 29 and a day later Shahzadi (24) was also held. The records reveal that the victim has been staying at the police station since July 23. It has come to light that she stayed at the station with all the accused who were in police remand for a week. The court came to know about this when it summoned the victim to hear her side while deciding the bail plea. During the hearing, when the judge asked her present address she told that she was staying at the police station. "Upon this revelation, this court was in utter shock and asked her as to how and under what circumstances the victim/prosecutrix was kept in the police station without any order from any competent court having jurisdiction in this regard. While responding to this the victim/prosecutrix feigned her ignorance qua this. Hence, police inspector namely D R Gohil present in the court was also asked about the facts narrated by victim/prosecutrix and the concerned police inspector has also verified this fact that victim/prosecutrix is residing in police station since last 1 month as she was having no place to stay in Ahmedabad. Upon being asked as to why the victim/prosecutrix has not been shifted to any institution which generally takes care of children and women in such cases, the concerned police inspector could not answer anything," the order notes. The sessions judge Preet Kamal Tirath Ram then rejected the bail plea. The court also directed a copy of the order to be sent to the chairperson of Gujarat State Women Commission for appropriate action.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rape-victim-found-to-be-living-at-gujarat-police-station-for-over-a-month-878758.html
27-08-2020||West||Stop 'media trial' in Sushant Singh Rajput case, petition urges High Court||A petition filed in the Bombay High Court has sought a direction to news channels and others to "postpone" the "media trial" in actor Sushant Singh Rajput's suicide, saying it could hamper the probe. The plea, filed on Wednesday, is yet to be taken up for hearing by the high court. Petitioners Nilesh Navlakha and two others demanded directions to news channels to limit their coverage of the case and the probe. The ongoing sensational reportage on the issue might hamper the probe being conducted by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), it said. Since June 14, the day Rajput allegedly committed suicide, "several prominent media channels have been conducting media trials" and "parallel proceedings", the petition said. TV channels and other media outlets have "proceeded to already convict" the accused named in the FIR, it said. Such parallel investigation goes against the Supreme Court's past rulings and basic principles of law, the petition said. The high court should ask the media to "postpone reporting....debates, discussions of any kind tantamount to media trial...that will directly or indirectly hamper the investigation in the case", the plea said. The petitioners have made several news channels party to the litigation. They had filed complaints with the Union government authorities against some TV channels, but were yet to get a response, the petitioners said. The CBI is conducting probe into a complaint of abetment of suicide filed by Rajput's father against actor Rhea Chakraborty, her family members and others||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/stop-media-trial-in-sushant-singh-rajput-case-petition-urges-high-court-878776.html
