28-08-2020||Comment||Lies as State policy||Lies, half-truths, suppression of truth, misrepresentation of facts and exaggerated promises are common tools of political tradecraft and politicians often employ them to win votes. Let us not go into such trifles as the promise of Rs 15 lakh in every Indian’s bank account etc., which after the elections was dismissed as ‘jumla’ (a repartee meant to win gullible minds) by those who played the game themselves. It’s perhaps in the nature of democratic politics that competitive lies contest the market and the bigger lie wins. Lies during elections may be ignored but what about lies told when one has won the election and is now charged with governance of the nation? A democratic government is ultimately based on votes. And the vote is an expression of trust. What happens when high authorities of State claim false achievements or blatantly lie on the outcomes of their actions? Some lies fall in the category of an unreal or exaggerated projection of power, such as the ‘surgical strikes’ and the ‘Balakot attack’. Both had no evidence of their success.  Politicians are known to exaggerate, but how does one explain the Solicitor General (SG) making false averments to the Supreme Court? This was evident when the SG handed over a ‘sealed cover’ to the judges of the Supreme Court in the Rafale case and misled the court by stating that the information sought by the petitioners was too sensitive and that it had been provided to the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) and that the latter would table a redacted version in Parliament. Later, after the SC had dismissed the petition seeking investigation into the Rafale deal, the SG filed an amendment to his affidavit stating that the required information had, in fact, not been provided to the CAG but would be in due course. Now, the CAG has decided not to submit the report on Defence purchases to Parliament because “China and Pakistan are watching”! A constitutional authority that is duty-bound to ferret out the truth and place it before Parliament has declined to do so.  What about the Home Minister telling Parliament, on August 5, 2019, when he introduced the legislation to change the status of Jammu and Kashmir from statehood to Union Territory, that Farooq Abdullah was free to attend Parliament while he had actually been placed under house arrest. And on  July 30, 2020, when Congress MP from Kashmir Saifuddin Soz was kept under house arrest but the J&K administration lied to the Supreme Court that he was a free man and was not under detention. This is how the ‘Majesty of Law’ is being repeatedly diminished. Lies are different from the Big Lie. While lies are used to hide the reality or misrepresent the intent behind policy, the Big Lie is the Policy itself. That requires an audacity beyond the level of political chicanery. For instance, when the Prime Minister told the nation, on June 19, that “no one has intruded into our territory nor have any of our posts been captured”, after 20 of our soldiers had been brutally killed by the Chinese army; that was declaration of a new policy. The contours of this policy are not yet clear, but they are being tortuously drawn up by our Generals negotiating the Chinese withdrawal from ‘territory they have not intruded into’. Of course, it may be argued that this was not a lie as our border with China is neither delineated on the map nor demarcated on the ground. That may indeed be so, but then why did the PMO rush with an explanatory note the very next day and why was the video of the PM’s speech on the subject deleted from the PMO’s YouTube channel?  And another Big Lie is unfolding. That’s the denial of the reality that is staring everyone in the face. The massive unemployment crisis and the pauperisation of both the organised and the unorganised sectors. We may be witnessing the sharpest-ever decline in GDP growth rate since Independence, as some have postulated. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, however, continued to ignore it in his speech on Independence Day, just as he has refused to name China as the aggressor and intruder. Name it and you accept the reality, so best not to name it. For both the problems, the PM has one slogan -- Atmanirbharta. The reality is, some 122 million people had lost their jobs by April 2020, out of which 90 million were daily wage earners and small traders, according to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy. They were Atmanirbhar before March 24, for they were not even visible to the government, let alone getting any help from it. With the sudden lockdown on March 24, they lost their livelihoods. Eighteen million businesspersons are estimated to have gone out of business in the same period. They too were Atmanirbhar, but that did not prevent their bankruptcy. These facts may not be on government records because the head of the National Sample Survey Office was forced to resign in December 2019 after leaking out a report that the government would not make public--that unemployment levels had reached a 45-year high. There is no Ministry of Truth yet, but probably the Home Ministry has been given additional charge.   Lies may help lull your followers into a make-believe world, but the reality cannot be wished away. Of course, there is the media to provide an alternative reality. It can distract and engage the nation in bizarre and irrelevant narratives. The TV news channels that are obsessively trying to distract the country from the terrible state of the economy or of China’s occupation of our territory with a relentless coverage of the ‘suicide/murder trial’ of a Bollywood actor shows not their disconnect but a massively orchestrated cover-up.       The lies of the State are pernicious. This is a deliberate process of hollowing out institutions and corroding people’s faith in democracy. When people lose trust in democracy, they question its need and utility. That’s when the clamour for the Great Leader gains legitimacy.  (The writer, a former Cabinet Secretariat official, is currently Visiting Fellow, Observer Research Foundation)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/lies-as-state-policy-879000.html
28-08-2020||First Edit||Exams should not be put off again||Opinion is divided in the county over the holding of the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) Main and the National Eligibility and Entrance Test (NEET) when most parts of the country are in the grip of the Covid-19 pandemic. The JEE, for admission to engineering courses, is scheduled to be held between September 1 and 6, and the NEET, for undergraduate medical courses, is to be held on September 13. Over 25 lakh students have enrolled for the exams and there is a strong view that the exams should be postponed because they will create a serious Covid-19 hazard for many students who take them. Students will also need to travel to examination centres when travel facilities are limited. So, the demand, voiced by many students and their parents, is that the exams should be postponed to a future date and held after the waning of the pandemic. This is supported by most Opposition parties and their governments in many states. Considering the arguments for and against holding the exams, the advantage lies with holding them on schedule. The exams, which were originally to be held in April and May, have been postponed twice because of Covid-19 scare. The pandemic has not yet peaked in the country, so there is no certainty when the exams can be held in future, if they are not held now. The situation many even worsen. There is also the possibility of the students losing an academic year, and that can affect not only the current year’s students but future batches, too. It may not be good for students to have the exams postponed again and again and to be in a state of uncertainty and anxiety after they have prepared for it for two or even more years. The National Testing Agency (NTA), which conducts the examinations, has taken the steps necessary for their safe conduct. There are more exam centres, fewer students in a room and entry and exit regulations. If some students need special facilities because of co-morbidities or for other reasons, these should also be provided. The students are old enough to know how to conduct themselves in a situation like this.  Some states, including Karnataka, have held exams in the past few weeks without any complaints. Other countries have also held such exams. The Supreme Court has given the go-ahead for the exams. Rather than leaving them to an uncertain future, it is better that they are held now, when it is already late to hold them. Other options, like making admissions on the basis of the students’ marks in the higher secondary or Plus 2 exams, maybe even less acceptable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/exams-should-not-be-put-off-again-878998.html
28-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Miscreants gun down Rajasthan-based businessman in Kalaburagi||Miscreants shot down a Rajasthan-based 41-year-old businessman at Godutai Nagar on Jewargi road in Kalaburagi on Thursday night. The deceased has been identified as Sunil Sohanlal Ranka. He operated business of tiles and cement business near Jewargi cross. Three-four miscreants came on motorbikes at around 7.30 pm and fired at Sunil while he was standing in front of his house. Sunil who was lying in a pool of blood was rushed to United Hospital but died in the hospital. Sunil was staying near Shiva Mandir in Godutai Nagar for the past few years, the police stated. On receiving the information, Police Commissioner N Satheesh Kumar, Deputy Commissioner of Police D Kishorebabu visited the spot. A case has been registered at Ashok Nagar police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/miscreants-gun-down-rajasthan-based-businessman-in-kalaburagi-878919.html
28-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||CCB sleuths crack down on illegal sand extraction units in Mangaluru||The Central Crime Branch sleuths cracked down on an illegal sand extraction racket at Kannur Badila in Kankanady town police station and Kallapu in Ullal police station jurisdiction and seized sand and other materials worth Rs 9.91 lakh. The City Police Commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash has appealed to the public to inform the police on illegal sand extraction and other illegal activities being carried out in the city police jurisdiction. Acting on a tip-off, the police raided the spots on the banks of river Nethravathi where the sand was being extracted illegally and seized two tipper lorries and 44 loads of sand and other materials. CCB inspector Shivaprakash R Nayak, Urwa Inspector Shareef, South Traffic Station Inspector Guru Kamath and CCB sub-inspector Kabbalraj were part of the raid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ccb-sleuths-crack-down-on-illegal-sand-extraction-units-in-mangaluru-878963.html
28-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Narayana Gowda to launch 'Government to doorstep' programme today||District Incharge Minister Narayana Gowda will be launching a 'Government to doorstep' programme at K R Pet taluk on Friday to resolve the issues of the people.  Under this initiative, govt officials will visit the houses of the people and attend to their problems, if any.  Narayana Gowda will launch the programme from Bookanakere village, the native of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. Deputy Commissioner M V Venkatesh, Tahsildar Shivamurthy and officials of various departments will participate. This is an effort to prevent the people from visiting the government offices to get the work done. In a press release, the minister stated that the people can meet him for any problem. The new scheme is people-friendly and everyone should extend support, he appealed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/narayana-gowda-to-launch-government-to-doorstep-programme-today-879020.html
28-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar in favour of treatment for general public at ESI hospitals||Opining that ESI hospitals should be allowed to treat general public who do not have ESI cards, Labour Minister A Shivaram Hebbar on Friday stated the issue would be discussed with State and Union government officials concerned, and efforts would be made to clear legal hurdles in the matter. "Though ESI hospitals are meant to treat the labourers and other employees, why should not they offer treatment to other poor people? Binding for ESI hospitals to treat only card holders is not correct. Sufficient quantity of medicines are supplied to ESI hospitals, and 150 doctors were also appointed recently. Though medicines worth Rs 450 crore is provided to ESI hospitals and dispensaries every year, benefits are not properly reaching the needy," he observed. Expressing discontent about the facilities at the ESI hospital in Hubballi, the minister assured develop better infrastructure. Doctors cannot give excuses after facilities are provided, and money being reimbursed for treatment given to ESI card holders in other hospitals can also be saved. If doctors show negligence, action would be initiated against them, he warned. On Vishwanath's statement In reply to MLC A H Vishwanath's statement about Tipu Sultan, Hebbar asked him not to give unnecessary statements which bring embarrassment to the party and the government. "When we join a party, we should accept the ideology of that party and should not give controversial statements. I do not know in which context Vishwanath was speaking about Tipu Sultan. But, the party's stand in this issuer is my stand also," Hebbar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/labour-minister-shivaram-hebbar-in-favour-of-treatment-for-general-public-at-esi-hospitals-879061.html
28-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Sangolli Rayanna statue: Meeting eases tension at Peeranwadi||Meeting of Kannada activists, admirers of Sangolli Rayanna and Marathi speaking people mainly supporters of Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti and Shiv Sena to resolve the tension that had gripped Peeranwadi village in Belagavi over the installation of the statue of Sangolli Rayanna ended with success on Friday evening. It was decided to retain the statue of Sangolli Rayanna at venue wherein it has been installed and the circle will be named as Chatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Circle. Deputy Commissioner would submit a report to the government in this regard. Additional Director General of Police Law and Order Amar Kumar Pandey, Deputy Commissioner M G Hiremath, Police Commissioner Dr K Thiyagarajan and other officials held meeting with the representatives of Kannada organisations and admirers and Marathi speaking people in the village at a function venue. It was decided to accord respect to both the statues of Chatrapati Shivaji and Sangolli Rayanna.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sangolli-rayanna-statue-meeting-eases-tension-at-peeranwadi-879290.html
28-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||IAS officer Sharat replaces DC Abhiram||The state government has transferred Deputy Commissioner (DC) Abhiram G Sankar and has appointed B Sharat in his place. Sharat was Deputy Commissioner of Kalaburagi, who was lauded for managing Covid-19 effectively. Earlier, he served as Mandya Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer. Though Sharat was transferred as Executive Director of Karnataka Examination Authority from Kalaburagi in April, it was cancelled later. Sankar is appointed as Joint Director of Administrative Training Institute (ATI), Mysuru. Sankar, also lauded for managing Covid situation and successfully managing two Dasaras, was described as a people-friendly officer. According to sources near to Sankar, he is slated to be deputed to the Central government shortly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ias-officer-sharat-replaces-dc-abhiram-879309.html
28-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Adventure for fitness amid Covid crisis despite limitations||Fitness enthusiasts in Mysuru are exploring avenues amid Covid-19 crisis to keep fit and to stay healthy, despite the limitations. While middle-aged Deepak (D S D ) Solanki of Tiger Adventure Foundation has been walking and cycling since May 6, clocking 2,000 km, youngster M A Ramanuja, an engineering student, has covered a total of 2,500 km, both running and cycling. Deepak Solanki said, “Besides my work in the neighbouring Chamarajanagar town, I keep myself busy in training youth in adventures like trekking and mountaineering. Since the Covid-19 crisis set in, I am working from home and cannot travel to far off places, like the Himalayas, my ever favourite destination.” “During lockdown, I realised that I was gaining weight. Thus, after the lockdown was relaxed, I started walking from May 6. I was also cycling in between. In the midst, I was also on quarantine from July 8 to 22, as a person who accompanied me on a walk, tested positive for Covid infection.” He said that he has walked 976 km up to Friday morning and would cross the 1,000 km mark on Saturday. “I have cycled 775 km till August 14 and would cross 1,000 km in four days. I walked the longest distance of 30.57 km in 4 hours 50 minutes on August 24, within the city. I pedalled the highest of 100.36 km in seven hours and five minutes on June 11.” “My walks have been mostly within the city limits and around Ring Road, covering Uttanahalli Jwalamukhi temple, Chamundi Hill. By cycling, I have covered neighbouring places like Karigatta, Srirangapatna, Mahadevapura, Nanjangud, Sagarakatte and KR Nagar,” he said. Deepak Solanki said that he did not set targets before leaving for a walk or cycling. “Even though I had done marathons earlier, I never thought I could cover such long distances. All thanks to the Covid crisis, I would first start and then chart a route. I did not give up despite blisters, since three days. I have shed about 10 kg of weight over the past 70 days,” he said. Ramanuja said, “I completed 2,953 km from May end up to Friday. Earlier also, I used to run and pedal, but due to Covid, I got plenty of time. I could spend it on my passion, both running and cycling. I know a few others in Mysuru, who have accomplished much more than me. My longest run at a stretch was on August 22. It was 22.17 km, starting at 5.20 am, as there was a virtual race called IronmanVR20. In the event, the participants can run or cycle wherever they are. They track their workout and upload or sync it to the official website.” “On August 10, I cycled the longest, 110 km up to Mandya, because I just wanted to break my earlier records. I wanted to check if I could bear the heat and humidity. I thank my coach Dr Usha Hegde, who has completed Ironman 70.3 (3.8 km swim, 180 km cycling and 42.2 km run) last year at the age of 48. She is guiding me since five months. My activities are recorded on https://www.strava.com/athletes/44599598,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/adventure-for-fitness-amid-covid-crisis-despite-limitations-879311.html
28-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||JSS ready for Covishield clinical trial||JSS Medical College and Hospital is all set to conduct clinical trials of Covishield, a vaccine for Covid-19. The test will commence on August 29, on the 105th birth anniversary of seer Shivaratri Rajendra Swami, if the government issues order. JSS Academy of Higher Education and Research pro-chancellor B Suresh said, "All preparations are in place for the clinical trials. We are waiting for an order from the government. We may receive the order by Friday and the vaccine will be tested on five volunteers on Saturday.” It has to be noted that the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had shortlisted JSS Hospital and Medical College to conduct clinical trials of Covid vaccine, in association with the Serum Institute of India, Pune.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/jss-ready-for-covishield-clinical-trial-879312.html
28-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Rajeev is new chief of Mysuru Urban Development Authority||The state government has nominated BJP leader H V Rajeev, also president of District Cooperative Union,  as Chairman to the Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA), for the next three years. Rajeev has served the BJP in various capacities, including general secretary of Mysuru city unit. He was also director and vice-president of the Federation of Karnataka State Cooperatives. In October 2014, Rajeev set up Rajeev Sneha Balaga and supported Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Swachh Bharat campaign. Rajeev, a confidant of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, had contested from Krishnaraja Assembly segment on Karnataka Janata Paksha (KJP) ticket in 2013 Assembly election, when Yediyurappa was heading the party. The state government had not nominated the chairman until now. Ex-Zilla Panchayat member H N Vijaykumar of JD(S) was serving as MUDA chairman during the earlier JD(S)-Congress coalition government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rajeev-is-new-chief-of-mysuru-urban-development-authority-879313.html
28-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||KSET rescheduled for Sept 27||The University of Mysore (UoM) has postponed the Karnataka State Eligibility Test (KSET) for assistant professors for the third time. The UoM, the nodal agency to conduct to KSET, had decided to conduct the exams on September 20 as per the state government’s order. But, as the Police department is conducting an examination on the same date, the UoM rescheduled KSET for September 27. The exams were postponed twice due to Covid-19. Initially, KSET was scheduled for April 12. It was postponed to June 21. Again the exams were cancelled and rescheduled for September 20.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kset-rescheduled-for-sept-27-879314.html
28-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||KSRTC services picking up in Mysuru||Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC), Mysuru City, services are getting better with the occupancy rate increasing. The KSRTC is generating Rs 9 lakh revenue per day on an average. In normal days, the division generates an average of Rs 35 lakh revenue per day. The KSRTC city division has a total of 426 buses, but, at present 250 to 260 buses are operating due to poor occupancy. The officials are hopeful of improving the occupancy in a few days. KSRTC Divisional Controller, Mysuru City, S P Nagaraj said, "Compared to last week, the rate of occupancy is high this week. There is a positive trend with more number of people travelling in buses. We have reduced the number of buses and more buses will be operated shortly, depending on the demand.” Each bus is allowed to carry a maximum of 33 passengers against 55 seats. According to the authorities, employees of private firms, tourists and students are the passengers for KSRTC. Work from home, online classes and lack of tourists affect the revenue. Chandrashekar, who depended on public transport before lockdown said, “Now, my son ferries me to my work place in Hebbal from home at Kuvempu Nagar. Though the KSRTC is running buses, I feel it is not safe to travel by public transport.” It has to be noted that KSRTC has suspended conducting thermal screening and no social distance is maintained in bus stands.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ksrtc-services-picking-up-in-mysuru-879316.html
28-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka: Man poisons his three children, dies by suicide||A person allegedly poisoned his three children and ended his life by consuming poison at Kadabgatti village in Gokak taluk on Friday. Police said as primary information that Maruti Yallappa Pujari (37), resident of Rajkatti village in Hukkeri taluk was dejected in his life. He had left his village on Thursday to avail treatment at Primary Health Centre, Ankalgi in Gokak. He reportedly poisoned his son's Samarth (8), Yallappa (6) and daughter Puja (4). Later, he himself consumed poison and ended life. Reason for the extreme step was not known.Gokak Rural police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-man-poisons-his-three-children-dies-by-suicide-879328.html
28-08-2020||Karnataka Politics||Despite Covid-19 pandemic, Karnataka hoping to create 65k jobs: Jagadish Shettar||“These investments were cleared with quick approvals by the State Level Single Window Clearance Committee (SLSWCC), State High-Level Clearance Committee (SHLCC) and the Land Approval Committee between March and August,” Shettar said, addressing a news conference on the occasion of completing one year in office.  Through an ordinance, the government has amended the Karnataka Industries (Facilitation) Act, 2002, to exempt new industrial projects from seeking various licences and permits for three years, Shettar said. “They can commence operations as soon as they get the necessary approval without having to wait for multiple clearances,” he said.  The state government’s new industrial policy aims to attract investments worth Rs 5 lakh crore and create jobs for 20 lakh over the next five years. “This industrial policy is very forward-looking and brings with it several incentives and regulatory reforms such as land access and labour market regulation,” Shettar pointed out, adding that promoting the state’s economic and industrial development was the government’s top priority.  Hailing Karnataka as “an attractive investment destination”, Shettar said the state was one of India’s most industrially-advanced states. “Today, Karnataka is nearly a US$ 250 billion economy and has been leading the country in several sectors,” the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/despite-covid-19-pandemic-karnataka-hoping-to-create-65k-jobs-jagadish-shettar-879260.html
28-08-2020||Mysuru||University of Mysore postpones KSET for Assistant Professor post to September 27||The University of Mysore (UoM) has postponed the Karnataka State Eligibility Test (KSET) for the post of Assistant Professor. The varsity, the nodal agency to conduct to the KSET, has decided to conduct exams on September 20 as per the state government's order but as the Police Department is conducting examination on the same date, the varsity rescheduled the date to September 27. As many as 1.06 lakh candidates have applied to for the KSET. The exams were supposed to be held for 41 subjects at 11 centres across the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/university-of-mysore-postpones-kset-for-assistant-professor-post-to-september-27-878958.html
28-08-2020||Mysuru||BJP leader H V Rajeeva appointed as new MUDA Chairman||The Karnataka government has nominated BJP leader H V Rajeeva, also the District Co-operative Union President, as Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) Chairman for next three-year. Rajeeva has served in various capacities and also a senior BJP leader. He has been active in politics since 1994. He has also served as general secretary of the Mysuru BJP.  In October 2014, Rajeev had set up a Rajeev Sneha Balaga and supported PM Narendra Modi's Swachh Bharat campaign.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/bjp-leader-h-v-rajeeva-appointed-as-new-muda-chairman-879019.html
28-08-2020||National||Opposition-led state govts to file petition seeking postponement of JEE, NEET on August 28||State governments led by non-BJP Opposition parties, including those led by the Congress and the Trinamool Congress, will file a review petition in Supreme Court on Friday demanding postponement of JEE and NEET examination owing to the worsening Covid-19 pandemic. The petition will be jointly filed by the states -- Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Punjab, Puducherry, West Bengal, Maharashtra and Jharkhand. --  led by the Congress, Trinamool Congress, Shiv Sena and JMM. The move comes against the backdrop of a meeting of seven non-BJP Opposition Chief Ministers called by Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday during which it was decided that they should approach the Supreme Court. The idea of moving the court was mooted by West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in the meeting. In the meeting, Sonia had asked Banerjee to work out with Amarinder Singh and other chief ministers on the legal recourse.   The Chief Ministers -- Banerjee (TMC), Maharashtra's Uddhav Thackeray (Shiv Sena), Punjab's Amarinder Singh (Congress), Jharkhand's Hemant Soren (JMM), Rajasthan's Ashok Gehlot (Congress), Chhattisgarh's Bhupesh Baghel (Congress) and Puducherry's V Narayanasamy (Congress) --  agreed to the need for filing a review petition urging the Supreme Court to reconsider its recent order rejecting the postponement of the entrance examinations. DMK has also supported the move though it is not in the government. While the AAP and the CPI(M), which have governments in Delhi and Kerala respectively, did not attend the meeting, both the parties have come out in the open against conducting the entrance tests amid the pandemic. Parties like the RJD and the CPI are also against the move to conduct the exams as scheduled. The Centre has categorically stated that it would not postpone the exams with IIT heads saying that not conducting JEE now would result in zero academic year. The Supreme Court had ordered in favour of the Centre in conducting the JEE and NEET.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opposition-led-state-govts-to-file-petition-seeking-postponement-of-jee-neet-on-august-28-878831.html
28-08-2020||National||Sunny Leone's name on merit list of Kolkata college||Bollywood actor Sunny Leone's name "mischievously" made it to the top of the merit list for admission to an undergraduate programme of a Kolkata college on Thursday. The first list for the admission to BA (Honours) in English at Asutosh College posted on its website had the actor's name at the top. Application ID and roll number accompanied the name on the list. Alongside the name, 400 or full marks in the best of four subjects in class 12 board examinations were mentioned on the list. "It is an act of mischief as someone deliberately submitted a wrong application having typed Leone's name. We have asked the admission department to correct it. We will also conduct an inquiry into the incident," a college official said. The incident raised questions among the academia about the online admission process that is underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sunny-leones-name-on-merit-list-of-kolkata-college-878846.html
28-08-2020||National||Not legally possible to allow Indian lawyer to represent Jadhav: Pakistan||Pakistan said on Thursday that it was not legally possible to allow a lawyer from India to represent Indian prisoner on death row Kulbhushan Jadhav in a court in this country. Pakistan Foreign Office spokesman Zahid Hafeez Chaudhri was asked at the weekly press briefing about India's demand to appoint a local counsel to plead Jadhav's case in the Islamabad High Court (IHC) which announced that it would the case on September 3. "The Indian side has been also making incongruous demands of allowing an Indian lawyer to represent Commander Jadhav. We have repeatedly told them only those lawyers can represent Commander Jadhav in the court who have a licence to practise law in Pakistan. This is in accordance with legal practice in other jurisdictions also," he said. The spokesman also said that the Indian Supreme Court, in one of its judgments, also ruled that foreign lawyers cannot practise law within the country. Jadhav, the 50-year-old retired Indian Navy officer, was sentenced to death by a Pakistani military court on charges of "espionage and terrorism" in April 2017. Weeks later, India approached the International Court of Justice (ICJ) against Pakistan for denial of consular access to Jadhav and challenging the death sentence. The Hague-based ICJ ruled in July last year that Pakistan must undertake an "effective review and reconsideration" of the conviction and sentence of Jadhav and also to grant consular access to India without further delay. "The ICJ judgment clearly says that the review and reconsideration process would be carried out in Pakistani courts as per the laws of Pakistan," Chaudhri said. He said immediately after the ICJ's verdict, Pakistan informed Jadhav of his rights; provided consular access; and put a stay on his execution. He said the provision of effective review and reconsideration is also under process. Chaudhri said Pakistan facilitated the meeting of Jadhav’s family on humanitarian grounds and also provided second consular access to him. Last month, Pakistan provided consular access to Jadhav, days ahead of a deadline to file a review petition in a court here against his conviction by a military court. This was the second consular access to Jadhav. The first consular access was provided by Pakistan on September 2, 2019, the Foreign Office said in a statement "However, the Indian consular officials abruptly left while the consular meeting with Commander Jadhav was underway," the spokesman claimed. Chaudhri said that to give effect to the ICJ judgment, the Government of Pakistan has itself approached the Islamabad High Court and India must come forward and cooperate with the court in Pakistan to give effect to the judgment of the ICJ. Pakistan claims that its security forces arrested Jadhav from the restive Balochistan province on March 3, 2016 after he reportedly entered from Iran. India maintains that Jadhav was kidnapped from Iran where he had business interests after retiring from the Navy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-legally-possible-to-allow-indian-lawyer-to-represent-jadhav-pakistan-878863.html
28-08-2020||National||Lack of transport facilities, fear of contracting Covid-19 among worries of NEET, JEE exams aspirants||Lack of transport facilities to reach examination centres, fear of contracting Covid-19, and writing exams while wearing masks and hand gloves are some of the concerns being raised by NEET and JEE-Mains aspirants who want the exams to be postponed amid the pandemic. The Left-affiliated All India Students' Association on Thursday held a protest on Twitter using the hashtags #Rise_AgainstExamsInCovid, #JEENEET, #neetjeepostpone, #PostponeJEE_NEETinCovid and #NEETJEEpostponekaro. Students wore black bands and masks and posted pictures demanding that the exams be postponed amid the pandemic. An online petition was also started on Wednesday to urge the Centre to postpone the two exams till the year-end amid a spurt in coronavirus cases in the country. Over 1.20 lakh people have signed the petition. A JEE aspirant, requesting anonymity, said, "There are lakhs of students who will take NEET and JEE exams. My mother has low immunity and if I get tested positive who will take responsibility of me or my family getting affected. It has been seen that SOPs are not followed during entrance exams." Danish Khan, a NEET aspirant from Bhagalpur, said he has been allotted an exam centre in Patna where cases have been on a rise. "Private transporters have hiked rates and students will end up spending nearly Rs 10,000 to reach their centres. Many of my friends are stuck in floods. Will they swim to the centres? They won't be able to take exams amid this pandemic. It is being said SOPs will be followed but those who have formulated these SOPs have also fallen ill," he said. A JEE aspirant from Karnataka, requesting anonymity, said that the time for reporting to the centre is 7 am and his centre is almost 150 kilometres away. "With no bus or train services available, how will we travel? My friends are also facing the same issue as they do not have transport facilities at home," the aspirant said. Taniya and Srishti Kumari Mishra are sisters. While Taniya is a JEE aspirant, Srishti is preparing for NEET. Srishti had dropped a year for the NEET exams after she failed to make the cut last year by six marks. "I missed a seat because I secured six marks less last year, but this time the stress is so much that my sister and I have not been able to study for a fortnight. We do not even have a transport facility to reach the exam centre. It is possible that we might have to miss the exams this year," Srishti said. The JEE Main and the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET-UG) will be conducted in September as scheduled, officials of the Ministry of Education said on Tuesday, amid a growing chorus for postponing the crucial tests in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. While the JEE Main is scheduled from September 1-6, NEET is planned on September 13. Several opposition leaders, including Congress' Rahul Gandhi, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, her Odisha counterpart Naveen Patnaik and DMK president M K Stalin have demanded that the exams be postponed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lack-of-transport-facilities-fear-of-contracting-covid-19-among-worries-of-neet-jee-exams-aspirants-878866.html
28-08-2020||National||SC to deliver judgement on UGC's order to varsities to hold final exams by September 30||The Supreme Court is scheduled to deliver its judgement on Friday on the validity of the UGC's direction to varsities across the country to hold final examinations by September 30, amid the growing cases of Covid-19 and floods in certain states. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah would pronounce the order at 10.30 am on August 28 on a batch of petitions filed by Bengaluru resident Praneeth K, and others. On August 18, the court has reserved its judgement in the matter. The court had then said it would decide if the state, and its Disaster Management Authority can override the UGC's power and cancel the final examinations due to Covid-19 pandemic. The petitioners, including the Yuva Sena, challenged the validity of UGC's July 6 notification. In its observations, the court had said that one needed to keep in mind that the welfare of the students is not for the students to decide. It's for the statutory body. Students are not qualified to decide it. The notification has been vehemently opposed by the states like Maharashtra, Delhi, and Odisha and students as well, due to Covid-19 situation. The court would decide if the Disaster management Act can be interpreted in the manner to allow the State to take such a decision to cancel examinations. Suppose the UPSC says we will hold competitive exams, can the state say that don't hold the exams and pass all students, the bench had asked.  The court also asked that in the issue, if the situation is such that the state says it cannot hold exams, can it give degrees? During the hearing, the Centre maintained even during the time of national disasters, the state authorities cannot override the UGC. It had earlier maintained the guidelines issued on July 6 were based on the recommendations of experts, after due deliberations and taking into account Covid-19 situation and balancing of all relevant factors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-deliver-judgement-on-ugcs-order-to-varsities-to-hold-final-exams-by-september-30-878873.html
28-08-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on August 28||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 31 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact: Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 34,55,601 as of August 28 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  62,634   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 25,83,948  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-august-28-878877.html
28-08-2020||National||DH Toon | Job crisis: 'Ideally, we should be scrapping all exams'||Over 150 academicians from various universities in India and abroad have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying that delaying the medical and engineering entrance exams -- JEE-Mains and NEET – any further will mean compromising on the future of students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-job-crisis-ideally-we-should-be-scrapping-all-exams-878878.html
28-08-2020||National||Tablighi Jamaat: MEA says 1,095 look out circulars deleted, 630 foreign members left India||As many as 1,095 look out circulars have been deleted and 630 foreign members of the Tablighi Jamaat have left India, the Ministry of External Affairs said on Thursday. On the issue of foreign Tablighi Jamaat members stuck in India for violating visa rules and pandemic restrictions, MEA Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said the ministry has been actively facilitating their consular access, deletion of LOCs and smooth repatriation to their respective countries. "We have kept the respective foreign embassies informed through the entire process," he said. "As of August 24, 1,095 look out circulars (LOCs) were deleted and 630 foreign members of the Tablighi Jamaat have left India," he said at an online media briefing. These members of the Tablighi Jamaat were charged under the Foreigners Act for indulging in activities that were incompatible with their visa status, he said. Therefore, for such activities, appropriate category of visa has to be sought, Srivastava said. To a separate question on whether External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar will participate in the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) foreign ministers' meeting next month, Srivastava said the minister has received an invitation for the meeting to be held in Moscow and a decision on his participation would be made known once it is taken. On whether the Kerala government had sought MEA's approval for signing an MoU with the UAE Red Crescent Authority - an NGO -- for a project, Srivastava said no such approval had been taken.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tablighi-jamaat-mea-says-1095-look-out-circulars-deleted-630-foreign-members-left-india-878881.html
28-08-2020||National||DH Radio | The Lead: Poetry during the Covid-19 lockdown||In this episode of The Lead from DH Radio,  Prof K Srilata reads her poetry about the lockdown and tells us the various facets of her poetry.  L Subramani: Today we are gonna talk literature and specifically about poetry. They say that poems are seeds sown in the depths of the human soul and nourished by imagination. Maybe that's why poems talk to us in a way no other form can. Who else but a poet to explain to us how poems are being composed and the creative process of making them. Today we are joined by Prof K Srilata. She is a professor of English at IIT- Madras and also a published poet and an author. Srilata, welcome to the podcast. K Srilata: Thank you, Thank you so much, Mr Subramani. Thank you for having me. L Subramani: You published the unmistakable presence of absent humans, that was the anthological collection that you published last year. It is a sort of a prediction by looking at the title, of the things to come. Today we are talking about lockdowns, social distancing, social media and breaking down of the human connectivity. Obviously, you may not have hinted at it when you collected and published the anthology a year back. K Srilata: Yes, Yes. That's right. You are right that the present times were nowhere in my mind at the times of writing the poems or titling the collection or publishing it. In fact, in a sense, what we are going through now is beyond everybody's collective imagination. It's sort of almost uncanny now that you are saying it. The title seems to almost foreshadow what many of us are experiencing, which is we are not able to meet people or visit them. In that sense, there are absent humans but their presence remains with us in a very unmistakable way, so the title does resonate but having said that I must also add that the poems are about other kinds of absences beginning from the personal absences from my own life to some more political issues like disappearances, forced disappearances and so on. There was really no conscious attempt in a sense to thematically link the poems in the collection... To know more about the conversation, listen to the podcast.   Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-radio-the-lead-poetry-during-the-covid-19-lockdown-878884.html
28-08-2020||National||Indians seek fortune tellers to fight Covid-19 blues||"Right now people are really frightened about their future," said Sharma, with flowing hair and a big vermilion dot on his forehead, as smouldering incense sticks spread their fragrance over an Apple laptop on his desk. "How will they survive? Will they have their jobs or not? Will their business survive or not," he added. Indians are flocking to astrologers, tarot card readers and faith healers as they seek to know what lies ahead and find solutions to current health, financial and mental problems in a country where coronavirus cases have rocketed to 3.3 million - the third-highest in the world - with more than 60,000 deaths. "Whenever our mind is really disturbed and we feel anxious, we come here," said Anju Devi, 52, who asked Sharma about her son's dwindling business and the prospects of her daughter's marriage. "Those who are in depression and taking medicines, they feel uplifted after coming here and it helps them come out of those situations." Indian astrologers, palm readers, numerologists and tarot card readers are estimated to generate hundreds of millions of dollars a year in revenue. Charges vary from 100 rupees ($1.50) for a quick session with a palmist to several thousand rupees for a long session with a popular spiritual guide. Ajay Bhambi, a well-known astrologer and spiritual consultant to politicians, Bollywood stars and professional cricketers, said his business had risen 40 percent since the Covid-19 outbreak. "You keep the hopes alive and see what is exactly stored for them in future," said Bhambi, a regular on Indian TV networks. "If I see a little ray, then I can create a better picture for them." He predicted India's Covid-19 crisis would significantly improve from March onward. To be sure, not every mystic is flooded with customers. For example, Kripajyoti Nisha Singla, a cosmic healer who also practices hypnotherapy, said she has cancelled sessions because of a lack of demand. "The energies which I got was that people were saving money," Singla said. "Everyone's very concerned about their finances, very uncertain about how they are going to survive" if the coronavirus crisis extends.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indians-seek-fortune-tellers-to-fight-covid-19-blues-878934.html
28-08-2020||National||India reports record daily jump of 77,266 coronavirus infections||India reported a record daily jump of 77,266 coronavirus infections on Friday, taking its total to 3.39 million, as cases surged across the country, data from the federal health ministry showed. India has reported the highest single-day caseload in the world every day since Aug. 7, a Reuters tally showed, and is the third-most affected country behind only the United States and Brazil. Deaths in the same period went up by 1,057, taking the total toll to 61,529.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-record-daily-jump-of-77266-coronavirus-infections-878959.html
28-08-2020||National||Coronavirus tally in India climbs to 33,87,500||The death toll climbed to 61,529 with 1,057 people succumbing to the diseases in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The recovery rate was recorded at 76.28 percent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate has further declined to 1.82 percent. There are 7,42,023 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 21.90 percent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 and went past 30 lakh on August 23.   According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 3,94,77,848 samples have been tested up to August 27 with 9,01,338 samples being tested on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-tally-in-india-climbs-to-3387500-878980.html
28-08-2020||National||SC upholds UGC notification; university exams to be held by September 30||The Supreme Court on Friday upheld the validity of the UGC's direction to varsities across the country to hold final examinations by September 30. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah declared that no state government can promote students without the final examinations. The authority's decision to pass students on the basis of previous years' marks by the candidates would be beyond the scope of the law. The court's judgement came on a batch of petitions filed by Praneeth K, Bengaluru resident, and others, who questioned the validity of the UGC's July 6 directions due to growing cases of Covid-19 and flood in certain states. On August 18, the court had reserved its judgement in the matter. The UGC's notification was vehemently opposed by the states like Maharashtra, Delhi, and Odisha. During the hearing, the Centre maintained even in time of the national disaster, the state authorities cannot override the UGC. It had earlier maintained the guidelines issued on July 6 were based on the recommendations of experts, after due deliberations and taking into account Covid-19 situation and balancing all relevant factors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-upholds-ugc-notification-university-exams-to-be-held-by-september-30-878986.html
28-08-2020||National||IRDAI says insurance companies can't deny claims for not holding valid PUC certificate||Insurance regulator IRDAI has said that insurance companies cannot deny claims for the lack of a valid PUC certificate.  "It is hereby clarified that not holding a valid PUC certificate is not a valid reason for denying any claim under a motor insurance policy," said IRDAI in its release dated August 26.  A PUC, or Pollution Under Control certificate, is a document provided for vehicles that have undergone a successful PUC test. A successful PUC test means the vehicle's emissions are within standard norms. The IRDAI's explanation comes amid reports claiming that a lack of a valid PUC certificate is grounds for insurance companies to deny a claim in the event of an accident. However, a valid PUC certificate is mandatory for renewal of the motor vehicle insurance. It is mandatory for every vehicle in India to have a PUC certificate, failing which it is liable for prosecution under the Motor Vehicles Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/irdai-says-insurance-companies-cant-deny-claims-for-not-holding-valid-puc-certificate-878991.html
28-08-2020||National||Jan Dhan scheme game-changer, foundation of poverty alleviation initiatives: PM Narendra Modi||Marking the sixth anniversary of the 'Jan Dhan' scheme, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday that the initiative has been a "game-changer" and served as the foundation for many poverty alleviation initiatives.  After he led the BJP to power in 2014, this was one of his government's first major projects under which bank accounts of crores of people, mostly poor, were opened.  "Today, six years ago, the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana was launched with an ambitious aim of banking the unbanked. This initiative has been a game-changer, serving as the foundation for many poverty alleviation initiatives, benefitting crores of people," the prime minister tweeted.  "Thanks to the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana, the future of several families has become secure. A high proportion of beneficiaries are from rural areas and are women. I also applaud all those who have worked tirelessly to make PM-JDY a success. #6Years Of Jan Dhan Yojana," he added.  The graphics shared by him showed that more than 40 crore bank accounts have been opened so far with more than 63 per cent of the beneficiaries belonging to rural areas. Over 55 per cent of them are women.  The government has said that it has been able to directly transfer welfare benefits to the needy due to the scheme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jan-dhan-scheme-game-changer-foundation-of-poverty-alleviation-initiatives-pm-narendra-modi-878993.html
28-08-2020||National||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Rhea Chakraborty appears before CBI for questioning||Actor-model Rhea Chakraborty is being questioned by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in connection with the death of actor and her live-in partner Sushant Singh Rajput. Rhea appeared before the CBI at the DRDO & IAF guest house in Mumbai on Friday.  Sushant (34) was found dead in his rented duplex accommodation in Mount Blanc building at Carter Road in Bandra on June 14.  Sushant's father Krishna Kishore Singh and his sisters have blamed Rhea, her brother Showik, father Lt Col (retd) Dr Indrajit Chakraborty and mother Sandhya for his death and swindling off Rs 15 crore form his account. The Mumbai police that registered an accidental death report (ADR) has recorded her statement during the investigations it conducted under Section 174 of the CrPC.  She was then grilled by the Enforcement Directorate after it registered an enforcement case information report (ECIR) based on the first information report (FIR) lodged by Singh at Rajiv Nagar police station in Patna.  After the Supreme Court transferred the probe to the CBI, the agency has registered an FIR. The CBI team is in Mumbai for nearly a week now investigating the actor's mysterious death.  After this, Rhea is expected to be grilled by Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) that has stepped in after the drug-angle surfaced. "I will cooperate with all agencies," Rhea had told a TV channel in an interview.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sushant-singh-rajput-case-rhea-chakraborty-appears-before-cbi-for-questioning-878995.html
28-08-2020||National||Gloves, sanitisers: National Testing Agency gears up for JEE exams amid Covid-19||Even though various state governments, organisations, individuals and students have raised their voices against the tests being conducted right now, the Centre has turned a deaf ear to the appeals and has decided to go forward with the JEE (Main) and NEET as scheduled. Over 8.58 lakh students have registered for JEE (Main), an online exam for engineering aspirants. The exam is scheduled to be held from September 1 to 6, while NEET, an offline examination is scheduled on September 13. The JEE (Main) exam will be supervised by 1.14 lakh invigilators. Previously, 570 centres were allocated for the JEE (Main) exams, which has now been increased to 660 test centres to maintain social distance. “Earlier, we had planned to assign two invigilators for 30 students. We have brought that down to two for 15. Hence, our requirement of invigilators has doubled to 1.14 lakh,” NTA Director-General Vineet Joshi told the publication. The JEE (Main) test will be held in two shifts of three hours each. There will be 12 shifts in total with 85,000 candidates appearing for the JEE (Main) per shift. “The first shift will be held from 9 am to noon and the second shift will start at 3 pm instead of 2 pm. This will give us time to sanitise the computer labs for the second shift,” Joshi added. Candidates have been assigned time slots for reporting, in which a maximum of 40 students can report in one 20-minute slot. According to Joshi, the agency will be incurring an additional Rs 150 per candidate. Earlier, the agency would have spent Rs 400 per candidate. The overall Covid-19 preparation cost now stands at an additional cost of almost Rs 13 crore. The blueprint has been crafted by Tata Consultancy Services in association with the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and Public Health Foundation of India. Staggered, touch-free entry into the centre, Aarogya Setu app status verification, symptom checks, sanitisation before entry, touch-free security checks, document verification, and registration, multiple layers of hygiene norms, no-contact ID verification before, during and after exam, etc. are a part of the SOP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gloves-sanitisers-national-testing-agency-gears-up-for-jee-exams-amid-covid-19-878996.html
28-08-2020||National||SC declines to consider plea against Bihar Assembly polls||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to entertain a PIL for a direction to the Election Commission to postpone Bihar Legislative Assembly polls, expected in October 2020, due to the Covid-19 pandemic and flood in the state. A three-judge bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan said the Election Commission can take necessary precautions and consider everything. The court termed the petition by Avinash Thakur premature and misconceived. "Covid-19 can't be ground for postponement of elections, especially when even a notification for polls has not been issued," the bench said. Bihar polls are due in October 2020 to elect 243-member Assembly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-declines-to-consider-plea-against-bihar-assembly-polls-879010.html
28-08-2020||National||Chinese apps' penetration in India crashes to 29% post-ban: Report||According to the report, the penetration of these apps or the percentage of users using these applications per week dropped from 81 percent to 29 percent in the country.  The app ban also resulted in a decrease in the overall time spent on a smartphone, with data suggesting that users spent 3 hours 14 minutes in August, in comparison to 3 hours 54 minutes in April. The report added that people spent 3 hours 22 minutes in January, which was before the coronavirus spread in India. The study showed that all audiences, spent comparatively lesser time on their phones, and those residing in non-metros spent 5 percent less in comparison to April. The 15-24 and 25-34 age groups spent 7 percent and 6 percent less time on smartphones, respectively. The initial 59-app ban included Bytedance’s TikTok, Alibaba’s UC Browser, Shein among others. The government later banned 47 more Chinese apps. The app ban impacted the income of top influencers, causing an estimated Rs 120 crore dent in their income, according to the Indian Institute of Human Brands (IIHB).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chinese-apps-penetration-in-india-crashes-to-29-post-ban-report-879021.html
28-08-2020||National||Pay Rs 100 every time you update your Aadhaar: UIDAI||Now updating your Aadhaar card has gotten a tad bit costly as the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) said in a tweet that it will be charging a sum of Rs 100 every time you want to update your Aadhaar details. Whether you update one field or many, the consolidated charge will amount to Rs 100 for a single update request. To update your details, you can visit your nearest Aadhaar Enrollment center (Aadhaar Seva Kendra) or utilize their online services. However, UIDAI will charge Rs 50 if you are only updating your demographic details. To update details you may need to submit valid documents along with the application form and fees. Name, address or date of birth change will need documents as proof while updates such as biometrics, gender, email id, mobile number etc. can be updates without any documents. Currently, UIDAI accepts 32 documents as proof of identity, 45 documents as address proof and 15 documents as date of birth proof. In addition, you can also book an appointment at an Aadhaar Seva Kendra for Aadhaar services. However, only a few centres allow this facility at the moment. Appointments can be booked for services such as fresh Aadhaar enrollment and name, address, mobile number, email ID, date of birth, gender or biometrics update. The UIDAI has also put some restrictions with respect to the number of times one can update their Aadhaar details. Now, you can only update your name twice. Date of birth and gender can be updated only once during your entire lifetime as an Aadhaar card holder.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pay-rs-100-every-time-you-update-your-aadhaar-uidai-879023.html
28-08-2020||National||Six ministers from Opposition-ruled states move SC to review decision to hold NEET, JEE exams amid Covid-19||The petitioners claimed that the court has failed to consider safety, security and right to life of students, besides teething logistical difficulties in conducting the examinations of JEE Mains and NEET UG between September 1 and 6 and 13, respectively. The court had on August 17 said though there is a pandemic situation but life has to go and the career of the students cannot be put on peril for long and full academic year cannot be wasted.  "The order is cryptic, non-speaking, does not discuss, let alone enumerate the various aspects and complexities involved in a matter of this magnitude and complex nature," the leaders claimed. They claimed the intervening months from April to September 2020 were characterised by inaction, confusion, lethargy and inertia, but now the Union Government has suddenly woken up and as a knee-jerk reaction, haphazardly and hurriedly fixed the dates of the examinations that would prove to be worse than the disease itself. They said if the examinations are postponed until October, as advised by many experts, there will be no loss of Academic Year 2020-21. This would also enable the government to make adequate arrangement of transportation for the students to reach the centres. Apart from the pandemic situation, students from the regions affected by heavy rains and floods would further be put to a severe disadvantage situation, the petition filed by advocate Sunil Fernandes said. The petitioners are Moloy Ghatak, a minister from West Bengal, Rameshwar Oraon from Jharkhand, Raghu Sharma from Rajasthan, Amarjeet Bhagat from Chhattisgarh, Balbir Singh Sidhu from Punjab and Uday Ravindra Samant from Maharashtra. According to the National Testing Agency, approximately 9.53 lakh and 15.97 lakh students have registered for JEE (Main) for admission to engineering colleges and NEET UG for admission to medical colleges, respectively. JEE Mains is slated to be conducted over 660 exam centres and NEET UG at 3,843 centres across the country. As on August 27, India has over 3.31 million Covid-19 cases and has seen about 60,000 deaths. "It is rather ironical that at the initial stage when there was much lesser number of Covid-19 positive cases, the examinations were postponed and now when the daily spread of the virus is at its peak, the examinations are directed to be conducted forthwith," the plea stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/six-ministers-from-opposition-ruled-states-move-sc-to-review-decision-to-hold-neet-jee-exams-amid-covid-19-879035.html
28-08-2020||National||Jan Dhan scheme completes six years, benefits 40.35 crore people||More than 40.35 crore people benefited from the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) which was launched six years ago as a national mission for financial inclusion, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Friday. The Jan Dhan Yojana, which was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his Independence Day address in 2014, was launched on August 28, in the same year. "The PMJDY has been the foundation stone for the Modi government's people-centric economic initiatives. "Whether it is direct benefit transfers, Covid-19 financial assistance, PM-KISAN, increased wages under MGNREGA, life and health insurance cover, the first step was to provide every adult with a bank account, which PMJDY has nearly completed," Sitharaman said on the sixth anniversary of the scheme. Financial Inclusion is a national priority of the government as it is an enabler for inclusive growth, the finance ministry statement said. It is important as it provides an avenue to the poor for bringing their savings into the formal financial system, an avenue to remit money to their families in villages besides taking them out of the clutches of the usurious money lenders, it said. Speaking on the occasion, Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur said, under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, PMJDY has brought the unbanked into the banking system, expanded the financial architecture of India and brought financial inclusion to over 40 crore account holders and a majority of the beneficiaries are women and most of the accounts are from rural India. "In today's Covid-19 times, we have witnessed the remarkable swiftness and seamlessness with which Direct Benefit Transfer (DBTs) have empowered and provided financial security to the vulnerable sections of society. "An important aspect is that DBTs via PM Jan Dhan accounts have ensured every rupee reaches its intended beneficiary and prevented systemic leakage," he said. Total deposit balances under PMJDY Accounts was at Rs 1.31 lakh crore and average deposit per account stood at Rs 3,239. PMJDY is national mission for financial inclusion to ensure access to financial services, namely, savings and deposit accounts, remittance, credit, insurance, pension in an affordable manner. In 2018, the government launched PMJDY 2.0 with enhanced features and benefits. Under the new version, the government decided to shift focus from 'Every Household' to 'Every Unbanked Adult' and free accidental insurance cover on RuPay cards doubled to Rs 2 lakh for PMJDY accounts opened after August 28, 2018. At the same time Overdraft (OD) limit too doubled to Rs 10,000 and facility of OD up to Rs 2,000 without conditions was brought in. In the last one-year period, nearly 3.6 crore Jan Dhan account were opened leading the aggregate number to 40.35 crore as on August 19, 2020. As per extant RBI guidelines, a PMJDY account is treated as inoperative if there are no customer induced transactions in the account for over a period of two years. In August, 2020, out of total 40.35 crore PMJDY accounts, 34.81 crore or 86.3 per cent were operative, it said. The finance ministry said the endeavour is to ensure coverage of PMJDY account holders under micro-insurance schemes and improving access of PMJDY account holders to micro-credit and micro-investment such as flexi-recurring deposit etc.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jan-dhan-scheme-completes-six-years-benefits-4035-crore-people-879037.html
28-08-2020||National||Pranab Mukherjee still in coma, being treated for lung infection||Former President Pranab Mukherjee continued to be in deep coma and being treated for lung infection and renal dysfunction, the Army Research and Referral hospital said in its latest report on Friday. He was, however, haemodynamically stable. "Hon’ble Shri Pranab Mukherjee is under intensive care and is being treated for lung infection and renal dysfunction. He continues to be in deep coma and on ventilator support. He is haemodynamically stable," the hospital statement said. Mukherjee is being treated for respiratory infection, which he developed at the hospital. He was operated for removal of a clot in the brain. He had also tested positive for Covid-19 at the time of his admission. Mukherjee was the 13th President of India from 2012 to 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pranab-mukherjee-still-in-coma-being-treated-for-lung-infection-879040.html
28-08-2020||National||Trends in technology shaping engineering education in India||There are numerous innovations taking place in almost every field and, if industry experts are to be believed, the role of engineers is being redefined like never before. “With the increasing demand for new technology, products and materials, an engineering degree will be in great demand and will offer exciting and valuable careers opportunities in the near future. The prospects certainly look bright for those with a specialisation in any of the emerging technologies such as the Internet of Things (IoT), Blockchain, AI, ML, big data and analytics”, says Shailesh Mishra, Business Head at a renewable power solutions organisation. Shaina Nagpal Das, Lead Consultant with a professional services firm concurs that the future looks promising for computer science graduates. “They are going to command some of the highest starting salaries, and because of the growing demand, they will have an abundance of opportunities. They can choose to be a data analyst, games developer, IT consultant, UX designer, Web designer, application developer and what have you. The sky is the limit for those with the right qualifications and skill sets,” she says. Youngsters looking for a long-term and rewarding career in this fast-paced digital world can opt for a specialised programme. Here are a few that hold high prospects: Artificial intelligence This term usually refers to the ability of a machine to perform tasks commonly associated with human beings. It makes it possible for computers to learn from experience and perform human-like tasks. From voice-powered personal assistants to self-driving automated vehicles endowed with powerful predictive capabilities, there are several examples of artificial intelligence in use today. Machine learning This technology has already transformed the way many industries function. Machine learning is the process of teaching a computer system how to make accurate predictions when fed data, ideally going on to perform tasks beyond what it has been specifically programmed for. It can analyse massive datasets and perform a variety of actions based on the nature of the industry it is applied to. For instance, this technology has made image recognition and text translation possible. Additive manufacturing Sometimes also referred to as 3D printing, additive manufacturing is a process that creates a physical object from a digital design. It is a transformative approach to industrial production that enables the creation of lighter, stronger parts and systems. It’s a computer-controlled process that creates three-dimensional objects by depositing materials, usually in layers. Additive manufacturing and 3D printing have their uses in multiple sectors such as healthcare, construction, retail, defence, pharma, aerospace and the automotive industry. Blockchain This revolutionary technology is being hailed as a game-changer across a range of sectors such as banking, insurance, hospitality, retail, health and pharmaceutical. Blockchains have the potential to make trusted third parties (notaries, banking trades and land registry) redundant and replace them with distributed computer systems. This breakthrough technology streamlines all the functions associated with asset management and payments. It eliminates the need for intermediaries or brokers and ensures effective management of transactional data. Internet of Things Right from a smartwatch to a smart television, the application of the Internet of Things (IoT ) can be seen in almost everything around us. It is IoT that is keeping a record of our behaviour, preferences and usage, and silently working at the backend to deliver a highly personalised experience. The ‘thing’ in IoT can be a person with a heart monitor implant, an automobile that has built-in sensors to alert the driver when fuel is low or any other object that can be assigned an Internet protocol (IP) address and can transfer data over a network without requiring human-to-human or human-to-computer interaction. Going forward, it is expected that IoT devices will become indispensable for several general-purpose computing tasks. Tech at the core These technological advancements are the core work areas of tomorrow’s engineers and represent an incredible opportunity for those with a scientific bent of mind. The adoption of digital technology has reached a stage where we are ready for another radical shift – the digital transformation of the industry or what we call Industry 4.0. In such a scenario, engineering graduates will find themselves uniquely poised to solve many of the resulting challenges and ensure that the organisations not only adapt, but also thrive in the new ecosystem.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trends-in-technology-shaping-engineering-education-in-india-879068.html
28-08-2020||National||French defence minister likely to visit India next month to attend Rafale induction ceremony||French Defence Minister Florence Parly is likely to visit India around September 10 to attend a ceremony to formally induct five Rafale fighter jets into the Indian Air Force (IAF) and hold talks with her Indian counterpart Rajnath Singh to further boost strategic ties, people familiar with the development said on Friday. They said the IAF has proposed September 10 to hold the ceremony, adding both the Indian and French sides are in touch with each other for the possible visit by Parly. The first batch of five Rafale combat jets, manufactured by French aerospace major Dassault Aviation, arrived at the Ambala air base on July 29. The jets are yet to be formally inducted into the IAF. Sources said the Defence Minister, Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and the entire top military brass of the country will attend the event at the Ambala air base. In a telephonic conversation with Singh on June 2, Parly had conveyed her readiness to visit India to further explore ways to enhance bilateral defence ties. India had signed an inter-governmental agreement with France in September 2016 for procurement of 36 Rafale fighter jets at a cost of around Rs 58,000 crore. The Rafale jet is capable of carrying a range of potent weapons. European missile maker MBDA's Meteor beyond visual range air-to-air missile and Scalp cruise missile will be the mainstay of the weapons package of the Rafale jets. Meteor is a next generation beyond visual range air-to-air missile (BVRAAM) designed to revolutionise air-to-air combat. The weapon has been developed by MBDA to combat common threats facing the UK, Germany, Italy, France, Spain and Sweden. Out of the 36 Rafale jets, 30 will be fighter jets and six will be trainers. The trainer jets will be twin-seater and they will have almost all the features of the fighter jets. While the first squadron of the Rafale jets will be stationed at the Ambala air base, the second one will be based at the Hasimara base in West Bengal. PTI MPB DV DV||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/french-defence-minister-likely-to-visit-india-next-month-to-attend-rafale-induction-ceremony-879076.html
28-08-2020||National||HC dismisses PNB scam accused Mehul Choksi's plea for pre-screening of Netflix's ‘Bad Boy Billionaires’||The Delhi High Court Friday dismissed a plea by Mehul Choksi, an accused in the nearly USD 2 billion PNB scam, to conduct pre-screening of Netflix documentary, ‘Bad Boy Billionaires’. Justice Navin Chawla, after hearing the matter for over two hours, declined to grant relief to Choksi saying a writ petition for enforcement of a private right cannot be maintainable. The court said his remedy lies in a civil suit and granted him the liberty to raise the issue in a civil suit. Choksi, the promoter of Gitanjali Gems, and his nephew Nirav Modi are accused in the Rs 13,500 crore Punjab National Bank fraud case. Choksi left the country last year and was granted citizenship of Antigua and Barbuda. The documentary, Bad Boy Billionaires’, which is scheduled to be released in India on September 2, is described on Netflix platform as, “This investigative docuseries explores the greed, fraud and corruption that built up - and ultimately brought down - India’s most infamous tycoons”. The plea was pre-screening of the documentary was vehemently opposed by Netflix.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-dismisses-pnb-scam-accused-mehul-choksis-plea-for-pre-screening-of-netflixs-bad-boy-billionaires-879083.html
28-08-2020||National||Govt permits meals on flights; airlines can put flyers on no-fly list for refusing to wear mask||The government has permitted the airlines to serve pre-packed snacks, meals and beverages on domestic flights and hot meals on international flights, according to an official order. Moreover, any passenger who refuses to wear a face mask in a flight can be put on the no-fly list by the airline, said a senior official of the aviation regulator DGCA. Due to the coronavirus pandemic, in-flight meal service was not permitted on domestic flights since their resumption on May 25. On international flights, only pre-packed cold meals and snacks were being served depending on the flight duration since May this year. In an order issued on Thursday, the Civil Aviation Ministry said, "Airlines may serve pre-packed snacks/meals/pre-packed beverages on domestic flights depending on the duration of flight." Airlines and charter flight operators can "serve hot meals and limited beverages" on international flights "as per the standard practices", it added. The ministry said only single-use disposable trays, plates and cutlery should be used while serving food or beverages in domestic and international flights. "Crew shall wear a fresh set of gloves for every meal/beverage service," it noted. The ministry also permitted the aircraft operators to let passengers use the in-flight entertainment system on international as well as domestic flights wherever available. "Disposable earphones or cleaned and disinfected headphones will be provided to passengers at the start of the journey," it noted. Meanwhile, a senior official of the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said, "A passenger who refuses to wear a face mask can be put on no-fly list by the airline." The official said no new order has been passed in this regard as the airline and its cabin crew are sufficiently empowered under the existing DGCA rules to take action. As per the DGCA rules, an airline can choose to put an unruly passenger on its no-fly list after internal deliberations. Subsequently, other airlines may follow suit in putting that passenger on their no-fly lists. Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in India since March 23 due to the coronavirus pandemic. However, special international flights have been operating under the 'Vande Bharat Mission' and bilateral air bubble arrangements that have been signed with various countries. Domestic flights resumed in India on May 25 after a gap of two months in view of the pandemic. However, airlines are allowed to operate 45 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-permits-meals-on-flights-airlines-can-put-flyers-on-no-fly-list-for-refusing-to-wear-mask-879096.html
28-08-2020||National||Delhi Congress leaders detained while staging stir against holding of JEE, NEET exams||Delhi Congress leaders and workers, including its president Anil Kumar, were detained by police on Friday during a protest against the holding of the JEE and NEET exams amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Several Congressmen were detained by the police near the Shastri Bhawan and taken to the Mandir Marg police station, Kumar said. "The Centre and its education ministry are endangering the lives of 25 lakh students by being adamant on holding the JEE and NEET when the number of coronavirus cases is going up in the country," he said. The Delhi Congress chief said despite opposition from many states as well as from students and their parents, the Centre is not reconsidering its decision, which is unfortunate. "We are only requesting the Modi government and its education ministry to postpone the two exams for some days till the Covid-19 situation is under control," he said. While the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) is scheduled to be held on September 13, engineering entrance exam JEE-Main has been planned from September 1-6. Around 8.58 lakh candidates have registered for the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE)-Main and 15.97 lakh have registered for the NEET. The exams have been deferred twice in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-congress-leaders-detained-while-staging-stir-against-holding-of-jee-neet-exams-879097.html
28-08-2020||National||Recoveries exceed active cases of Covid-19 by more than 18 lakh; case fatality drops to 1.82%||The effectiveness of the Centre's 'test, track and treat' approach is reflected in the progress on the Covid-19 recovery front and the reduction in fatality rate, the government said on Friday, highlighting that recoveries exceed active cases by over 18 lakh as on date. The Union health ministry pointed out that in the past five months, More than three/fourth of Covid-19 cases have recovered and less than one/fourth are active now. "Effective treatment of positive cases has resulted in a progressively dipping Covid-19 case fatality rate, which is pegged at 1.82 per cent as on date," the ministry said. The number of recoveries is nearly 3.5 times the active cases of coronavirus infection currently, it said. With more patients recovering and being discharged from home isolation and hospitals, India's Covid-19 recoveries is nearing 26 lakh. With a total of 60,177 patients having recuperated in a span of 24 hours, the recoveries have surged to 25,83,948 and the recovery rate has reached 76.28 per cent. "Higher number of recoveries has led to a constantly growing difference between recoveries and active cases. Crossing 18 lakhs, the difference stands at 18,41,925 today," the ministry said. The Union government has adopted a graded and evolving strategic response to Covid-19 management in India within the larger evolving global context. The early focus on surveillance and contact-tracing through house-to-house survey was continuously strengthened with increase in testing for ensuring early identification of positive cases. This has ensured prompt isolation of the confirmed positive cases either in supervised home care for the mild and moderate ones or in hospitals in case of those exhibiting critical symptoms, the ministry said. The Centre has led the country-wide response and management with steady ramping up of hospital infrastructure through the three-tiered dedicated Covid-19 facilities — Dedicated Covid-19 Hospitals (DCHs) with ICU bed, ventilators etc.,for critical care management; Dedicated Covid-19 Health Centres (DCHCs) with oxygen beds and doctor on call facility and Covid-19 Care Centres (CCCs) with isolation beds. As on date, the country has 1,723 DCHs, 3,883 DCHCs and 11,689 CCCs with a total of 15,89,105 isolation beds, 2,17,128 oxygen-supported beds and 57,380 ICU beds. A record single-day spike of 77,266 infections in a day, pushed India's Covid-19 tally to 33,87,500 on Friday, while the death-toll climbed to 61,529 with 1,057 people succumbing to the diseases in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/recoveries-exceed-active-cases-of-covid-19-by-more-than-18-lakh-case-fatality-drops-to-182-879100.html
28-08-2020||National||India at inflection point in digitisation journey: Report||India has undergone a digital revolution in the past decade and is now at an inflection point in its digitisation journey, a report said on Friday. "India is on the cusp of a paradigm shift in the way digital solutions are being deployed for large-scale societal impact; getting the non tech elements right will be critical", it said. The report by Omidyar Network India, an investment firm focussed on social impact, and consulting firm Boston Consulting Group (BCG) stated that Open Digital Ecosystems (ODEs) are the next frontier for 'Digital India'. India is at an inflection point in its digitisation journey. Over the course of a decade, the country has undergone a digital revolution - from modest beginnings of downloading forms and being able to view the status of an application online to paying taxes online and receiving welfare payments digitally, it said. "And today, we stand at a new frontier India is leading the world in building shared digital infrastructure that can be leveraged by both government and private sector to unlock new solutions and enhance citizen experience," the report said. It describes this approach of designing technology infrastructure which can unlock economic and societal value, while minimising risks and possible harms, as ODEs. ODEs are defined as: "open and secure Digital Platforms that enable a Community of actors to unlock transformative solutions for society, based on a robust Governance framework." It identifies three layers to help bring an ODE to life digital platforms comprising technology infrastructure and solutions built on top; community comprising builders, facilitators and end users; and a third layer of governance which consists of laws and rules and the accountable institutions that uphold them. The ODE approach suggests that the government should focus on creating the digital commons; enable interoperability between siloed systems, so that innovators can build on top, by leveraging open source software, data, standards, licenses and APIs, the report said. The recently announced National Digital Health Mission by the Prime Minister, which aims to create an integrated interoperable digital health platform for all health related services, was an example of the ODE approach, it said. Efforts like India Stack, DIKSHA and the National Urban Innovation Stack have also adopted a similar approach in other sectors. While the report estimates the potential impact of this approach, it also points out significant risks that may arise, such as the risks of data centralisation, which need to be addressed through a robust governance framework and safeguards that protect the citizens data. It estimates that by 2030, ten high potential National ODEs (NODEs) in sectors like health, agriculture and justice can collectively create a new economic value of USD 500-plus billion and also generate USD 200-plus billion in savings. The report builds on the ideas laid out in a whitepaper on NODEs which was published earlier this year for a public consultation, by the union Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology (MEITY). J Satyanarayana, Advisor, National Digital Health Mission and former chairperson, UIDAI, said "we need to raise the bar" from systems-thinking to ecosystems-thinking. "Digital ecosystems can evolve faster if we create the right environment, which includes open-standards based architecture, data policies, collaborative design, and innovation. Leveraging legacy systems can help adoption. Well-crafted ODEs will open up a huge world of opportunities for innovation & value added services", he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-at-inflection-point-in-digitisation-journey-report-879107.html
28-08-2020||National||Covid-19: Pandemic management now part of MBBS course||It is expected that the pandemic management module extending from foundation course to the final year undergraduate programme will help in ensuring the creation of an Indian medical graduate "who will serve humanity as doctor, leader and healer in bleak times such as the occurrence of a pandemic", the board of governors (BoG) in supersession of the Medical Council of India (MCI) said. The move has been triggered by the coronavirus pandemic and aims to prepare doctors for challenges posed by emerging diseases. The document containing details of the module to be adopted by colleges has been put together by a team of experts and the academic cell of the MCI. "This pandemic management module is designed to ensure that MBBS students acquire competencies in handling not only the illness but also the social, legal and other issues arising from such disease outbreaks.  "The emergence of Covid-19 and its rapid spread across the globe has further underlined the need to develop these skills in our graduates," Dr V K Paul, the chairman of the BoG said in the foreword. The Medical Council of India has prepared revised regulations on Graduate Medical Education and Competency-based undergraduate curricula, accompanied by detailed guidance for its implementation. One of the desirable outcomes of the competency derived education programme is to enable the Indian medical graduate to be prepared for the unknown — to be able to understand, investigate, treat and prevent new and emerging diseases as a clinician, community leader and scholar, stated the foreword. According to the foreword, "Pandemic or disease outbreak calls in to play all the five roles envisages for the Indian medical graduate viz. clinician, communicator, leader and member of the healthcare team, professional, life-long learner and committed to excellence, is ethical, responsive and accountable to patients."  The competency-based undergraduate curriculum was designed to enable the Indian medical graduate to be prepared to meet new challenges — to be able to recognise, diagnose, investigate and treat newly emerging diseases as a clinician and community health leader.   The module is arranged in a phase-based manner and it is expected that the modules would be covered by an interdisciplinary team under supervision by the college level Curriculum Committee, the document stated. The module covers the history of outbreaks, epidemics and pandemics, infection control practices, sample collection, microbial diagnosis, serologic tests and their performance parameters, vaccination strategies including vaccine development and implementation, therapeutic strategies including new drug development and care of patients during pandemics among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-pandemic-management-now-part-of-mbbs-course-879112.html
28-08-2020||National||Payout claim: HC seeks records of cop who died of Covid-19||The direction was issued by a bench led by Justice SJ Kathawalla that is presiding over a plea filed by Hatankar's second wife seeking a share in the compensation amount of over Rs 60 lakh that the deceased's legal heirs will receive from the state government. As a state government resolution promises a compensation of Rs 65 lakh to any police personnel who dies of Covid-19 while on duty, two women, both claiming to be Hatankar's wives, have put a claim to the payout. Subsequently, Hatankar's second wife, and their daughter from such marriage, approached the HC, seeking that they are given a proportionate share of the compensation amount to save them from "starvation" and homelessness. On Friday, Hatankar's first wife and his daughter from her claimed that they had no idea of his second marriage. However, the petitioner (second wife) produced copies of some Facebook posts where Hatankar's daughters from both his marriages had interacted on Facebook. Justice Kathawalla, therefore, said that it was apparent that all parties were not being honest and that they might have been making false statements in the court. He thus directed that both the families place their side of arguments through affidavits. He also directed advocate Jyoti Chavan, the counsel for the state government and the Railway police, to place before the court all of Hatankar's official records, any applications made by him during lifetime and his application for police quarters, among other things. "We want everything. Any application he might have made during his lifetime. Any official record, or paper you have on him," the bench said. The court also suggested seeking permission from HC Chief Justice Dipankar Datta for conducting a physical hearing in the matter so that all parties can remain present and it gets easier to hear claims and counter-claims. Currently, the bench has been conducting hearings through video-conferencing. On the previous hearing, the bench had observed that as per law, if a man had two wives, and both lay a claim to his money, only the first wife would be entitled to the same. But the man's children from both marriages would get the money, too, it said. A bench of Justices SJ Kathawalla and Madhav Jamdar had made these observations on August 25 merely orally after the government submitted that there existed a previous judgement of the full Aurangabad bench of the Bombay HC that gave a similar direction. Hatankar, who died of Covid-19 on May 30, had married his first wife in 1992 and tied the knot for the second time in 1998. As per the plea, both marriages were registered under the law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/payout-claim-hc-seeks-records-of-cop-who-died-of-covid-19-879128.html
28-08-2020||National||Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury urges Lok Sabha speaker not to curtail members' power to ask questions in House||Congress leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury wrote to Speaker Om Birla on Friday, urging him not to curtail the power of the members to ask questions and raise issues during the Monsoon Session of Parliament that is likely to commence from September 14. In a letter to the speaker, Chowdhury said curtailing the Question Hour and the Zero Hour would not be in the interest of elected representatives, especially in the current times of Covid-19. "There appears to be a proposal for curtailing the Question Hour as well as the Zero Hour during the Session by way of restricting the allocation of time as well as the number of notices that could be filed by the members," he said. The Congress leader told the speaker that raising questions in Parliament and issues of public importance during the Zero Hour are foremost of the procedural methods available to the members to vent issues of national and public importance. Curtailing the Question Hour and Zero Hour by restricting the number of issues that could be raised and the time earmarked "would not be in the interest of elected representatives", he said. "I would, therefore, urge upon you to ensure that no curtailment of any kind is placed in regard to the Question Hour and Zero Hour in the ensuing Session and members are permitted to raise questions and issues, as are normally permissible when Parliament is in session," Chowdhury wrote to the speaker. The Monsoon Session of Parliament is likely to commence from September 14 with many new measures keeping in view the restrictions and physical-distancing norms due to Covid-19 and continue till October 1, sources have said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-leader-adhir-ranjan-chowdhury-urges-lok-sabha-speaker-not-to-curtail-members-power-to-ask-questions-in-house-879145.html
28-08-2020||National||Listen to student voices, act as per their wishes: Sonia to govt on NEET, JEE||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday urged the government to listen to the voices of students on the issue of conducting NEET and JEE and act according to their wishes. Various opposition parties, including the Congress, have demanded that the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) be deferred due to the Covid-19 pandemic and floods in parts of the country, even as the Union government has made it clear that they will be held as per schedule with due precautions. Six ministers of opposition-ruled states on Friday also moved the Supreme Court seeking review of its order permitting the Centre to conduct NEET and JEE this year amid the persisting pandemic. As part of the Congress' day-long campaign of holding protests and voicing opposition on social media to holding of the entrance examinations, the party posted Sonia Gandhi's message to students and the government on the issue of conducting the exams. "I feel for you because you are now facing a very difficult situation. The issue of your exams, of when they should be taken up is the most important issue, not only for you but for your family," Sonia Gandhi said in a video addressing students. "You are our future. We depend on you to build a better India," she said. Therefore, if any decision has to be taken regarding students' future, it is important that it is "being taken with your concurrence", the Congress leader said "I hope the government listens to you, listens to your voices and acts upon your wishes. This is my advice to the government," she said in the nearly minute-long video posted on the Congress' Twitter handle with the hashtag 'Speak Up For Student Safety'. While the NEET is slated to be held on September 13, engineering entrance exam JEE-Main is scheduled between September 1-6.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/listen-to-student-voices-act-as-per-their-wishes-sonia-to-govt-on-neet-jee-879151.html
28-08-2020||National||Total Covid-19 tests near peak of 4 crore; over 1 crore samples tested in past 2 weeks||The cumulative tests for detection of Covid-19 have reached 3,94,77,848 in the country, and more than one crore samples have been tested in the past two weeks, the Union Health Ministry said, highlighting that the Tests Per Million have increased to 28,607.  India has tested more than 9 lakh samples for the detection of Covid-19 for the second consecutive day, keeping a sharp focus on the 'test, track and treat' strategy of the Union Government. India has already created a capacity of doing 10 lakh tests per day.  A total of 9,01,338 samples were tested in a span of 24 hours on Thursday taking the cumulative tests to 3,94,77,848 so far.  "More than 1 crore samples have been tested for Covid in the past two weeks," the ministry said. "The Tests Per Million too have seen a sharp surge to 28,607. It is only by aggressive testing that positive cases can be identified at an early stage, their close contacts promptly tracked and isolated as well as timely and effective treatment can be ensured," the ministry underlined. The graded and evolving response has resulted in a testing strategy that steadily widened the testing net in the country.  To keep up with this strategy, the testing lab network in the country is continuously strengthened which as on today consists of 1,564 labs in the country; 998 labs in the government sector and 566 private labs.  A record single day spike of 77,266 infections in a day, pushed India's Covid-19 tally to 33,87,500, while the death-toll climbed to 61,529 with 1,057 people succumbing to the diseases in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/total-covid-19-tests-near-peak-of-4-crore-over-1-crore-samples-tested-in-past-2-weeks-879158.html
28-08-2020||National||Railways to set up solar power plants along tracks, vacant land||To boost the green energy production, Indian Railways is working with various stakeholders to set up solar plants along with railway tracks and its vacant land. With railways having more than  53,000 hectares lands, the national transporter has developed a mega plan for installing solar plants of 20-GW capacity by utilising its vacant land by 2030, said an official in the national transporter.  "With the ambitious plan of achieving 100 per cent electrification for railways by the year 2023, Indian Railways' energy consumption is set to become more than 33 billion units by 2030 from its current annual requirement of about 21 billion units. The railways wants to draw the energy from solar plants in its properties," said the official. When Railway Minister Piyush Goyal held a meeting with various stakeholders on the proposal on Thursday, several companies expressed willingness to participate in the project and also promised to supply power at a cheaper rate, said the official. The railways already successfully operating a pilot project by setting up  1.7-MW capacity with direct connectivity to a 25-KV traction system in its vacant land at Bina in Madhya Pradesh. In addition, a solar plant of 3-MW capacity has also been commissioned at the Modern Coach Factory (MCF), Raebareli for non-traction applications. Further, two more projects -- one of 2-MW capacity at Diwana and another of 50-MW capacity at Bhilai -- for connectivity with the State Transmission Utility (STU) and Central Transmission Utility (CTU) respectively are in progress, a statement from the railways said. These solar projects, besides supplying power to the railways at a reduced tariff, will also protect the land by the construction of a boundary wall along the track, said the statement. During the interaction with the stakeholders, Goyal pointed out that the railways is willing to extend all support to the developers for installing solar power plants on its vacant land. Boundary walls along the tracks will be constructed and maintained by the developers, which will also help prevent trespassing on the railways' properties, the statement said. The setting up solar plants is in line with the railways' target of going to become a 'net zero' carbon emitter by 2030 through various initiatives, including electrification of broad gauge and increasing use of renewable energy, said the official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-to-set-up-solar-power-plants-along-tracks-vacant-land-879160.html
28-08-2020||National||Police, All-India Services, ACB under LG in Kashmir, accrding to rules||Police, All India Services and Anti-Corruption Bureau in Jammu and Kashmir will be under the direct control of the Lieutenant Governor, according to the rules framed for the smooth functioning of the union territory. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) notified the Transaction of Business of the Government of Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir Rules, 2019 on Thursday, which also said the LG will refer any matter to the Centre if there is a difference of opinion between the LG and the Council of Ministers. The President will take a decision on the issue and it will be binding. As per the Rules, there will be 39 departments in the Union Territory, including agriculture, school education, higher education, horticulture, floriculture, general administration, home, mining, power, PWD, transport and tribal affairs. "The Lieutenant Governor, may by standing orders in writing, regulate the transaction and disposal of the business relating to his executive functions... Provided further that the Lieutenant Governor shall in respect of matters connected with 'public order', 'police', ‘All India Services’ and ‘Anti Corruption Bureau’ exercise his executive functions in his discretion under the Act," it said. In respect of matters connected with public order, police and IPS Officers, it should be submitted to the LG by the Principal Secretary (Home) through the Chief Secretary. Similarly, matters connected with All India Services Officers (IAS, and IFS) and ACB, should be submitted to the LG by the Commissioner or Secretary (General Administration Department) through the Chief Secretary. On the functioning of the government, it said the LG will allot the business of the government among the ministers by assigning one or more departments to a minister following the advice of the Chief Minister. "The Council shall be collectively responsible for all the executive orders issued by any Department in the name of the Lieutenant Governor and contracts made in the name of thePresident in connection with the administration of the Union territory...," it said. All communications received from the Centre, including those from the Prime Minister and other Ministers, other than those of a routine or unimportant character, shall, as soon as possible after their receipt, be submitted by the secretary to the chief secretary, the minister in-charge, the chief minister and the LG for information. In case of difference of opinion between the LG and the Council of Ministers, the former Lieutenant Governor should refer it to the Centre for the decision of the President. When a matter is referred to the Centre, all action regarding the matter should be suspended pending the decision of the President. On difference of opinion between the LG and a minister, the former shall endeavour by discussion within two weeks from the date of such disagreement to settle any point on which the difference of opinion has arisen. If the differences persist, the LG may direct that the matter be referred to the council, which shall consider it at its next scheduled meeting and convey its decision, but not later than 15 days from the date of such reference. In case no such decision is received within 15 days from the date of such reference, the LG's decision shall be deemed to have been accepted by the council of ministers. In case of a difference of opinion between the LG and the council with regard to any matter, the former shall refer it to the Centre for the decision of the president and shall act according to that decision, the notification said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/police-all-india-services-acb-under-lg-in-kashmir-accrding-to-rules-879171.html
28-08-2020||National||CBI books ex-NIA ASP for 'fraudulently' obtaining CDR of mobile phone numbers||Former NIA investigator Jalaj Srivastava has found himself in trouble with the CBI registering a case against him for illegally obtaining call records of a person and giving it to the wife of an IRS officer who was arrested later on corruption charges. The CBI filed the FIR on Wednesday, two years after it received a complaint from the National Investigation Agency, which conducted an internal enquiry and found that Srivastava, who was later repatriated to BSF, was in the wrong. BSF had given its consent to register a case against Srivastava, who was an Additional Superintendent of Police in NIA, last week. Srivastava, who is a Deputy Commandant presently posted in Imphal, has been booked under sections related to abuse of official position, criminal breach of trust and criminal misappropriation among others. According to the FIR, during 2017 and 2018, Srivastava "abused his official position as such in as much as he committed the offence of criminal breach of trust and criminal misappropriation by way of fraudulently and dishonestly procuring call records of two mobile numbers on two occasions and one failed occasion without any authority or having any connection with any case of being investigated by NIA". In his complaint to the CBI, which is part of the FIR, NIA Deputy Inspector General Ankit Garg said the CBI had informed the NIA about Srivastava speaking with Avinash Kaur, the wife of IRS officer Sansar Chand, who asked him to provide call records of one Sudesh Saini. Chand and Kaur were arrested in 2018 for allegedly taking a bribe of Rs 1.5 lakh from a Kanpur-based businessman. During the internal inquiry, Garg said, the NIA found out that Srivastava procured call records on at least two occasions -- 27/28 December, 2017 and 23 March 2018 -- and one failed attempt on 16 March, 2018. Srivastava allegedly obtained the call records illegally of two mobile numbers through the official email id of NIA SP AD Negi without the latter's permission and shared it with Kaur, Garg said in his complaint. According to the NIA inquiry report, which was submitted on 18 April, 2018, the agency's data base showed that Srivastava had sought the call records citing investigations in a case registered in 2017. Negi was the chief investigating officer and Srivastava was part of the team but the latter allegedly did not take the permission or inform his superior officer about it. Negi had authorised Inspector Rajesh Kumar to access his email for investigation purposes. Srivastava called Kumar and asked him to get the call details and later provided two mobile numbers of Saini in WhatsApp. "Without realising the malafide intentions on the part of Jalaj Srivastava, (Inspector) Rajesh Kumar...sent the requisition (citing a particular case) to Vodafone on 27 December, 2017 at 8:24 PM...," the NIA enquiry report said. However, Negi told the inquiry panel that Saini has no connection with the case his team was investigating. "This clearly shows that Srivastava had requisitioned the CDRs (call detail records) of these two mobile numbers for purposes other than those related to investigation of the said NIA case," the report said. Analysing the call records of Srivastava, the NIA inquiry found that Kaur used to stay in the same building where the accused stayed and were in regular touch. On the day Srivastava sought the call records, the report said, Kaur had called the NIA officer at 6:40 PM and this was followed by a call from the investigator to Inspector Rajesh Kumar at 8:09 PM. The next day, Kumar informed Srivastava about the receipt of call records to which he replied in the affirmative. The report noted that Srivastava called Kaur at 6:20 PM, almost an hour after the call records analysis for two numbers were done. Srivastava told the inquiry panel that he had received an input about the mobile number and its owner Saini, who is "suspected to be involved in hawala racket and may be involved in the case" they were investigating. However, the inquiry panel did not find his explanation tenable and said, "at best, it is an afterthought". The report said that Srivastava never brought this input to the notice of his superior officer while analysis of the accused's call records showed both Srivastava and Saini were personally acquainted as there were ten calls in one year. On the aborted attempt to get call records on 16 March, 2018, the report cited a WhatsApp conversation between Srivastava and Inspector Kumar, who asked the former to inform Negi first before making him send a requisition for call records for two other numbers. Kumar told Srivastava that he has specific instruction from Negi that he should be informed before sending an application seeking call records. During the WhatsApp conversation, Srivastava had asked Kumar to keep their conversation "secret". However, Srivastava managed to get the call records by making an Assistant Sub Inspector JK Ojha to send the request citing a different case. The numbers given were that of Guwahati-based Surya Constructions but it was found out that the company was not connected with the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-books-ex-nia-asp-for-fraudulently-obtaining-cdr-of-mobile-phone-numbers-879174.html
28-08-2020||National||Wildlife: Celebrating the gentle giant, the Whale Shark||Key stakeholders from across the globe working on the conservation of the endangered species ‘Whale Shark’ came together to commemorate International Whale Shark Day which will be observed on 30 August.  Sixteen years after pioneering a deep dive into a whale shark conservation, Wildlife Trust of India and its partner Tata Chemicals Limited have much to celebrate with the Gujarat Forest Department and the fishing community living along the coast of this maritime state, a press statement said. Whale Shark, the gentle giant is an endangered and the first fish breed to enjoy protection equal to that of the tiger, lion and elephant in India. The large scale hunting of the whale shark in Gujarat prompted Wildlife Trust of India to launch a campaign with Tata Chemicals Limited in 2004.  Covering prominent coastal towns and villages in the state, the conservation campaign message delivered through the popular religious leader Shri Morari Bapu touched the hearts of many, related street plays were carried out an exhibition of a life-sized inflatable model of the Whale Shark that is put up every year by TCSRD managed to capture each ones attention and turned hunters into protectors.  More than 780 whale sharks have been voluntarily released by the fishermen between 2004 and June  2020 as a result of the conservation project activities. The Gujarat government contributed to this noble cause by compensating fishermen for the nets damaged in the process of rescuing the huge as well as baby whale sharks.  Subsequent to these activities, satellite tagging of whale sharks depicted interesting study and insights on this gentle species such as the long distances these gentle giants would cover across the ocean – their migratory pattern and spotting neonates off Gujarat coastline that indicated the breeding of whale sharks in these waters.  This pioneering marine project has won accolades across the world, attracting the association of an international scientific community on the advisory council of this project. The celebration gathering conducted through the online platform also focused on opportunities and challenges in Whale Shark  Conservation.  The event witnessed participation by eminent names involved in shark conservation, such as Dr Mark Meekan from Australia, Dr Rachel Graham from Belize and Dr Simon Pierce from  Mozambique.  Vivek Menon, ED & CEO of WTI in his welcome address added, "Recent records of neonates and pre-juveniles from Gujarat waters by the project team means that whale sharks are breeding along the  Gujarat coast which is a really good sign. For conservation action to give results, whether, for species or habitats, we believe that sustained long-term support is essential. TCL has been supporting the whale  shark conservation for more than 15 years now, we thank them sincerely" “Being a part of the Whale shark day and the conservation effort to save these gentle giants reminds us once again that Biodiversity is the key to our survival and long term sustainability goals. It is not just one beautiful and endangered species that we are saving but, it is our significant effort towards a holistic approach for the protection and conservation of biodiversity. Such initiatives to halt biodiversity loss is the reaffirmation of our commitment toward our stakeholder communities, ” said  Alka Talwar, Chief CSR and Sustainability officer of Tata Chemicals Ltd.  As a next step, the Whale Shark Conservation team will be extending the conservation programme to the other coastal state of India. To endorse its’ support to the cause, the event was graced by Surendra Kumar IFS the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and Chief Wildlife Warden of Kerala in the presence of the existing team comprising of Mr Sanjay Srivastava IFS, Chief Conservator of Forests, Junagadh, Gujarat,  Alka Talwar, Chief CSR and Sustainability officer of Tata Chemicals Ltd. and Prof.  BC Choudhury, Executive Trustee and Vivek Menon ED and CEO of Wildlife Trust of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wildlife-celebrating-the-gentle-giant-the-whale-shark-879176.html
28-08-2020||National||SC notice to Centre on plea against law on recognising minorities to run educational institutions||The Supreme Court on Friday issued notice to the Centre on a PIL challenging validity provisions of National Commission for Minority Education Institution Act 2004 (NCMEI), for failing to recognise minorities at the state level for the purpose of running educational institutions. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Ajay Rastogi and Aniruddha Bose sought a response from the Union government's Ministries of Home Affairs, Law and Justice and Minority Affairs within six weeks on the petition filed by BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay. The petitioner contended followers of Judaism, Bahaism and Hinduism were being deprived of their basic rights to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice.  On the other hand, Muslims, who are in majority in Lakshadweep (96.58%),  Kashmir (96%), Ladakh (44%), Assam (34.20%), West Bengal (27.5%), Kerala (26.60%), UP (19.30%) and Bihar (18%) can establish and administer educational institutions of their choice, he said. Similarly, Christians, who are the majority in Nagaland (88.10%), Mizoram (87.16%) and Meghalaya (74.59%), and have a significant population in Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Kerala, Manipur, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal, can also establish and administer their educational institutions. Likewise, Sikhs are the majority in Punjab and there is a large population in Delhi, Chandigarh, Haryana, but they can also establish and administer, he pointed out.  Similarly, Buddhists are the majority in Ladakh but they can establish and administer educational institutions of their choice. Since January 6, 2005, when the NCMEI Act came into effect, the Centre, by using unbridled power under Section 2(f), arbitrarily notified five communities viz Muslims, Christians, Sikhs, Buddhists and Parsee as a minority at the national level against the spirit of the TMA Pai judgment.  Upadhyay sought a direction to declare Section 2(f) of the National Commission for Minority Education Institution Act 2004, as arbitrary, irrational as it violated Articles 14, 15, 21, 29 and 30 of the Constitution. In the alternative, he said the court may direct and declare that followers of Judaism, Bahaism Hinduism, who are minorities in Laddakh, Mizoram, Lakshadweep, Kashmir, Nagaland, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh, Punjab and Manipur, can establish and administer educational institutions of their choice in the spirit of the TMA Pai ruling (2002). He also asked the court to lay down guidelines for identification of minority at State level, in order to ensure that only those religious and linguistic groups, which are socially economically politically non-dominant and numerically inferior, can establish and administer educational institutions of their choice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-on-plea-against-law-on-recognising-minorities-to-run-educational-institutions-879181.html
28-08-2020||National||Pakistan army shells forward areas along LoC in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch||Pakistan soldiers violated the ceasefire on Friday by resorting to heavy firing and mortar shelling on forward areas along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district, officials said here. The Indian Army mounted a befitting retaliation, they said. "At about 1130 hours today, Pak army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and intense shelling with mortars along LoC in Balakote sector," a defence spokesman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-army-shells-forward-areas-along-loc-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-poonch-879185.html
28-08-2020||National||India may get Covid-19 vaccine by early 2021: Bernstein||As Covid-19 vaccine trials move ahead at a break-neck speed, an approved vaccine is likely to hit the Indian market by the first quarter of 2021, Bernstein said in a report. Globally, there are four candidates that are close to approval by the end of 2020 or early 2021. Through partnerships, India has access to two of those – AZ/Oxford's viral vector vaccine and Novavax's protein subunit vaccine. "Phase I/II data looks promising for both in terms of safety and the vaccine's ability to elicit an immune response," it said. "We are optimistic that there will be an approved vaccine in the market by 1Q calendar year 2021 in India." While the vaccine could be available at $3-6 (Rs 225 to Rs 550) per dose, herd immunity might be two years away due to implementation challenges, it said, adding the experience in large scale adult vaccination programmes is thin. The polio eradication campaign in 2011 and the recent Intensified Mission Indradhanush (IMI) are examples of large-scale campaigns but the scale there was 1/3rd of what the Covid-19 vaccine implementation programme demands. Cold chain storage and trained manpower will be the biggest hurdles, it said. "Even assuming 2x current throughput, implementation in the government programme can take 18-20 months." "We believe, the first set of vaccines will be allocated to the vulnerable population – healthcare workers, population above 65 years followed by essential sector workers and the economically weaker section of the population," the brokerage said. Detailing on vaccine trials, it said Novavax's candidate has shown higher levels of antibodies and viral neutralisation, about 5-6x HCS (Human Convalescent Sera) compared to AZ/Oxford's vaccine, which came close to average HCS levels. These, however, are not strictly comparable as the convalescent groups were different. But, both showed enough promise to progress to Phase III and trials are underway now. It also appears that both the candidates will require two doses to be administered 21/28 days apart. Stating that Serum Institute of India (SII) is best positioned to deliver the first vaccine, Bernstein said SII has partnered with both AZ/Oxford and Novavax to manufacture and commercialise their vaccines on approval. SII has existing capabilities in both protein sub-unit (commercial) and viral vector (pipeline) technologies and their current capacities can be repurposed. "We do not foresee manufacturing scale-up challenges," it said. "They are also investing in additional capacities of one billion doses and we estimate will be geared up to supply 600 million doses in 2021 and one billion doses in 2022 out of which 400-500 million should be available for India in 2021 keeping in mind their other commitments." Beyond SII, Zydus, Bharat Biotech, and Biological E are also working on their own vaccine candidates and are currently in Phase I/II. Bernstein said India's vaccine market can be $6 billion over FY21-22. "We estimate volumes to be split 55:45 between the government channel and private market and procurement prices to be $3 per dose for the government and end-consumer prices of $6 in the private market."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-may-get-covid-19-vaccine-by-early-2021-bernstein-879187.html
28-08-2020||National||Centre toying with lives of students: Mamata on NEET, JEE issue||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday alleged that the Centre was toying with the lives of thousands of students with its rigid stand of holding the NEET and JEE examinations amid the Covid-19 pandemic. She clarified that her government was not against holding examinations and only seek to point out to the Centre that a pandemic is going on and the lives of students will be in danger. “We have urged the Centre to postpone the examinations as the pandemic is going on. But the Centre is being stubborn over the issue,” said Mamata. Addressing a virtual rally on the occasion of a foundation day of TMC ‘s student’s wing the Trinamool Congress Chhatra Parishad (TMCP) the TMC supremo also took a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Maam Ki Baat program saying that instead of lecturing others it should first listen to the Maan Ki Baat of students. Ruling out the possibility of holding final year examinations of colleges and Universities in the state in September the Chief Minister said that she had asked Education Minister Partha Chatterjee look into the possibility of holding the examinations in before Durga Puja in October. “I have the Education Minister to explore the prospect of holding the final year examinations in October before the Durga Puja...There is no question conducting the examinations in September,” said Mamata. She also said that she had asked the Education Minister to explore both the online and offline means of conducting the examinations adding that in case of offline examinations the students should be allotted examination centres near their home. Accusing the Centre of imposing its decisions in an undemocratic manner Mamata said that students and their family members are concerned whether they will fall ill after appearing for the examinations. She said that the situation in the country is far from becoming normal as rail services and flights are still mostly not functioning. “Many students appear in these examinations in other districts. How will they reach the Centres with the transport system not functioning?” asked Mamata.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-toying-with-lives-of-students-mamata-on-neet-jee-issue-879192.html
28-08-2020||National||From the Newsroom - Japan's Abe announces resignation; Sonia Gandhi urges govt to listen to students' voices over NEET, JEE||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom,  Japan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe announces his resignation; Congress president Sonia Gandhi urges the government to listen to the voices of students on the issue of conducting NEET and JEE and act according to their wishes and Retired High Court Justice H S Kempanna has been appointed as the Claims Commissioner to assess the damages caused to public and private properties during the recent Bengaluru riots.  Here are the top news of today, Friday: August 28, 2020: Japan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has announced that he will resign. Abe said that he is suffering a recurrence of the ulcerative colitis that forced him to cut short a first term in office, and that he no longer felt able to continue as Japan’s prime minister. "Now that I am not able to fulfil the mandate from the people with confidence, I have decided that I should no longer occupy the position of the prime minister," he said. While speculation about Abe's political future has grown in recent weeks, after two hospital visits for unspecified health checks, the resignation nonetheless came as a surprise. Even as recently as this morning, the government spokesman had appeared to dismiss concerns about Abe's health and suggested that he would stay on. But Abe made clear that would not be possible, apologising for once again cutting short his tenure. "I would like to sincerely apologise to the people of Japan for leaving my post with one year left in my term of office, and amid the coronavirus woes," he said. Abe said that he would firmly execute his  duty to the end, and until the next prime minister is appointed, possibly through a leadership election involving ruling party lawmakers and members. The resignation shocked the markets, with Tokyo stocks plunging more than two percent towards the end of afternoon trade when reports of Abe's decision first emerged. Abe had been expected to stay in office until the end of his term as LDP leader in September 2021, and the jockeying for position to succeed him was still in its early stages. Still, some potential successors have already emerged, among them Finance Minister Taro Aso, chief cabinet secretary Yoshihide Suga, former defence minister Shigeru Ishiba and LDP policy chief Fumio Kishida. Kishida is rumoured to be Abe's personal choice, while Aso commands one of the strongest blocs within the ruling party. Most of the potential successors are seen as unlikely to break significantly with Abe's policies.   Congress president Sonia Gandhi has urged the government to listen to the voices of students on the issue of conducting NEET and JEE and act according to their wishes. Various opposition parties have demanded that NEET and JEE be deferred due to the Covid-19 pandemic and floods in parts of the country, even as the Centre has made it clear that the exams will be held as per schedule with due precautions. Six ministers of opposition-ruled states have moved the Supreme Court today seeking a review of its order permitting the Centre to conduct NEET and JEE this year amid the persisting pandemic. As part of the Congress' day-long campaign of holding protests and voicing opposition on social media, the party posted Sonia Gandhi's message to students and the government on the issue of conducting the exams. "I feel for you because you are now facing a very difficult situation. The issue of your exams, of when they should be taken up is the most important issue, not only for you but for your family," Sonia Gandhi said in a video addressing students. "You are our future. We depend on you to build a better India," she said. Therefore, if any decision has to be taken regarding students' future, it is important that it is "being taken with your concurrence", the Congress leader said   The Supreme Court has upheld the validity of the UGC's direction to universities across the country to hold final examinations by September 30. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah declared that no state government can promote students without the final examinations. The court said that the State Disaster Management Authority can decide to postpone the examinations due to Covid-19 pandemic or other reasons after taking consent from the UGC. The court's judgement came on a batch of petitions filed by Praneeth K, a Bengaluru resident, and others, who questioned the validity of the UGC's July 6 directions due to growing cases of Covid-19 and flood in certain states. On August 18, the court reserved its judgement in the matter. The UGC's notification was vehemently opposed by states like Maharashtra, Delhi and Odisha.   The defence ministry has taken an in-principle decision to host the next edition of Aero India -- considered Asia's largest aerospace exhibition -- in its traditional venue of Bengaluru from February 3-5 next year notwithstanding the coronavirus pandemic, official sources told PTI. The ministry took the decision to hold the biennial event as scheduled following inputs from the domestic defence industry and global aerospace majors, they said. The sources said Defence Minister Rajnath Singh has already held a number of internal meetings on hosting the mega event. "It was decided that the event will be hosted while taking maximum precaution against the coronavirus pandemic," said a source. Since its inception in 1996, Bengaluru has been hosting the event. The sources said a significant number of global defence majors and big investors are expected to participate in the event besides official delegations from several countries.   Retired High Court Justice H S Kempanna has been appointed as the Claims Commissioner to assess the damages caused to public and private properties during the recent Bengaluru riots, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said Friday. This follows the state government’s decision to recover the losses to damaged properties from the rioters. “Our Govt approached Hon'ble High Court to appoint Claims Commissioner to assess the damages caused to public & private properties during riots in KJ Halli & DJ Halli, Bengaluru. Today, Hon'ble HC appointed Justice HS Kempanna (Retd) as Claims Commissioner,” Yediyurappa said in a tweet. On August 11, a mob ran amok in DJ Halli, KG Halli and Kaval Byrasandra allegedly because of an inflammatory social media post. In the rioting, Congress’ Pulakeshinagar MLA Akhanda Srinivas Murthy’s house was gutted and police stations among other public properties were vandalized.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-japans-abe-announces-resignation-sonia-gandhi-urges-govt-to-listen-to-students-voices-over-neet-jee-879204.html
28-08-2020||National||No BJP leader took Aaditya Thackeray's name in Sushant Singh Rajput's case: Devendra Fadnavis||Former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Friday said that no BJP leader "directly or indirectly" took state minister Aaditya Thackeray's name in connection with Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death case. Talking to reporters here on the sidelines of the inauguration of a Covid-19 Hosptial at Baner here, Fadnavis said that surprising revelations are coming up in the case. Rajput was found hanging at his flat in Mumbai's Bandra on June 14. The CBI has recently taken over the probe into the case. "No leader from the BJP has taken the name of Aaditya Thackeray directly or indirectly (in Rajput case). The kind of revelations that are coming up in the case, I think they are surprising," he said. The Leader of Opposition in the state Assembly wondered why all these revelations did not come to light before the CBI took over the probe. "After 40 days (of the incident), the CBI took over the investigation. What if evidence were destroyed during these 40 days? I have come to know through media reports that eight hard disks were destroyed," Fadnavis said. "After seeing these things, a question arises whether Maharashtra police was under any political pressure during the investigation," he said. "I am sure the CBI will bring the truth out. The only thing is that if the truth was investigated earlier, I think the evidence would not have got destroyed and we would have known the culprit," he said. Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut had recently alleged a conspiracy to link Yuva Sena president Aaditya Thackeray to the actor's death case. Although Raut did not take any name, he had said that the Opposition cannot digest the fact that the Sena-led government is in power in the state. Aaditya, son of Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, had himself also clarified that he was nowhere related to the actor's death case and that he and his family were being targeted for no reason. Congress leader Sachin Sawant has tweeted a photo of Fadnavis with film producer Sandeep Singh, whose name has cropped in the investigation. Sawant sought a probe into the "BJP angle" in the case. When asked about the tweet, Fadnavis said, "Sawant is in the government. Then why did their Mumbai police keep all the suspects away? Why weren't they questioned?" "Why from the first day, it was termed as a suicide?" he asked. On the photo, Fadnavis said that he might have been present in some programme, where Singh was also there. "But the same person was a director or producer of a film on Balasaheb Thackeray," he said. "It shows that Sachin Sawant does not do his homework. He is saying all these things out of frustration," he said. Sawant in his tweet said, "@OfficeofUT, @AnilDeshmukhNCP request you to see @BJP4India angle in the following request. CBI to Mr Sandeep Singh in drug nexus in #SushantSinghRajputDeathCase." Singh was a producer of a biopic on PM Narendra Modi, whose poster was launched by Fadnavis. Talking about the Supreme Court's decision on conducting the final year university exams, the former CM said the petition filed by Yuva Sena and the Maharashtra government has been dismissed. "The court ruled that without exams, no degrees can be given. The vice-chancellors' report to the state government was also in favour of conduct of the exams, but on the Yuva Sena's insistence, Maharashtra state was taking a one-sided decision," he said. Earlier in the day, the apex court said that states and universities cannot promote students without holding final year exams by September 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-bjp-leader-took-aaditya-thackerays-name-in-sushant-singh-rajputs-case-devendra-fadnavis-879205.html
28-08-2020||National||Gurugram corridor collapse: NHAI slaps show cause notices on developer, 3 others||The NHAI on Friday said it has slapped show-cause notices on a developer as well as three others and barred two experts for two years after the collapse of an under-construction elevated corridor in Gurugram. The NHAI has also suspended work on the site along with the imposition of penalty of Rs 50,000 per day with effect from August 24, 2020, on the defaulting contractor till the requisite safety measures are put in place as per the standards and provisions of the contract agreement, it said. "On the recent mishappening of collapse of a span of under-construction elevated corridor on 6-laning of NH-248-A from Rajiv Chowk to Sohna on 22.08.2020, NHAI has initiated strict action against the companies/ personnel involved in the construction of the project," it said in a statement. It has also constituted a four-member Committee of technical experts headed by former Director-General, Roads, Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, VL Patankar for a detailed investigation in the matter, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) added. The committee will examine lapses in the construction and suggest remedial measures to avoid recurrence of such incidents in future. "NHAI is committed to follow the highest standards in highway construction and any lapses in these will be dealt with zero tolerance. Strict action will be taken against the defaulters and they will be debarred from NHAI projects for a long period with severe penalties," its Chairman Sukhbir Singh Sandhu said. The authority said prima facie evidence indicates that there may have been deficiencies/ lapses on part of vendors, resulting in this incident threatening the safety of the users and pedestrians. The NHAI has accordingly taken action, which includes immediate demobilisation of Devender Reddy, Senior Quality cum Material Expert and R K Prajapati, Team Leader cum Senior Bridge Engineer from the site and debarment from engagement in any NHAI projects for a period of 2 years, it added. The authority has issued show cause notice to the project's developer - Rajiv Chowk - Sohna Highway Pvt Ltd (M/s Oriental Structural Engineers Pvt Ltd) - for deficiencies in the construction work. In addition, show cause notices have been issued against L N Malviya Infra Projects Pvt Ltd for lapses in discharging the duties of the Independent Engineer, and Indian Technocrat Ltd for negligence in preparation and review of design/ drawings of the construction works. Besides, the notice has been also served on B&S Engineering Consultants Pvt Ltd for lapses in the preparation of design/drawings of the construction works. "It was also observed during the inspection of the site by NHAI officials that the contractor has not taken adequate traffic safety measures viz barricading, deployment of marshals etc. Therefore, NHAI has suspended the work on site along with the imposition of penalty of Rs 50,000 per day w.e.f. 24.08.2020 on the defaulting contractor," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gurugram-corridor-collapse-nhai-slaps-show-cause-notices-on-developer-3-others-879210.html
28-08-2020||National||CIC headless for the fifth time in six years as Bimal Julka retires||With the retirement of Bimal Julka on Thursday, the Central Information Commission (CIC) has once again become headless for the fifth time in six years with transparency activists on Friday accusing the government of "frustrating" peoples' right to know. Satark Nagrik Sangathan (SNS), an organisation working on RTI said, not a single commissioner of the CIC has been appointed without citizens having to approach courts since 2014. The failure of the government to make timely appointments of commissioners is a flagrant violation of the directions of the Supreme Court, which had said that the process of selection should commence one or two months prior to the vacancy arising. "This is the fifth time in the last six years that the Commission has been rendered headless. Four posts of information commissioners are also vacant in the CIC. Currently, more than 35,000 appeals and complaints are pending in the commission resulting in citizens having to wait for months, even years for their cases to be disposed, thereby frustrating peoples’ right to know," RTI activist Anjali Bhardwaj of SNS said. She said the repeated failure to appoint the Chief and other commissioners of the CIC in a timely manner appears to be a deliberate attempt by the government to undermine the RTI Act and frustrate peoples' ability to seek information to hold the government accountable. RTI activist Venkatesh Nayak said the vacancy created in the CIC will severely affect its working as the chief is primarily responsible for the administration and day to day running of the Commission. "The government has not complied with the Supreme Court's rider that the process of recruitment must commence 1-2 months in advance of the creation of vacancies. The process of filling up the remaining vacant IC post has also stalled after the Covid-19 epidemic started. With the CIC working at barely half it's sanctioned strength, the pendency of cases is likely to cross the 36,000 mark soon," Nayak told DH. "This amounts to carrying the concept of minimum government to ridiculous extremes. The selection committe must meet immediately to finalise recommendations to the vacant Information Commissioners' posts as the process had already been initiated earlier. Similarly the process of calling for fresh applications to fill up the vacant Chief IC post must be started forthwith," he said. RTI activist Lokesh Batra said unlike higher judiciary, there is there is no provision in the RTI Act for officiating Chief Information Commissioner. Noting that the pendency is very high, Batra said, "the government has to be serious about transparency."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cic-headless-for-the-fifth-time-in-six-years-as-bimal-julka-retires-879219.html
28-08-2020||National||Will request MPs to get tested for coronavirus 72 hours before start of Monsoon Session: LS Speaker||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Friday requested all parliamentarians keen on attending the monsoon session of the Parliament to undergo RT-PCR test. The Speaker chaired a meeting of senior officers from the Ministry of Health, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) to finalise health safety measures during the fortnight-long session beginning September 14. Besides Members of Parliament, officers and journalists visiting Parliament will also have to undergo Covid-19 tests to minimise the spread of infection. Elaborate arrangements were in place in the Parliament House complex with polycarbonate sheets separating rows of seats in the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha chambers and touchless sanitisers being placed at 40 different places to ensure a clean environment.  The Speaker has allowed members to remain seated while addressing the chair to minimise the spread of infection during the proceedings. The monsoon session of Parliament will begin on September 14 and continue till October 1. The Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha will function in two four-hour shifts with sitting on Saturdays and Sundays if required. To ensure physical-distancing, seating arrangements for members have been made in both the chambers of the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha simultaneously. Members will also be seated in the viewers’ gallery with huge television screens placed appropriately for everyone to get a view of the proceedings and special cables linking the two Houses for the live telecast of proceedings. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, senior ministers, former prime ministers will be seated in the main chamber, many members will be seated in the galleries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-request-mps-to-get-tested-for-coronavirus-72-hours-before-start-of-monsoon-session-ls-speaker-879220.html
28-08-2020||National||Padma awards nominations open till Sept 15: MHA||The Union Home Ministry on Friday said the process of online nominations for the 2021 Padma awards, recognising distinguished and exceptional achievements and service in various disciplines, will be available till September 15. The nominations or recommendations for the Padma awards will be received online only on the portal https://padmaawards.gov.in, a home ministry statement said. The online nominations or recommendations for the Padma awards to be announced on the occasion of Republic Day, 2021 started from May 1 and the last date for nominations for Padma awards is September 15, the statement said. The Padma awards, namely, Padma Vibhushan, Padma Bhushan and Padma Shri, are amongst the highest civilian awards of the country. In the last few years, the Modi government has been honouring scores of unsung heroes with the Padma awards for their life-long contributions to the society and achievements in different fields. Instituted in 1954, these awards are announced on the occasion of the Republic Day every year. The awards seek to recognise 'work of distinction' and are given for distinguished and exceptional achievements or service in all fields or disciplines, such as, art, literature and education, sports, medicine, social work, science and engineering, public affairs, civil service, trade and industry etc. All persons without distinction of race, occupation, position or sex are eligible for these awards. Government servants including those working with PSUs, except doctors and scientists, are not eligible for Padma awards. The government is committed to transform Padma awards into "people's Padma" and all citizens are therefore requested to make nominations and recommendations including self-nomination, the statement said. The nominations or recommendations should contain all relevant details specified in the format available on the above said Padma portal, including a citation in narrative form (maximum 800 words), clearly bringing out the distinguished and exceptional achievements or service of the person recommended in her or his respective field or discipline. This year, so far, 8,035 registrations have been made on the portal against which 6,361 nominations and recommendations have been completed, it said. The home ministry has requested all central ministries, departments, states and UT governments, Bharat Ratna and Padma Vibhushan awardees, institutes of excellence that concerted efforts may be made to identify talented persons whose excellence and achievements really deserve to be recognised from amongst women, weaker sections of the society, SCs and STs, divyang persons and persons who are doing selfless service to the society. Further details in this regard are available under the heading 'Awards and Medals' on the website of the Ministry of Home Affairs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/padma-awards-nominations-open-till-sept-15-mha-879251.html
28-08-2020||National||Let's keep politics away from education: Ramesh Pokhriyal on conducting final year university exams||Union Minister of Education Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' on Friday said politics should be kept away from education as he welcomed the Supreme Court's decision to uphold UGC guidelines on conducting final year exams for university students. "I heartily welcome the decision taken by the Supreme Court with respect to the final year exams. Let's keep politics away from education and educate our politics," Nishank tweeted. The Supreme Court on Friday said that states and universities cannot promote university students without holding final year exams by September 30. The bench also comprising justices R S Reddy and M R Shah said states are required to hold final year exams as per UGC guidelines and for any exemption they will have to seek permission. The UGC had earlier said that the July 6 guidelines are based on recommendations of experts and have been made after due deliberation and it is wrong to claim that it will not be possible to conduct the final examinations in terms of the guidelines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lets-keep-politics-away-from-education-ramesh-pokhriyal-on-conducting-final-year-university-exams-879257.html
28-08-2020||National||Delhi HC stays telecast of Sudarshan TV show on Muslim 'infiltration' in govt services||The Delhi High Court Friday restrained Sudarshan TV from telecasting its programme titled 'Bindas Bol', whose latest promo claimed that the channel was all set to broadcast a 'big expose on conspiracy to infiltrate Muslims in government service'. The show was scheduled to air tonight at 8 pm. Justice Navin Chawla issued notice and sought responses of Central government, the Union Public Service Commission, Sudarshan TV, and its Editor-in-Chief, Suresh Chavhanke on a petition filed by former and present students of Jamia Millia Islamia University. The high court listed the matter for further hearing on September 7. The plea contended that the proposed broadcast sought to defame, attack and incite hatred against Jamia Millia Islamia, its alumni, and the Muslim community at large.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-stays-telecast-of-sudarshan-tv-show-on-muslim-infiltration-in-govt-services-879259.html
28-08-2020||National||No interim relief for woman for offensive posts on Maharashtra CM||The Bombay High Court on Friday refused to grant interim protection from arrest to a woman who has FIRs against her for allegedly putting up offensive posts on social media about Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and state minister Aaditya Thackeray. Navi Mumbai resident Sunaina Holey sought to quash three FIRs registered under IPC sections 505 (2) for statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill-will between classes and 153 (A) for promoting enmity between different religious groups. The 38-year-old woman has also been charged for defamation, printing matter known to be defamatory and for breaching public peace. The accused had allegedly put up a series of posts on social media, including an offensive caricature of Uddhav and Aaditya Thackeray, between July 25 and 28. Holey's counsel Abhinav Chandrachud on Friday argued before a division bench of Justices R D Dhanuka and V G Bisht that the whole case has taken a "political colour" and that the accused had never given a hate speech or posted anything that could be construed as promoting enmity between any groups. Chandrachud said Holey had been arrested in one of the cases and has got bail and hence sought interim protection from arrest pending the hearing of her petitions seeking quashing of the FIRs. The bench, however, refused to pass any interim order granting Holey protection from arrest and posted the pleas for further hearing on September 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-interim-relief-for-woman-for-offensive-posts-on-maharashtra-cm-879265.html
28-08-2020||National||Sushant case: Press Council asks media not to carry out its own 'parallel trial'||Taking strong objection to the coverage of the Sushant Singh Rajput case by many media outlets, the Press Council of India on Friday said the media should adhere to the norms of journalistic conduct in covering cases under investigation and is advised not to carry out its own "parallel trial". The media should not narrate the story in a manner so as to induce the general public to believe in the complicity of the person indicted, the Press Council of India (PCI) said in its advisory. The Council said it has noted with "distress that coverage of the alleged suicide by a film actor by many media outlets is in violation of the norms of journalistic conduct" and, therefore, advises the media to adhere to the norms framed by it. Asserting that publishing information based on gossip about the line of investigation by official agencies on the crime committed is not desirable, the PCI said it is not advisable to vigorously report crime related issues on a "day to day basis and comment on the evidence without ascertaining the factual matrix". Such reporting brings undue pressure in the course of fair investigation and trial, it said. "The media is advised to refrain from giving excessive publicity to the victim, witnesses, suspects and accused as it will amount to an invasion of their privacy rights," the PCI said. Identification of the witnesses by the media needs to be avoided as it endangers them to come under pressure from the accused or associates as well as investigating agencies, it said. The PCI asserted that the media is advised not to "conduct its own parallel trial or foretell the decision to avoid pressure during investigation and trial". The reporting of the alleged suicide by the actor by some of the newspapers is also in violation of the norms formulated by the Council for reporting on suicide, it said. The norm prohibits publishing stories about suicide prominently and advises the media not to unduly repeat such stories, the PCI said. The media is expected not to use language which sensationalises or normalises suicides or presents it as a constructive solution to the problems, it said. The PCI asked the media not to use sensational headlines or use photographs, video-footage or social media links while reporting on suicide cases. Actress Rhea Chakraborty has been accused of abetting the suicide of filmstar Sushant Singh Rajput. The Supreme Court had last week upheld the transfer of an FIR, lodged by Rajput's father in Patna against Rhea Chakraborty and others for allegedly abetting his son's suicide and misappropriating his money, to the CBI. The 34-year-old actor was found hanging on June 14 in his flat in suburban Bandra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sushant-case-press-council-asks-media-not-to-carry-out-its-own-parallel-trial-879286.html
28-08-2020||National||Indian Air Force to officially induct Rafale combat jets in September||Seven weeks after they landed at Ambala, the Rafale combat jets would be officially inducted into the Indian Air Force in the second week of September in the presence of Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and his French counterpart Florence Parly. While the first five came on July 29, the second set of four French origin fighter aircraft would arrive in October. In the last few weeks, IAF pilot flew Rafales extensively all over northern India including areas in Ladakh. The induction ceremony may take place on September 10 after Singh's return from Moscow where he would attend the meeting of Defence ministers of the member countries of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation. The date, however, is yet to be decided. In September 2016, India had signed an inter-governmental agreement with France for procurement of 36 Rafale fighter jets (two squadrons) at a cost of nearly Rs 59,000 crore. Based at Ambala, the first squadron of Rafale will be flown by the IAF's 17 Golden Arrows Squadron. The second squadron will be based at Hashimara in West Bengal. "Compared to the existing IAF combat platforms, the Rafale not only has a far superior weapon package but also the ability to see the enemy way ahead and engaging with multiple targets at the same time," explained an official. As a result, the enemy needs to deploy multiple fighters to take on a single Rafale jet, effectively lowering its strength in a war-like scenario. Rohtang Tunnel While Rafale would boost India's airpower, another strategically important project will be realised in September when Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the long-awaited Rohtang tunnel that will give better connectivity to the forces to access far-flung areas in western Himalayas and areas close to the northern border. Also, the 9 km long tunnel would provide all-weather connectivity to Lahaul and Spiti regions of Himachal Pradesh besides improving the Manali-Leh connectivity. For the residents of Lahaul and Spiti valley, it's a boon as it would convert a five-hour-long back-breaking bus ride into ten minutes of smooth drive. Also, they won't be cut-off to the rest of the world in the winter months. The strategically important tunnel was conceptualised in the 1990s but the construction began about a decade ago.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-air-force-to-officially-induct-rafale-combat-jets-in-september-879287.html
28-08-2020||National||SC refuses to ban controversial Sudarshan TV programme on Muslims' entry in Civil Services||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to restrain Sudarshan TV channel from running a programme allegedly containing derogatory statements on the entry of Muslims in the Civil Services, on the basis of "unverified transcript of a 49-second clip". The Delhi High Court, however, restrained the TV channel, which was to run the programme at 8 pm on Friday, acting on a petition filed by Jamia Milia Islamia students. The top court's bench of Justice D Y Chandrachud and Justice K M Joseph, however, decided to examine a larger issue of balancing of free speech, with other constitutional values, including the fundamental right to equality and fair treatment for every segment of citizens. The court issued notice to the Centre, the Press Council of India, News Broadcasters Association and the TV channel on setting up of standards of self-regulation, together with free speech. A petitioner-advocate, Firoz Iqbal Khan contended the airing of views in the course of the programme would violate the Programme Code enumerated under the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act 1995, together with the Code of Ethics and News Broadcasting Standards Regulations. "At this stage, we have desisted from imposing a pre-broadcast interlocutory injunction on the basis of an unverified transcript of a forty-nine-second clip. The court has to be circumspect in imposing a prior restraint on publication or the airing of views," the bench said.  The court, however, pointed out under statutory provisions, competent authorities were vested with powers to ensure compliance with the law, including provisions of the criminal law intended to ensure social harmony and the peaceful coexistence of all communities. The court decided to consider the matter on September 15, having regard to the importance of the issues. It also indicated to appoint an amicus curiae on the next date of hearing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-refuses-to-ban-controversial-sudarshan-tv-programme-on-muslims-entry-in-civil-services-879297.html
28-08-2020||National||Jaishankar takes a dig at Pakistan for admitting Dawood Ibrahim's presence||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Friday tacitly took a dig at Pakistan, which recently acknowledged the presence of Dawood Ibrahim in its territory, India's most wanted terrorist. He said that the states, which turned terror into “a primary export”, had attempted, “by dint of bland denials”, to paint themselves as the victims of the menace they sent out around the world. “But, as we have seen last week, sustained pressure through international mechanisms to prevent the movement of funds for terror groups and their front agencies can work,” said the External Affairs Minister. He was delivering a lecture at an event held by The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI) in honour of its founder Darbari S Seth. “It (international pressure) has eventually compelled a state complicit in aiding, abetting, training and directing terror groups and associated criminal syndicates to grudgingly acknowledge the presence of wanted terrorists and organized crime leaders on its territory,” he added, tacitly hitting out at Pakistan. New Delhi has since long been believing that India’s most wanted fugitive Dawood Ibrahim, who had masterminded the 1993 serial blasts in Mumbai, has been living in Pakistan. Islamabad, however, consistently denied his presence in Pakistan. The Pakistan Government, however, on Sunday published a list of 88 terrorists, including Dawood Ibrahim, Hafiz Saeed and Zaki-ur-Rahman Lakhvi of the Lashkar-e-Toiba, Masood Azhar of the Jaish-e-Mohammed. The individuals listed in the Statutory Regulatory Order issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Pakistan Government are all designated as terrorists by the United Nations Security Council, which also imposed sanctions on him. The Pakistan Government published the list apparently as part of a move to implement the measures prescribed by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) – an intergovernmental organization coordinating global efforts to fight money laundering and terror financing. It notified that listed individuals would have no direct access to funds and would not be able to procure arms or enter or transit through Pakistan. The presence of Dawood Ibrahim in the list prompted New Delhi to take it as an admission by the Pakistan Government of the fact that the elusive terrorist had been living in its territory. Islamabad, however, later sought to play it down. India has been working with the United States, France, United Kingdom and other nations to step up pressure on the Pakistan Government through the FATF to squeeze flow of funds to the terrorists and terror organizations operating in the neighbouring country. “The struggle against terror and those who aid and abet it is a work in progress. It remains for the international system to create the necessary mechanisms to shut down the structures that support and enable terrorism, whether in South Asia or across the globe,” the External Affairs Minister said on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-takes-a-dig-at-pakistan-for-admitting-dawood-ibrahims-presence-879303.html
28-08-2020||National||SCO meets in Moscow may offer opportunity for India-China high-level talks to resolve border stand-off||Two back-to-back meetings of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) in Moscow next month will give India and China opportunities for high-level bilateral engagements on the margins of the plurilateral conclaves, even as the military stand-off along the disputed boundary between the two neighbouring nations continues.   Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar would travel to Moscow in the first and second weeks of the next month respectively to attend the two SCO meetings. Their counterparts in the Chinese Government, Wei Fenghe and Wang Yi, are also expected to attend the conclaves of the SCO Defence and Foreign Ministers’ meetings. The SCO meetings, which will be hosted by Russian Defence Minister Sergey Shoygu and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, will offer opportunities for New Delhi and Beijing to have bilateral engagements to resolve the stand-off between the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) or the de facto boundary between the two nations. New Delhi has not yet confirmed any bilateral meeting between Singh and Wei or between Jaishankar and Wang on the margins of the SCO meetings. Neither has it ruled out the possibility of such bilateral engagements in Moscow. The meeting of the SCO Defence Ministers is scheduled to take place on September 3 and 4 in Moscow, followed by that of the Foreign Ministers of the eight-nation-bloc on September 10. Singh earlier visited  Moscow just a few days after the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA had a violent face-off in Galwan Valley on June 15 – on an invitation from his counterpart Shoygu to attend the celebration of the 75th anniversary of erstwhile Soviet Union’s victory over Nazi Germany in World War II. He avoided holding a bilateral meeting with Chinese Defence Minister, who also attended the ceremony. Jaishankar spoke to Wang over the phone just two days after the clash and discussed ways to de-escalate tension. He also participated in a RIC (Russia-India-China trilateral) video conference with Lavrov and Wang on June 23.    Russia has been publicly maintaining that India and China should resolve the stand-off through bilateral talks. It, however, has been quietly in touch with both and has been trying to defuse tension between the two neighbours. A source in New Delhi told the DH that Moscow had informally conveyed to both New Delhi and Beijing that it could facilitate bilateral meetings between Indian and Chinese ministers during any of the two or both the SCO meets if the two nations wanted such engagements.   China’s aggressive moves to unilaterally alter the status quo along its disputed boundary with India triggered the stand-off in early May. The two sides early last month mutually agreed on a process of “disengagement” or phased withdrawal of the front-line troops from the face-off scenes. It, however, remained stalled since mid-July, as the Chinese PLA declined to withdraw troops completely from several face-off points along the LAC, including Depsang Y junction, Gogra Post and the northern bank of the Pangong Tso.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sco-meets-in-moscow-may-offer-opportunity-for-india-china-high-level-talks-to-resolve-border-stand-off-879304.html
28-08-2020||National||SC asks Centre to appoint member to apex Consumer panel||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Centre to appoint "soon" a member to the apex consumer panel after it was told that the proposal to that effect was with the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet (ACC). The direction came during the hearing of a plea by a member, who is retiring on August 30, of the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC) that his term may be extended till the appointment of his successor to his post is made by the government. "The finalisation of the selections and appointments of members of NCDRC does not brook further delay. We hope and trust that the appointments to NCDRC shall be made soon," a bench headed by Justice L Naheswara Rao said in its order. Attorney General KK Venugopal submitted that the recommendations made by the Selection Committee are under consideration of Appointments Committee of the Cabinet (ACC). The bench, which also comprised Justices Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat, then extended by one month the service of the member. As per the NCDRC website, member Prem Narain, a former IAS officer of 1978 batch, was set to retire on August 30. Narain had joined National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission as Member on August 31, 2015.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-centre-to-appoint-member-to-apex-consumer-panel-879318.html
28-08-2020||National||India’s Covid-19 outbreak is now the world’s fastest-growing||India now has the fastest-growing coronavirus caseload of any country in the world, reporting more than 75,000 new infections per day. Crowded cities, lockdown fatigue and a lack of contact tracing have spread Covid-19 to every corner of this country of 1.3 billion people. This week, authorities said that one-sixth of a tiny tribe on a remote, coral-fringed island had come down with the virus. Health experts say the virus reproduction rate is ticking up as more state governments, desperate to stimulate an ailing economy, are loosening lockdown restrictions, which is spreading the virus further. “Everything right now is indicating toward a massive surge in the caseload in coming days,” said Dr Anant Bhan, a health researcher at Melaka Manipal Medical College in southern India. “What is more worrying is we are inching toward the No 1 spot globally.” During the strict lockdown that held from late March to late May, most of India’s Covid-19 cases were concentrated in urban areas, Bhan said. But as restrictions on interstate travel were eased, many people started moving from the cities to rural areas, bringing the virus with them. Some public hospitals have been so overwhelmed that doctors have had to treat patients in the hallways. In some cases, people in critical condition have no place to get help, even if they don’t have the coronavirus.   More than 60,000 Indians have died from Covid-19, and India will soon have the third-largest death toll, after the United States and Brazil. Its overall number of reported infections is already the world’s third-highest. India has reported more than 3 million total cases, and its day-to-day increase is now substantially higher than that of either the United States or Brazil, which have reported between 40,000 to 50,000 new infections per day in recent days. Per capita, however, India has had far fewer deaths than those two countries and many others, which doctors say reflects the country’s younger and leaner population. One reason the country is reporting such a steep rise in infections now is simply that it is testing more. India performs nearly 1 million tests a day, compared with 200,000 a day two months ago.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-s-covid-19-outbreak-is-now-the-world-s-fastest-growing-879319.html
28-08-2020||National||Need to have effective, sensitive security system for all: PM Narendra Modi||The emphasis of the government is to have a modern, effective and sensitive security architecture that can inspire a sense of safety among all sections of the society, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday. He said this in a message on the 50th raising day of the Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPRD). The Prime Minister's message was read during a webinar event held at the Union home ministry in North Block here that was attended by Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy and Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla. The BPRD was raised this day in 1970 and it works as a policing think tank under the ministry. "Over the last 50 years, BPRD has been unwavering in its commitment to the service of the nation. "Our emphasis is on a modern, effective and sensitive security architecture that inspires a sense of safety among all sections of the society," the Prime Minister was quoted as saying in a statement issued by the Home Ministry. "The requirement to keep pace with the fast advancement of technology has never been more before to ensure an efficient instrument for the maintenance of serenity and security," he said. "The focus needs to be on innovation and research to optimally utilise technology and human resources. It is vital to continue updating areas of skilling, research and training to further the outreach and capabilities of the police force with citizen-centric and citizen-friendly approach," Modi was quoted as saying. Home Minister Amit Shah also wished the organisation. "Greetings to Bureau of Police Research and Development on its Golden Jubilee Anniversary. BPR&D has played a vital role in strengthening India's internal security through research & development. I salute BPR&D's continuous quest for a robust & modern police system in the country," Shah said on Twitter. Reddy later addressed BPRD officials over an online conference or webinar link. "New thinking and emerging technologies and making police forces capable for the security of the nation is an important aspect of a new and Atmanirbhar Bharat", he said. Reddy said to keep pace with the changing time, there is a need to speed up law and order infrastructure in the country and this cannot be achieved without research and development. He also remotely inaugurated a central detective training institute of the BPRD located at Jaipur, launched the website of student police cadets scheme and released a commemorative postal stamp of the organisation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/need-to-have-effective-sensitive-security-system-for-all-pm-narendra-modi-879321.html
28-08-2020||National||India to see over a million unsafe abortions as coronavirus surges||The world’s biggest lockdown to curb the novel coronavirus, imposed in March, had an unintended consequence: it broke family-planning services in India. Marie Stopes International, or MSI, a global non-profit that helps women with contraception and safe abortion, estimates that disrupted services in India may lead to one million additional unsafe abortions, 650,000 unintended pregnancies and 2,600 maternal deaths, it said in a statement earlier this month. This is because of a lack of access to MSI’s services alone, implying the nationwide numbers outside its network will be higher. India’s surging coronavirus outbreak is rapidly closing in on Brazil and is poised to overtake the Latin American nation as the world’s second-biggest flare-up. “Coronavirus pandemic has been scary and contagious, which meant that women were too worried to go out and the health-care providers were not willing to give non-essential, non-time sensitive services,” said Rashmi Ardey, director of clinical services at MSI’s Foundation for Reproductive Health Services India. “This led to a pullback in family planning services.” India’s pandemic containment efforts, like other countries, has sucked in nearly all public health-care resources, crowding out other health needs. However, the collateral damage will be felt more deeply in the world’s second-most populous nation in rising maternal deaths, deteriorating health of mothers and infants as well as economically hurting such families amid massive job losses. Enlisted Elsewhere The outbreak consumed India’s public sector doctors and nurses, which hurt sterilization procedures -- the most preferred method of family planning among married Indian women, Ardey said. India’s army of community-level women health care workers, who are “big motivators” among those seeking reproductive services, have been diverted and enlisted for contact tracing, she said. With India’s surging outbreak unlikely to free health-care workers anytime soon, the government should involve the private sector more in family planning services, Ardey said. Telemedicine can also be improved to provide some consultations. The government stance that such services can be postponed also needs to change. “People are confined to their homes, so there’s a greater chance of unplanned pregnancies,” she said. “Neglecting family planning services, when they need it a lot more, is a great disservice to Indian women.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-see-over-a-million-unsafe-abortions-as-coronavirus-surges-879344.html
28-08-2020||National||Uncertainty looms large over Modi-Abe summit as Japan PM announces resignation||Uncertainty now looms large over Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s proposed virtual summit with his Japanese counterpart Shinzo Abe, who announced his resignation on Friday. A video conference between Modi and Abe was scheduled to take place in the second week of the next month. But as the Japanese prime minister announced his resignation on Friday, the diplomats in New Delhi and Tokyo are now in touch to discuss the fate of the proposed video conference, which has now come under a cloud of uncertainty. “Pained to hear about your ill health, my dear friend @AbeShinzo. In recent years, with your wise leadership and personal commitment, the India-Japan partnership has become deeper and stronger than ever before. I wish and pray for your speedy recovery,” Modi tweeted after Abe announced his resignation from the office of the Prime Minister of Japan for health reasons. A source told Deccan Herald that New Delhi was waiting for updates from Tokyo. Abe will continue to hold the office of the prime minister till his Liberal Democratic Party elects a new leader. It is still not clear how long the process will take. Even if Abe remains in the office beyond the second week of the next month, it is not clear whether he will be able to join Modi for the virtual summit as scheduled, given his health conditions. The annual India-Japan summit could not be held last year. The summit was proposed to be held in Guwahati on December 15 to 17, but Abe called off his visit in the wake of widespread protests against the new Citizenship Amendment Act, not only in the main city of Assam, but also across India. The summit could not be re-scheduled as the Covid-19 pandemic prompted governments around the world to impose lockdowns and restrictions on international air travels and most of the Heads of Governments and Heads of States too started avoiding overseas travels since March. The leaders instead started holding talks through video conferences. Modi too held a summit with Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison virtually on June 4. He and the European Union leaders – Charles Michel and Ursula von der Leyen – had a summit through video conference on July 15. The India-Japan summit was also scheduled to be held through a video conference in the second week of the next month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uncertainty-looms-large-over-modi-abe-summit-as-japan-pm-announces-resignation-879364.html
28-08-2020||National||GST compensation: States should reject options given by Centre, says Chidambaram||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Friday urged states to reject options given to them by the Centre over the GST compensation issue and demand money in one voice. His remarks come a day after the government asked states to borrow more to make up for revenue losses due to pending GST dues. "States must reject both options and demand, in one voice, that the Centre must find the resources and provide the money to the States," Chidambaram tweeted. "The two options given by the Modi government to the States to bridge the GST Compensation gap is a gross violation of the law and an abdication of the responsibility of the central government," he said. He claimed that in either option, the central government is passing the buck of the financial burden to the states. Under the law, the obligation to compensate the states falls solely on the central government, the senior Congress leader noted. "The latest assault on the States is part of an elaborate design of the Modi government to financially cripple the States and reduce them to beg for money from the Centre," Chidambaram claimed. Amid a chorus by non-NDA ruled states for compensation of GST revenue shortfall, the Centre on Thursday during the GST Council meeting told states that the estimated deficit of Rs 2.35 lakh crore this fiscal year can be made good by borrowing from the market against future tax revenues. At the end of a five-hour-long meeting of the GST Council, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said there was no proposal to raise tax rates to make up for the shortfall that has been compounded by the COVID-19 pandemic hitting economic activity. Citing a legal opinion from the attorney general, she ruled out the Centre making good the shortfall from either its coffers or by borrowing on its balance sheet. The Centre also made a distinction between revenue lost due to implementation of the GST and the economic slowdown arising out of the COVID-19 crisis. The government said its legal obligation was only to compensate states for losses arising out of the GST rollout.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gst-compensation-states-should-reject-options-given-by-centre-says-chidambaram-879365.html
28-08-2020||National Politics||Message to letter writers as Sonia Gandhi makes key party appointments||In a clear message to those who recently wrote a dissent letter challenging her leadership, Congress president Sonia Gandhi Thursday formed a five-member panel in Rajya Sabha including her confidants and elevating two young MPs to senior positions in Lok Sabha. Ahmed Patel, KC Venugopal and Jairam Ramesh will be part of the Rajya Sabha Committee, which will also include Leader of Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad and party's deputy leader Anand Sharma. Azad and Sharma are signatories to the letter that demanded an overhaul of the Congress party and a new "full-time and visible" party president. They were attacked by party leaders in the Congress Working Committee meeting on Monday, where some even sought action against them. Ramesh has also been appointed the chief whip in Rajya Sabha, a post that fell vacant after Bhubaneswar Kalita quit the party and joined the BJP. Former minister and Rajya Sabha MP Kapil Sibal, who was also a signatory to the letter, did not find a place in the strategy committee. The group will take a call on the party's floor strategy with sources saying the idea is to strengthen floor management. In the Lok Sabha, Gandhi elevated party MP from Assam Gaurav Gogoi and made him the deputy leader of Congress, while Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu was made the party's whip. The two, along with leader of the Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, chief whip K Suresh and another whip Manickam Tagore would form a five-member Committee of floor leaders in the lower house. It is a move by the Congress to strengthen its team of floor leaders in the Lower House, party leaders said, adding it is also a message to dissenters like Shashi Tharoor and Manish Tewari in Lok Sabha and Azad and Sharma in the upper house. Bittu, a three-time MP from Punjab who has been entrusted with the responsibility as the Congress whip in the Lok Sabha, trumps his Punjab colleague Tewari, also a three-time MP. Currently, Bittu represents Ludhiana, which had earlier elected Tewari, who now is MP from Anandpur Sahib. Bittu had won from Anandpur Sahib in 2009. Party leaders said Tewari and Tharoor were aspiring for positions in Lok Sabha. The opposition party did not have a deputy leader in Lok Sabha -- the last was in the previous Lok Sabha when Amarinder Singh was on the post before he became the chief minister of Punjab. The appointments came ahead of the Monsoon Session of Parliament, which is likely to commence from September 14. Gogoi hails from Assam, where Assembly polls are due early next year. The MP from the Kaliabor Lok Sabha constituency, he was the party's whip in the House till now and has been elevated. Gogoi is the son of former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/message-to-letter-writers-as-sonia-gandhi-makes-key-party-appointments-878832.html
28-08-2020||National Politics||Duty of all to work in party's interest: Tharoor||Senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, who was among the 'group of 23' that wrote to Sonia Gandhi seeking urgent organisational overhaul, said on Thursday that it is the duty of all to work together in the interest of the party once the party chief has stated that the matter is "behind us". Tharoor had so far maintained a silence since the letter appeared in the media and was heatedly debated at the Monday meeting of the Congress Working Committee, which urged Sonia Gandhi to continue as party president and bring about organisational changes. "I’ve been silent for 4 days on recent events in @INCIndia because once the Congress President says the issue is behind us, it is the duty of all of us to work together constructively in the interests of the Party," Tharoor tweeted. "I urge all my colleagues to uphold this principle & end the debate," he said. However, a resolution has been passed since then against one of the 23 signatories to the letter, Jitin Prasada, by a district unit of the party in Uttar Pradesh, while changes announced by Congress for its various positions in parliamentary party units are being seen as having ignored the seniority of several letter writers. This has also prompted many political watchers to warn of some imminent rebellion within the ranks and files of the party. Another key member of the 'group of 23' Kapil Sibal tweeted earlier in the day that the the party needed to target the ruling BJP with "surgical strikes" rather than targeting its own, referring to Jitin Prasada, against whom a resolution was passed by the Lakhimpur Kheri district unit in Uttar Pradesh seeking disciplinary action for being a signatory to the much-criticised letter within top echelons of the party. The party's Lakhimpur Kheri, in its resolution against Prasada, accused him of "gross indiscipline". Meanwhile, one of the senior most leaders in the 'group of 23', said they wrote the letter to the party chief because they felt that a "third person" coming in as an interim president in absence of a full-time and permanent president would harm the prospects of the Congress party. "No third interim president would have the authority to implement things; and the names doing the rounds as the interim President would have been a disaster," he told a TV channel, referring to Rahul Gandhi having first resigned as a president last year and then Sonia Gandhi having been appointed as an interim chief in August last year. "This letter was written to strengthen the party keeping in view our inner-party democracy," India TV quoted Azad as having said in the interview. There should be some programme to galvanize the party if "we have to fight out the present BJP government", Azad said. After the seven-hour meeting of the party's top decision-making body, the CWC on Monday made it clear that no one will be permitted to undermine or weaken the party and its leadership. The CWC resolution stated that inner-party be raised only within the party and not in media or public fora "in the interest of propriety and discipline". Some senior Congress leaders, including Sibal, Wasnik, Shashi Tharoor and Manish Tewari, had met at Azad's house in the national capital on Monday evening itself, soon after the CWC debated their letter. Sources said the 'group of 23' might meet again soon to devise their next course of action and they are expecting a lot more leaders to join them for safeguarding the party's interests and future prospects. Having a "full time, active and visible" leadership, devolution of powers to state units and revamping the CWC in line with the party constitution are some of the key suggestions made by the 23 senior Congress leaders in the letter to Sonia Gandhi to revive the organisation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/duty-of-all-to-work-in-partys-interest-tharoor-878867.html
28-08-2020||National Politics||'Dissenters' Shashi Tharoor, Akhilesh Singh seek end to public debate; express faith in Gandhis||Some ‘dissenters’ in the Congress have sought to end the public debate over the leadership issue, expressing faith in the leadership of party chief Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. Congress leaders Shashi Tharoor and Akhilesh Prasad Singh, among the ‘Group of 23’ who had sought sweeping changes in the organisation to make it more “visible” and “active”, have said it was the duty of all to work together in the interest of the party once the party chief has stated that the issue was “behind us”. “I have been silent for four days on the recent events in the Congress because once the Congress President says the issue is behind us, it is the duty of all of us to work together constructively in the interests of the party,” Tharoor said. His remarks come in the wake of Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad reiterating the demand for internal elections if the Congress has to remain relevant in the future. Rajya Sabha member Akhilesh Prasad Singh also urged fellow letter writers not to discuss the issues raised in the letter in public and have faith in the leadership. “Although I signed a letter to CP, it was never my intent to discuss party matters publicly. With Sonia ji charting out a clear path for Congress in the CWC, I have full confidence in her & Rahul ji. I urge my friends to have faith and not discuss these issues in public either,” said Singh, a leader from poll-bound Bihar. The letter, full text of which was uploaded on the NDTV website, outlined an 11-point agenda to usher in reforms in the organisation. “We have witnessed a steady decline of the Congress party reflected in successive electoral verdicts in States and General Elections in 2014 and 2019. Reasons are manifold and need to be immediately identified. Otherwise, the Congress Party will find itself marginalised, both in the states, which is already apparent, as well as the national level,” the letter said. “The uncertainty over the leadership and the drift have demoralised the Congress workers and further weakened the party," it added. It criticised the leadership for not undertaking an “honest introspection” for its “continued decline” even 14 months after the verdict of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The leaders suggested a “full-time and effective leadership active in the field and visible, and available at the AICC and PCC headquarters, constituting the Central Parliamentary Board for collective thinking and decision-making, elections of CWC members, block and state Congress chiefs and AICC members in a transparent manner and reconstitution of important panels to include leaders with organisational background and active field knowledge and experience.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dissenters-shashi-tharoor-akhilesh-singh-seek-end-to-public-debate-express-faith-in-gandhis-878946.html
28-08-2020||National Politics||Kapil Sibal says Congress at ‘historic low’, needs a full-time leader: Report||Sibal called for “leadership [that is] 24x7” within the party, which according to him, had reached a “historic low.” He was among the Congress leaders who wrote to party president Sonia Gandhi, calling for reforms, including a “full-time leader”. After receiving the letter, Gandhi offered to resign. The offer was rejected by members of the Congress Working Committee (CWC). “If people have access to the letter, they will know it is not an attempt to belittle anyone, including the Gandhi family. In fact, we have appreciated the services rendered by the leadership thus far,” added Sibal. “Our intent is to revive the party. We want to be partners in its revival. That is our commitment to the party constitution and the Congress legacy, and the absolute conviction that the Congress needs others to rally around, to oppose a government which has destroyed the very foundations on which the Indian Republic is built,” he added. He went onto to say that the party was at a historic low and “the election results of 2014 and 2019 reflect that.” Several senior Congress leaders were signatories to the letter including Kapil Sibal himself, Shashi Tharoor, Manish Tiwari, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, and Prithviraj Chavan. Sibal also expressed grief at those who signed the letter being labelled as ‘traitors’. “I wish the substance had been circulated, then all those present (at the CWC meeting) would’ve realised that it (the letter) is about strengthening and reviving the Congress. One of those present even used the expression ‘traitor’. I wish those present had reprimanded him. There was not one uncivilised comment made in the communication. I am appalled that expressions like these are allowed within the highest forum,” he said. Rahul Gandhi was earlier claimed to have questioned the timing of the letter and to have suggested that it was written in cahoots with the BJP. The claim was later rubbished by party members. Sibal reiterated that he had no fear and that he was, through and through, a Congressman. “We have no fears. We are Congressmen at heart and we will remain Congressmen without fear,” he said. “I and the BJP are North Pole and South Pole. We are wedded to the Congress ideology and bitterly oppose the current dispensation (at the Centre),” Sibal wrote on Twitter, at the insinuation that his motives were affected by the BJP. Sibal re-established that his loyalties lay with the INC, saying, “We are soldiers of the party and some of us are seasoned enough to know what needs to be done. We hope that we will be heard.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/kapil-sibal-says-congress-at-historic-low-needs-a-full-time-leader-report-879005.html
28-08-2020||National Politics||Congress launches campaign against holding of NEET, JEE exams; Rahul asks people to speak up for students' safety||Congress on Friday pulled out all stops to demand postponement of the NEET/JEE examinations scheduled next week with party chief Sonia Gandhi urging the Modi government to listen to the students in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Congress and like-minded parties such as Shiv Sena, Trinamool Congress and Jharkhand Mukti Morcha also filed a review petition in the Supreme Court challenging its August 17 order that allowed the Centre to go ahead with the NEET/JEE exams in September. “You are our future. We depend on you to build a better India. Therefore, if any decision has to be taken regarding your future, it is important that it is being taken with your concurrence,” Gandhi said. National Students Union of India (NSUI) and Youth Congress activists hit the streets to protest the government’s “insistence” on holding the examinations. The party leaders whipped up Twitter-storm posting messages and short videos against the holding of the NEET, JEE examinations. “My message to the Government of India – Please, you have already caused enough destruction to them. You have hurt the students of this country. Please, listen to them. Have a conversation and resolve this issue peacefully,” Rahul Gandhi said. “It is absolutely necessary to listen to the concerned students and their parents as the coronavirus cases continue to rise. These children are the future of this country. It is essential to be considerate towards the students’ concerns instead of looking at it with a political outlook,” Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet. Senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad said that aspirants were worried about the decision to go ahead with NEET, JEE exams because of fear of Covid-19, the rise in cases, transport & lodging issues. Congress social media department chairman Rohan Gupta said party workers had posted more than 24 lakh tweets to support its campaign against NEET, JEE exams. “The voice of the students is very clear. It is upto the Modi government to keep its arrogance aside and listen to it,” Gupta said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-launches-campaign-against-holding-of-neet-jee-exams-rahul-asks-people-to-speak-up-for-students-safety-879018.html
28-08-2020||National Politics||Terrorism is cancer; affects everyone just like pandemic: External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar||Terrorism is cancer that potentially affects everyone just like the way pandemic impacts the entire humanity, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Friday. In an address at The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI), Jaishankar also said the global responses to terrorism and pandemic have tended to emerge only when there were sufficient disruptions triggered by a specific event. In an apparent reference to Pakistan, the external affairs minister said countries that have turned the production of terrorists as "primary export" are also attempting to paint themselves as victims of terrorism. "The struggle against terrorism and those aiding and abetting it is a work in progress," he said. The external affairs minister said it is for the international systems to create necessary mechanisms to shut down structures supporting terrorism.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/terrorism-is-cancer-affects-everyone-just-like-pandemic-external-affairs-minister-s-jaishankar-879057.html
28-08-2020||National Politics||BJP's attitude towards students 'devoid of humanity': Akhilesh Yadav on holding of JEE, NEET||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Friday targeted the BJP over the holding of the JEE and NEET exams amid the Covid-19 pandemic, saying the party's attitude towards students is "devoid of humanity". This comes a day after Samajwadi Party (SP) workers staged a protest outside the Raj Bhawan here over the issue. "Adamant on conducting JEE and NEET examinations, BJP has now clarified why it has changed the name of the Ministry of Human Resources. It is because its attitude towards education and students is devoid of humanity," the former chief minister said in tweet in Hindi, and tagged pictures of the protest by his partymen in the state capital on Thursday. Workers of SP's student wing reached the Raj Bhawan on Thursday afternoon and raised anti-government slogans for organising NEET and JEE amid the pandemic at “considerable” risks to students. Police resorted to lathi-charge to control the protesters. The central government, while approving the new education policy recently, renamed the Ministry of Human Resources Development as the Ministry of Education. On Thursday, Yadav wrote an open letter opposing the central government's decision to hold the NEET and the JEE amid the pandemic. He alleged that the BJP-led government at the Centre was unnecessarily putting students' health at risk. While the NEET is scheduled to be held on September 13, engineering entrance exam JEE-Main has been planned from September 1-6. Around 8.58 lakh candidates have registered for JEE-Main and 15.97 lakh have registered for the NEET.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjps-attitude-towards-students-devoid-of-humanity-akhilesh-yadav-on-holding-of-jee-neet-879085.html
28-08-2020||National Politics||One-day Punjab Assembly held session under Covid-19 shadow||A one-day Punjab Assembly session was held on Friday under the Covid-19 shadow with the House passing a resolution rejecting the farm ordinances promulgated by the Centre, while two Congress MLAs tested positive for the disease. The two legislators, Nirmal Singh and Kulbir Singh Zira, tested positive for coronavirus after the session, following which Chief Minister Amarinder Singh quarantined himself for seven days. The House paid tributes to the soldiers killed in Ladakh's Galwan valley and Covid warriors. It also passed seven bills. However, other businesses like the Question Hour and calling attention notices were not taken up. The 12th session of the 15th Punjab Assembly began at 11 am and lasted till around 1:45 pm. The session was adjourned for one hour after the obituary references. Sixty-one legislators were present in the 117-member House, where strict protocols were put in place in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Forty-eight of the 61 MLAs in the House were from the ruling Congress, five from the AAP, four AAP rebels and two each from the BJP and the Lok Insaaf Party. Members of the Shiromani Akali Dal did not attend the session and a few legislators of the Aam Aadmi Party were not allowed to enter the assembly as they were primary contacts of Covid-19 positive MLAs. The one-day session was convened amid the Covid-19 pandemic as it is a constitutional requirement to hold a session within six months of the previous assembly session. The House passed a resolution rejecting the farm ordinances and proposed electricity bill promulgated by the Centre. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh moved the resolution which was supported by the opposition Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Lok Insaaf Party (LIP). However, it was opposed by the BJP. The chief minister said the assembly was seriously concerned about apprehensions caused by the ordinances related to the farm sector. These ordinances are the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020. He described these ordinances as a "direct encroachment upon the functions of the states and against the spirit of cooperative federalism enshrined in the Constitution” and said it will promote distress sale.  These ordinances would spell “economic ruin” for the farming sector of Punjab especially those 70 per cent having less than five acres land, he said. "Now they want to do away with mandis. If this happens our farmers will be ruined. We cannot accept these Ordinances," the chief minister said.  AAP MLA Baldev Singh raised the issue of alleged multi-crore post-matric SC scholarship scam appeared in a section of media and sought the resignation of Social Justice Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot. LIP legislator Simarjeet Singh Bains also raised slogans against the minister and went to the well of the House. Dharamsot, however, rejected the charge and said he was willing to face any inquiry. Some AAP MLAs, including Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema, Deputy leader of the party Sarvjit Kaur Manuke, Aman Arora and Meet Hayer, reached the assembly in PPE kits. Cheema, Hayer, Manuke and Baldev Singh held a protest outside the assembly alleging that despite having negative coronavirus reports they were not allowed to attend the session. SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia claimed that the police was posted outside the residences of Akali legislators to thwart them from coming out to attend the session. "Murder of democracy by Cong govt. Now police force posted outside SAD MLAs' houses to prevent them from attending 1 hr assembly session. Such kind of oppression seen for first even though SAD announced it will act responsibly. We appeal to Governor, Pb to intervene & restore order," tweeted Majithia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/one-day-punjab-assembly-held-session-under-covid-19-shadow-879111.html
28-08-2020||National Politics||CPI(M) targets government over 'Act of God' remark on GST revenue shortfall||The CPI(M) on Friday hit out at the government over the shortfall in GST revenues and claimed it was "blaming the heavens" after its "cronyism, incompetence and callousness" destroyed the economy. The Centre on Thursday placed before the GST Council two options for borrowing by states to meet the shortfall in GST revenues pegged at Rs 2.35 lakh crore in the current fiscal. Briefing reporters after the 41st meeting of the GST Council, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the economy has been hit by the Covid-19 pandemic, which is an 'Act of God', and it will see a contraction in the current fiscal. "Central government must borrow if need be and pay the states their legitimate dues. Why should the states borrow? 'Cooperative Federalism'? Having destroyed the Indian Economy now looting the states. Divine intervention? "A mix of cronyism, incompetence and callousness has failed our people and destroyed their livelihoods and lives well before the pandemic. Blaming the heavens now," CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said in a series of tweets. As per the Centre's calculation, the compensation requirement by the states in the current fiscal would be Rs 3 lakh crore, of which Rs 65,000 crore is expected to be met from the cess levied in the GST regime. Hence, the total shortfall is estimated at Rs 2.35 lakh crore. Revenue Secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey said of this, Rs 97,000 crore is on account of GST shortfall, while the rest is due to the impact of Covid-19 on the economy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cpim-targets-government-over-act-of-god-remark-on-gst-revenue-shortfall-879114.html
28-08-2020||National Politics||JD(S) to launch state-wide stir against BJP government||Former Prime Minister and JD(S) leader H D Deve Gowda on Friday said his party would soon launch a state-wide protest against the BJP government for its 'failure' to provide relief to flood hit farmers of the state "The government has failed to provide relief to the farmers within a year. In this regard, we will soon launch a state-wide protest," Gowda said. The JD(S) supremo stated this during a video conference with party leaders at the district and Taluk level, including defeated candidates in the previous elections, on the flood situation in Karnataka and the plight of farmers. Party leaders from Chikodi in Belagavi district, Vijayapura, Bagalkot, Hubballi-Dharwad, Gadag, Haveri and Uttar Kannada participated in the meeting. Gowda alleged that the government had not paid compensation announced last year to affected farmers of North Karnataka, a region battered by floods for two successive years. He charged that the district in charge ministers were not responding to the grievances of farmers. The former prime minister said he would tour the affected districts along with his son and former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy and JD(S) state president H K Kumaraswamy, once there is a decline in coronavirus cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/jds-to-launch-state-wide-stir-against-bjp-government-879118.html
28-08-2020||National Politics||Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury urges Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla not to curtail question, zero hours||Senior Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury Friday wrote to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla expressing his disagreement with a proposal to curtail the Question Hour and Zero Hour during the upcoming Parliament session as it will prevent lawmakers from raising issues of national importance. In a two-page letter to Birla, the leader of the Congress in Lok Sabha urged him to ensure that there is no curtailment of the two important parts of the proceedings. Chowdhury hailed as "truly appreciable" the efforts being made by the speaker for smooth conduct of the proceedings while keeping in mind the safety of MPs when the House convenes on September 14 during the pandemic. "There, however, appears to be a proposal for curtailing the Question Hour as well as the Zero Hour during the session by way of restricting the allocation of time as well as the number of notices that could be filed by the members. "You will kindly appreciate the fact that raising questions in Parliament, and issues of public importance during the Zero Hour are foremost of the procedural methods available to members to vent issues of national and public importance," Chowdhury wrote. He noted that curtailing them by way of restricting the number of issues that could be raised and time earmarked will therefore, "not be in the interest of the elected representatives, and more so in the current times (during Covid-19 outbreak)".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/adhir-ranjan-chowdhury-urges-lok-sabha-speaker-om-birla-not-to-curtail-question-zero-hours-879137.html
28-08-2020||National Politics||Respect Supreme Court order, will talk to VCs on exams: Maharashtra minister Uday Samant||Maharashtra higher and technical education minister Uday Samant on Friday said the state government respects the Supreme Court verdict in the UGC matter and will decide about holding examinations after consultations with vice-chancellors of universities. Earlier in the day, the Supreme Court said that states and universities cannot promote students without holding final year exams by September 30. Upholding the University Grants Commission decision to hold final year exams, a bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan said if any state feels they can't conduct exams by that date amid the coronavirus pandemic, they must approach the UGC for new dates to hold the exam. Speaking to reporters here, Samant said, The state government respects the verdict of the Supreme Court. I will discuss the issue with vice-chancellors of universities and take further decision." We will study the verdict in detail and then take appropriate actions, he said. The SC has relaxed UGC guidelines of conducting all exams before September 30. We will discuss the issue with the Disaster Management Committee, he said. Samant said the health of students remains top priority in view of the pandemic. "We need to give priority to students' health as well. In the current situation, students should not catch any infection if exams are conducted, he said. The Yuva Sena, the youth wing of the Shiv Sena - which heads the government in Maharashtra - is one of the petitioners in the SC and has questioned the UGC's directive to hold examinations amid the coronavirus pandemic. The UGC had earlier said the July 6 guidelines are based on recommendations of experts and have been made after due deliberation and it is wrong to claim that it will not be possible to conduct the final examinations in terms of the guidelines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/respect-supreme-court-order-will-talk-to-vcs-on-exams-maharashtra-minister-uday-samant-879139.html
28-08-2020||National Politics||Listen to students, take decision after consensus: Rahul to government on NEET, JEE||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday urged the government to hold a conversation with students over the issue of conducting NEET and JEE amid the coronavirus pandemic and take a decision after arriving at a consensus. Various opposition parties, including the Congress, have demanded that the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) be deferred due to the Covid-19 pandemic and floods in parts of the country, even as the Union government has made it clear that they will be held as per schedule with due precautions. Six ministers of opposition-ruled states on Friday also moved the Supreme Court seeking review of its order permitting the Centre to conduct NEET and JEE this year amid the persisting pandemic. As part of the Congress' day-long campaign of holding protests and voicing opposition on social media to holding of the entrance examinations, Gandhi tweeted and also put out a video in support of the students. "NEET-JEE aspirants’ safety should not be compromised due to the failures of the government. Government must listen to all stakeholders and arrive at a consensus," he tweeted with the hashtag 'Speak Up For Student Safety'. With the tweet, Gandhi also tagged a video of him urging the government to listen to students and take a decision only after reaching a consensus. "You are the students and you are going to take this country to new heights. Everybody understands what has happened over the last three or four months," the former Congress chief said in the video. "Everybody understands the mishandling of Covid-19, the devastation that has been caused, the economic destruction, the pain that this country has had to bear. Now what I don't understand is why you should be held responsible and why further pain should be imposed on you," Gandhi said, addressing students. Alleging that the government has been incompetent, he asked why the Centre should force anything on students. "It is important that the government listens to the students, they are wise, they have the interest of this country at heart and any decision that is made with regard to these exams is made after a conversation and after a consensus has been developed and this is my message to the government," he said. Gandhi urged the government to have a conversation with students and resolve this issue peacefully. Earlier in the day, the Congress leader tweeted, "Unite your voice with lakhs of suffering students. #SpeakUpFor StudentSafety...Let's make the government listen to the students." "Raise your voice with lakhs of worried students...Let us demand from the government to listen to the students," he tweeted, tagging a video which emphasised the party's stand on the issue that the government must take into consideration the problems being faced by the students. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said the government cannot ignore the voices of students appearing for JEE, NEET and those of their concerned parents. "They are the future of our country. With the rising scale of the pandemic, is it fair to expose them to infection in this manner? Are they not our children too?" she asked. The Congress also posted videos of several senior party leaders voicing their opposition against holding of the exams. Congress general secretary organisation, K C Venugopal, had said on Wednesday that various state units of the Congress will be holding protests on Friday in front of central government offices at state and district headquarters. While the NEET is slated to be held on September 13, engineering entrance exam JEE-Main is scheduled between September 1-6.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/listen-to-students-take-decision-after-consensus-rahul-to-government-on-neet-jee-879142.html
28-08-2020||National Politics||BJP MLA from Yogi Adityanath's town says UP govt 'casteist', gets notice||BJP was left red-faced once again when senior party leader and lawmaker from Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath's home town of Gorakhpur Radha Mohan Das Agarwal accused his own government of being 'casteist' and a 'failure' on the law and order front joining a lengthening list of saffron party legislators cornering their own regime in the state. Taking a serious view of the MLA's remarks, the state BJP on Friday served a show-cause notice to Agarwal seeking his explanation within a week. In an audio clip, that went viral on social media, Agarwal was heard telling a BJP leader in Gorakhpur that this government was being run by the 'Thakur' community and advised him not to oppose them. The MLA's remarks came, when the local BJP leader, who hailed from 'Bania' community, complained to him that some 'thakur' youths had been 'harassing' the daughters of a relative of his and sought Agarwal's help. Agarwal had also tweeted that the state police provided shelter to the criminals. While BJP MP from the neighbouring Bansgaon Lok Sabha seat Kamalesh Paswan lent support to Agarwal, the saffron party MP from Gorakhpur Ravi Kishan sought the resignation of the MLA from the party. Earlier also several saffron party legislators had raised a question mark on the state government's ability to fight corruption, provide succour to the common people and tame, what they termed an 'unbridled' bureaucracy. Barely a few days back a senior BJP lawmaker had supported the opposition's allegation that the saffron party regime was 'targeting' the 'Brahmin' community. The MLA Deomani Dwivedi said that he would question the government on this issue. Two other BJP MLAs had also said that corruption was at its 'peak' under the current dispensation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-mla-from-yogi-adityanaths-town-says-up-govt-casteist-gets-notice-879168.html
28-08-2020||National Politics||Raising issues does not amount to rebellion: Congress spokesman Anant Gadgil||Congress spokesman Anant Gadgil on Friday said raising issues does not amount to rebellion and dared BJP leaders to speak against their national leadership on issues of Chinese "intrusion" and "failures" on economic and foreign policy fronts. He said internal democracy certainly exists in the Congress party. "Will BJP leaders raise voice against their central leadership," Gadgil sought to know, attacking the saffron party. Raising issues does not mean rebellion, he said, referring to over 20 Congress leaders writing a letter to party president Sonia Gandhi seeking an organisational overhaul. Replying to questions on Monday's stormy CWC meeting, Gadgil said proceedings proved that internal democracy exists in the 134-year-old party. The former legislator said the idea of a Congress without the Nehru-Gandhi family at the helm is limited to a minuscule number of people in the society. "The Congress without the Nehru-Gandhi family is a typical mindset of a typical class which has a limited number in the society. "That the Congress should be headed by the Gandhis is certainly the dominating mood among Congress cadres," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/raising-issues-does-not-amount-to-rebellion-congress-spokesman-anant-gadgil-879188.html
28-08-2020||National Politics||BJP shares old IMF data to make misleading claim about Indian GDP growth projection||BJP’s tweet raises two questions that this fact-check will answer. The short answer to both the questions is NO. Most recent IMF data estimates negative growth for India in 2020 The data for 2020 in both the April and August infographics is identical.   In its June report, the IMF revised its April estimates and projected a contraction of -4.5% in 2020. “India’s economy is projected to contract by 4.5 percent following a longer period of lockdown and slower recovery than anticipated in April,” the report stated.    Therefore, the BJP’s tweet claiming “India will be a shining spot with positive growth in 2020” is false. The ruling party used four-month-old data to reflect positive growth. According to the IMF’s updated report released in June, India is projected to experience a negative growth rate by 4.5%. While the BJP attempted to portray that India is projected to “retain its spot as the fastest growing economy in the world”, the IMF data forecasts better growth rates for China and ASEAN-5. In fact, China’s estimated growth rate for 2020 is 1%. It is evidently misleading to suggest that India will be at the top when the country is predicted to have negative growth while China is the only country predicted to experience positive growth. It is to be noted that the IMF’s projections in June may alter in the next report as the pandemic continues to evolve. Nonetheless, the BJP’s claim that the international organisation predicted positive growth for India in 2020 and suggested that the country will “retain” its spot as the fastest-growing economy is false.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-shares-old-imf-data-to-make-misleading-claim-about-indian-gdp-growth-projection-879221.html
28-08-2020||National Politics||NC leader snubs Ram Madhav, declines to meet him||A senior leader of regional National Conference (NC) Mian Altaf Friday snubbed BJP national general secretary Ram Madhav by disallowing him to visit his residence for a meeting. Altaf, a veteran Gujjar leader, in a statement claimed that a local BJP leader Khalid Jehangir called him and told that Madhav will come to his residence for a meeting. “I told him (Jehangir) Thanks, but there is no need to come to my residence as I have nothing to do with them (BJP),” he said in a statement. The NC leader alleged that the BJP may stage a drama to harm him and later blame militants. “Now, I want to convey it to my people besides who advised Mr Ram Madhav through that may be from the government side or BJP or any other side (they) want to stage any drama and then harm me and blame militants. People understand these things,” Altaf, also a former cabinet minister, added. Despite repeated attempts, Khalid Jehangir was not available for the comment. Madhav, who arrived in Srinagar on Thursday, has met senior J&K Apni Party members and People’s Democratic Party founding member Muzzaffar Hussain Baig, besides deliberating on the current political scenario in the Valley with his own party colleagues. The visit comes at a time when four main regional parties of J&K and two national parties last week issued a statement, reiterating their commitment to 4 August 2019 ‘Gupkar Declaration’, which binds its signatories to put up a joint fight to restore Article 370 in the erstwhile state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nc-leader-snubs-ram-madhav-declines-to-meet-him-879233.html
28-08-2020||National Politics||Don't scrap Question Hour: Congress urges Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla||Congress has urged Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla not to scrap the Question Hour and Zero Hour during the Covid-19-hit monsoon session of Parliament that is set to begin on September 14 Congress leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and his deputy Gaurav Gogoi urged the Speaker to uphold the “democratic traditions” and refrain from curtailing the power of members to ask questions of the government during the Parliament session. “You will kindly appreciate the fact that raising questions in Parliament and issues of public importance during the Zero Hour are foremost of the procedural methods available to the members to vent issues of national and public importance,” Chowdhury said in a letter to the Speaker. A brief session of Parliament is scheduled from September 14 to October 1. The session will be conducted in two four-hour shifts, one each for the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha. Chowdhury said curtailing the Question Hour and the Zero Hour would not be in the interest of elected representatives, especially in the current times of Covid-19. “I would, therefore, urge upon you to ensure that no curtailment of any kind is placed in regard to the Question Hour and Zero Hour in the ensuing Session and members are permitted to raise questions and issues, as are normally permissible when Parliament is in session,” he said. Gogoi said he had read “disturbing” reports about Parliament suspending the Question Hour during the monsoon session. “I would urge the Speaker, Lok Sabha and Chairman, Rajya Sabha to uphold the best democratic traditions. Parliaments across the world have been functioning fully. India should be a leader not a laggard,” Gogoi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dont-scrap-question-hour-congress-urges-lok-sabha-speaker-om-birla-879239.html
28-08-2020||National Politics||Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoles death of Congress MP from Tamil Nadu||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday condoled the death of Lok Sabha MP H Vasanthakumar and said his strides in business and social service efforts were noteworthy. "Saddened by the demise of Lok Sabha MP Shri H. Vasanthakumar Ji. His strides in business and social service efforts were noteworthy. During my interactions with him, I always saw his passion for Tamil Nadu's progress. Condolences to his family and supporters. Om Shanti," Modi tweeted. Vasanthakumar, 70, Congress MP from Kanyakumari in Tamil Nadu, was admitted to a hospital after contracting coronavirus. The first time MP, also a former MLA of two terms, was being treated at the Greams Road facility of the Apollo Hospitals in Chennai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/prime-minister-narendra-modi-condoles-death-of-congress-mp-from-tamil-nadu-879302.html
28-08-2020||National Politics||President condoles death of Congress MP from Tamil Nadu||President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday condoled the death of Lok Sabha MP H Vasanthakumar and said that his devotion to people's cause in Tamil Nadu was inspiring. "Sad to know the passing of Shri H Vasanthakumar, MP from Kanyakumari. An entrepreneur and social activist, he earned his name in the world of politics and business. His devotion to people's cause in Tamil Nadu was inspiring. Condolences to his family, friends and followers," Kovind tweeted. Vasanthakumar, 70, Congress MP from Kanyakumari in Tamil Nadu, was admitted to a hospital after contracting coronavirus. The first-time MP, also a former MLA of two terms, was being treated at the Greams Road facility of the Apollo Hospitals in Chennai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/president-condoles-death-of-congress-mp-from-tamil-nadu-879339.html
28-08-2020||North and Central||Pak shells forward areas along LoC in J&K's Poonch||Pakistani troops violated the ceasefire by resorting to intense shelling in forward areas along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district on Thursday night, a defence spokesperson said. The Indian Army is retaliating strongly, he said. "Around 10 pm, Pakistan initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and intense shelling with mortars in Degwar and Malti sectors," the spokesperson said. He said the cross-border shelling was going on when last reports were received. There has been no report of any casualty on the Indian side so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pak-shells-forward-areas-along-loc-in-jks-poonch-878834.html
28-08-2020||North and Central||Jain alleges Delhi govt officers 'pressurised' to not increase COVID testing; MHA terms it baseless||Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday wrote to Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla, alleging that the Delhi government officers are being "pressurised" by the Home Ministry to not increase Covid-19 testing in the national capital, an allegation that was termed "baseless" by the latter. A Home Ministry spokesperson said the marked improvement in the Covid-19 situation in Delhi has been possible due to enhanced testing and other containment measures. "The allegation raised in the letter of the Health Minister of Delhi Govt dated August 27, 2020, which is addressed to Union Home Secretary, to the effect that MHA is putting pressure on Delhi Govt officers not to increase testing in Delhi is false and baseless," the spokesperson tweeted. Responding to the ministry spokesperson's tweet, Jain said, " I hope that the officers will comply with this msg from MHA. I am sure that the officers, who were reluctant to increase testing today citing pressure from MHA, will immediately increase testing in Delhi." In the letter earlier in the day, the Delhi health minister said that the AAP government has been able to control coronavirus by working on the policy of more and more testing to identify and isolate Covid-19 patients. Jain requested the Union home secretary that "pressure" should not be applied and the central government should not "interfere" in increasing coronavirus tests in Delhi by the city government. On Wednesday, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced that Covid-19 test will be doubled to 40,000 per day within a week as the national capital has witnessed a marginal rise in the number of coronavirus cases. On an average, 20,000 daily tests are being conducted by the Delhi government in the city. "But when some officers told pressure is being created by the Union Home ministry on Delhi officers that testing is not to be increased further in Delhi, I was shocked," Jain said in the letter. There is an elected government in Delhi and as an elected government it's capable of taking decisions, he said. "I am stupefied as to why the Home Ministry is interfering in Delhi government's work? Secondly, why Delhi government is being stopped from more testing in Delhi," Jain asked. More and more testing is being considered the right policy all over the world. Under this policy, the Delhi government has so far succeeded in controlling coronavirus, he said. "If Delhi government wants to raise testing from 20,000 to 40,000 per day then why it is being stopped. Why Delhi government officers are being pressurised illegally and unconstitutionally ," he alleged. Jain also alleged that a note prepared by principal secretary (health) was "secretively" not shown to him and the chief minister. "We were told that the note was prepared by Delhi government officers under pressure from the Home Ministry," he claimed, adding that the said note was attached with his letter. The Union Home Ministry said the letter of Jain annexed a note of the officers of the Delhi government and this note made no mention whatsoever of any instruction of the MHA on the matter of increase in testing in Delhi. The note has only proposed that the views of an expert committee headed by V K Paul may be taken on the proposed enhancement in testing in Delhi, for technical guidance on various issues such as mix of RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen, categories of geographical areas and demographics etc, the ministry spokesperson said. The Home Ministry said it was after the intervention of Union Home Minister Amit Shah that the daily tests in Delhi, which were averaging around 4,000 per day till mid June, 2020, went up to around 18-20,000 per day in a calibrated manner. "As such, any allegation that MHA is putting pressure on Delhi Govt not to increase testing in Delhi is absolutely without any basis," the spokesperson said. On Thursday, Delhi recorded 1,840 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday, the highest single-day spike in August in the city, taking the tally to over 1.67 lakh, while the death toll mounted to 4,369, authorities said This is the third successive single-day spike this month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jain-alleges-delhi-govt-officers-pressurised-to-not-increase-covid-testing-mha-terms-it-baseless-878841.html
28-08-2020||North and Central||Man from Barmer held for spying for Pakistan: Rajasthan police||The Rajasthan police have arrested a 40-year-old man who was allegedly spying for Pakistan, officials said on Friday. The accused Mushtak Ali, a resident of Barmer, was spying for Pakistan and has been arrested under provisions of the Official Secrets Act, ADG Intelligence Umesh Mishra said. “ATS Rajasthan got inputs from military intelligence about this man. He was interrogated in Barmer and was brought to Jaipur on Thursday on confirmation of spying,” he said. He used to pass on various kinds of information to Pakistan-based handlers through WhatsApp and Facebook messengers using his mobile phone. The officer said Ali's father Khandu Khan was arrested by Barmer police on August 9 under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-from-barmer-held-for-spying-for-pakistan-rajasthan-police-878847.html
28-08-2020||North and Central||'Number of entry points to Delhi metro stations to be heavily curtailed whenever it reopens'||The number of entry points to Delhi Metro stations will be heavily curtailed to ensure compliance with Covid-19 distancing norms, whenever the services resume, sources said on Thursday. The Delhi Metro has been closed since March 22 when the Janata Curfew was observed in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. A nationwide lockdown came into force from March 25. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) had on Sunday said that it was prepared to resume operations whenever directed by the government. "The DMRC has 10 lines spanning 242 stations with 671 entry points. Whenever the services resume, only 257 gates and frisking sides are planned to be kept open to comply with Covid-19 safety norms," a source said. However, the arrangement is only in planning phase as of now and the entry points figures could be revised before the resumption of services, whenever that happens, he said. Red Line or Line 1 which connects Shaheed Sthal in Ghaziabad to Rithala in Delhi has 31 stations and 70 entrance points, the source said. And, whenever the services resume, only 32 gates and frisking sides are planned to be kept open, the source said. The Yellow Line or Line 2 which connects Samyapur Badli in Delhi to Huda City Centre in Gurgaon has 38 stations and 116 entry points. And, whenever the services resume, only 39 gates and frisking sides are planned to be kept open to comply with Covid-19 safety norms, he said. While cases have again begun to rise in Delhi in the past one week, the DMRC has been working on protocols to handle commuters in adherence to Covid-19 safety guidelines, whenever the services are ordered to be resumed. The preparations include new smart cards with auto top-up facility and stickers on social distancing norms pasted on seats and platform floors. While the economy has slowly opened up in a phase-wise manner in the unlock period since June 1, the DMRC has not received a nod from the Centre to resume operations. Delhi recorded 1,840 fresh coronavirus cases on Thursday, the city's highest single-day spike this month till date, taking the tally beyond 1.67 lakh, while the death toll from the disease mounted to 4,369, health department authorities said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/number-of-entry-points-to-delhi-metro-stations-to-be-heavily-curtailed-whenever-it-reopens-878865.html
28-08-2020||North and Central||Tis Hazari district courts to start physical hearing in restricted manner from Sept 1||Tis Hazari district courts will start physical hearing of matters in a restricted manner from September 1, according to a circular issued on Thursday. The circular by Delhi High Court Registrar General Manoj Jain said that one-fourth of the courts will hold physical hearings on every working day from 10:30 am to 3:30 pm, while the rest will continue to conduct matters through video conferencing. Advocate D S Kasana, general secretary of coordination committee of All District Courts Bar Associations and part of the team of members who had requested the High Court to start physical hearing of the district courts, welcomed the decision and said other courts should also start holding physical hearings in due time. All the six district courts in the national capital have been conducting hearings through video conferencing since March 24 amid the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tis-hazari-district-courts-to-start-physical-hearing-in-restricted-manner-from-sept-1-878871.html
28-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi master plan 2041: DDA chalks out citizen engagement strategy||The authorities have drawn out a calendar of activities for the next two months, seeking to engage the public and stakeholder groups, in the formulation of the Master Plan of Delhi (MPD) 2041, officials said on Thursday. The Delhi Development Authority (DDA), in partnership with the National Institute of Urban Affairs (NIUA), is currently preparing the Master Plan for Delhi 2041. "The public engagement strategy is being pursued rigorously. These meetings are scheduled to be conducted during the months of September and October with various stakeholders and citizen groups such as RWAs, market and trader associations, industry associations, informal sector, women, children and youth, professional bodies and associations etc," the DDA said in a statement. These meetings are planned to be held online, given the Covid-19 situation. This Master Plan shall be a strategic enabling plan. Sustainability, inclusivity and equity are the underlying core principles. The policies would majorly focus towards having quality living for the citizens of Delhi and establish its potential at global economic level and cultural powerhouse, the urban body had earlier said. The master plan endeavours to be "proactive and forward-looking" in nature that accounts for current, emerging and anticipated drivers of urban development, it said. To begin the process of public engagement, an online meeting is planned on September 2 with the RWAs of unauthorised colonies of Delhi, to understand their issues and discuss possible solutions for improving the quality of life of residents in these areas, the statement said. The RWAs or groups can register themselves for the meeting by sending an e-mail to mpd2041@gmail.com. Subsequently a link to the meeting with the time slot and reference material will be shared via e-mail, it added. For enhancing public participation, the DDA has already launched an interactive microsite as the “Public Engagement Portal for MPD-2041”, which will share information on the preparation of MPD-2041 and will provide citizens the opportunity to share their feedback and opinions through visioning and perception surveys, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-master-plan-2041-dda-chalks-out-citizen-engagement-strategy-878901.html
28-08-2020||North and Central||BJP Gorakhpur MLA gets notice for social media posts ‘maligning’ party image||Gorakhpur’s BJP MLA Radha Mohan Das Agarwal was on Thursday served a show cause notice by the party over his social media posts “maligning the image of the party and government” and sought his reply within seven days. "The notice was issued by state party general secretary JPS Rathore on directives of BJP state president Swatantra Dev Singh," a party statement issued here said. "You are doing posts on social media maligning the image of the government and the party. Your act comes in the category of indiscipline. You should clarify on this," it said, adding that the MLA’s behaviour was against the "policies and principles" of the party. Agarwal, four-time BJP MLA from Gorakphur, had last week clarified that he took to social media platform Twitter to force authorities to act. He said he had to approach Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath through Twitter to apprise him of the police "inaction" when his five calls each to the state's additional chief secretary (Home) and the police chief on August 17 went unanswered. The case pertains to the death of Ajit Pratap Singh, the brother-in-law of BJP worker Mahendra Pratap Singh, on June 25. Ajit suffered bullet injury in celebratory firing during a marriage procession in his neighbourhood, and died unnoticed by people, according to reports. Ajit was standing in the balcony of his flat watching the wedding of his neighbour Mustafa's daughter. One Shanu Khan opened fire in celebration during the wedding when a bullet hit Ajit and he died, Mahendra Pratap Singh alleged. Ajit's body kept lying in the balcony for two days before the death was discovered. The post-mortem revealed that he died of bullet injury, but the Lakhimpur Kheri police failed to take action in the matter even as Mahendra Pratap ran from pillar to post for justice, the reports said. The Gorakhpur MLA said the authorities assured him of the requisite action, only after he resorted to social media to lodge the complaint with the chief minister. The MLA later deleted his tweets after the Lakhimpur Kheri police arrested the accused after lodging a case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder under IPC section 304. Agarwal stated that his action should not be misconstrued as protest against his party's government in the state. "I am with my party inside the assembly, but as people's representative, I am with the people outside the assembly," he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-gorakhpur-mla-gets-notice-for-social-media-posts-maligning-party-image-878902.html
28-08-2020||North and Central||Yogi Adityanath calls for invoking NSA against Lakhimpur Kheri rape-murder accused; NHRC issues notice||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday directed officials to initiate strict action and invoke the stringent National Security Act against those involved in the alleged rape and murder of a 17-year-old Dalit girl in Lakhimpur Kheri district. The mutilated body of the girl was found near a dry pond around 200 metres from her village falling under the Neemgaon police limits on Tuesday. She had left home to fill out a scholarship application, police had said. Her autopsy report later confirmed rape. Meanwhile, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Thursday sent a notice to the Uttar Pradesh government and the state's police chief over the incident. “The CM has given orders that action should be initiated under the National Security Act (NSA) against those involved in the incident,” an official spokesperson said here. The chief minister also extended an ex gratia of Rs 5 lakh to the bereaved family and told them that the state government would get the case heard in a fast track court in order to ensure that the guilty are punished at the earliest. The NHRC in a statement observed that apparently, people with criminal intent have no fear and respect for law, and innocent women, particularly from the vulnerable classes of the society are easily targeted by them. “The NHRC has taken suo motu cognisance of media reports that the Dalit girl was found raped and murdered in Lakhimpur Kheri, Uttar Pradesh after she stepped out to fill a scholarship form online as she did not have internet access at home,” the human rights body said in a statement. She was a first-generation learner in her family and had aspirations of landing a government job to lift her family out of poverty, it said. The Commission has issued notices to the chief secretary and the director general of police, seeking a detailed report in four weeks. The report must mention the status of the statutory relief and any other assistance provided by the state government to the family of the victim, it said. "This is the duty of the state to make a fearless environment for its citizens so that they can live with respect and dignity," the NHRC statement said. According to media reports, carried on August, 27, the girl was murdered by a man whose marriage proposal she had rejected, the rights panel said. The man was arrested on Wednesday, it said. Reportedly, the girl, second of four children of the family, was the one, the parents had pinned their hopes on. She had just passed class 9 and was about to start her class 10, the first one from her family to study up to that level, it said. The only source of income for the family is a two-bigha plot. The girl was aiming to get Scheduled Caste scholarship (Rs 2,220 annually) which would have helped ease some of the financial burden on the family, but before it could happen, she became the victim of a heinous crime, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogi-adityanath-calls-for-invoking-nsa-against-lakhimpur-kheri-rape-murder-accused-nhrc-issues-notice-878944.html
28-08-2020||North and Central||Two injured as car falls off flyover in West Delhi||Two persons were injured when their car fell off a flyover in West Delhi's Vikaspuri area, police said on Friday. The accident took place around 11 pm on Thursday, they said. "One of the injured was shifted to DDU hospital while the another was rushed to a private hospital," Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) Deepak Purohit said. A case under sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) and 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at Vikaspuri police station and investigation is in progress, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-injured-as-car-falls-off-flyover-in-west-delhi-878984.html
28-08-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir govt warns against anti-India slogans during Muharram processions||The Jammu and Kashmir government has warned that strict action would be taken against those who raise pro-freedom or anti-India slogans during Muharram processions in the Valley. Divisional Commissioner Kashmir Pandurang K Pole, who chaired a meeting in Srinagar to take stock of Muharram arrangements, said that in the last few instances some anti-national elements tried to give different directions to a purely religious matter. “All such elements shall be dealt strictly under the law,” he said. Pertinently, the Divisional Commissioner’s warning comes a day after police arrested two youth for their alleged involvement in chanting pro-freedom slogans during a Muharram procession in Hokersar area in the outskirts of Srinagar city. On Wednesday, Muharram processions reportedly turned into pro-freedom rallies, after police used tear smoke shells and fired in the air to disperse them in Budgam district. The Muharram, which is the first month of the Islamic calendar marks the martyrdom of Imam Hussain, the grandson of Prophet Muhammad (SAW). Hussain, along with his family members and companions were martyred in the battle of Karbala around 1400 years ago in present-day Iraq. Meanwhile, restrictions were imposed in parts of the Valley on Friday to prevent any Muharram procession. Reports said security forces personnel, including police and paramilitary CRPF men wearing riot gear, remained deployed in large numbers in Srinagar and other parts of the Valley to prevent any Muharram procession.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-govt-warns-against-anti-india-slogans-during-muharram-processions-879012.html
28-08-2020||North and Central||Yamuna water level nears warning mark in Delhi||The water level of the Yamuna in Delhi rose to 204.30 meters on Friday morning, precariously close to the warning mark of 204.50 meters, officials said. "The water level was recorded at 204.30 meters at the Old Railway Bridge at 9 am. It was 203.77 metres at 10 am on Thursday," an official of the irrigation and flood control department said.  The water level rose because more water was released from the Hathnikund barrage on Tuesday. The flow rate was 36,557 cusec at 5 pm on Tuesday, the highest in the last three days, he said. The water discharged from the barrage — which provides drinking water to Delhi — normally takes two-three days to reach the capital. Water was being released into the Yamuna at the rate of 11,055 cusec at 8 am on Friday. "The flow rate has remained between 10,000 cusec to 25,000 cusec over the last two days, which is not very high. Therefore, the water level of the river is expected to recede," the official said. One cusec is equivalent to 28.32 litre per second. The river had swelled to 204.38 meters on Monday, which was just a metre below the danger mark of 205.33 meters. Normally, the flow rate at the Hathnikund barrage is 352 cusec, but the discharge is increased after heavy rainfall in catchment areas. Last year, the flow rate had peaked to 8.28 lakh cusec on August 18-19, and the water level of the Yamuna had hit the 206.60 meter-mark, breaching the danger mark of 205.33 meters. The Delhi government had to launch evacuation and relief operations after the overflowing river submerged many low-lying areas. In 1978, the river had swelled to the all-time record water level of 207.49 meters. In 2013, it had risen to 207.32 metres. Delhi's Water Minister Satyendar Jain had Monday said the government was ready to deal with any flood-like situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yamuna-water-level-nears-warning-mark-in-delhi-879014.html
28-08-2020||North and Central||Srinagar continues to be Covid-19 hotspot in Jammu and Kashmir||The administration had imposed restrictions in Srinagar in July after a huge surge in the Covid-19 positive cases. However, the lockdown in the district was relaxed from August 16. Official figures reveal that the number of Covid-19 positive cases in Srinagar was 6,790 on August 15 which has increased to 8,735 till August 27. Overall, Jammu and Kashmir has 35,135 positive cases out of which 26,721 have recovered while 7,743 are active cases. Pertinently, the percentage of transmission of viral illness in other districts is far below than that of Srinagar. The district has also recorded 213 Covid-19 related deaths so far.  A senior doctor from J&K Health department blamed the complacency among city residents as the main reason for the rise in Covid-19 positive cases. “The marriage and other functions are going on as usual in the city with most of the people not adhering to prescribed protocols,” he said. Besides, the doctor said, the residents were neither observing social distancing nor wearing masks and following guidelines and all these factors contribute to an increasing number of Covid-19 cases in Srinagar. However, another expert said that in the union territory, the highest number of tests were being done in Srinagar district due to which more positive cases are coming to the fore. “In Srinagar, on average, 1,800 tests are done a day. Besides, aggressive contact tracing is being done here due to which the number of positive cases is on the rise,” he said. According to 2011 census, J&K has a total population of 1.25 crore with 11.8 lakh people residing in Srinagar district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/srinagar-continues-to-be-covid-19-hotspot-in-jammu-and-kashmir-879031.html
28-08-2020||North and Central||Punjab Police raids ex-DGP Sumedh Saini's house in Chandigarh||A Punjab Police team raided the house of former state DGP Sumedh Singh Saini here in the early hours of Friday in a case related to the disappearance of a person after a terrorist attack on him in Chandigarh in 1991. However, Saini was not found there, officials said. The raid was launched a day after a Mohali court reserved its order on an anticipatory bail plea filed by the former Punjab Director General of Police in this case. On August 21, the court had allowed the Punjab Police to add a murder charge against Saini in the case. The move came after two former Chandigarh police personnel, who are also co-accused, turned approver in the disappearance case. The former Punjab DGP was booked in the month of May this year in connection with the disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani, who was a junior engineer with Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation. Multani, who was a resident of Mohali, was picked up by police after the terrorist attack on Saini, who was then the senior superintendent of police in Chandigarh, in 1991, according to the FIR. Saini and six others were booked on the complaint of Balwant Multani's brother, Palwinder Singh Multani, who is a resident of Jalandhar. The case was registered against them under sections 364 (kidnapping or abducting in order to murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence), 344 (wrongful confinement), 330 (voluntarily causes hurt) and 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code at Mataur police station in Mohali.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-police-raids-ex-dgp-sumedh-sainis-house-in-chandigarh-879039.html
28-08-2020||North and Central||SC notice to Centre on plea on recognising minorities to run educational institutions||The Supreme Court on Friday issued notice to the Centre on a PIL challenging validity provisions of National Commission for Minority Education Institution Act 2004, for failing to recognise minorities at the state level for the purpose of running educational institutions. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Ajay Rastogi and Aniruddha Bose sought a response from the Union government's Ministries of Home Affairs, Law and Justice and Minority Affairs within six weeks on the petition filed by BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay. The petitioner contended followers of Judaism, Bahaism and Hinduism were being deprived of their basic rights to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice.  On the other hand, Muslims, who are in majority in Lakshadweep (96.58%), Kashmir (96%), Ladakh (44%), Assam (34.20%), West Bengal (27.5%), Kerala (26.60%), Uttar Pradesh (19.30%) and Bihar (18%) can establish and administer educational institutions of their choice, he said. Similarly, Christians, who are in majority in Nagaland (88.10%), Mizoram (87.16%) and Meghalaya (74.59%), and have significant population in Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Kerala, Manipur, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal, can also establish and administer their educational institutions. Likewise, Sikhs are in majority in Punjab and there is a large population in Delhi, Chandigarh, Haryana, but, they can also establish and administer, he pointed out.  Similarly, Buddhists are the majority in Ladakh but they can establish and administer educational institutions of their choice. Since January 6, 2005, when the NCMEI Act came into effect and by using unbridled power under Section 2(f), the Centre arbitrarily notified five communities viz Muslims, Christians, Sikhs, Buddhists and Parsee as minorities at the national level against the spirit of the TMA Pai judgment.  Upadhyay sought a direction to declare Section 2(f) of the National Commission for Minority Education Institution Act 2004, as arbitrary, irrational as it violated Articles 14, 15, 21, 29 and 30 of the Constitution. In the alternative, the court may direct and declare that followers of Judaism, Bahaism Hinduism, who are minorities in Laddakh, Mizoram, Lakshadweep, Kashmir, Nagaland, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh, Punjab and Manipur, can establish and administer educational institutions of their choice in the spirit of the TMA Pai Ruling (2002). He also asked the court to lay down guidelines for identification of minority at the state level, in order to ensure that only those religious and linguistic groups, which are socially, economically, and politically non-dominant and numerically inferior, can establish and administer educational institutions of their choice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-notice-to-centre-on-plea-on-recognising-minorities-to-run-educational-institutions-879051.html
28-08-2020||North and Central||Rains lash parts of Delhi||Rains lashed parts of the national capital on Friday, bringing respite from the humidity. Parts of east Delhi, central Delhi, Barapullah flyover and Nizamuddin received rainfall. The minimum temperature in the city was recorded at 26.8 degrees Celsius, a notch above the season's average. The humidity was 77 per cent. The weatherman has forecast generally cloudy skies with the possibility of moderate rain towards evening. The maximum temperature is likely to settle around 36 degrees Celsius.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rains-lash-parts-of-delhi-879056.html
28-08-2020||North and Central||Restrictions in parts of Kashmir to prevent Muharram processions||Authorities on Friday imposed restrictions in parts of Kashmir to prevent people from taking out Muharram processions to mark the eighth day of the 10-day mourning period, officials said. They said restrictions on the movement and assembly of people under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) have been imposed in Budgam and Baramulla districts and parts of Srinagar district. In Srinagar, the curbs have been imposed in Shaheedgunj, M A Road, Ram Munshi Bagh, Maisuma and partially in Batamaloo area, the officials said. Shops and other business establishments in the areas, where restrictions are in place, are shut, while public transport is off the roads, they said. However, some private vehicles were seen plying. The officials said security forces have been deployed in strength in other areas of the Valley to prevent any untoward incident. The restrictions were imposed to maintain law and order in these areas in view of the eighth day of Muharram, they said. The traditional Muharram procession, to mark the eighth day of the 10-day Muharram mourning period, used to pass through these areas, but have been banned since the eruption of militancy in 1990, as authorities maintain that the religious gatherings have been used for propagating separatist politics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/restrictions-in-parts-of-kashmir-to-prevent-muharram-processions-879090.html
28-08-2020||North and Central||Noida: Man held for rape attempt on 7-year-old girl||A 42-year-old man has been arrested for alleged rape attempt on a seven-year-old girl from his neighbourhood at a village in Uttar Pradesh's Noida, police said on Friday. The incident had taken place on Wednesday evening and an FIR was lodged in connection with the case at Sector 39 police station Thursday night, they said. "The accused and the victim are neighbours. An FIR was lodged after the family's complaint was received and the accused arrested immediately," a police spokesperson said. The FIR has been lodged under Indian Penal Code section 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/noida-man-held-for-rape-attempt-on-7-year-old-girl-879092.html
28-08-2020||North and Central||BSP announces eight candidates for Madhya Pradesh bypolls||The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) has announced names of eight candidates for the by-elections to 27 Assembly constituencies in Madhya Pradesh. The list of candidates for eight seats, which are in Gwalior-Chambal region, was finalised by party president and former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Mayawati, party sources said. "We will contest all 27 seats for which bypolls will be held," president of the BSP's state unit Ramakant Pippal said on Friday. The party has fielded former MLA Soneram Kushwaha from Joura, Ram Prakash Rajoria from Morena, Yogesh Meghsingh Narwaria from Mehgaon, Kailash Kushwaha from Pohri (all general seats), Bhanu Pratapsingh Sakhwar from Ambah, Jaswant Patwari from Ambah, Santosh Gaud from Dabra and Rajendra Jatav from Pohri (all SC ssseats). In the 2018 state Assembly elections, the BSP had won two seats in the state. The bypolls are yet to be scheduled for 27 seats, which are currently lying vacant due to the resignation of 25 MLAs and death of the two sitting legislators.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bsp-announces-eight-candidates-for-madhya-pradesh-bypolls-879103.html
28-08-2020||North and Central||Plea of 1984 riots convict to extend interim bail infructuous, relief extended due to Covid-19: Delhi High Court||The Delhi High Court Friday said the plea by one of the 1984 anti-Sikh riots convicts, who was awarded life imprisonment, for extension of interim bail is infructuous in view of the full court's order extending such relief till October 31 due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. A bench of Justices J R Midha and Brijesh Sethi noted that the full bench of the high court headed by Chief Justice D N Patel has already extended till October 31, all the interim orders, which were to expire on or after August 31, in cases before it to prevent spread of Covid-19 infection among jail inmates from someone who returns after expiry of his/her interim bail or parole. "The application seeking extension of interim bail is infructuous in view of the full bench order," the court said. The high court on June 1, had suspended by 12 weeks the life term sentence of convict Naresh Sehrawat who was suffering from chronic kidney ailment and was highly vulnerable to a contagious disease like Covid-19. During the hearing, advocate Kamna Vohra, appearing for the state, said following the full bench order, she was not opposing the plea for extension of interim bail. However, she pointed out that Sehrawat has not placed any follow up treatment record before the court. On June 1, while granting relief to Sehrawat, the high court had noted that he was a chronic kidney disease, stage-IV patient and was admitted in the medicine ward of the Central Jail hospital and was highly vulnerable to a contagious disease like Covid-19. He had sought interim suspension of sentence for three months on the ground that he needs to undergo liver and kidney transplant simultaneously and at the earliest. A special investigation team (SIT) was earlier set up by the Ministry of Home Affairs to reinvestigate the riot cases. The trial court had awarded death penalty to convict Yashpal Singh and life term to Naresh Sehrawat in the case relating to the killing of two men in New Delhi during the 1984 riots -- the first convictions in the cases reopened by the SIT. Sherawat has also appealed against his conviction and the sentence before the high court which is pending. The death reference as well as appeal of Singh against the capital punishment awarded to him is also pending in the high court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/plea-of-1984-riots-convict-to-extend-interim-bail-infructuous-relief-extended-due-to-covid-19-delhi-high-court-879109.html
28-08-2020||North and Central||Six people injured in clash over lifting of sand from Yamuna; 8 arrested||Six people were injured in stone-pelting following a clash between two groups over the lifting of sand from the Yamuna river in Kairana area of Shamli district, police said on Friday. According to Station House Officer of Kairana police station Premvir Rana, Nazir and Imran had a heated argument which turned into a violent clash. The supporters of both the men used stones and lathis to target each other, he added. Police rushed to the spot and brought the situation under control. Eight people were arrested, Rana said. A case was registered against 15 people in this connection, he added. The injured, Rifakat, Imran, Nazir, Bilal, Sonu and Musnad, were shifted to a hospital, Rana said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/six-people-injured-in-clash-over-lifting-of-sand-from-yamuna-8-arrested-879119.html
28-08-2020||North and Central||Noida: Child found dead under Mahamaya flyover, probe on||The body of a child was found under the Mahamaya flyover in Uttar Pradesh's Noida, police said on Friday. Aged between 8 to 10 years, the child's body was spotted Thursday afternoon in a green belt under the usually busy flyover in the city and its identity ascertained later in the day, they said. "The child's body was found under the Mahamaya flyover. His family, which lives in Sector 44's Chhalera village, has been traced. A probe is on and police team are enquiring about the incident from the locals,” Deputy Commissioner of Police, Noida, Rajesh S said. It was not clear how the child died and the body was sent for post-mortem, the officer said, adding other details would be available only after the autopsy. The autopsy report was yet to reach the police, an official from the local Sector 39 police station told PTI Friday afternoon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/noida-child-found-dead-under-mahamaya-flyover-probe-on-879123.html
28-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi Police arrests 5 for extorting money by impersonating ED officials||Five people have been arrested by the Delhi Police for allegedly running an extortion racket by impersonating as officials of the Enforcement Directorate (ED), the central probe agency said on Friday. It said the five, in the age group of 24-35 years, are residents of Delhi-NCR and were arrested by the crime branch of the Delhi Police on a complaint from the ED. They were produced before a court here on Thursday and sent to three-day police custody, the ED said in a statement. "The five accused have been arrested on the basis of a complaint from a Maharashtra-based individual alleging that somebody approached him with a fake notice of the ED and demanded money for settlement of their purported case in the ED. "This complaint was forwarded by the ED to the Delhi Police and on the basis of proactive action and swift investigation, the culprits involved in the racket have been apprehended by Delhi Police," it said. The federal investigating agency said it is initiating similar action in other cases, where people are faking or impersonating its letters and authority. "The ED is proactively pursuing with other state police units for apprehending the culprits involved in harassing the public in the guise of ED officials," the agency said. It recently came to the notice of the ED that fake letters in the agency's name were sent to various banks and individuals in Karnataka, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Haryana, Gujarat and Delhi by certain unscrupulous elements. "In the fake notices sent to the banks, instructions were given for freezing of bank accounts of innocent traders and individuals. "Similarly, fake summonses/letters were issued to traders and individuals, asking them to appear at the ED office," the agency said. After conducting an initial verification, clarifications were issued to the banks with a direction to file police complaints in case such fake letters were received by them, it said. "Immediate clarifications have also been made to the individuals about the fake letters/summonses. "Complaints have been made to the DGPs of Karnataka and Delhi for apprehending the accused," the agency said. The ED has been pursuing with these state police forces to the bring the accused involved in harassing innocent people to book, it said. The agency is mandated to probe financial crimes, money laundering, the "hawala" trade and possession of black money cases under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) and the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-arrests-5-for-extorting-money-by-impersonating-ed-officials-879125.html
28-08-2020||North and Central||BJP leader moves Delhi High Court against Satyendra Jain's election||BJP leader S C Vats on Friday moved the Delhi High Court challenging the election of Delhi Health Minister Satyendra Jain for allegedly indulging in "corrupt practices". Vats lost to Jain in the 2020 Delhi Assembly elections from Shakur Basti constituency here. The BJP leader, in his plea filed through advocate Sahil Ahuja, has sought that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader's election be declared as null and void. The petition alleges that Jain "bribed" voters of his constituency that prevented them from exercising their right to vote in a free and fair manner. It also claimed that Jain did not disclose his actual expenses incurred during the election campaign and exceeded the cap on poll expenditures. It seeks that the AAP leader's election be set aside and Vats be declared as the successful candidate from that constituency. The petition also seeks that during pendency of the matter, Jain be prevented from attending the legislative assembly and drawing employments or any other payments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-leader-moves-delhi-high-court-against-satyendra-jains-election-879127.html
28-08-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh govt in favour of holding NEET, JEE: Yogi Adityanath||The Uttar Pradesh government is in favour of holding the NEET and JEE, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Friday. "The state government supports holding of NEET and JEE," Adityanath said at a high-level meeting here. On August 9, B Ed examinations were held in the state in which about five lakh examinees took part. No problems relating to Covid-19 infection have come to light following the examination, the Chief Minister said. Similarly, some other examinations have also been held in the state, he added. The Union government has made it clear that the NEET and JEE will be held as per schedule with due precautions. While the NEET is slated to be held on September 13, JEE-Main is scheduled between September 1-6.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-govt-in-favour-of-holding-neet-jee-yogi-adityanath-879141.html
28-08-2020||North and Central||Non-performing cops above 50 years may be asked to retire in Bihar||The Bihar government is mulling over a proposal to review the performance of all the policemen, from the rank of DSP to constable, and give the option of voluntary/compulsory retirement to the non-performing cops. A letter in this regard has been reportedly sent to all the SPs with a directive to identify and prepare a list of non-performing policemen. Though the Additional Director General (ADG) of Police Jitendra Kumar feigned ignorance about any such letter, the Bihar Policemen’s Association (BPA) president Mrityunjay Singh has shot off a protest letter to the Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey asking him to withdraw such move as it will lower the morale of the police force. “We request you to withdraw the order with regard to compulsory retirement to non-performing police personnel above the age of 50 years in the larger interest of the men-in-uniform...At this age (50), family accountability of cops increases considerably...there is lot of fear and resentment over this move...The Government is requested to withdraw compulsory retirement move,” the BPA president wrote to the Bihar DGP. The matter first came to fore when on August 25, the commandant of Bihar Military Police (BMP) 15th Battalion, at Valmikinagar in West Champaran, issued a letter stating that a committee had been set up to assess the performance of the police personnel above 50 years of age. Taking strong exception to such orders, another office-bearer of policemen’s association N K Dheeraj has urged Chief Minister Nitish Kumar to immediately intervene in the matter and reconsider the decision as “the men-in-uniform are dedicated to their job even at the risk of their lives.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/non-performing-cops-above-50-years-may-be-asked-to-retire-in-bihar-879178.html
28-08-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan Congress leaders protest against NEET, JEE||Rajasthan Congress leaders and workers on Friday held a demonstration here to demand postponement of NEET and JEE in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for medical colleges is slated to be held on September 13 while the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) for engineering colleges is scheduled between September 1-6. Despite protests, the Union government has made it clear that the exams will be held as per schedule with due precautions. Transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas, chief whip Mahesh Joshi, former Pradesh Congress Committee president Sachin Pilot and other leaders took part in the agitation at the main gate of Malviya National Institute of Technology (MNIT) on JLN Marg. “The Centre is adamant on holding the examinations while ignoring the plight of lakhs of students and putting their lives at stake. Congress will intensify the agitation if the exams are not postponed,” Khachariyawas said while addressing the protesters. PCC president Govind Singh Dotasra was scheduled to lead the protest but could not come due to health reasons. Pilot, who was also the former deputy chief minister of the state, said lakhs of students across the country are demanding that the exams be postponed therefore, the Centre should not be adamant on holding them. “The corona pandemic is not over yet. Hotels are closed and transportation is not there. How will the students from rural areas be able to reach their exam centres? The stubbornness of the central government is not good and the exams should be postponed,” he said. Talking to reporters, Joshi said that there are many factors with regards to national exams due to which the Centre should not go ahead with its decision to conduct the exams. “The Centre should have consulted the state government because a large number of students will come to take the exam. Hotels are closed and where will the students stay,” he argued. On the Pre-Diploma of Elementary Education exam scheduled to be held in the state on August 31, Joshi said the exam will be taken by local candidates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-congress-leaders-protest-against-neet-jee-879182.html
28-08-2020||North and Central||Encounter breaks out between security forces, militants in Jammu and Kashmir's Shopian district||An encounter broke out between security forces and militants in Jammu and Kashmir's Shopian district on Friday, police said. Security forces had launched a cordon and search operation in the Kiloora area of the district following information about the presence of militants, a police official said. The search operation turned into an encounter after the militants fired on a search party of the forces, who retaliated, he said. Exchange of fire is going on, the official said, adding that additional forces have been rushed to the area and further details are awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/encounter-breaks-out-between-security-forces-militants-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-shopian-district-879184.html
28-08-2020||North and Central||Four militants killed in encounter in Jammu and Kashmir||Four militants were killed in an encounter with security forces in Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir on Friday, police said. Security forces launched a cordon and search operation in Kiloora area of Shopian district in south Kashmir following specific information about the presence of militants, a police official said. He said the search operation turned into an encounter after the militants fired upon a search party of the forces, which retaliated. In the ensuing exchange of fire, four militants were killed, the official said. He said the identity and group affiliation of the slain militants was being ascertained. The operation is on, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/four-militants-killed-in-encounter-in-jammu-and-kashmir-879191.html
28-08-2020||North and Central||Man held for raping minor, forcibly marrying her in Muzaffarnagar||A man who allegedly raped a minor and forcibly married her before giving her triple talaq has been arrested here, police said on Friday. The accused was nabbed on Thursday in Jolla village under Budhana police station limits, they said. According to SHO K P Singh, the accused has been booked under section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal code and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act. In her complaint to the police, the survivor's mother had said that her son-in-law's brother had visited their house in January this year and stayed with them for a few days during which he allegedly raped her minor daughter. Later, the accused and his parents allegedly began threatening the mother-daughter duo to marry the girl to him, the station house officer said, adding the woman married her daughter to the accused under duress in February this year. But a few weeks after taking the girl to his home, the accused gave her triple talaq and left her back with her mother, the officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-held-for-raping-minor-forcibly-marrying-her-in-muzaffarnagar-879200.html
28-08-2020||North and Central||Harmukh Gangabal lake pilgrimage performed in Kashmir due to Covid-19||"The yatra started from Naranag on August 24 and team members had to trek to Harmukh Gangabal lake. This year, the yatra size was also curtailed due to ongoing Covid-19 pandemic", Vice-President of Harmukh Gangbal Ganga Trust (HGGT), King C Bharati said. The team members of the HGGT performed yagna at the Harmukh Gangabal lake, which is located around 14,500 feet above the sea level in the Harmukh mountain range. "The lake is also known as Harmukh Ganga. The Harmukh mountain is also known as The Kailash of Kashmir. The yatra returned to Jammu today", he said. Rajiv Pandita, a member of the yatra team, said it began on August 24 and culminated on August 28. "The yatra was conducted under tight security. The Gangabal yatra was revived after 200 years on June 2009", Pandita said. The holy mace was taken to Harmukh Gangabal lake shrine and mahayagya of Mata Gangeshori was held amid vedic mantras. While over 450 people had performed the pilgrimage last year, this time only 12 pilgrims were allowed due to the pandemic. The pilgrims braved incessant rains, chanting the slogan of "Jai Maa Gange and Har Har Mahadev " during the yatra this year. The HGGT thanked Divisional commissioner Kashmir, IGP Kashmir, Commander Sector 3, DC Ganderbal, Commanding officer 24 RR, SSP Ganderbal for smooth conduct of the yatra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/harmukh-gangabal-lake-pilgrimage-performed-in-kashmir-due-to-covid-19-879203.html
28-08-2020||North and Central||Four Al-Badr militants killed, one surrenders in Shopian: Army||Four Al-Bard militants, including a cop-turned-ultra who had decamped with four weapons, were killed in an encounter with security forces in south Kashmir’s Shopian district on Friday. One of the militants hiding in the area surrendered before the forces. Reports said the encounter broke out after security forces launched a cordon-and-search operation in Kiloora area of Shopian, 55 kms from here, following ‘specific information’ about the presence of a group of militants there. The search operation turned into an encounter after the militants fired upon a search party of the security forces, which was retaliated, a police official said and added in the ensuing exchange of fire, four militants were killed. “A terrorist surrenders while four terrorists have been eliminated in an ongoing encounter in Kiloora area of Shopian district. Two AKs and three pistols recovered. Joint operation in progress,” PRO Defence, Col Rajesh Kalia said in a statement. The slain militants were identified as Shakoor Parray, Al-Badr district commander, Suhail Bhat, Zubair Nengroo and Shakir-ul-Jabbar while the  arrested ultras was identified as Shoiab Ahmad Bhat. As per police records, Shakoor Parray got engaged as special police officer (SPO) in 2014 and on operational grounds was converted as constable. “He took away four rifles (weapons) from the other officials and joined the terrorist outfit. After joining the terrorist groups, he got active in the area and distributed the snatched weapons among his close associates,” a police spokesperson said. “He was the main handler of proscribed terrorist outfit Al Badr and was involved in recruiting youth into terror ranks,” he added. Police said they were involved in the abduction and killing of a panchayat member in neighboring Pulwama district. Al Badr was born out of the Hizb-ul-Mujahideen in 1998 after the ISI encouraged terrorists to operate independently.  The outfit has a history of perpetrating violence in Afghanistan and Kashmir. Al-Badr was proscribed by the government of India in 2002. Since the beginning of this year, security forces have killed more than 155 militants, including 26 top commanders in J&K.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/four-al-badr-militants-killed-one-surrenders-in-shopian-army-879218.html
28-08-2020||North and Central||Rains lead to waterlogging, traffic snarls in Delhi||As rains lashed the national capital on Friday, bringing respite from the humidity, Delhiites experienced traffic woes and waterlogging as they stepped out on the roads. According to the MeT department, the Safdarjung Observatory recorded 23.2 mm rainfall while Palam recorded 35.8 mm rainfall between 8.30 am and 5.30 pm. The Lodhi Road and Ridge areas received 23.6 mm and 44 mm rainfall respectively in the said period. The minimum temperature in the city was recorded at 26.8 degrees Celsius, a notch above the season's average. The maximum temperature was recorded at 32.8 degrees Celsius with the weatherman predicting light rains for Saturday. Waterlogging was reported from some parts of the city, including Janpath, Indraprastha and Minto Bridge. Commuters experienced traffic snarls near the ITO, central Delhi and east Delhi due to waterlogging. "Traffic is heavy on MB Road due to waterlogging at Vayusenabad. Motorists heading towards Badarpur from Saket are advised to take Outer Ring Road," the Delhi Traffic Police said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rains-lead-to-waterlogging-traffic-snarls-in-delhi-879224.html
28-08-2020||North and Central||Rape accused dies by suicide in jail in Rajasthan's Baran||A 26-year-old man, who was accused of raping a minor, allegedly hanged himself in jail in Rajasthan’s Baran district, police said on Friday. Golu Kushwah allegedly used a towel to hang himself from a window in the jail toilet on Thursday evening, said jailor Mohammad Arif Khan. Kushwah was immediately rushed to hospital where doctors declared him brought dead, Khan said. The police suspect that the inmate may have ended his life as he had lost hope of getting bail. Kushwah was in judicial custody since July 15 this year. He was booked under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, Khan said. The body was handed over to family members after post-mortem on Friday morning and there will be a magisterial inquiry into the cause of death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rape-accused-dies-by-suicide-in-jail-in-rajasthans-baran-879228.html
28-08-2020||North and Central||SC declines to consider plea against Bihar Assembly polls||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to entertain a PIL for a direction to the Election Commission to postpone Bihar Legislative Assembly polls, expected in October, 2020, due to Covid-19 pandemic and flood in the state. A three-judge bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan said the Election Commission can take necessary precautions and consider everything. The court termed the petition by Avinash Thakur as premature and misconceived. "Covid can't be a ground to postponement of elections, specially when even a notification for polls has not been issued," the bench said. Bihar polls are due in October, 2020 to elect 243-member Assembly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-declines-to-consider-plea-against-bihar-assembly-polls-879229.html
28-08-2020||North and Central||Court expresses concerns over defence counsels not submitting arguments in Babri Masjid demolition case||A special CBI court on Friday expressed serious concerns over failure of defence counsels to submit their written arguments in the 1992 Babri mosque demolition case despite repeated opportunities given to them. It granted them the last opportunity to file the written arguments by August 31 and make oral submissions if they wanted to or their chances would be closed. Special Judge S K Yadav said there are 32 accused in the case. The Supreme Court has fixed September-end as the deadline for conclusion and delivery of judgment. "The court has to deal with evidence of 351 CBI witnesses and about 600 exhibits, which is bound to take considerable time and as such things cannot be allowed to cause delay at the arguments stage," the judge said. The court had earlier granted time to the defense counsels on August 21 and 24. It had fixed for Friday, but again more time was sought by the defence counsels. The CBI has already filed a 400-page written argument. They include former deputy prime minister L K Advani, former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh, BJP leaders M M Joshi, Uma Bharti, Vinay Katiar, Sadhvi Rithambara and Sakshi Maharaj, besides Ram Teerth Kshetra Trust secretary Champat Rai. The trial is at the verge of conclusion and is at the stage of arguments. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has submitted its arguments to which the defense counsels have to rebut by filing their own written arguments. Once the arguments stage is over, the court would deliver its judgment. The Babri Masjid in Ayodhya was demolished on December 6, 1992, by 'kar sevaks' who claimed that an ancient Ram temple stood at the same site.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/court-expresses-concerns-over-defence-counsels-not-submitting-arguments-in-babri-masjid-demolition-case-879250.html
28-08-2020||North and Central||Covid-19 at peak, don't hold NEET, JEE exams: Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Friday strongly opposed the Centre's decision to hold NEET and JEE entrance exams amid the Covid-19 pandemic. He said it was not appropriate to conduct examinations when the pandemic is at its peak in the country. Various opposition parties, including the Congress, have demanded that the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) be deferred due to the Covid-19 pandemic and floods in parts of the country, even as the Union government has made it clear that they will be held as per schedule with due precautions. "This a difficult phase for the entire country. While the country has been fighting the coronavirus crisis, the Central government is adamant on conducting NEET and JEE exams," Baghel said in a video message posted on Twitter. "The examination, which was to be held in May was deferred (due to the pandemic). Now, when the corona crisis is at its peak, it is not appropriate to conduct the examination. "We are trying everything possible to ensure that the exams are not held during this period and postponed. We strongly oppose the Centre's move," he added. Notably, Chhattisgarh's Food Minister Amarjeet Bhagat is among ministers of six non-BJP ruled states, which moved the Supreme Court on Friday seeking review of its order permitting the Centre to conduct NEET and JEE entrance exams this year amid the persisting Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-at-peak-dont-hold-neet-jee-exams-chhattisgarh-cm-bhupesh-baghel-879305.html
28-08-2020||North and Central||PM Narendra Modi to inaugurate college of agriculture university in Jhansi on August 28||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate college and administration buildings of the Rani Lakshmi Bai Central Agricultural University in Jhansi through remote video conference on Saturday, a statement said. The RLB Central Agriculture University is a prominent institute of the Bundelkhand region. In a tweet, Modi said on Friday, "At 12:30 PM tomorrow, the College and Administration Buildings of Rani Lakshmi Bai Central Agricultural University, Jhansi would be inaugurated. This would improve the education infrastructure & contribute to cutting edge research in agriculture as well as further farmer welfare." The university started its first academic session in 2014-15 and is offering undergraduate and postgraduate courses in agriculture, horticulture and forestry. It has been currently operating from the Indian Grassland and Fodder Research Institute in Jhansi as the main buildings were getting ready, the statement said. The prime minister will also interact with students of the university during the event, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-narendra-modi-to-inaugurate-college-of-agriculture-university-in-jhansi-on-august-28-879306.html
28-08-2020||Opinion||What if Facebook is the real ‘silent majority’?||Listen, liberals. If you don’t think Donald Trump can get reelected in November, you need to spend more time on Facebook. Since the 2016 election, I’ve been obsessively tracking how partisan political content is performing on Facebook, the world’s largest and arguably most influential media platform. Every morning, one of the first browser tabs I open is CrowdTangle — a handy Facebook-owned data tool that offers a bird’s-eye view of what’s popular on the platform. I check which politicians and pundits are going viral. I geek out on trending topics. I browse the previous day’s stories to see which got the most reactions, shares and comments. Most days, the leader board looks roughly the same: conservative post after conservative post, with the occasional liberal interloper. It’s no secret that, despite Trump’s claims of Silicon Valley censorship, Facebook has been a boon to him and his allies, and hyperpartisan Facebook pages are nothing new. But what sticks out, when you dig in to the data, is just how dominant the Facebook right truly is. Pro-Trump political influencers have spent years building a well-oiled media machine that swarms around every major news story, creating a torrent of viral commentary that reliably drowns out both the mainstream media and the liberal opposition. The result is a kind of parallel media universe that left-of-center Facebook users may never encounter, but that has been stunningly effective in shaping its own version of reality. Inside the right-wing Facebook bubble, Trump’s response to Covid-19 has been strong and effective, Joe Biden is barely capable of forming sentences, and Black Lives Matter is a dangerous group of violent looters. Trump and his supporters are betting that, despite being behind Biden in the polls, a “silent majority” will carry him to reelection. Donald Trump Jr., the president’s oldest and most online son, made that argument himself at the Republican National Convention this week. And while I’m not a political analyst, I know enough about the modern media landscape to know that looking at people’s revealed preferences — what they actually read, watch, and click on when nobody’s looking — is often a better indicator of how they’ll act than interviewing them at diners, or listening to what they’re willing to say out loud to a pollster. Maybe Trump’s “silent majority,” in other words, only seems silent because we’re not looking at their Facebook feeds. ”We live in two different countries right now,” said Eric Wilson, a Republican digital strategist and digital director of Marco Rubio’s 2016 campaign. Facebook’s media ecosystem, he said, is “a huge blind spot for people who are up to speed on what’s on the front page of The New York Times and what’s leading the hour on CNN.” To be sure, Facebook is not the only medium where right-wing content thrives. Millions of Americans still get their news from cable news and talk radio, where conservative voices have dominated for years. Many pro-Trump Facebook influencers also have sizable presences on Twitter, YouTube and other social networks. But the right’s dominance on Facebook, specifically, is something to behold. A few caveats, before my Democratic readers jump off the nearest pier. These figures include only posts on public pages, in public groups, and by verified accounts, and they don’t include Facebook ads, where the Biden campaign has been outspending the Trump campaign in recent weeks. Counting Facebook interactions doesn’t tell you how someone felt about a post, so it’s possible some conservative posts are being hate-shared by liberals. And Facebook has argued that engagement isn’t the same thing as popularity. “These points look mostly at how people engage with content, which should not be confused with how many people actually see it on Facebook,” Joe Osborne, a Facebook spokesman, said in a statement. Osborne added that “when you look at the content that gets the most reach across Facebook, it’s not at all as partisan as this reporting suggests.” Democrats aren’t totally absent from Facebook’s upper echelon. Ridin’ With Biden, a pro-Biden page started in April by the founders of the liberal Facebook page Occupy Democrats, has quadrupled its following over the past three months, and routinely gets more engagement than Breitbart and other right-wing heavy-hitters. Individual posts by Bernie Sanders, Barack Obama and other prominent Democrats have broken through in recent weeks. And political campaigners have pointed out, correctly, that being popular on the internet isn’t a guarantee of electoral success. In addition, Facebook’s older, more conservative user base may not reflect what’s happening on platforms like Instagram and TikTok, which draw a younger crowd. Still, the platform’s sheer scale makes it vital to understand. As of 2019, 70 percent of American adults used Facebook, and 43 percent of Americans got news on the platform, according to the Pew Research Center. We know that the company’s product decisions can make or break political movements, move fringe ideas into the mainstream, or amplify partisan polarization. Registering 4 million voters before the November election, as Facebook has said it would do, could be a decisive force all on its own. The reason right-wing content performs so well on Facebook is no mystery. The platform is designed to amplify emotionally resonant posts, and conservative commentators are skilled at turning passionate grievances into powerful algorithm fodder. The company also appears willing to bend its rules for popular conservative influencers. A recent report by NBC News, citing a leaked internal report, found that Facebook executives had removed “strikes” from the accounts of several high-profile conservative pages that had shared viral misinformation in violation of the company’s rules. Over the past few years, I’ve come to view my daily Facebook data-dive as a kind of early-warning system — a rough gauge of what’s grabbing America’s attention on any given day, and which stories and perspectives will likely break through in the days to come. And looking at Facebook’s lopsided political media ecosystem might be a useful reality check for Democrats who think Biden will coast to victory in November. After all, Trump’s surging popularity showed up online before it showed up in any polls in 2016. And even though much about Facebook, and American politics, has changed in the past four years, the basic laws of social media physics still apply. Controversy wins. Negative beats positive. All attention looks good to an algorithm. Brad Parscale — the digital director of Trump’s 2016 campaign — told “60 Minutes” that of everything Trump did that year, the thing that actually moved the needle was Facebook. “Facebook was the method,” Parscale said. “It was the highway which his car drove on.” That highway is still open. And right now, the fastest cars on it have MAGA bumper stickers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/what-if-facebook-is-the-real-silent-majority-878917.html
28-08-2020||Opinion||Camaraderie around Kamala||After my morning jog in the park, I decided to take a breather on one of the stone benches. On the next one, within earshot, were three elderly men who began talking animatedly about Kamala. Indeed, the Kamala Harris, who most Indians are talking about, and who some claim as “our own”! My ears cocked up. The best news of late is about “our own Kamala” picked by Joe Biden as his vice-president in the US elections, declared the oldest looking man. She’s the first woman of black and Indian heritage, that too from “our Chennai”. Shouldn’t we all be proud of her, he affirmed, tapping his walking stick on the ground. Flashing a set of loose teeth, the bald man with glasses nodded in agreement. “Ayyo, our Kamala, our blooming Lotus, will make every Indian and Tamilian proud. There are 1.2 million Indian voters and I will tell my 61 relatives in the US to vote for them”. The third, a burly, grey-haired fellow stood up. Are you counting chickens before they’re hatched? With Trump and the Russians, you can’t be sure of a victory for Democrats, he asserted seriously.  Besides, some Indian Americans are not in favour of Kamala; she’s too westernized and more Jamaican than Indian, he added. The oldest gentleman, looking visibly agitated, piped up. Kamala and her sister Maya have Indian names okay, not Jamaican names. They have visited Madras often with their mother, listened to their grandfather’s stories and Kamala likes idlis. Her grandmother is my wife’s sister-in-law’s grandfather’s sister; I know the family. Suppressing a yawn, the bald man interjected. Do you know Kamala once asked her aunt to break coconuts for good luck at a temple when she was in the fray for the Attorney-General’s election? God bless her, may our Lotus become POTUS someday. The burly fellow jumped in. Does she know Bharatanatyam or to cook rice and sambar? So much for her Tamil roots, he chortled. “Ayyo Kadavule,” didn’t you see a video of her making masala dosa with Mindy Kaling? the old man retaliated. Just then a fourth person panting for breath after his jog joined them and after learning the discussion revolved around Kamala, held forth. Friends, why are you all getting so excited and emotional. First, Democrats have to win and after occupying the office of VP, let’s see how favourable they will be towards India especially immigration and H-1B visas. Our children are suffering with the new visa rules and unemployment. Saying so, he coaxed them to join him for coffee at the nearby Kamala Darshini.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/camaraderie-around-kamala-878999.html
28-08-2020||Opinion||Anatomy of a riot||Not all riots are pre-planned nor are they spontaneous, either. But after the first stone is thrown, nobody has any control over what course it may take or how it would end. A riot, once ignited, becomes its own master. Rarely do riots take place on the spur of the moment, for even seemingly impulsive acts of violence are preceded by at least some amount of ‘thinking on the feet’, if not meticulous planning. Usually, tensions build up over a couple of days and it takes one trigger to let all hell lose. In the case of the recent ‘communal riots’ in DJ Halli and KG Halli in Bengaluru’s Pulakeshinagar, too, an offensive social media post appears to have been only a spark, with police investigations beginning to indicate that the real reasons lie elsewhere. The apparent target of the rioters was the local Congress MLA, Akanda Srinivasa Murthy, whose house was reduced to ashes. The growing popularity of Murthy, who had joined the party from Janata Dal (S), is said to have angered some Congress old-timers who feared being marginalised in the constituency. While no conclusive proof has emerged as yet, it is significant that some Congress workers have been arrested or questioned by the police for their alleged role in the riots. Murthy’s nephew, P Naveen, the man purportedly behind the communally sensitive post was himself in the eye of a storm with the local people accusing him of cheating them by promising sites, jobs and even a visit to Mecca. Besides, a majority of the population of the area, who belong to the lower income group, were restive, having been rendered jobless by the Covid-19 lockdown. The conditions could not have been more opportune for some “action”. Naveen’s social media post came as a perfect alibi for the masterminds of the riots to put their devious plan into action. While in most disturbances, the singular aim of the perpetrators is to execute their ‘targeted objective’, in almost all cases, they soon lose control over the situation which turns into a free-for-all when the crowds take over. Thus, whoever starts a riot has no power to stop it. While a mob has a mind of its own and listens to no reason, it is also true that many personal agendas come into play, not to mention mischief-mongers making the most of the opportunity. A rowdy may get even with a businessman who has been refusing to pay him hafta by burning down his shop; old family and political conflicts may be settled by attacking opponents and their properties; a young man may inflict injury on a girl who has spurned him; a pre-meditated murder may be made to look like a mob attack. And amidst all this, looters have a field day. Unless it is a methodically planned pogrom, a riot quickly passes on from the hands of its organisers to a completely different set of executors who may not even be aware of the masterplan. In the process, many personal scores are settled, but the blame falls on the riots. Often, those participating in riots have some previous experience and follow a certain standard operating procedure.  The first task is to prevent the entry of the police into the area concerned for as long as possible by blocking the approach roads so that maximum damage can be inflicted, before escaping. Laying siege to the local police station is also part of this plan. Simultaneously, streetlights and CCTV cameras are smashed to prevent identification of the culprits. The main perpetrators are typically the last to be apprehended because they make a quick getaway after executing the core plan, leaving the stage to the mindless mob. The failure to gather intelligence, or to act on it, on the part of the police is also a major contributing factor, considering that some amount of preparation goes into fomenting trouble. It is inconceivable that the local police are blissfully unaware when activities like stocking sticks, swords and petrol bombs at vantage points are carried out right under their noses, even if clandestinely. This is a clear indication that the police do not have their finger on the local pulse either because of their inability to cultivate informers or due to sheer negligence, or both.  The frequent transfers of police officers at all levels, just as they are about to get a grip on their jurisdiction is also to blame. Though several commissions and court orders have recommended a fixed tenure for senior police officers, this is followed more in the breach in most states, including Karnataka, where police officers are at the mercy of the whims of their political masters. The reluctance of political parties to implement long-pending police reforms has only aggravated the problem. Riots can alter the entire course of one’s life. While the architects of the trouble may escape unpunished and the other players, if convicted, may serve their sentence and walk free one day, life will never be the same for the victims who have lost their relatives or property. For them, the scars will remain forever. (The writer is senior journalist and political commentator based in Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/anatomy-of-a-riot-879001.html
28-08-2020||Opinion||Decoding the politics of populistainment||In the wake of the financial crisis of 2007-08, global politics underwent a slow but significant change. Widespread distrust for the so-called elites, who had ridden the wave of the crisis even as ordinary citizens largely floundered under it, can be said to have precipitated a new political era – the rise of present day populism. This era based itself on the emergence of politicians who sought to “connect” directly with the masses, revive an atavistic nationalism, and keep the news turnstiles spinning through their polarising actions and comments. Over the next decade or so, populist regimes came to power across the globe, validating the success of a brand of politics that prioritises excitement over engagement, drama over debate, and spectacle over substance.  In this context, populistaiment as described by the Polish historians/journalists, Karolina Wigura and Jarosław Kuisz, – the integration of entertainment techniques within mainstream politics with the primary aim of attracting eyeballs – has come to acquire increased relevance, not just as an intriguing concept, but as an everyday phenomenon. Entertainment, in its conventional sense of amusing the masses, has generally been an inseparable part of politics, and not even brutally dictatorial regimes of the likes of Adolf Hitler and Joseph Stalin ever considered dispensing with it as part of their socio-cultural apparatus.  Towards the end of the twentieth century, politicians personally embraced the occasional entertaining indulgence, such as former American president Bill Clinton playing the saxophone or his one-time Polish counterpart Aleksander Kwaśniewski including disco songs in his campaigns, or the ex-prime minister of Italy, Silvio Berlusconi, glamourising politics with his show-business gimmicks. But back then, unlike now, entertainment was always a supplement to politics, and never its source. Today, populistainment has become central to the ethos of many incumbent regimes, as conventional political ideology and wisdom are sacrificed at the grandiloquent altar of the spectacle, which guarantees public attention by channelling both admiration and indignation. Modi’s application of populistainment Each element of Modi’s behaviour in Ayodhya was calibrated to optimise the reaction of the millions watching along. Irrespective of whether people expressed awe and satisfaction at seeing the prime minister exulting in performative Hinduism or vented their outrage at the blatant surrender of India’s secular legacy as a republic, one thing was guaranteed – the headlines were all about Modi and Ayodhya. The Bhoomi Pujan had become an unmissable spectacle. This on a day when Kashmir had completed one year since the sudden abrogation of Article 370 by the Modi government in 2019.  Owing to Modi’s populistainment, however, large sections of mainstream media conveniently forgot about the Valley and its myriad problems on August 5, instead pouring all their time and energy in covering every aspect of the foundation of the Ram Mandir. Such was the all-encompassing ambience generated by Modi’s Ayodhya spectacle that most outlets overlooked the fact that the Supreme Court had, in its decisive verdict of November 2019, mentioned the act of demolition of the Babri Masjid as unlawful. Therefore, the commemoration and celebration of a long-term aspiration of the BJP and the RSS came at the cost of forgetting the destruction of a structure that had stood for centuries and belonged to the Muslims. But such is the pull and awe of populistainment that it makes the obvious, obsolete. The tremendous appeal of populistainment lies in its insidious ability to manage public dialogue, to shift the larger discussion to subjects that interest the frameworks of the populists.  To debate whether Modi had betrayed the spirit of the Constitution by presiding over the Bhoomi pujan in Ayodhya is not too different from questioning the need for President Donald Trump – another master populist – to pose with the Bible at the height of protests surrounding the Black Lives Matter movement in America. Technically, neither act can be labelled as wrong; but in spirit, both devalue and degrade the position of the actor concerned. Most importantly, though, both acts serve to sway the spotlight upon themselves, detracting from more urgent issues in the process – economy, jobs, communal violence, and pandemic mitigation in India, and racial justice in America. Populistainment around the globe The two leaders in charge of the world’s largest and oldest democracies are far from the only ones openly wielding the tool of populistainment. Over in Poland, newly re-elected president Andrzej Duda is an expert at inviting the public gaze upon himself, be it through his ridiculous rap that outlined his country’s medical challenges in the face of the pandemic or his provocative comments against the LGBTQ community, which follow the now predictable but rarely preventable trajectory of stoking public rage before issuing anodyne statements of apology. In the United Kingdom, Boris Johnson has done everything from driving buses to hiding in a refrigerator to unleashing push-ups in the middle of an interview, all to manufacture a scene and a narrative that function as smokescreens for his administrative deficiencies. Perhaps all these populist men have learnt their fair share from the original populistainer, Russia’s Vladimir Putin, who has, over the last two decades, never ceased to mesmerise his compatriots with his eclectic range of activities – everything from flying a bomber to operating a hunting rifle (bare-chested), from playing ice hockey to deep-sea diving to riding a Harley Davidson and a horse (again, bare-chested), and much more. Julia Ioffe, a senior American-Russian journalist, has decoded the importance behind Putin’s grand exhibitions: “They are a symbol of virility. Most Russian men do not live beyond 60 years of age”. Putin, 67, manages his public displays as opportunities to push domestic tensions to the background, allowing an entire country (obligingly or otherwise) to partake in his presentation of himself through all the vainglorious devices available in entertainment. Recalibrating the political will In order to combat populistainment, society needs to be far more aware of how populists attempt to sidetrack conversation, steering it away from seminal issues pertaining to every citizen towards set-pieces of political theatre.  The aim of the populists is to occupy the media space, circumvent truth and effective scrutiny, and above all, entrench the impression that they are figures of exceptional attraction, politicians with immense saleability and star power.  Bursting the dexterously calibrated bubbles of populistainment demands a recalibration of the political will, a collective focus upon the relatively mundane but far more necessary topics that affect our lives, alongside the creation of distinct boundaries between entertainment and politics in assessing the moves of the populists.  Such a recalibration is born out of the golden rule that populistainment would like to obliterate with its bespoke exercises in smoke and mirrors – the idea that public interest in politics lies in being empowered, not entertained. (Priyam Marik is a freelance journalist writing on politics, culture, and sport) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/decoding-the-politics-of-populistainment-879144.html
28-08-2020||Panorama||Monopolies: Choosing between economies of scale and ‘too big to fail’||Following the recent US Congressional hearing, the need for breaking up giant internet firms like Microsoft, Google, Facebook and Amazon is being debated in the media. However, this debate on small versus large firms is not really new and we need to understand it in the larger context.   The word ‘monopoly’ or a big firm exercising ‘monopoly power’ instinctively arouses a sense of popular resentment as it is considered an unmitigated evil. In the language of economics, a monopolist restricts output and charges a price higher than what it would have been under perfect competition, thereby fleecing customers. Consequently, in almost all countries in the world, there are anti-monopoly laws and Competition Commissions to ensure that business firms do not become too big (by mergers/acquisitions or by organic growth) and are not engaged in anti-competition practices.   However, in economics textbooks, some redeeming features of a monopolist are also mentioned. For example, if there are significant technological economies of scale (where bigger firms will be able to produce at lower cost) like in public utility companies (electricity, gas, landline telephone), governments in most countries bestow exclusive monopoly right to one or two companies to serve the entire market. Usually, the firm selected by the government is chosen on the basis of open competitive tender and regulatory restrictions are put on the price that the selected firm(s) can charge. Also, firms (especially in IT and pharmaceuticals) are given the incentive to spend large sums on innovating new products as the temporary monopoly power, provided by patents and copyright, enables them to recoup the big costs of R&D. This way, society gets the benefit of new technological breakthroughs and cost-saving through economies of scale. Further, a monopolist (single seller of a product or service to the entire market) or a few sellers selling similar products (called ‘oligopoly’, as in car manufacturing) earn more profits, compared to a large number of small firms under perfect competition. These ‘monopoly’ or ‘oligopoly’ profits can be used to spend on R&D activities which small firms are not able to do. Apart from theory, historically, in consumer goods like textiles, clothing, footwear, toys, television sets, cars, mobile phones and heavy machinery, big-sized Japanese, Korean and Chinese firms, helped by State subsidies in various forms and initial ‘infant industry protection’, have fostered innovation, cut costs, made technological improvements and lowered prices in both domestic and foreign markets. Big firms have also diffused superior technology in different parts of the world by opening factories and licensing proprietary knowledge. Irrespective of unfair trade practices, early mover IT and telecom firms derive advantages through what is called the ‘network effect.’ This refers to the fact that the value of the product or the service provided by a firm increases as more people join the network. Growth begets more growth. On the other hand, the late entrants have the advantage over the first movers (‘leapfrogging effect’) in that they can enter the market with more advanced, cost-efficient technologies from the beginning and do not suffer from the legacy costs of the early entrants (Ex: Tesla with electric cars, newer airlines with more fuel-efficient fleets of planes). Giant firms, especially in banking, insurance and telecom sectors, create another problem called ‘too big to fail’. Even if inefficient and loss-making, such big firms cannot be allowed by the government to fail and go out of business as it would have large negative effects on the working of the entire economic system. Governments are then forced to bail them out with public funds. Such cases became particularly manifest in the global financial crisis of 2007-8. This provides another argument against firms becoming ‘too big.’ At the same time, we should remember that in the days of ‘industrial licensing’, even efficient firms were not allowed to grow. This resulted in assured market shares for all existing firms (efficient or inefficient), with no incentive to cut costs or improve quality.  To sum up, small is not necessarily beautiful and large is not necessarily ugly. There are both positives and negatives of big firms. However, irrespective of the size of firms, we have a case for regulating unfair business practices like restricting entry of new firms, buying up existing and potential competitors to neutralise them, collusion in price-setting, unauthorised use of customer data, patenting trivial technological improvements, bundling of products, services and software to prevent customers from buying a cheaper component of the bundle from a competitor (a charge against Microsoft), and predatory pricing when a firm with deep pockets drives out competitors by keeping prices artificially low for some time and then overcharging the consumers (as being alleged against Jio by some telecom competitors), stopping servicing of old products/versions (of software) to force consumers to buy the new product/ version. For well-functioning markets, we need knowledgeable and independent (of both government and business lobbies) regulators to quickly detect unfair practices and correct them by penalising the violators. However, it is easier said than done. In India, most of the market regulators are chosen from among retired bureaucrats. Their appointments and re-appointments are in the hands of the government and, in some cases, parliamentary committees. This makes it difficult for many regulators (of course, with notable exceptions) to function independently of the government, the political parties or the business lobbies (which influence politicians through large donations to political parties). Here, the bigger firms, because of their deeper pockets, have a natural advantage over smaller ones in influencing regulators. But the mere existence of this potential does not make all big firms guilty. (The writer is a former Professor of Economics, IIM-Calcutta and Cornell University, USA)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/monopolies-choosing-between-economies-of-scale-and-too-big-to-fail-879002.html
28-08-2020||Panorama||The status of Urdu in a Hindu Rashtra||The New Education Policy 2020, first excluded Urdu and then reincluded it under pressure. Alas, a fabulous language has become a ‘political shuttlecock.’ If Sanskrit is already a functionally dead language, Urdu is a culturally moribund tongue in a rabidly Hindu-ized India. Such a beautiful tongue is being expunged slowly and systematically. Less than a year ago, Punjab University almost removed Urdu from its PG level and then reincluded it under pressure. Now, it’s being suggested that Urdu script, which is based on Persian, should be done away with to make it (Urdu) on an even keel with Hindi which is based on Devanagari script. How can we rob Urdu of its rasmul-khat (script)? The script is exclusive to a tongue and provides a linguistic rampart to it. If Urdu loses its script, how will it retain its identity? It’s worthwhile to mention that in Poona, I used to teach Urdu to those who were interested in learning it along with its cursive script. Then I got a warning from a politico-religious outfit to stop my classes or else I would be eliminated. This new India has no place for Urdu. You may have noticed that the CM of UP Yogi Adityanath speaks without using a single Urdu word. Many ministers of this government are enthusiastically emulating Yogi. Dove-tailing a language with a community, cultural group or ethnicity is an erroneous belief. But can the present political dispensation be fully blamed for the decline Urdu? Even before, 2014, Hindi film posters stopped showing the names of the films in Urdu. Till 1995, all cinema posters would show the name of the Hindi films in English, Hindi and Urdu. But the scenario began to change after that. Urdu never got proper political patronage and its status remains equivocal and ambiguous. The unfortunate tag of a Muslim language has further alienated it. How can a language be Hindu or Muslim? A language is much greater than a religion and is far removed from ethnic ramifications. The Palestine conflict in the Gaza belt has witnessed that Muslims and Jews, baying for each other’s blood, speak immaculate Arabic and Hebrew as both are Semitic tongues and originated from a common root of Yiddish and Ladino. Can you hate Sampooran Singh Kalra ‘Gulzar’ because he writes in Urdu and can’t even write his name in Devanagari script? Will you stop liking Pandit Jagannath Azad, Pandit Brij Narayan ‘Chakbast’, Justice Anand Narayan Mullah, Naubatrai Nazar, Dayashankar Naseem, Raghupati Sahay ‘Firaq’ Gorakhpuri or Munshi Premchand, to name but a few for writing in Urdu? The great critic, Dr Gopichand Narang (again a Hindu!), calls Urdu, the language of the sub-continent and the supreme form of Hindi. Though one may object as Urdu being the supreme form of Hindi is a subjective opinion, there’s no gainsaying the fact that a proliferation of Urdu words in our everyday lingo is hardly frowned upon even by rabid Hindus. Words like dil, dehaat, zukaam, deemak, badan, raah, khoobsoorat etc are all Persio-Arabic words as Urdu is an amalgam of Persian-Arabic, Turkish, Khari Boli Hindi, Purbi and Braj. All Indian languages have words and roots from Persian and Arabic. Marathi has thirty-eight thousand words that are of Persian origin. Even all four southern languages viz, Tamil, Telugu, Kannada and Malayalam have words from Persian and Arabic roots. Philologist A K Ramanujan, literary giant U R Ananthmurthy and Kannada polymath Kuvempu accepted the fact that Persio-Arabic linguistic influences on sub-continental tongues can never be denied or diminished. French emperor Napoleon Bonaparte was wholeheartedly accepted by the French people as though he was actually an Italian and spoke Italian better than French! His birthplace, Corsica in the Mediterranean, was captured and colonized by the French army when he was born there in 1769 and throughout his life, he spoke better Italian than French. The point is--Urdu or for that matter, any language is above religio-cultural bindings. To encapsulate, Urdu’s ethos are sub-continental, if not universal. But its appeal is indeed universal. Finally, can you dislike ghazals which are laden with Urdu words? So, appreciate Urdu and let it survive and thrive. Don’t be so myopic as to kill a beautiful tongue. (The writer is a scholar of Sanskrit and Semitic languages, civilizations and literature)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-status-of-urdu-in-a-hindu-rashtra-879004.html
28-08-2020||Second Edit||An intensifying China-Pak axis||‘Iron brothers’ China and Pakistan are planning to strengthen their already robust defence relationship by setting up a Joint Military Commission (JMC). This was reportedly discussed by Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi and his Pakistani counterpart Shah Mahmood Qureshi during the second Sino-Pakistan strategic dialogue at Hainan in China recently. A mechanism that will pave way for greater operational coordination between their militaries, the JMC, should it materialise, will have great implications for India’s security. In the event of an armed conflict with Pakistan or China, India has always anticipated a two-front war, but hitherto in India-Pakistan wars, China has refrained from actively joining the fighting on Pakistan’s side although it did indulge in threatening military manoeuvres to pressure India and keep a part of its forces tied down along the Sino-Indian border. A future war between India and Pakistan/China could see greater co-ordination, even active participation of both countries, against India. It is in this context that their plans for a JMC must be seen, especially with a Sino-Indian military conflict a growing possibility. It is said that the Chinese and Pakistani militaries have been discussing the setting up of the JMC for over a year now. Will President Xi Jinping and Prime Minister Imran Khan seal a deal on it when they meet in the coming months? China supplies Pakistan with nuclear and missile technology, even fully built missiles, and increasingly much of its conventional weapons systems. China is now boosting Pakistan’s naval muscle with four Type 054A/P guided missile frigates, said to be the most advanced weapons platforms China has ever supplied to another country. It signals the importance China accords Pakistan in its warfighting strategy against India. The Indian Ocean will be an important arena in any future conflict involving China, and India holds the advantage here. However, China has been working assiduously to improve its naval capabilities for force projection here. Its sale of advanced frigates to Pakistan will enhance this capacity. Kashmir figured in the talks between Wang and Qureshi and India has objected to their joint statement’s reference to Kashmir. They are likely to have discussed the tense standoff between India and China along their disputed border. Pakistan and China share a growing mutuality of interests against India. At Hainan, China described Pakistan as its “staunchest partner” and the two sides pledged to “collectively take measures to safeguard their common interests.” India cannot dismiss these words as effusive rhetoric that is routinely articulated at China-Pakistan meetings. It must prepare for greater coordination and cooperation between the two countries in any possible military action against India henceforth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/an-intensifying-china-pak-axis-878997.html
28-08-2020||South||Centre's options on GST shortfall 'unacceptable': Kerala FM||The Kerala government on Thursday termed as "unacceptable" the two options placed before the GST Council by the Centre for borrowing by states to meet the shortfall in tax revenues. Opposing the options for the Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation proposed by the Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Kerala Finance Minister T M Thomas Isaac said in both options the states will have to sacrifice a part of the compensation. He made it clear that full compensation was a constitutional right of the states. "Full compensation is constitutional right of states. Unacceptable.#GSTCouncilMeet," Isaac said in a tweet on Thursday night. Earlier in the day, the Centre placed before the GST Council two options for borrowing by states to meet the shortfall in GST revenues, pegged at Rs 2.35 lakh crore in the current fiscal. Briefing reporters after the 41st meeting of the GST Council, Sitharaman said in New Delhi that the economy is facing an extraordinary 'Act of God' situation, which may result in economic contraction. As per the Centre's calculation, the compensation requirement by the states in the current fiscal would be Rs three lakh crore, of which Rs 65,000 crore is expected to be met from the cess levied in the GST regime. Hence, the total shortfall is estimated at Rs 2.35 lakh crore. Revenue Secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey said of this, Rs 97,000 crore is on account of GST shortfall, while the rest is due to the impact of Covid-19 on the economy. Pandey said a special window can be provided to the states, in consultation with the RBI, at a reasonable interest rate for borrowing of Rs 97,000 crore. The amount can be repaid after five years (of GST implementation) ending 2022 from cess collection. The second option before the states is to borrow the entire Rs 2.35 lakh crore shortfall under the special window. "States have been given seven days' time to think over the proposal," Pandey said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/centres-options-on-gst-shortfall-unacceptable-kerala-fm-878852.html
28-08-2020||South||Defence ministry to host Aero-India in Bengaluru from February 3 to 5||The defence ministry has decided to host the next edition of Aero India -- considered Asia's largest aerospace exhibition -- in Bengaluru in February, notwithstanding the coronavirus pandemic, officials sources said on Friday. The ministry took the decision to hold the biennial event as scheduled following inputs from major stakeholders including the domestic defence industry and global aerospace majors, they said. The sources said the main event will be held from February 3-5 while the exhibition will be thrown open for general public on February 6 and 7. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh has already held a number of internal meetings including one on Friday on hosting of the mega event in its traditional venue of Yelahanka Air Force station on the outskirts of Bengaluru. "It was decided that the event will be hosted while taking maximum precaution against the coronavirus pandemic," said a source. Since its inception in 1996, Bengaluru has been hosting the event. In the event, the government will showcase India as an attractive destination for investment in the defence manufacturing sector besides highlighting series of initiatives it has taken to promote the domestic industry, the sources said. A number of global defence majors and big investors are expected to participate in the event besides official delegations from several countries, they said. Several leading aerospace companies have already offered to set up manufacturing bases in India provided they get big-ticket contracts. US aerospace giant Lockheed Martin has already said that it will not sell its newly rolled out F-21 fighter jet to any other country if India places an order for 114 planes. Another aviation major Boeing too has announced that it is ready to set up manufacturing facilities for its F/A-18 Super Hornet aircraft if it bags the IAF contract. It will be the first major global defence event in India after the country unveiled a series of measures like pruning of the import list of weapons systems and increasing the FDI limit from 49 per cent to 74 per cent in defence sector under the automatic route. The government is also taking steps to implement an ambitious policy under which select private firms were to be roped in to produce key military platforms like submarines and fighter jets in India in partnership with global defence majors. On August 9, the defence minister announced that India will stop import of 101 weapons and military platforms like transport aircraft, light combat helicopters, conventional submarines, cruise missiles and sonar systems by 2024. In a related development, the DRDO on Monday identified 108 military systems and subsystems like navigation radars, tank transporters and missile canisters for the domestic industry to design, develop and manufacture. The premier organisation said it will also provide support to industries for design, development and testing of these systems on a requirement basis. It has set a target of next year in developing the 108 systems and subsystems. India is one the largest importers of arms globally. According to estimates, the Indian armed forces are projected to spend around USD 130 billion in capital procurement in the next five years. However, the government now wants to reduce dependence on imported military platforms and decided to support the domestic defence manufacturing. The defence ministry has already set a goal of a turnover of USD 25 billion (Rs 1.75 lakh crore) in defence manufacturing in the next five years that included an export target of USD 5 billion (Rs 35,000 crore) worth of military hardware.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/defence-ministry-to-host-aero-india-in-bengaluru-from-february-3-to-5-879094.html
28-08-2020||South||Tharoor a 'guest artist' in Congress, says KPCC working president||The resentment among Congress leaders in Kerala against the international diplomat turned politician Shashi Tharoor is once again coming to the fore as many leaders were targeting his international stature while attacking him for being part of the 23 who sent dissent letter against party high command Sonia Gandhi. After Kerala PCC president Mullappally Ramachandran warned Tharoor against defying party discipline by engaging in public discourse on party issues, other senior leaders are also attacking Tharoor openly. Though another senior Congress leader from Kerala P J Kurian was also among the 23 members, party leaders in Kerala were only targeting Tharoor. Lok Sabha MP Kodikunnil Suresh said on Friday that Tharoor lacked the maturity of a politician and he was just a guest artist in the party. "Let him he a global citizen, but after being in Congress he should work according to party norms. He entered Congress as a guest artist and he was continuing to be like that. He lacked the maturity of a politician and hence was not working by following the party norms," he said. Another Congress MP from Kerala K Muraleedharan also gibed that he was just an ordinary citizen and hence he could not demanding action against a global citizen like Tharoor. The Kerala PCC president had also flayed that the Tharoor, who is the MP of Thiruvananthapuram, was not seen in Thiruvanathapuram after Covid-19 and he was mostly in Delhi. The fresh attack on Tharoor came close on the heels of Tharoor openly backing the centre's decision to lease out Thiruvananthapuram airport development and management to a private party, while the Congress in Kerala was strongly opposing it.  The friction between Tharoor and the Congress leaders in Kerala has been there for quite some time. Many Congress leaders in Kerala seemed to be quite concerned that Tharoor might emerge as a stronger national leader of the party owing to his international profile. During the recent Lok Sabha election campaign also there were allegations that many Congress leaders were not giving enough support in the campaign.  However, Tharoor managed to win for the third time in a row. Meanwhile, a section of Congress leaders including young MLA K S Sabarinadhan have backed Tharoor. He said in a social media post that it was because Tharoor was a global citizen that he could make use of his contacts for initiating novel steps for Thiruvananthapuram during the time of Covid-19. He also said that it was through Tharoor that the society, especially the youngsters, was getting a clear view of many key issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tharoor-a-guest-artist-in-congress-says-kpcc-working-president-879166.html
28-08-2020||South||Fish farming on luxury pools, houseboats: Kerala tourism sector innovates new ways to sustain||Like the popular saying, necessity is the mother of inventions, the tourism entrepreneurs in Kerala, who are neck-deep in trouble as Covid-19 hit their businesses, are now coming up with fresh inventions of fish farming in swimming pools to vegetable cultivation on houseboats. The Kerala Government has estimated that the state tourism industry suffered a loss of Rs. 25,000 crore and the state government also announced support of Rs. 455 crore. While a luxury resort at Kumarakom, a well-known backwater tourism spot at Kottayam in Kerala, converted their infinity pool to a fish farm, a luxury houseboat operator at Alappuzha converted the pool in their houseboat to a fish farm. Another houseboat operator is growing vegetables on houseboats using grow bags. Toby Pulickattil, managing director of Pulickattil houseboats at Alappuzha said that even as the fish farming would not yield much revenue to meet the salary expenses of workers, it was made as a trial. Now we are exploring the scope of developing it into a farm tourism project in future. At present a 6,000-litre mini pool on one of the houseboats was converted into fish farm 350 fingerlings of 'Tilapia' were deposited. At least three to five persons are directly employed in each houseboat and Alappuzha and Kumarakom regional have hundreds of houseboats. The industry was facing cancellation from January and from March onward almost all boats were remaining anchored. Now the boats would have to be overhauled before resuming operation. The only ray of hope is expectations of a business boom after the pandemic is over. Aveda Resorts at Kumarakom that converted the 25 lakh litre infinity pool to a fish farm also has plans to continue fish farming in a small pond in the resort once the tourism sector revived. Now about 16,000 fingerlings of Pearl spot ('Karimeen') were deposited in the pool and it is expected to be harvested by November-December. Talks were also initiated with some exporters for selling the fish, said Aveda Resorts general manager Jyotish Surendran. He also said that though it was initiated as a step to keep the workers engaged, now there were planning a live fish farm in a pond in the resort, which could be an added attraction. Industry sources said that many luxury hotels and resorts were trying to sustain by offering Covid-19 quarantine facilities. But the rates were very low and the occupancy was less than 25 per cent. Hence it was also not viable. Kerala Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran recently said that apart from an estimated loss of Rs. 25,000 crore, Covid-19 had also made thousands of workers in the tourism sector jobless. The government announced Rs. 455 crore revival package. It involved up to Rs. 25 lakh financial assistance with subsidised interest. Kerala tourism was literally struggling over the last few years with NIPAH outbreak and natural calamities. It was at a time when the tourism sector was gripping back to viability that COVID severed another shocker of a greater impact. During 2019 total tourist arrival to Kerala was 1.96 crore, which was 17 per cent higher than 2018, and earnings of Rs. 45,000 crore, which was also 24 per cent higher.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/fish-farming-on-luxury-pools-houseboats-kerala-tourism-sector-innovates-new-ways-to-sustain-879172.html
28-08-2020||South||Alliance will be decided only during polls: TN CM Edappadi K Palaniswami||AIADMK will continue to lead the alliance in the 2021 assembly elections too like it did during the last year’s Lok Sabha polls, Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said on Friday. His statement is seen as a direct response to remarks by BJP vice-president V P Duraisamy who had said that the saffron party would lead the alliance for the 2021 polls. “It is the AIADMK that has always led the alliance from the times of M G Ramachandran and J Jayalalithaa. That trend will continue and AIADMK will lead the alliance. This was the arrangement during 2019 Lok Sabha polls too,” Palaniswami told reporters in Thanjavur on Friday evening. In the morning, he had said there was still time to talk about alliances as elections are eight months away. Speaking to reporters after reviewing measures to tackle the coronavirus pandemic in the district, the Chief Minister said the parties that constitute the alliance have not been firmed up yet, be it in the AIADMK or the DMK camp. "Hence, only during the run-up to the elections, alliances will be decided," he said. BJP state vice-president V P Duraisamy, who recently joined the party from the DMK, on August 12 had claimed the saffron party's growth has altered the political landscape in the state. The assembly elections due next year would, hence, be a fight between the BJP and DMK, under a "BJP-led alliance," he had said. According to him, being a national party, the BJP had the right to lead the alliance in assembly polls. Making light of Duraisamy's claim, the AIADMK had said such views, if aired by the BJP's state unit president L Murugan, would have weight. The BJP had contested the 2019 Lok Sabha elections in Tamil Nadu as part of the AIADMK-led alliance which among others included the PMK and the DMDK.    (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/alliance-will-be-decided-only-during-polls-tn-cm-edappadi-k-palaniswami-879189.html
28-08-2020||South||K Annamalai and four BJP leaders booked for violating lockdown rules||Annamalai was given a warm welcome by the BJP cadre in Coimbatore on Thursday afternoon following his first visit to the industrial town after joining the saffron party. The former IPS officer visited the BJP office where he addressed a press conference, besides meeting party workers violating the lockdown rules. Besides Annamalai, Tamil Nadu BJP treasurer SR Sekhar, vice-president Kanagasabapathy, general secretary G K Selvakumar and Coimbatore district BJP chief Nandakumar have also been booked by the police in Kaatoor in Coimbatore. More than 50 persons had assembled at the party office to welcome Annamalai on Thursday. Police said the event at the BJP office violated the lockdown rules and hence the five have been booked under sections IPC 143 (Punishment for whoever is a member of an unlawful assembly), 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint, Sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 285 (Negligent conduct with respect to fire or combustible matter). They were also booked under section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. Annamalai, a 2011-batch Karnataka cadre IPS officer, resigned from his service in 2019 and joined the BJP on August 25. He is likely to contest the assembly elections in Tamil Nadu due next year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/k-annamalai-and-four-bjp-leaders-booked-for-violating-lockdown-rules-879199.html
28-08-2020||South||AITUC seeks Hardeep Singh Puri's intervention to save jobs of 2,500 workers at Chennai Airport||The All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) on Friday sought the intervention of Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri to protect the jobs of 2,500 workers employed with ground and cargo handling agency BILL at Chennai Airport. There are fears that the workers of Bhadra International India Ltd (BILL) at the airport may lose job after the ground and cargo handling work is given to some other contractor or firm. "The Airports Authority of India (AAI) being their Principal Employer, I urge upon you to appropriately mandate absorption of all the workers in their respective scale of employment and wages by either the AAI CLAS (Cargo Logistics and Allied Services Company Ltd) or any other contractor who may be licensed to carry out the Cargo and ground handling services at Chennai Airport," AITUC General Secretary Amarjeet Kaur said in a letter to the Minister on Friday. AITUC appealed to the Minister to intervene at the earliest so as to save the job of workers. "Even if one worker is rendered jobless then it questions the veracity and meaning of the laws ensuring job security. Please consider our appeal in the right earnest and do all that is required to ensure the protection of job and wages with continuity in the services of all the 2,500 workers presently employed with BILL," the letter added. While the formation of AAI CLAS as a subsidiary of AAI to carry out cargo and allied services is a welcome move, the consequential impact should be positive and provide more success and welfare to the workers in that sector, it stated. Majority of the 2,500 workers have been working at the airport through various contractors engaged by AAI. "They are skilled and acclimatized with the state of the art technology that operates in Chennai Airport. They are human assets to carry forward at a time when the industry is getting out of the impact of the lockdown and set to grow manifold in future," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aituc-seeks-hardeep-singh-puris-intervention-to-save-jobs-of-2500-workers-at-chennai-airport-879211.html
28-08-2020||South||Kin of Sterlite police firing victims demand better jobs||Two years after the Tamil Nadu government gave them jobs on compassionate grounds, kin of victims of the police firing during the anti-Sterlite protest are now demanding “better jobs” that suit their education qualification. Kin of the 13 persons who died during the police firing on May 22, 2020, and severely injured persons who were allotted government jobs have now knocked at the doors of the judicial commission headed by Justice (Retd) Aruna Jagadeesan seeking her intervention in getting “better jobs” for them. The family members submitted a representation to the retired judge on Wednesday in Thoothukudi, 635 km from here, demanding a change of jobs based on the educational qualification of the candidates. The kin were appointed as assistant to Village Administrative Officer (VAO) and other positions like a cook in a community or a school kitchen. In their representation, the kin of the victims pointed out that a family member of P Jeyaraj and his son Emmanuel Bennix, who died after being tortured by police during custody in Sathankulam in Thoothukudi district, being awarded a  government job in the rank of a junior assistant. “We have brought to the attention of the retired judge the gross injustice that has been done to us in allotment of jobs. When the sister of the Sathankulam custodial death victim is allotted a job based on her educational qualification, why not family members of those who died in the Sterlite police firing incident? Why are we discriminated against?” asked Vanitha, mother of 17-year-old Snowlin, who died in the firing. Her youngest son has been made assistant to VAO, though she says he is “qualified for a much better position.” Asked why they are demanding job change two years after accepting the orders and joining duty, Vanitha said they were not aware of the rules then. “We have not got justice yet. Even after two years, we are being discriminated against. We want to know why rules are not being followed for us,” she told DH. Jayakumar, whose brother Selvasekar was one of the victims of the police firing, told DH that the government has allotted “menial” jobs for the kin of those who laid their lives for “protecting the people” of Thoothukudi. “My elder sister got the job of assistant to VAO despite her holding a post-graduate degree. Is that fair? Is not the government aware that jobs under compassionate grounds are granted according to the educational qualification?” Jayakumar asked. Jayakumar said Justice Aruna Jagadeesan promised to take their grievances to the government by writing a letter to Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. Government sources told DH that a decision on the demand of the kin of the Sterlite police firing victims will have to be taken at the top level. “Since the demand is for appointing the kin to posts such as junior assistant, the District Collector cannot give orders for appointment of such posts. He is not vested with such powers. The Commission is also of the view that the decision has to come from the top,” a government official said. At least 13 persons were killed when the 100-day long protests against expansion of the Sterlite Copper plant turned violent result in police firing. After the incident, the copper smelter was closed down by the Tamil Nadu government citing violations by the Vedanta-owned group, which appealed against the decision in the National Green Tribunal (NGT). Though the NGT allowed reopening of the plant, the Supreme Court struck down the order on the grounds of maintainability after which the company approached the Madras High Court. The court had on August 18 upheld the Tamil Nadu government’s order closing down the plant. Sterlite Copper has now approached the Supreme Court against the Madras High Court order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kin-of-sterlite-police-firing-victims-demand-better-jobs-879212.html
28-08-2020||South||Tirumala Brahmotsavams to be a solitary event this year||The annual Brahmotsavams of Lord Venkateswara, the most prominent event on the Tirumala hill, would be held from 19 to 27 September. The celebration would be sans public participation this time because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The 10-day celestial event attracts lakhs of devotees every year. Because of Adhika-maasam, there would be two Brahmotsavams this year, the second one to be held in October. “We have decided to conduct the Salakatla Brahmotsavams scheduled from September 19 till 27 in ekantham (solitude) within the Srivari temple premises in Tirumala. The Covid-19 situation does not allow for the Lord’s various processions in the four Mada streets,” TTD board chairman YV Subba Reddy said after the trust members’ meeting at the Annamaiah Bhavan in Tirumala on Friday. “Based on the situation in October, an appropriate decision will be taken to conduct the Navaratri Brahmotsavams (with devotee participation),” Reddy said. Barring those present in Tirupati, rest of the members attended the meeting in a virtual format. TTD board for higher returns on deposits   The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams board has also deliberated on altering its funds, gold investment pattern in order to earn more interest to compensate for the revenue loss because of Covid-19 and restricted pilgrim entry. “Plans are afoot to enhance the revenue earned from the gold and cash deposits of TTD (in the banks). Our effort is to get monthly interest credit on all deposits,” Reddy said. The Tirupati temple has about Rs 14,000 crore fixed deposits in the banks, which earns around Rs 700 crore interest annually. It also has a gold reserve of eight-tonne.  Against the about 70,000 pilgrims visiting the temple every day before, only nine thousand Rs 300 online tokens and 3000 free tokens were being issued following the Covid-19 safety guidelines. Reddy said that the issuance of 3000 free darshan tokens would resume at the Bhudevi Complex in Tirupati from August 29. These tokens for the Tirupati locals were halted in view of the high incidence of Covid-19 infections in the town. Venkateshwara temples construction  TTD plans to commence the construction of Lord Venkateshwara temples at Mumbai, Varanasi, Jammu, and Chennai once the Covid-19 situation eases towards normalcy. The board discussed ways to raise funds for the construction locally by involving philanthropists and entrepreneurs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tirumala-brahmotsavams-to-be-a-solitary-event-this-year-879215.html
28-08-2020||South||TN Congress MP Vasanthakumar succumbs to Covid-19||Kanyakumari MP H Vasanthakumar, working president of the Tamil Nadu Congress and a household name in Tamil Nadu as he owned Vasanth and Co, a popular multi-brand electronics and home appliances showroom, died on Friday due to Covid-19. Vasanthakumar, 70, breathed his last at around 6.56 pm at Apollo Hospitals where he was receiving treatment for the novel coronavirus infection since August 10. He is the second elected representative in Tamil Nadu to lose his life due to coronavirus – DMK MLA J Anbazhagan died in June. The Congress leader was first elected to the Tamil Nadu Assembly in 2006 from Nanguneri constituency in Tirunelveli district and was re-elected in 2016. He resigned as an MLA after he was elected to Lok Sabha in 2019, defeating the then Union Minister of State Pon Radhakrishnan by a huge margin of over 2 lakh votes. Early and political life Beginning his career as a salesman in 1970, Vasanthakumar launched the Vasanth and Co in 1978 and became a household name in Tamil Nadu over the years. His showroom has branches across the state and in Bengaluru, and Puducherry. Vasanthakumar belonged to a Congress family and his brother Kumari Ananthan served as the President of the Tamil Nadu Congress when it faced its worst-ever crisis as veteran Congressman G K Moopannar rebelled against P V Narasimha Rao’s decision to ally with the AIADMK in the 1996 assembly and Lok Sabha polls and launched his own outfit. Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, a former BJP leader, is his niece. A true-blue Congressman till his last breath, Vasanthakumar stood behind the party during its tough times and had taken on DMK President M K Stalin during the 2001 Chennai mayoral elections and remained a loyal soldier of the Congress. Vasanthakumar, in his black suit and signature smile, was a regular on cooking shows on Doordarshan’s Chennai channel in the 1990s as his firm, Vasanth and Co, was the main sponsor for many such programs. Condolences pour in Prime Minister Narendra Modi, former Congress President Rahul Gandhi, and the Congress paid rich tributes to Vasanthakumar, hailing his contributions as an elected representative. “Saddened by the demise of Lok Sabha MP Shri H. Vasanthakumar Ji. His strides in business and social service efforts were noteworthy. During my interactions with him, I always saw his passion for Tamil Nadu’s progress. Condolences to his family and supporters. Om Shanti,” Modi tweeted.  Congress said Vasanthakumar will be sorely missed by all members of the Congress party and his followers, while Gandhi said the news of Vasanthakumar’s untimely demise due to Covid-19 has come as a shock.   The news of Kanyakumari MP, Shri H Vasanthakumar’s untimely demise due to Covid-19 has come as a shock. His commitment to the congress ideology of serving the people will remain in our hearts forever.  “His commitment to the Congress ideology of serving the people will remain in our hearts forever,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-congress-mp-vasanthakumar-succumbs-to-covid-19-879216.html
28-08-2020||South||Malayali NRI in trouble for mimicking Kerala politician||A Malayali NRI has landed in a soup after his mimicry skill has been misused by some political parties. Noushad, a native of Malappuram district and working in UAE, had mimicked Indian Union Muslim League leader and Lok Sabha MP P K Kunhalikutty. His mimicked a statement that the IUML had used to make electoral understandings with the BJP and RSS. It has been widely misused by the political rivals of Kunhalikutty, especially since the CPM has often alleged of a Congress-League- BJP nexus in Kerala, popularly referred to as 'CoLeB' nexus. Hence Kunhalikutty decided to approach the police as he felt that using his mimicry is an intentional move. Noushad has tendered an open apology by posting a video on social media. He said that his act may be taken in the spirit of mimicry and if it had hurt anyone, he is sorry for that. "I feel sorry that my statement was also misused politically by vested interest groups," he said in the post. Considering the apology, Kunhalikutty is unlikely to go forward with his complaint, it is learnt.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/malayali-nri-in-trouble-for-mimicking-kerala-politician-879223.html
28-08-2020||South||Anti-Terrorism squad takes over probe into Kerala parlour shootout involving Ravi Pujari||The Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) of the Kerala Police has taken over the investigation into the shootout at a beauty parlour run by controversial actress Leena Mariya Paul here in December 2018, police said here on Friday. The Crime Branch wing of the Kerala police had been probing the case in which gangster Ravi Pujari is a key accused, they said. The ATS is also a separate wing under the Crime Branch headed by senior IPS officer Tomin J Thachankary. The case was handed over to the ATS considering the seriousness of the crime involving a gangster-like Pujari, police sources said. Pujari was interrogated by the state crime branch sleuths in connection with the shootout when he was under the custody of Karnataka police. The incident happened on December 15, 2018, when two unidentified men came on motorcycles and opened fire outside the parlour owned by the actress at Panampilly Nagar here. The Crime Branch had arrested three people soon after the incident. The Crime Branch investigation had revealed that the gang had committed the act to threaten the actress to pay Rs 25 crore demanded by Pujari. Pujari had allegedly called her multiple times seeking the amount before and after the incident. Actress Paul has acted in a Hindi film 'Madras Cafe', Tamil movie 'Biriyani' and Malayalam films 'Husbands in Goa' and 'Red Chillies'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/anti-terrorism-squad-takes-over-probe-into-kerala-parlour-shootout-involving-ravi-pujari-879237.html
28-08-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh CM Jaganmohan Reddy lays the foundation for Vedadri lift irrigation project||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy laid the foundation for the YSR Vedadri lift irrigation project on Friday. The Rs 490 crore project, to be completed by February 2021, would provide irrigation water to 38,627 acres in Nandigama, Jaggayaapet, Vatsavai and Penuganchiprolu areas of the Krishna district. The Chief Minister said that drinking water would also be supplied to 30 villages and the Jaggayyapeta Municipality through the branch canal of the project. “Our government has set a target of supplying 2.7 TMC of water to this area, spending Rs 490 crore on the project. We are determined to complete the project on time,” Reddy said while laying the foundation stone virtually from his office in Tadepalli. Though the site of the project to utilize the River Krishna waters is close to the government setup in Amaravati, Reddy said the previous government unheeded the necessity of the project. In a review meeting on animal husbandry and fisheries sectors on Thursday, Reddy said that aqua farmers should get the Minimum Support Price and that basic infrastructure like cold storage facilities should be provided while facilitating pre-primary and secondary processing of the aqua products. The CM instructed that by next year, aqua farmers and their products should be linked to the Janata Bazaars, for them to get a remunerative price.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-cm-jaganmohan-reddy-lays-the-foundation-for-vedadri-lift-irrigation-project-879245.html
28-08-2020||South||Kerala reports single day high of 2,543 Covid-19 cases; Tally rises to 69,303||Kerala on Friday reported record single-day high of 2,543 Covid-19 cases, including 52 health workers, taking the infection count to 69,303. The death toll rose to 274 with seven more fatalities, Health Minister K K Shailaja said. In a positive development, the state reported the highest numbers of recoveries in a day with 2,097 people being discharged from various hospitals as the cumulative of those cured rose to 45,858. The active cases stood at 23,111. Of the fresh cases, as many as 75 had returned from abroad while 156 came from other states. The source of infection of 229 was yet to be identified, she said in a release. Among the seven deaths, five were aged 70 and above while the other two were 69 and 54. At least 52 health workers were among those who contracted the virus on Friday, the minister said. Thiruvananthapuram accounted for the maximum of the day's cases at 532 followed by Malappuram (298), Alappuzha (286), Ernakulam (207) among the districts that clocked higher cases. Hilly districts of Idukki and Wayanad reported the lowest number of cases at 49 and 19 respectively. "At least 1,94,431 people are under observation in the state out of which 19,125 are in isolation wards of various hospitals. Currently, 23,111 are under treatment in the state and 45,858 have been cured till now," Minister said. The state has increased the testing with at least 41,860 samples being tested in the last 24 hours. The total number of hotspots stood at 599 after addition of 30 places and removal of 34 areas from the category on Friday. Meanwhile, the state police registered 2,363 cases for violating Covid-19 health protocol and arrested 1,154 people during the day. The state capital currently has 5,490 Covid-19 patients, the highest in the state, followed by Malappuram with 2,880 and Alappuzha with 2,243 cases. Ernakulam has 2,078 patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-reports-single-day-high-of-2543-covid-19-cases-tally-rises-to-69303-879247.html
28-08-2020||South||Kerala government warns of legal action for alleging CM's involvement in fire||The Kerala government has warned of legal action against the opposition parties for alleging that the recent fire at secretariat was a deliberate one. State law minister A K Balan said that the opposition political party leaders who alleged involvement of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and chief secretary Vishwas Mehta in the fire should tender unconditional apology. Otherwise, the government would consider initiating legal action, he said. He also said that the government would approach the Press Council of India against the media that publish such baseless statements. KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran and Minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan were among those who made such allegations, said the minister. He also added that no files were lost in the fire. The fire that broke out at the general administration department's political section on Tuesday triggered a row as the NIA had recently sought certain details from this section in connection with the probe into the gold smuggling through diplomatic baggage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-government-warns-of-legal-action-for-alleging-cms-involvement-in-fire-879248.html
28-08-2020||South||Narayanasamy condoles death of Congress MP||Chief Minister V Narayanasamy on Friday condoled the death of Congress MP from Kanyakumari in Tamil Nadu H Vasanthakumar following Coronavirus infection. Expressing grief over the death,the Chief Minister said in a condolence message that "In the passing away of Vasanthakumar, the TNCC has lost a great and dedicated leader." Recalling his close association with the late Vasanthakumar,Narayanasamy said he was a hard working entrepreneur who contributed a lot to the Congress. The Chief Minister conveyed his condolences to the bereaved family.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/narayanasamy-condoles-death-of-congress-mp-879294.html
28-08-2020||South||Tension over installation of freedom fighter's statue in Karnataka village||Tension prevailed at a village in Belagavi district bordering Maharashtra on Friday, with a section of people objecting to installation of a statue of an 18th-century warrior and freedom fighter Sangolli Rayanna. Police resorted to lathi-charge to bring the situation under control. According to official sources, some admirers of Rayanna installed his statue at a road junction in Peeranwadi during the intervening night of Thursday and Friday. A section of others raised objections as the news spread, leading to tension in the area. Those objecting, largely Marathi speaking, are opposed to the location where they want to install a statue of Maratha ruler Shivaji, after whom the circle is named. They also have apprehensions that its name too may be changed in future. Realising that the situation was turning tense with some skirmish breaking out, police used batons to disperse the gathered crowd. According to officials, they also tried to calm the protesters stating that the statue has been installed without requisite permission and the issue can be dealt with legally. An FIR has been booked in this regard and action will be taken, they said. Additional forces have been called in to avoid the situation spiralling out of control. Reacting to the incident, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa in Bengaluru said he has spoken to Belagavi Deputy Commissioner and other officials and has given them necessary instructions. "I have told officials that without differentiating between Kannadigas and Marathi people, the situation should be handled delicately and issues should be resolved... everything is peaceful now, everyone is cooperating. I thank the people for this.. everything will be resolved," he told reporters. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said police have taken stringent measures to control the situation and that he has spoken to Belagavi Police Commissioner and IG, also ADGP Law and Order is visiting the area. Later in a tweet, Bommai said, "the state government is in favour of Kannadigas and was committed to protecting their interest. I have asked ADGP (L&O) to look into the FIR lodged by the police at Peeranwadi. He is already at the spot and I have instructed him to hold a peace meet and resolve the issue in a cordial manner." ADGP (L&O) Amar Kumar Pandey, who visited the spot said efforts are on to find a peaceful solution. "The situation developed in the morning has been attended by the city (Belagavi) police.... three cases have been registered and investigation will follow," he added. On August 15, police thwarted attempts to install Rayanna's statue there, citing the absence of permission from the authorities for the same, and also Supreme Court directions against such moves near highways. This had led to protests in different parts of Karnataka by pro-Kannada organisations, especially in Belagavi, which has a sizeable Marathi-speaking population. District in-charge Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi had said on Thursday a decision to install the statue will be taken on August 29 within legal parameters and as per the guidelines of Apex Court. Leader of Opposition and former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah said he has spoken to Belagavi District in-charge Minister, Deputy Commissioner and Police Commissioner, and asked them to deal with the situation carefully. Alleging that the government by neglecting the Sangolli Rayanna statue issue has allowed it to become controversial, in a statement he said there can be no compromise on the issue of state's land, water, language and people who are its pride. "I also appeal to Kannada organisations and admirers of Rayanna to be patient and cooperate in resolving the issue," he added. JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy hit out at a section of Marathi people for protesting against the statue of Rayanna and said there is no need for anyone else's approval for installing the statue of a great freedom fighter. In a series of tweets, he said whether it is Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti or Shiv Sena or someone else, if anyone insults Rayanna, the brave son of this land, it is like testing the patience of Kannadigas and warned that they don't tolerate such things. "There can be no compromise on the issue of the state's land, water, language and border..," he added. Meanwhile, the state BJP condemned the act of violence by the workers of Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES) and Shiv Sena at Peeranwadi. Noting that BJP was of the firm view that both Shivaji Maharaj and Sangolli Rayanna can co-exist in Karnataka, party spokesperson Captain Ganesh Karnik in a statement said any opposition to erect the statue of Rayanna was 'meaningless' and 'reprehensible.' "BJP feels that a few vested interests are making desperate attempts to foment trouble in the otherwise peaceful border city of Belagavi. We appeal to the people of Belagavi to respect everybody's sentiments and not to give room for strife and violence," he added. Sangolli Rayanna (1798-1831) was the army chief of the erstwhile Kittur Kingdom ruled by Rani Chennamma and fought against the British who hanged him to death from a Banyan tree near Nandagad in Belagavi district in 1831.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tension-over-installation-of-freedom-fighters-statue-in-karnataka-village-879310.html
28-08-2020||South||Smuggled gold worth Rs 64 lakh seized at Chennai airport, 2 held||Gold concealed in cylindrical form and valued at Rs 64 lakh was seizedat the international airport here and two people arrested in this connection, customs department officials said on Friday. Based on specific inputs, sleuths recovered the gold hidden inside an electric wrench machine found in a carton box brought by a 54-year-old passenger from Sharjah, a press release said. Preliminary enquiry revealed that the box was handed over to the male passenger by an unknown individual in Sharjah and he was instructed to hand it over to a person in Chennai. The officials took the passenger to a spot where the receiver of the consignment was waiting and arrested both, the release added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/smuggled-gold-worth-rs-64-lakh-seized-at-chennai-airport-2-held-879323.html
28-08-2020||South||CPI(M) state secretariat hits out at Union Minister V Muraleedharan||The CPI(M) state secretariat on Friday lashed out Union Minister V Muraleedharan and said the statements of the accused in the gold smuggling case give rise to the suspicion that the minister may be indirectly instructing them. The Left party said the customs questioned "BJP-aligned Janam TV's Coordinating Editor" in the gold smuggling case and it has led to the emergence of "details of serious nature." "Since the role of Janam TV Coordinating Editor Anil Nambiar has also emerged, BJP can't wash their hands off this incident without clarifying their stance on the matter," the party said. The state government has come under attack with the Congress-led UDF and the BJP alleging that the accused in the case had close links with the Chief Minister's office. "The statements of the accused, released by the media, reveal that Nambiar had instructed them to say that the smuggling was not carried out in diplomatic baggage. In fact, Union minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan has insisted since the beginning of this issue that the baggage was not a diplomatic one, the party claimed. "It is to be noted that Muraleedharan has stuck to this stance, despite the Union ministry of home affairs and the NIA making it clear that the baggage was indeed a diplomatic one," the CPI(M) said in a press release. "The statements of the accused that have been released give rise to the suspicion that Muraleedharan may be indirectly instructing them. It appears that a proper investigation will cause worries for many. The prime accused in this case, Sandeep Nair, is also a BJP worker," the CPI(M) said. The Congress and the BJP have been seeking the resignation of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan after the state government had suspended senior IAS officer and IT secretary M Sivashakar, who was also the principal secretary to the CM, over allegations that he had a close association with the accused. The state government had, however, sought a "comprehensive probe" by any of the central agencies and dismissed the allegations saying it welcomes any kind of investigation as none from the party or the government were involved. Meanwhile, BJP state chief K Surendran has denied that the party had any links with the channel and its editor. The CPI(M) on Friday claimed theBJP disowning Nambiar right after the customs interrogated him shows that the saffron party has something to hide. "The attempt to hoodwink the public by denying BJP's links with Janam TV will not bear fruit. Since Anil Nambiar was disowned by the party right after the customs interrogated him, it is clear that the BJP has something to hide," the CPI (M) said. The CPI(M) state secretariat has also sought the BJP leadership's views on the alleged party links that have come to light in the case which has been registered under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cpim-state-secretariat-hits-out-at-union-minister-v-muraleedharan-879330.html
28-08-2020||State||Mining or industrial park? Centre revives BGML project||Union Coals & Mines Minister Pralhad Joshi on Friday offered a win-win solution on the long-pending plan of the Karnataka government to leverage land belonging to the defunct Bharat Gold Mines Limited (BGML) in Kolar for an industrial park. Karnataka has been pursuing the Centre to use the unencumbered land of the BGML to develop a second industrial node in the Chennai-Bengaluru Industrial Corridor. The BGML, which operated the Kolar Gold Fields (KFG) and was closed in 2001, has about 12,000 acres of land. “The Karnataka industries department has sought 3,200 acres,” Joshi said. “I have requested the state government to get a physical survey done within three months. The Centre, through the Mineral Exploration Corporation Ltd, will identify areas that haven’t been explored for natural minerals within six months. If there’s any gold, palladium or tungsten, the state government will auction it and get royalty. If no natural resources are found, then the land that’s unfit for mining will be handed over to the industries department for an industrial park,” he explained. Out of 12,000 acres at BGML, Joshi said some 3,000-4,000 acres have been used up for mining activities. Joshi was here along with officials from his ministry to hold talks with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on various pending issues. At one point, the state government was considering taking over all 12,000 acres at BGML by clearing off Rs 1,600 crore that the defunct undertaking owed the Ministry of Mines. This plan was dropped. In 2017, the government considered creating a satellite city at KGF in order to decongest Bengaluru. The plan never came through.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mining-or-industrial-park-centre-revives-bgml-project-879155.html
28-08-2020||State||JD(S) leader HD Revanna tests positive for Covid-19||Holenarasipur MLA H D Revanna has tested positive for Covid-19, and has been admitted to Mallya Hospital in Bengaluru, for treatment. According to sources, Revanna underwent throat swab test on Friday as he was suffering from fever for the last three days. The tests confirmed that he had contracted Covid-19. Praying for his recovery, Health Minister B Sriramulu in a tweet said, "H D Revanna has tested positive for coronavirus. I pray that he recovers and gets back to serve people." Earlier, it was reported that three police constables, who were a part of the security ring of Revanna tested positive for Covid-19 on June 30. However, Revanna, his car driver and personnel assistant tested negative then Subsequently, he too underwent a test but was found negative. Recently, the son of former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda had displayed the symptoms. After tests, he was found to be infected by the pathogen. Many leaders in Karnataka including Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, three of his ministers, Congress leaders Siddaramaiah and D K Shivakumar were also infected by the virus.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/jds-leader-hd-revanna-tests-positive-for-covid-19-879169.html
28-08-2020||State||Karnataka seeks more blocks under PM-KUSUM||Agriculture Minister B C Patil on Friday said the Union Power Minister R K Singh positively responded on Karnataka's request to sanction seven more blocks under PM-KUSUM scheme, aimed to convert diesel and electric running irrigation pump sets to solar. Patil, who met Singh here, said the Ministry of Power already sanctioned three blocks Shikaripura, Hirekerur and Kolar. The Ministry to consider to sanctioning another seven blocks under the scheme to reduce the number of diesel and electric pump sets. Since only 36 % of cultivable land has irrigation, for remaining land the farmers depend on tubewell, agriculture ponds, using pump sets. Taking into account of this, the Ministry of Power should consider sanction more blocks under PM-KUSUM, Patil said. PM-KUSM scheme launched by Ministry New and Renewable Energy to set up solar-powered irrigation pump sets. Patil also met Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar and requested him to grant early forest and environment clearance to Hubballi and Ankola railway line. During his meeting with Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi, Minister Patil requested the railways to operate refrigerated Kissan Rail in Karnataka to transport perishable goods from farmers field to market. Patil also submitted a memorandum to Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar to sanction funds to set up soil testing laboratory in every village in Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-seeks-more-blocks-under-pm-kusum-879202.html
28-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Belagavi statue row: Police taking action, says Basavaraj Bommai||Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday said the police had taken strict measures to control the situation in Belagavi where tension prevailed earlier today over the installation of freedom fighter Sangolli Rayanna’s statue, which irked a Marathi group.  “I have spoken to the Belagavi Police Commissioner and Inspector General. The additional DGP for law and order is going there,” Bommai told reporters after holding talks with Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi on the situation.  "All necessary police bandobast is being made," Bommai said, adding that the administration was making all efforts to resolve things peacefully by taking everyone into confidence.  Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa also said he would speak to the Belagavi Deputy Commissioner to resolve the issue peacefully. A section of admirers of Sangolli Rayanna installed a statue of the freedom fighter at T-junction road at Peeranwadi village in Belagavi taluk between Thursday night and Friday dawn.  As the news of the statue's installation spread at dawn, a section of people began to object, which led to an intense situation in the village. Rayanna’s admirers at the Peeranwadi village were seen celebrating as they raised slogans in his favour. The local Marathi-speaking people said that they were not opposing Rayanna's statue being built, but they had objections to its location.  Police resorted to lathi-charge as a mob assembled to protest against the installation of Rayanna’s statue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/belagavi-statue-row-police-taking-action-says-basavaraj-bommai-879062.html
28-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka violence: HC appoints retired judge Justice H S Kempanna as Claims Commissioner||The Karnataka High Court on Friday appointed retired judge Justice H S Kempanna as the Claims Commissioner to estimate the damage and investigate liability in the riots at DJ Halli and KG Halli. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S Kinagi passed the order and directed the state government to consult Justice Kempanna for necessary infrastructure. The division bench passed the order based on the Supreme Court judgment in a 2009 suo motu petition on Destruction of Public and Private Properties.  As the matter came up for hearing, the bench heard on various issues including the petition filed by the state government seeking appointment of Claims Commissioner. Considering the situation created by the pandemic, the bench informed the Claims Commissioner that it was open for him to conduct the hearings through video conferencing, including the recording of the statement. The bench stated that the appointment of Claims Commissioner was only based on the materials showing the destruction of public and private properties. ``We clarify that we have not gone into the correctness of the FIR. The directions which we have issued are based on the materials on the destruction of public and private properties,’’ the bench said.  The bench also said that as per the Supreme Court order, once the Claims Commissioner submits the report, the liability will have to be determined before the High Court after hearing the parties.  The bench gave a slew of directions to the state government in regard to the appointment of Claims Commissioner, from fixing the remuneration of the Claims Commissioner considering his status as a retired judge of the High Court to the appointment of necessary staff, especially property assessors. ``Considering the fact that the claims commissioner will have to estimate the damage caused to the private and public property and investigate the liability, wide publicity shall be given by the state government to the appointment of the Claims Commissioner. The publicity should be given calling upon the persons whose properties have been damaged to submit the particulars before the learned Claims Commissioner to enable him to assess the losses caused to the private and public property,’’ the bench said. The court added that the draft of the advertisements shall be submitted to Claims Commissioner for his approval. The bench has also informed the Claims Commissioner to submit the report through his office to the Registrar (Judicial) in the event the Claims Commission requires a direction for summoning witnesses or procuring documents, and video and other recordings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-violence-hc-appoints-retired-judge-justice-h-s-kempanna-as-claims-commissioner-879154.html
28-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's Covid-19 tally goes past 3.18 lakh-mark with 8,960 fresh cases||Karnataka reported 8,960 positive cases on Friday and 136 deaths taking the active case tally to 86,347 and total cases to more than 3.18 lakh.  The death toll reached 5,368 including 19 fatalities due to non-Covid reasons. On the bright side, 7,464 discharges took the total recoveries to more than 2.27 lakh. A total of 754 patients are in the ICU. The state conducted 64,226 tests on Friday including 23,416 rapid antigen tests.  Bengaluru Urban reported 2,721 positive cases taking the total to more than 1.21 lakh. The total number of active cases are 36,521 in the state capital.  Ballari reported 484 cases, Dakshina Kannada 448, Hassan 357 and Mysuru 726 cases because of a data backlog over the past few days. Most of the dead were either with a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Influenza-like illness (ILI). (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-covid-19-tally-goes-past-318-lakh-mark-with-8960-fresh-cases-879236.html
28-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Centre applauds Karnataka's land record digitisation initiative: BC Patil||The Centre has applauded Karnataka for its initiative towards digitisation of land records and survey data, the state's Agriculture Minister BC Patil said on Friday. "This was very much appreciated by the central agricultural minister and said that this will be made to emulate by all state governments in future," Patil said in a statement. Patil is here in the national capital to meet several union ministers to discuss state developmental issues. This is his first visit after assuming charge as the state agriculture minister. On crop survey data, Patil said that Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar in the meeting appreciated the efforts of Karnataka farmers in uploading the record crop survey data of 35 lakh plots in a span of just 15 days. Farmers are using smartphones and uploading data on the crop-wise sown area using a new version of farmer-friendly OTP-based mobile app, he added. Patil also shared that the Centre has informed about its plan of upgrading the existing Kisan Rail into all-time Kisan rail with refrigerated bogies, connecting major markets of Karnataka which will be a boon for farmers to transport perishable goods throughout India in the shortest period of time and fetch a better price.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/centre-applauds-karnatakas-land-record-digitisation-initiative-bc-patil-879293.html
28-08-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Sangolli Rayanna's statue installed without permission in Belagavi||A section of admirers of Sangolli Rayanna installed a statue of the freedom fighter at T-junction road at Peeranwadi village in Belagavi taluk between Thursday night and Friday dawn. As the news of the statue's installation spread at dawn, a section of people began to object, which led to an intense situation in the village. However, admirers of Sangolli Rayanna at the Peeranwadi village were seen celebrating as they raised slogans hailing the freedom fighter and Rani Channamma. Marathi-speaking people stated that they were not opposing Sangolli Rayanna's statue being built but they had objections to the location wherein the statue of the freedom fighter has been installed during dark hours. Police resorted to lathi-charge as a mob, assembled to protest against the installation of the statue, started to attack them. More police personnel have been deployed at the village to prevent any untoward incidents. Police had thwarted efforts to install the statue of Sangolli Rayanna on August 15.  The police prevented another section of people from installing the statue of Chatrapati Shivaji Maharaj and confiscated the statue.  Water Resources and District Incharge Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi on Thursday had informed that decision to install the statue will be taken within legal parameters and as per the guidelines of Supreme Court on August 29.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/sangolli-rayannas-statue-installed-without-permission-in-belagavi-878911.html
28-08-2020||West||Man arrested for divorcing wife through instant triple talaq||A 27-year-old man was arrested on Thursday for allegedly torturing his wife and giving instant triple talaq to her, a practice now banned under law, police said. The man is a resident of Samrubaugh in Bhiwandi town of Thane district. His sister has been booked for her alleged involvement in his wife's torture, they said. DCP Zone II Bhiwandi Rajkumar Shinde said an offence under IPC sections 498A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) was registered at the Shanti Nagar police against both siblings. The man was separately booked under the Muslim Women(Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act, 2019, and arrested, he said. The police action came on a complaint filed by the 21-year-old victim, who alleged she was subjected to torture and abuse by her husband and his sister over domestic issues, police said. The complaint said the man, who doubted the character of the victim, called his wife on the night of July 24, 2020, on cellphone and pronounced talaq three times upon her, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-arrested-for-divorcing-wife-through-instant-triple-talaq-878888.html
28-08-2020||West||Commercial complex collapses in Ahmedabad; 1 dead, 2 rescued||A two-storey commercial complex collapsed here in the early hours of Friday, killing one person on the spot, while two others were rescued, said officials. Prem Complex, a decades-old building having around 10 shops and located in the Kubernagar area of Ahmedabad city, came crashing down around 1 am, said fire officer Jayesh Khadia of Ahmedabad Fire and Emergency Service. On being alerted about the collapse, Khadia and his team rushed to the spot and started a search and rescue operation which lasted for over six hours and ended around 7:30 am. "We managed to pull out two people alive from the debris. However, a third person died and we could only recover his dead body," Khadia said. Besides them, no one else was found under the debris, he said after completion of the rescue operation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/commercial-complex-collapses-in-ahmedabad-1-dead-2-rescued-879016.html
28-08-2020||West||High Court declines bail to activist Sudha Bharadwaj in Elgar case||The Bombay High Court on Friday refused to grant bail to lawyer and activist Sudha Bharadwaj, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Koregaon Bhima case being probed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). A bench led by Justice RD Dhanuka rejected an appeal filed by Bharadwaj in June this year, whereby she had challenged a special court's order that denied her bail on health grounds. Bharadwaj, 58, had approached the HC seeking bail, saying that she suffered from chronic conditions such as diabetes and hypertension. She had said these comorbidities put her at a higher risk of contracting coronavirus while at the Byculla women's prison where an inmate had tested positive for Covid-19 earlier. The court, however, noted the submissions made by the NIA and the Maharashtra government that the prison authorities were taking all precautions to prevent the spread of Covid-19 and that they were providing necessary medical care to Bharadwaj for her comorbidities. NIA counsel, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, also told the court that if at any time, Bharadwaj's condition needed further treatment or if she was required to be admitted to a hospital, even a private one, the state would provide for the same. He pointed out that poet-activist Varavara Rao, a co-accused in the case, had been admitted to the state-run JJ Hospital and then shifted to the private Nanavati Hospital in the city for treatment of Covid-19 and other ailments. "In our view, no case is made out for grant of bail. This appeal is devoid of merits," the HC said while dismissing Bharadwaj's plea. On August 21, pursuant to an HC order, the state government had submitted a report stating that Bharadwaj had been examined in the prison by a medical officer and that her health condition was found to be "stable and satisfactory". The state report stated that Bharadwaj's vital health parameters were stable. It stated that she had been suffering from mild depression too, and had complained of body ache. The state said that Bharadwaj had been given medication for dizziness and had been advised to continue medicines for her chronic conditions. Bharadwaj's counsel Ragini Ahuja, however, pointed out that the report of August 21 did not mention that Bharadwaj suffered from hypertension or from a heart condition. She pointed out that previous report of the state had said that Bharadwaj suffered from ischemia, a heart condition. Ahuja claimed the latest medical report, therefore, was inconsistent and perhaps "bogus". The bench, however, said the present report probably only dealt with Bharadwaj's vital parameters vis-a-vis Covid-19. It said, "In our view there is no substance in the appellant's submissions on inconsistencies in the medical report." Bharadwaj has been lodged in the Byculla women's prison here since September 2018 following her arrest in the case. The case pertains to the Elgar Parishad conclave held in Pune district on December 31, 2017. It is alleged that speeches made by some activists at the conclave led to violence near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial on outskirts of Pune city the next day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/high-court-declines-bail-to-activist-sudha-bharadwaj-in-elgar-case-879065.html
28-08-2020||West||Kalyan, Navi Mumbai have over 3,000 active Covid-19 cases||The civic limits of Kalyan and Navi Mumbai have over 3,000 active cases of coronavirus, while Thane city is nearing 2,000 active cases, district authorities said on Friday. According to an official report, with an addition of 1,172 new cases on Thursday, the Covid-19 tally in Thane district has now reached 1,18,911. Moreover, 37 latest casualties in the district, including 10 from Kalyan alone, have raised the toll to 3,423, the report stated. Most Covid-19 cases have been reported from Kalyan, Thane and Navi Mumbai areas that have so far recorded 27,684, 25,076 and 24,585 cases respectively, an official said. The recovery rate in the district stood at 86.75 per cent, while the mortality was at 2.88 per cent, he said. The district now has 12,332 active cases, he added. Major cities in the district, including Thane, Kalyan and Navi Mumbai, have recorded a mortality rate of more than 2 per cent, with the exception of Badlapur where the death rate stood at 1.75 per cent, the official said. Meanwhile, Palghar district has reported 23,323 Covid-19 cases and 471 deaths so far, an official said. While the district has recorded a recovery rate of 83.56 per cent, the mortality rate here stood at 2.02 per cent, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/kalyan-navi-mumbai-have-over-3000-active-covid-19-cases-879089.html
28-08-2020||West||Maharashtra: Political slugfest over Sushant Singh Rajput's death case probe||Amid trading of charges between the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi and the opposition BJP in Maharashtra, the Congress said Sushant Singh Rajput’s friend Sandip Ssingh, who is in the radar of investigative agencies, is the producer of the biopic of the Prime Minister - 'Narendra Modi'. The BJP retaliated saying that Smita Thackeray, the daughter-in-law of late Shiv Sena supremo Bal Thackeray, had planned a biopic on the charismatic and firebrand leader with Sandip Ssingh being the producer. Maharashtra Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant tweeted photos of former Chief Minister and now Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis, with Sandip Singh. The photo was taken at the poster launch of film ‘Narendra Modi’ – in which Fadnavis is also seen with lead actor Vivek Oberoi, the lead actor of the film and his father Suresh Oberoi. Sawant requested Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Home Minister Anil Deshmukh to look into the issue and drugs vis-à-vis the death of Sushant Singh Rajput.  “There should be a probe into the ‘BJP-angle’ and the Sushant Singh Rajput case,” he said. BJP’s Maharashtra unit’s chief spokesperson Keshav Upadhye asked Sawant to do homework and attached a screenshot of a news dated 17 August, 2015, which said that Smita Thackeray, the estranged wife of Jaidev Thackeray, the son of late Bal Thackeray, was planning a film on the Sena supremo along with Sandip Ssingh. BJP’s Maharashtra unit Vice President and former MP Kirit Somaiya said that the MVA is trying to put “speed breakers’ into the investigations. “The Thackeray-family, the Congress-NCP does not want a probe…but all aspects would be probed including the role of Sandip Ssingh,” he said. The fresh round of political crossfire comes days after BJP spokesperson Ram Kadam demanded a discussion on Bollywood-drugs mafia nexus, during the forthcoming session of Maharashtra legislature. BJP leaders have also been demanding the removal of Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh and deputy commissioner of police Abhishek Trimukhe for not registering an FIR into the death of Sushant Singh Rajput.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-political-slugfest-over-sushant-singh-rajputs-death-case-probe-879146.html
28-08-2020||West||Covid-19: Rambo Circus to go online||One of the biggest circuses in the country -  the Rambo Circus – that is facing challenges because of Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown and unlocking – has decided to go digital. The digitally produced show, 'Life is a Circus’ – is an ode to the greatest showmanship. From daring trapeze acts to mesmerising acrobatic stunts, the virtual show promises to be complete family entertainment. The show will be a ticketed event hosted on a virtual platform with the audience watching it from remote locations. This virtual fundraiser is aimed to raise awareness for the cause and benefit the Rambo Circus artists and their families to come back strong and revive from the difficult situation. The funds raised from this initiative will be donated directly to the crew for their welfare and wellbeing.  All donations come to BookASmile which will further be proceeded to the NGO Swaradhar and then handed over to Rambo Circus. Rambo Circus owner Sujit Dilip, said: “The circus was one of the most preferred outings for kids and the entire family a few decades back. Every kid born in the 80s’ and 90s’ will have some nostalgic memories attached to it. With isolation becoming the new norm, we’re now trying to reinvent the whole experience of watching a circus online. People can buy tickets online from BookMyShow and watch the show from their homes. We are hopeful that the digital revolution will bring lost visibility and respect to the art form.” Brought to the audience by the narrator, the show structure and format will weave in a story in the form of a narrative. The narrative would harp on the journey of Rambo Circus itself. It will unravel the acts while highlighting the achievements, struggles, global presence, and the never-ending enthusiasm of the artists that have kept it alive through thick and thin. The grand finale act will culminate into the best of all acts dedicated to the Covid-19 Warriors for their constant effort to combat the pandemic with a special message from the Rambo Circus artists. Commenting on the initiative, Saurabh Khurana, Senior Vice President - National Laqshya Live Experiences said, “Like many other entertainment avenues, the circus has suffered due to the coronavirus pandemic and the subsequent lockdown. As a part of the overall events eco-system, we are pleased to lend our support to Rambo circus and excited about the prospects of taking an event traditionally hampered by location over a digital platform. We are stoked to take the circus experience to people right at their screens.” Dinesh Shetty, Founder, Production Crew Entertainment Pvt. Ltd. said, “The ongoing pandemic has taken entertainment to a digital route. We are excited to take the age-old circus experience online with the artists coming into your homes and making you laugh. We believe that the show must go on irrespective of the hurdles and this belief is the genesis of our offering.” Supporting the initiative, Anand Mahesh Talari, Co-founder & MD, Mavcomm Group said, “Circus brings back memories of amazement and family time. It’s an experience like no other and the story of how the amazing institution and people who devote their lives to it are suffering is waiting to be told.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-rambo-circus-to-go-online-879150.html
28-08-2020||West||Uddhav Thackeray promised to look into issues raised by me: Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Jadhav||Shiv Sena Lok Sabha MP Sanjay Jadhav on Friday said Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has promised to look into the issue of appointment related to a marketing committee in Jintur in Parbhani district. Jadhav had resigned from his Parliament seat to protest the representation given to the NCP on the non-official administrative board of the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) in Jintur in Parbhani, his Lok Sabha constituency. Jadhav had sent his resignation letter, dated August 25, to Thackeray, who is also the Sena president. He met the CM in Mumbai on Thursday. The issue related to the Jintur market committee was heard by Thackeray, who promised to look into it, the Member of Parliament said. "The (resignation) letter was written so that my party could hear my views on the issue," Jadhav told PTI. "I put forward my views before the Chief Minister and he has given me a word that he will look into it. I am satisfied with the talk," he said. Jadhav said non-political issues and demands related to Parbhani district were discussed in the meeting with the Chief Minister. Asked about allegations levelled by NCP leader from Jintur Babajani Durrani, Jadhav told, "I have not spoken a single word against NCP. "Through my letter, I wanted to convey my views to the party. I have not staged any agitation against the NCP. They will work for their party and I will continue to work for my party." Jadhav, in the letter to the CM, said he had been pursuing the issue of appointment of Shiv Sainiks on the APMC board in Jintur, but for the second time, it went to the NCP. In the letter, Jadhav said he was upset that the NCP got representation on the non-official administrative board of the APMC when the party did not have an MLA in Jintur. Reacting to the Sena MP's letter, NCP leader Durrani had said, "There are some invisible hands working behind the resignation of Jadhav. Jadhav is trying to make a favourable environment for the BJP in Jintur." The Sena and the NCP are part of the ruling coalition in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/uddhav-thackeray-promised-to-look-into-issues-raised-by-me-shiv-sena-mp-sanjay-jadhav-879156.html
28-08-2020||West||Ajit Pawar, Fadnavis together at inauguration of Covid-19 hospital||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar and Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Devendra Fadnavis were seen together at the inauguration of a Covid-19 hospital in Baner area here on Friday. The two had famously come together on November 23 last year when Fadnavis was sworn in as chief minister and Pawar as his deputy in a hush-hush early morning ceremony. Pawar, an NCP stalwart, broke ranks to join the BJP leader to form government after the saffron party fell out with the Shiv Sena, but their government lasted only 80 hours as they could not muster the numbers. On Friday, Pawar and Fadnavis stood side by side and addressed the gathering in Baner, though they painted different pictures of the coronavirus situation in the state. Pawar, who is also guardian minister for Pune district, said in the last few days 2,200 hospital beds have been added for treatment of coronavirus patients in the city and neighbouring Pimpri Chinchwad. Referring to the phase 3 human trial of the `Oxford vaccine' which began in Pune earlier this week, he expressed confidence that soon there will be "affirmative picture in the state and country". Fadnavis pointed out that every day on average 15,000 new cases are being reported in Maharashtra. "The main concern is that the positivity rate of the infection is still 19 to 19.5 per cent. As per the ICMR, it should be 5 per cent and where there is high infection (rate), it should be 10 per cent," he said. The BJP leader also said that the state accounts for nearly 40 per cent of coronavirus deaths in the country. "Since our current death rate is still 3.2 per cent which is above the national average, it is a matter of concern," Fadnavis said. State BJP chief and Kothrud MLA Chandrakant Patil and Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol were also present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ajit-pawar-fadnavis-together-at-inauguration-of-covid-19-hospital-879175.html
28-08-2020||West||Sushant Singh Rajput case: ED summons Goa hotelier Gaurav Arya||Enforcement Directorate officials investigating the recently registered money laundering case against Bollywood starlet and late Sushant Singh Rajput’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty on Thursday, formally summoned Goa-based hotelier Gaurav Arya.  According to a summons notice, which was posted to the main gate of a resort in the North Goa beach village of Anjuna by ED officials, Arya has been directed to report before Assistant Director Rajiv Kumar on August 31 at 11 am in connection with the Enforcement Case Information Report number MB20-5/31/2020, which has been filed under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 against Chakraborty.  Originally hailing from Delhi, Arya is a Goa-based hotelier and runs Hotel Tamarind located in Anjuna.  Rhea was reportedly in touch with Arya and allegedly had a WhatsApp conversation with the hotelier related to narcotics substances.  On June 14 this year, Rajput was found dead in a house in mysterious circumstances. His girlfriend along with others has been accused of abetting his suicide, by the actor’s father in a First Information Report registered in Bihar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sushant-singh-rajput-case-ed-summons-goa-hotelier-gaurav-arya-879193.html
28-08-2020||West||Bombay High Court judge says he disagrees with colleague's remarks on anti-CAA protests||Justice M G Sewlikar of the Bombay High Court, who was part of a bench that quashed cases against foreign nationals who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi, said on Friday that he disagreed with certain observations in the ruling. He did not agree with remarks made by his colleague Justice T V Nalavade about action taken against members of the Muslim community over protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and National Register of Citizens (NRC), he said. A division bench of Justices Nalavade and Sewlikar -- part of the Aurangabad bench of the HC -- had on August 21 quashed FIRs filed against 29 foreigners, who had attended the event in Delhi in March this year, for allegedly violating visa conditions. The bench had said the accused were made "scapegoats" and baseless allegations were leveled that they were responsible for spreading coronavirus in the country. It also said that the state government acted under "political compulsion", and there was a big propaganda against the foreigners who attended the Tablighi gathering. "A political government tries to find the scapegoat when there is a pandemic or calamity and the circumstances show that there is probability that these foreigners were chosen to make them a scapegoat," the court had said. However, Justice Sewlikar had stated on August 21 that while he agreed with the operative part of the order (quashing of FIRs), he did not agree with Justice Nalavade on few of the observations, and would pass a separate order. On Friday, Justice Sewlikar issued a four-page order saying he did not agree with the remarks made by Justice Nalavade pertaining to the NRC and CAA. "I find it difficult to concur with the observations (on CAA and NRC) as allegations in this respect are not made in the petitions nor there is any evidence in this regard. "Therefore, in my opinion these observations are outside the scope of the petitions," Justice Sewlikar said. Justice Nalavade in his order had said that there were large-scale protests across the country by members of the Muslim community against CAA and NRC as they believed that citizenship would not be given to Muslim refugees and migrants. "It can be said that due to the present action taken fear was created in the minds of those Muslims. This action indirectly gave warning to Indian Muslims that action in any form and for anything can be taken against Muslims," Justice Nalavade had said. "Thus, there is malice to the action taken against these foreigners and Muslims for their alleged activities," he had remarked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-high-court-judge-says-he-disagrees-with-colleagues-remarks-on-anti-caa-protests-879256.html
28-08-2020||West||Gujarat minister, Congress MLA test positive for coronavirus||Gujarat Minister of State for Civil Supply Dharmendrasinh Jadeja and Congress MLA from Visavadar in the state Harshad Ribadiya have tested positive for coronavirus. "I have tested positive for coronavirus...," Ribadiya tweeted on Friday, adding that he had no symptoms and was "perfectly alright". He had isolated himself at home, the Congress MLA said. Jadeja, a BJP leader, tweeted late Thursday night that he had tested positive for coronavirus and was admitted to a hospital in Ahmedabad. Earlier on Thursday, BJP MP from Ahmedabad West Kirit Solanki and BJP MLA from Majura in Surat Harsh Sanghavi had also tested positive for coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-minister-congress-mla-test-positive-for-coronavirus-879335.html
28-08-2020||West||Record 1,272 new coronavirus cases in Gujarat, 14 death||Gujarat recorded a highest single-day spike of 1,272 coronavirus cases since the previous evening, taking its case tally to 92,601 on Friday, the health department said. Fourteen patients died during this period, taking the death toll due to the pandemic to 2,978, it said. Surat district reported 270 new cases, followed by Ahmedabad with 168 new cases. 1,050 Covid-19 patients were also discharged from hospitals during this period, taking the number of recovered cases to 74,551. Of the total 14 persons who succumbed to the infection, five died in Ahmedabad district alone, followed by three in Surat, two each in Vadodara and Rajkot and one each in Amreli and Gir Somnath districts. 213 patients, the highest in the state, recovered in Surat district on Friday, followed by 162 in Ahmedabad. The recovery rate in Gujarat is now 80.51 per cent. As many as 75,800 coronavirus tests were carried out in the last 24 hours, taking the per million average to 1,166.15 tests. There are 15,072 active patients in the state, 86 of them on the ventilator. Gujarat Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 92,601, New cases 1,272, Death toll 2,978, Discharged 74,551, Active cases 15,072 and people tested so far 21,21,751.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/record-1272-new-coronavirus-cases-in-gujarat-14-death-879356.html
