29-08-2020||First Edit||Violation of a promise, federalism||The central government has violated a solemn commitment it had made to the states on compensation for their loss of revenue during the transition to the Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime. It had promised to make up the shortfall in states revenues by the introduction of the GST for five years. It created a fund for it by imposing a cess on sin goods like tobacco. But it has now sought to wriggle out of its promise with a creative and opportunistic interpretation of the commitment. The Centre has taken the position that it could pay the compensation only from the cess, whose yield is low this year, though the 101st Constitution Amendment, which introduced the GST and provided for the compensation, and the law passed by Parliament accordingly do not mention any conditions for the commitment. But Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman invoked an “act of God” to deny the states their due.  The expected shortfall in GST collections this year is about Rs 2.35 lakh crore. At the GST Council meeting held on Thursday, the Centre offered two options to the states which will allow them to borrow from the market under a special window to be facilitated in consultation with the RBI. The Centre maintained that it had no obligation to make up the Covid-related shortfall as it was not specifically mentioned in the law. There was no discussion on the options in the meeting and the states have to send their responses within a week. They actually have no option but to accept the Centre’s terms. This amounts to shifting the burden, which it had promised to take upon itself, on to the states.  The states had made several proposals to tide over the situation. These included increasing the cess or borrowing by the Centre which would then transfer them to the states. The Centre is in a better position to borrow than the states which are in serious financial distress. It also has more means of raising revenues. But the states have to spend money on the fight against Covid-19, meet routine administrative expenditure and implement their welfare schemes and projects. The revenue from the GST forms about one-third of their revenues and they do not have many other means of raising revenues. Surely, they will have to cut back on some of their essential spending. Reduced spending by states will also set their local economies back. The Centre’s position on compensation, which the states consider to be a betrayal, is also a gross violation of the principles of co-operative federalism which it has claimed to adhere to. How do the states trust the Centre on any matter after this?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/violation-of-a-promise-federalism-879376.html
29-08-2020||In Perspective||Right to Education: Just another law||The Right to Education was meant to reform society by enabling equal opportunity for everyone. Without social change, it seems to have only enforced the stereotypes and divisions in society rather than enable diversity to be acknowledged and celebrated. Sixty years ago, just as it is today, parents sent their children to schools they could afford. There were very few elite private schools. Coming from a humble background, I was “lucky” to attend one such school. My classmates were daughters of doctors, engineers, industrialists, business moguls and politicians, mostly from privileged homes. Family background mattered very much in these elite schools. It all began with how I looked and how I was dressed. Dark skin, oily braided hair, ill-fitting uniform dress, cotton socks and hardy boy's shoes meant that I was visibly different from the other girls. Invariably after the morning assembly, the house prefects would ask me to step aside. I would be mocked at for my socks, shoes and uniform dress. Cotton socks in those days were of poor quality. After a couple of washes the elastic would not hold up the socks and it would disappear under the heels. My socks were clean and held up with rubber bands but that was not acceptable. Better quality nylon socks were Rs 12 a pair, compared to cotton socks, available for Rs 5. All the girls wore dainty shoes, but I was forced to wear sturdy boy's shoes two sizes larger, aptly named ‘Toughies’, because my father could not afford to buy me shoes every year. Our uniform dresses were designed and tailored by the famous “Dhanjiboy & Sons” in the Cantonment area and were expensive. My mother, an amateur tailor, stitched my uniform which was a poor copy of the specified design. Satchels were expensive. Again, my ingenious mother cut off the legs of old cotton trousers and made durable ugly looking school bags for her children. Most of the girls commuted to school by bus or private vehicles. I had to walk four kilometres across a field of black clayey soil. During monsoons, the field turned slushy. Since I did not want to dirty my polished shoes, I carried them in a bag along with a pair of white PT shoes. A heavy bag of books, shoes and brass tiffin carrier made my feet sink into the muck ankle deep. The elite school prepared the girls to become poised ladies a la Swiss Finishing School. We were taught to speak the "Queen’s English", acquire the customary social graces and be able to knit, sew and paint. My classmates had good drawing paper, a set of 12 water colour tubes imported from Japan, brushes and palette. All I could manage was some recycled paper crudely stitched together. Cheap toffee-sized clay blocks in green, red and brown were my water colours. When the colours were mixed with a wet brush and painted on the blank side of a typed sheet, it just looked ugly. Obviously, my art teacher had not heard of abstract paintings. Blobs and swathes of cheap paint did not represent anything but ugliness. Thinking back, I was not a bad artist. I just did not have the right stationery. Every week, an hour was set aside for needlework class. Unlike the rest of the girls, my embroidery cloth was a piece of my father's old white dhoti. Coarse coloured thread used for binding packages instead of ‘Coats’ mercerised skeins served as embroidery thread. When the needle was poked into the cloth, instead of a stitch, the cloth tore. Broomsticks and jute thread were my knitting implements in place of needles and soft wool. Perhaps the humiliation and embarrassment I suffered during my school days made me learn all the needlecrafts which I mastered in later years. Teachers were from modest homes, but the elite school environment was such that they were partial towards fair-skinned, rich girls. Unable to cope with this prejudice, many bright pupils quit, to study elsewhere. The school organised an annual picnic, and attendance was compulsory. The other girls came in pretty dresses; I had only my paavaadai (long skirt) and blouse which would look odd, so I wore my uniform, minus the necktie. My picnic hamper consisted of lots of soft idlis that all loved so much that my bus fare was waived. Picnic was fun. I was plied with poori, Choley, cakes, fruits, samosas, potato wafers, etc., for a few idlis. The only day I got some positive attention. The five years I spent in that school were the most traumatic ones in my life. Oh! how I hated school. I passed my Matriculation with distinction and got admission into Fergusson College. Not much has changed in 60 years. A neighbour who teaches at a reputed school in Bengaluru  told me that the “RTE quota children” came to school in dirty uniforms, incomplete homework and stared at the teacher blankly. They did not speak English. She hated those children. There is now a statutory right to education, but what good could it possibly do in institutions which do not implement this in spirit? The environment at home, exposure to the internet, television and consumerism makes the class difference obvious. How would children from different backgrounds and homes integrate in private schools if educators do not address this? RTE could turn out to be a curse more than a blessing on the underprivileged, who face hostility early in life. Many kids from underprivileged homes will hate school and this could do more damage than good. We see the signs -- the number of underprivileged children in elite schools has been dwindling.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/right-to-education-just-another-law-879377.html
29-08-2020||Kalaburagi||Police fire at rowdy sheeter in Kalaburagi||Police fired at a rowdy sheeter in Kalaburagi on Saturday morning. The injured, identified as Payum Ali Mirza, has sustained injuries on his leg.  The incident took place when the police went to arrest and interrogate him in connection with a case. However, the accused tried to escape by attacking the police near Nagarahalli on the outskirts of the city. In self-defence, the police fired at his leg. He has been admitted to GIMS for treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/police-fire-at-rowdy-sheeter-in-kalaburagi-879496.html
29-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||'Waste to energy‘ proposal on the anvil in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi districts||The garbage slide incident at Pacchanady, on city's outskirts, resulted in officials submitting a proposal to generate five megawatt electricity from dry wastes collected daily in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts.   Chief Secretary to Karnataka government Vijay Bhaskar, who had visited garbage slide affected areas in Pancchanady a few months ago, had discussed on generating electricity from waste with KPCL (Karnataka Power Corporation Limited) Managing Director Ponnuraj. Following which, KPCL officials had visited Mangaluru and had collected information from DK district administration. The officials were of the opinion that the project will be viable if dry waste from Mangaluru and Udupi were used. It is estimated that 300 tonnes of dry waste from undivided DK can be used for the production of five megawatt electricity. All dry wastes including plastic, wood, tyres and others can be used for electricity generation. It is said that about 170 tonnes of dry waste is generated in MCC limits. Accordingly, 50 tonne will be collected from other ULBs and 100 tonne from Udupi district. In fact, a proposal to generate energy from waste was prepared in the past in Mangaluru. However, the project had remained only on paper. DK Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V said KPCL had submitted a proposal on waste to energy. The course of action will be taken after discussing it with Udupi Deputy Commissioner. The garbage slide at Pacchanady a year ago had affected damaged houses of well-known writer Mandara Keshava Bhat, Daivastana, Nagabana along with 12 acre farmland and 27 other houses in the surroundings. Pacchanady dumping yard on an average day gets 350 tonnes of garbage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/waste-to-energy-proposal-on-the-anvil-in-dakshina-kannada-udupi-districts-879481.html
29-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Anti-CAA protest: Magisterial hearing into deaths of two people on Sept 1||The hearing into the alleged police firing claiming the lives of Nausheen and Jaleel during an anti-CAA protest in Mangaluru, will be held on September 1. The police firing during an anti-CAA protest on December 19 had claimed two lives. Udupi Deputy Commissioner G Jagadeesha who is heading magisterial inquiry will conduct the enquiry, at AC court hall in Mini Vidhana Soudha from 11 am to 1 pm. Those who have any information on the incident can furnish it before the magistrate. No statements or documents will be received from the public after September 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/anti-caa-protest-magisterial-hearing-into-deaths-of-two-people-on-sept-1-879483.html
29-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||K S Eshwarappa expresses happiness for Sangolli Rayanna statue issue being resolved||Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa expressed satisfaction over the issue of installation of statue of Sangolli Rayanna at Peeranwadi village in Belagavi taluk being resolved. He complimented Water Resources and District In-charge Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi and officials for resolving the issue amicably and putting curtains down on it. Speaking to reporters at the airport here on Saturday, Eshwarappa said his visit to the city had been scheduled four days back. Sangolli Rayanna statue issue being resolved before his visit was a good development and we are happy for the good end to the controversy. Sangolli Rayanna and Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj have made their own contribution for the country. They cannot be confined to any particular community or caste. Some narrow minded were attempting to create problems and there was no need to give them attention, he said. Talks have been held with Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai to withdraw the cases filed against Kannada activists for installing the statue of Sangolli Rayanna, Eshwarappa informed. Regarding letter written by Maharashtra Minister Ekanath Shinde alleging atrocities on Marathi speaking people at Peeranwadi village in Belagavi taluk on Friday, he said there was no need to give attention for such letters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/k-s-eshwarappa-expresses-happiness-for-sangolli-rayanna-statue-issue-being-resolved-879485.html
29-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||B Sharat takes charge as Mysuru Deputy Commissioner||B Sharat, a 2011 batch IAS officer, on Saturday took charge as the new Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru. Previously, he was serving as Kalaburgi DC. The state government appointed Sharat in the place of Abhiram G Sankar, who transferred to Administrative Training Institute, Mysuru, as Joint Director. Sharat also served as Raichur DC, Chief Executive Officer of the Mandya and Bidar Zilla Panchayats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/b-sharat-takes-charge-as-mysuru-deputy-commissioner-879494.html
29-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||All cooperated for peace that led in happy ending of statue issue: Ramesh Jarkiholi||Water Resources and District In-charge Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi said that admirers of Sangolli Rayanna and Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj cooperated for maintaining peace at Peeranwadi village in Belagavi taluk that resulted in the tension over issue of statue of the freedom fighter ending peacefully and on a happy note. Jarkiholi told reporters here on Saturday that Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj and Sangolli Rayanna were national heroes and cannot be confined to any caste or community. Both should be respected. Tension has been diffused by admirers of both Sangolli Rayanna and Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj with them opting for peace. Talks will be held with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa regarding the cases being filled on Friday, he said. Deputy Commissioner will send proposal to the government regarding getting legal sanctity for the Sangolli Rayanna statue. I will not make any comments on the legal procedure, Jarkiholi stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/all-cooperated-for-peace-that-led-in-happy-ending-of-statue-issue-ramesh-jarkiholi-879509.html
29-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Excise Dept, police to conduct joint raids to contain drug peddling in Karnataka, says minister||Excise Minister H Nagesh said that the Excise and Police Department will conduct joint raids to contain drug-peddling menace that has come to the fore in Bengaluru. "We want to protect innocents from falling prey to drugs, hence night raids too would be conducted," he said.  Speaking to reporters at the Circuit House here on Saturday, Nagesh said the raids in Bengaluru have brought the tip of the iceberg to the fore. "We fear the involvement of more people in the drug racket. Drugs seized were of higher-end, hence the involvement of people from financial grounds cannot be ruled out," he said. Schools and colleges were opening for the academic year in the month of September. "We shall check drug peddling near them too," he stated. Nagesh said revenue of the Excise Department has fallen by 50 percent due to Covid-19 crisis. Bars, pubs and restaurants will open next month and we hope to improve revenue collection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/excise-dept-police-to-conduct-joint-raids-to-contain-drug-peddling-in-karnataka-says-minister-879529.html
29-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Alumni, well-to-do parents help pay students' fees amid Covid-19||Little Rock Indian School in Brahmavar is witnessing a unique initiative by its alumni and well-to-do parents. In the midst of this crisis, the school took a decision to ensure that not a single child be deprived of education due to the inability of their parents to pay fees. The school invited parents to apply for 'freeships' (exemption of fee amount) to the tune of 50%, in some cases even 75% or in rare cases even up to 100%. As many as 250-300 parents had been granted such freeships amounting to over Rs 50 lakh to 60 lakh. As the school needs to pay salaries of its teachers and staff, and continue its ambitious online classes, the school solicited support of its alumni spread across the world. The alumni responded by rushing to the help of such parents in distress. The school also encouraged well-to-do parents to contribute a certain amount along with their children’s fees towards the newly created FMCF (For My Child’s Friend). "This initiative also received a good response," Principal Dr John Thomas informed. As of now, the contributions from these sections are trickling in. It is the hope of Director Prof Mathew C Ninan that as the news goes around, there will be spontaneous support for such a good cause. If that happens, Little Rock’s model will be worthy of emulation. There have been previous instances where both the alumni and a section of parents themselves came forward to stand by the school at a critical phase in its history. He felt that if all the students who had received freeships in the past and are now financially better-off could come forward, it will be a cakewalk for the school. "But such ideal situations do not exist, unfortunately," he regretted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/alumni-well-to-do-parents-help-pay-students-fees-amid-covid-19-879583.html
29-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||B Sharat takes charge as Mysuru DC||B Sharat, a 2011 batch IAS officer, on Saturday took charge as the Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru. Sharat was serving as Kalaburgi DC, previously. The state government appointed Sharat in the place of Abhiram G Sankar, who has been transferred to Administrative Training Institute, Mysuru, as Joint Director. Sharat also served as Raichur DC, Chief Executive Officer of the Mandya and Bidar Zilla Panchayats. Sharat has been felicitated with the national award for Best Implementation of MGNREGA during 2017-18 in Mandya District and the district also stood first in the state in Rural Housing schemes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/b-sharat-takes-charge-as-mysuru-dc-879773.html
29-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||‘Spiritual guidance needed to become culturally Atmanirbhar’||Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said that becoming ‘Atmanirbhar’ is not just financially and economically, but also culturally and psychologically and for this, we need spiritual and religious guidance. He was delivering his inaugural speech, from New Delhi, as part of the day-long digital and virtual events, organised by Suttur Jagadguru Sri Veerasimhasana Mahasamsthana Mutt (Suttur Mutt), to celebrate the 105th birth anniversary of the 23rd seer Shivaratri Rajendra Swami, on Saturday. The Defence Minister said that getting inspired by other civilisations and cultures in not a problem. “Emulating good things is always welcome, but, aping others blindly, is a problem. For this, education is important. Education creating literates is easy. Moulding them into scholars should be the objective of education. This should be based on spirituality and values. The National Education Policy and the gradual evolution of education over the years is a step in this direction,” he said. Rajnath Singh said Veerashaiva philosophy, which the Suttur Mutt propagates, is based on two principles — peaceful co-existence and worship of work. “These two principles helped us, as a nation, to tackle the Covid pandemic. The doctors, other healthcare professionals, government officials, members of non-government organisations and also volunteers have been serving the society selflessly, because they regard work as worship,” he said. He said, spiritual and religious institutions are vital for a healthy — both physical and psychological health — society. “They have always strived for social welfare. Their services during the pandemic have been valuable. Their journey over the decades have been of great civilisational value. They have given new dimension to education and culture. Their journey is towards making a strong and awakened Bharat,” he said. Former prime minister H D Deve Gowda presided over the event, while Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa released animation films ‘Suttur Srimutt - Guru Parampare’ in Kannada and ‘The Heritage of Sri Suttur Mutt’ in English. Opposition Leader Siddaramaiah released Telugu translated book ‘Kayaka Thapaswi Sri Shivaratri Rajendra Swamigaru’, Tamil translated book ‘Bhakthi Bhandari Basaweswararin Vasanangal’ and ‘Neeti Samrajya Shathaka’. Deputy Chief Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan released souvenir ‘Prasada’. DistrictIin-charge Minister S T Somasekhar felicitated Abdul Kareem of Shoonyeka Solutions, makers of the animation films. The event began with puja to ‘gadduge’ (memorial) of Shivaratri Rajendra Swami and Mantra Mahasrshi at Suttur in Nanjangud taluk. Floral tributes were paid to the statue of the seer at the Mysuru branch, by seer Shivaratri Deshikendra Swami. MP Pratap Simha, MLC A H Vishwanath, secretary of JSS Mahavidyapeetha S P Manjunath and executive secretary C G Betsurmath were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/spiritual-guidance-needed-to-become-culturally-atmanirbhar-879776.html
29-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19: Health professionals work under threat||As the medical fraternity continued to fight novel coronavirus to ensure safety of the people, they are forced to work under fear, without protection for their life. The workers, including doctors, are being attacked, abused and harassed, in some pockets of the region.    Cases of public attacking or threatening health professionals are increasing with each passing day. A health professional was abused and almost attacked by a group in the city for advising them to maintain social distance during Covid test on Thursday. A similar incident was reported on Wednesday too. Unfortunately, no police complaint is registered and no protection is given to health workers. A large number of people will be present in the place and it is highly impossible to control them, said an officer.  An officer said, All workers are working under threat and have lost mental peace. A majority of the health workers work for meager salaries. We get just Rs 8,000 to Rs 10,000.” The district administration, Health department and Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) are conducting rapid antigen tests at different places, but the citizens are reluctant to cooperate with health personnel. A doctor said, “It is difficult to deal with a section of the people. They don’t understand what we are doing. Some people tried to assault and abused me for asking them to stand in a queue and to maintain social distance.” When asked why he did not file a police complaint, he said, “It is a waste of time. Several police complaints have been filed in parts of the state, but, what is the result?” he asked. Another worker said, the people are not ready to accept their reports. “A patient tried to assault, when we told that he tested positive for Covid-19,” she said. Inspector General of Police (Southern Range) Vipul Kumar was not available for comment and Mysuru Regional Commissioner G C Prakash said, “The respective district administration and police departments will take measures in this regard. The Health department can also take police support, wherever necessary.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-health-professionals-work-under-threat-879778.html
29-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mysurean scripts ‘Filmi Escapes in Karnataka’||The state Tourism department and Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation are all set to release ‘Filmi Escapes in Karnataka’, a ‘Film Tourism Guide’ on movies, culture and locations, researched and written by a Mysurean. Shruti Indira Lakshminarayana, a media person and writer, with interest in cinema and lifestyle, has researched and written the book for the state Tourism department and KSTDC, through Lonely Planet India. Daughter of retired professor R Indira and former secretary of NIE management committee S K Lakshminarayana, Shruti holds a PhD in Mass Communication. She is married to actor-director M G Srinivas, popular as Sreeni, and runs SIL Studio, a video production house. Her next book ‘Pinnacle of Humanity’ revolves around Mahamastakabhisheka of Shravanabelagola. ‘Filmi Escapes in Karnataka’ connects not only Kannada films, but also of other languages, including Hindi and Tamil, with tourist destinations. Shruti said that Lonely Planet India has published similar guides in other states also, in association with their respective Tourism departments. “The guide gives a new twist to tourist destinations, by tracing their depiction and representation in popular movies. A lot of research and hard work has gone into it,” she said. Tourism department officials said, “The guide has been already uploaded on the department website and even booklets have been printed. It will be formally released soon.” The guide has a foreword by actor Shivarajkumar. His words “Travel inspires movies, and movies inspire travel” bring out the inter-relation between travel and movies. The 64-page guide has sections such as Bengaluru, Mysuru and around; Coorg, Chikkamagaluru and Hassan; and Best of Karnataka. Thus, a major portion of it deals with Mysuru and its surroundings. The guide projects the tourist destinations as locations for outdoor shooting of movies — past, present and future. It lists the movies and actors of all languages already shot in these locations; their significance in the movies; emotional attachment of actors like Rajinikanth with locations in Mysuru and Mandya districts; accommodation choices; eateries and their specialities; favourite food of actors and directors from these locations; expert recommendation on food by actors like Shraddha Srinath and Sruthi Hariharan. The guide is available at https://www.kstdc.co/wp-content/uploads/2020/01/Filmi_Hi_RES_compressed.pdf.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysurean-scripts-filmi-escapes-in-karnataka-879779.html
29-08-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka BJP govt is scared to even meet PM Modi: Siddaramaiah||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Saturday said the BS Yediyurappa-led BJP government was “faint-hearted” because it lacked the courage to confront Prime Minister Narendra Modi on safeguarding the state’s interests. Siddaramaiah was speaking with reporters on the flood situation and the state’s financial condition in the wake of the Centre delaying GST compensation. “They should go there, sit with the PM, Finance Minister and Home Minister to get funds. That’s how we used to do it before. We’d go petition them 2-3 times. But they’re scared to even meet the PM. This is a pukkal government,” Siddaramaiah said. “When GST was rolled out in 2017, an agreement was made in the GST Council that the Centre will compensate states for any revenue shortfall for a 5-year period,” Siddaramaiah said. “Instead of asking states to borrow from the RBI, why can’t the Centre borrow to compensate states?” The former chief minister said the Centre cheated Karnataka on flood relief as well. “For last year’s floods, the state asked for Rs 35,000 crore, but the Centre gave only Rs 1,869 crore. Also, compensation is yet to reach people whose homes were damaged. School buildings haven’t been reconstructed; they’re still functioning under sheets,” he said. The Congress will raise this in the monsoon session of the legislature slated to start September 21, Siddaramaiah said. “But whenever we bring this up in the Assembly, they don’t give proper answers.” Siddaramaiah was addressing a news conference after completing his home isolation following his recovery from Covid-19. “I have resumed my activities. I will visit my constituency Badami next week.” Irresponsible attitude: HDK Former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy of the JD(S) lambasted the Centre over the GST compensation issue. “The irresponsible attitude of the Centre in shirking its commitment towards GST shortfall of the states is condemnable. It has dealt a blow to the federal structure of the country by describing the crisis arising out of Covid-19 pandemic as an unforeseen ‘act of God’,” he said in tweets, accusing the Centre of ruining the economy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-bjp-govt-is-scared-to-even-meet-pm-modi-siddaramaiah-879723.html
29-08-2020||Karnataka Politics||BSY government is scared to even meet PM Narendra Modi: Siddaramaiah||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Saturday said the BS Yediyurappa-led BJP government was “faint-hearted” because it lacked the courage to confront Prime Minister Narendra Modi on safeguarding the state’s interests.  Siddaramaiah was speaking with reporters on the flood situation and the state’s financial condition in the wake of the Centre delaying GST compensation.  “They should go there, sit with the PM, Finance Minister and Home Minister to get funds. That’s how we used to do it before. We’d go petition them 2-3 times. But they’re scared to even meet the PM. This is a pukkal government,” Siddaramaiah said.  “When GST was rolled out in 2017, an agreement was made in the GST Council that the Centre will compensate states for any revenue shortfall for a five-year period,” Siddaramaiah said. “Instead of asking states to borrow from the RBI, why can’t the Centre borrow to compensate states?”  The former chief minister said the Centre cheated Karnataka on flood relief as well. “For last year’s floods, the state asked for Rs 35,000 crore, but the Centre gave only Rs 1,869 crore. Also, compensation is yet to reach people whose homes were damaged. School buildings haven’t been reconstructed; they’re still functioning under sheets,” he said.  The Congress will raise this in the monsoon session of the legislature slated to start September 21, Siddaramaiah said. “But whenever we bring this up in the Assembly, they don’t give proper answers.”  Siddaramaiah was addressing a news conference after completing his home isolation following his recovery from Covid-19. “I have resumed my activities. I will visit my constituency, Badami, next week.”  Irresponsible attitude: HDK Former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy of the JD(S) lambasted the Centre over the GST compensation issue. “The irresponsible attitude of the Centre in shirking its commitment towards GST shortfall of the states is condemnable. It has dealt a blow to the federal structure of the country by describing the crisis arising out of COVID-19 pandemic as an unforeseen ‘act of God’,” he said in tweets, accusing the Centre of ruining the economy. Act of God never happened: Kharge Rajya Sabha member Mallikarjun Kharge on Saturday said the non-payment of GST compensation would further hurt the states that were already under financial stress. “The Central government cannot avoid its commitment by invoking an 'Act of God' that never happened. This is a violation of trust in federalism,” the veteran Congressman said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bsy-government-is-scared-to-even-meet-pm-narendra-modi-siddaramaiah-879738.html
29-08-2020||Main Article||Secularism and its nemesis||An interesting dialogue has ensued on the state of secular politics in contemporary India since an essay by Yogendra Yadav in The Print online news site on August 5 in which he argued that “secularism gave up language of religion: Ayodhya Bhoomi pujan is a result of that”. He wrote, “Secularism was defeated because the secular elite talked down to its critics in English. Secularism was defeated because it disavowed our languages, because it failed to connect with the language of traditions, because it refused to learn or speak the language of our religions (emphasis added). Many others have since added to the discussion; some with a ring of denial, smugness and a finality about their diagnosis of the problem. The problem with these counter views is that they are “debating” in response to Yadav’s “reflecting”. The tradition of debate quintessentially is bound by binaries, and the dynamic is about winning the argument against the opponent. Reflection, on the other hand, demands introspection, silent rumination and looking for course correction in a deeply reflexive way, almost in a meditative mode. Reflection requires critical self-inflicted inner churning. Sadly, the debaters of secularism have been averse to the idea of such reflection. Reflection can be unbearably painful as the actors, in this case, tend to take responsibility, undergo guilt pangs for not doing enough or doing it the wrong way. It has in it an in-built resolve to do better. Debaters, on the other hand, would be unrelenting, inflexible and would rather look for a scapegoat. Debate is bureaucratic and its nuances can be laboriously manufactured. Debates need an audience, captive or otherwise; but reflection is profoundly an ekla chalo re moment.  Yadav’s piece is deeply reflective and must be read as one. The debates in secularism in India need to go through that transformative reflection process. I saw in Yadav’s piece, the phrase “secular elite talked down to its critics in English” as a metaphor, as a signature of linguistic hegemony. Understandably, it would be read by many as ‘English versus Hindi’. But clearly, that distracts from the core question that Yadav raised. Let me focus on that question via an anecdote. What struck me in Yadav’s piece was his consistent, repeated assertion on the language of the secular discourse. Some years ago, in my university, I had proposed a candle light march for Malala Yousafzai, then a school-age kid, who had been attacked by fundamentalists in Pakistan for nurturing a tiny dream -- a dream to go to school and study. The little girl was grievously injured and was airlifted to the UK where she was struggling for life in a hospital. I ended my mail requesting colleagues to join in with the words: ‘With Prayers!’ And trust me, that one word – prayer -- became ground for a little debate. An otherwise well-meaning colleague proposed that if I replaced “prayer” with “solidarity”, he would not mind joining the march. I was aghast. This was some moment. I never ever had imagined a word as gentle and innocuous and humbling as ‘prayer’ could be so vehemently protested against. Yadav’s piece reminded me of that moment. As our syncretic socio-cultural world increasingly became less porous and more binarised, ‘prayer’ became ‘right’, ‘solidarity’ became ‘left’. Most arguments in counter to Yadav’s piece have been shaped by the book view of secularism, while Yadav represents what anthropologist MN Srinivas would call the ‘Field view’.  Yadav invites us to engage, reflect and collaborate with the masses that we have been in the habit of infantilising for years, sitting in our cozy department rooms in the ivory towers of higher education in India. That brings us to the next important question: How has the theme of religion been engaged with in our academic spaces? The answer is: largely as an “untouchable” category, a marginal theme that is supposed to have lost its potential and meaning with the grand arrival of modernity. At least, this is what the anticipation was. The theme, however, continued to survive, prosper and then kicked hard in a backlash. Millions of people all over the country, outside the ghettoised university spaces, lived and literally breathed religion and its symbols in a very eclectic way, not necessarily following any stated protocol that were dictated by any theological framework. A Muslim peasant weighing grains in Bihar counting “Ram-e-Ram bees (20), Ram-e-ram ekkees (21), Ram-e-ram bais 22”; a Kulwinder Kaur in Patiala never missed a Shiv Raatri fast that always ended with an offering of milk to the deity; Hindus on their way to the Brahma temple in Pushkar visited Khwaja’s dargah in Ajmer to pay obeisance at the sacred shrine. This organic eclecticism defied the binaries that gradually got cast in stone in faraway “centres of higher learning”. The aversion to religion in a certain section of academia has been such that if someone even in ordinary conversation used words like compassion, forgiveness, virtue or prayer, he or she would be immediately looked upon with suspicion, as less secular. Let’s not engage with these questions, initiated by Yadav, in the vocabulary of a school-debate. We need to search for a new vocabulary of reflection and deep thinking. But for that, we will have to first climb down from our high moral pedestal and stop looking at the vernaculars as patently adulterated and incorrigibly regressive. Let’s learn from Gandhi and Ambedkar who, despite their other differences, never discounted religion as a moral force. While Gandhi was overtly expressive, Ambedkar was rather nuanced and sober but profoundly engaging. His reflections on Dukkha or human misery, especially its vocabulary, need to be looked at afresh and with an open mind. Despite all his hard-hitting criticism of Hinduism, he neither abandoned the idea of religion nor underestimated its emancipatory potential. Learn from Ambedkar how not to throw the baby with the bath water. The language of religion teaches us precisely that. It would be culturally dangerous not to reflect on these questions.  (The writer is a Sociologist with the Global Studies Programme, School of Global Affairs, Ambedkar University, Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/secularism-and-its-nemesis-879379.html
29-08-2020||Mysuru||32-year-old health officer dies in Mysuru||A 32-year-old community health officer died of health issues on Friday night in Mysuru. Chandrashekhar was a resident of Tirumakudalu Narasipura town.  According to the authorities, he was working at the District Health Office (DHO) in Mysuru. He developed health issues once he reached the house. Though he was rushed to a nearby hospital, he died. However, the cause of death is yet to be ascertained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/32-year-old-health-officer-dies-in-mysuru-879497.html
29-08-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on August 29||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 34 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact: Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 3,535,361 as of August 29 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  63,583   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 26,48,998  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-august-29-879426.html
29-08-2020||National||DH Toon | Act of God: 'Surrendered to His will. We don't want to do anything blasphemous'||Briefing reporters after the 41st meeting of the GST Council, Sitharaman said in New Delhi that the economy is facing an extraordinary 'Act of God' situation, which may result in economic contraction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-act-of-god-surrendered-to-his-will-we-dont-want-to-do-anything-blasphemous-879443.html
29-08-2020||National||CBI probes dental professor who used to make money using Bengaluru firm||A dental professor with AIIMS-Patna is facing a CBI investigation after he was allegedly found to be making his patients order dental implants from a Bengaluru-based firm at much higher price and taking the excess money paid from the company. The CBI has registered a case on Tuesday against Dr Shailesh Kumar Mukul, who was Associate Professor and Head of Department (Dentistry) in AIIMS-Patna, accusing him of resorting to "unlawful means in conspiracy with others" during 2013 to 2019. According to the FIR, Dr Mukul was "not used to prescribe dental implants etc to the patients on the OPD booklet". Instead, it said, he used to instruct patients to pay cash to Lab Assistant or send money to a supplier firm -- Bengaluru-based M/s Osteo3D -- directly. In the letter sanctioning to bring Dr Mukul under a CBI investigation, AIIMS-Patna has said that the money taken in cash from patients or sent through other means to the seller firm "used to be much higher than the actual amount payable". The Patna-based firm was also receiving excess amount than the cost of implants supplied by it to the AIIMS. "Thereafter, the surplus amount received by the vendor/supplier from the patients as well as the surplus amount remitted to it by the firm in Bengaluru have been paid in cash to Dr Mukul," AIIMS-Patna Institute Body president Prof Narendra K Arora said in his note sanctioning the registration of a case against the erring dentist. The CBI has registered a case under sections related to criminal conspiracy and obtaining undue advangage among others. At present, the CBI has only named Dr Mukul as an accused in the case. The names of the firms in Bengaluru or Patna do not figure in the FIR. Officials said investigations are on in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-probes-dental-professor-who-used-to-make-money-using-bengaluru-firm-879487.html
29-08-2020||National||India's Covid-19 tally goes past 34 lakh with single-day spike of 76,472 cases; death toll at 62,550||India's Covid-19 tally raced past 34 lakh with a single-day spike of 76,472 cases, while the number of recoveries surged to 26,48,998, pushing the recovery rate to 76.47 per cent on Saturday, according to the Union health ministry. The total number of Covid-19 cases rose to 34,63,972, while the death toll due to the disease climbed to 62,550 with 1,021 people succumbing to it in a span of 24 hours, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate has further declined to 1.81 per cent in the country. There are 7,52,424 active coronavirus cases in the country currently, which account for 21.72 per cent of the total caseload, the data showed. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 and the 30-lakh mark on August 23. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a total of 4,04,066,09 samples were tested for Covid-19 up to August 28, including 9,28,761 on Friday. Of the 1,021 fresh deaths, 331 were in Maharashtra, 136 in Karnataka, 102 in Tamil Nadu, 81 in Andhra Pradesh, 77 in Uttar Pradesh, 56 in West Bengal, 51 in Punjab, 20 each in Bihar and Delhi, 17 in Madhya Pradesh, 15 in Haryana, 14 in Gujarat, 12 in Rajasthan, 11 in Uttarakhand. Nine fatalities each were reported from Puducherry and Telangana, eight each from Assam, Jharkhand and Odisha, seven each from Jammu and Kashmir and Kerala, six from Chhattisgarh, five from Tripura, four from Goa, two each from Chandigarh, Manipur and Meghalaya, while Ladakh registered one death. Of the total 62,550 deaths, Maharashtra has accounted for the maximum of 23,775, followed by Tamil Nadu (7,050), Karnataka (5,368), Delhi (4,389), Andhra Pradesh (3,714), Uttar Pradesh (3,294), West Bengal (3,073), Gujarat (2,976) and Madhya Pradesh (1,323). So far, 1,307 people have died of Covid-19 in Punjab, 1,017 in Rajasthan, 808 in Telangana, 678 in Jammu and Kashmir, 661 in Haryana, 558 in Bihar, 456 in Odisha, 381 in Jharkhand, 286 in Assam, 274 in Kerala, 251 in Chhattisgarh and 239 in Uttarakhand. Puducherry has registered 199 Covid-19 fatalities, Goa 175, Tripura 94, Chandigarh 45, the Andaman and Nicobar Islands 42, Himachal Pradesh 33, Ladakh 28, Manipur 27, Meghalaya 10, Nagaland nine, Arunachal Pradesh five, Sikkim three and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu two. The health ministry said more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that a state-wise distribution of the figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-tally-goes-past-34-lakh-with-single-day-spike-of-76472-cases-death-toll-at-62550-879495.html
29-08-2020||National||Covid-19: All you need to know about new flight rules||The Ministry of Civil Aviation released a set of guidelines on Thursday for domestic flight travel, which allows airlines to serve pre-packed snacks, meals and beverages onboard; and passengers who refuse to wear a face mask will be put on the no-fly list. Meal Service:  Airlines have been allowed to service meals to passengers, provided they are pre-packed products. This will be available based on the policy of the airlines and the duration of the flight. Disposable tray set-ups, plates and cutlery will be used to prevent the spread of the infection. The disposable trays and cutlery will not be resused, and rotables will be cleaned and disinfected before the next use. Packaged beverages will be served to passengers and tea, coffee and non-alcoholic beverages will be provided in disposable containers or glasses. Refilling service has been stopped. The crew shall wear a fresh set of gloves when serving meals or beverages. In-flight entertainment: All in-flight entertainment services will be cleaned and disinfected before the passengers have boarded the plane. Disposable earphones or cleaned and disinfected headphones will be provided to passengers. All passenger touchpoints will be cleaned and disinfected after the flight to ensure there is no transmission. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation also stated that any passenger who refuses to wear a mask while travelling could be put on the no-fly list.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-all-you-need-to-know-about-new-flight-rules-879500.html
29-08-2020||National||Pan-India online event on butterflies in September||Over 30 organisations in India, working in the field of biodiversity conservation, have come together to host a national event on various aspects related to butterflies starting September 5, one of its organisers said on Saturday. During the event named 'Big Butterfly Month: India 2020', which will continue till September 20, various activities like online workshops on butterflies, photography and videography contests and butterfly count, will be held, he said. "Butterfly experts, enthusiasts and organisations across the country are joining hands for this first of its kind event in India," said Parag Rangnekar, president of Goa-based Foundation for Environment Research and Conservation (FERC), which is the coordinating the programme, said. "As part of this event, activities like butterfly count, online workshops on butterflies, contests on butterfly photography and videography, will be held across India," he added. Rangnekar said, "More than 30 organisations working in the field of biodiversity and its conservation have come together to organise this event." These include the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS), the National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS), Dehradun-based Titli Trust. "The 'Big Butterfly Count' would be held on an all- India level from September 14 to 20, wherein participants would be encouraged to send their submissions to our well- established citizen science digital platforms- Butterflies of India, iNaturalist, and India Biodiversity Portal," he said. Through the event, people would be educated and sensitised about butterflies, he added. Participants are expected to send information and other material related to the butterfly species that they spot in their backyard, Rangnekar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pan-india-online-event-on-butterflies-in-september-879526.html
29-08-2020||National||Government making numerous efforts to popularise sports and support sporting talent: PM Narendra Modi||Lauding sportspersons who have represented India and made it proud, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said his government is making numerous efforts to popularise sports and support sporting talent in the country.   In a series of tweets to mark National Sports Day, he also urged everyone to make sports and fitness exercises a part of their daily routine.  "National Sports Day is a day to celebrate the remarkable achievements of all those exemplary sportspersons who have represented India in various sports and made our nation proud. Their tenacity and determination are outstanding," he said.  The Prime Minister also paid tribute to Major Dhyan Chand, the legendary hockey player whose birth anniversary is celebrated as National Sports Day, and said his magic with the hockey stick can never be forgotten.  "Government of India is making numerous efforts to popularise sports and support sporting talent in India. At the same time, I urge everyone to make sports and fitness exercises a part of their daily routine. There are many benefits of doing so. May everyone be happy and healthy," he added.  This is also a day to laud the outstanding support given by the families, coaches and support staff towards the success of our talented athletes, Modi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-making-numerous-efforts-to-popularise-sports-and-support-sporting-talent-pm-narendra-modi-879531.html
29-08-2020||National||NGT can't seek security deposits for compliance of orders: Supreme Court||In an important judgement, the Supreme Court has held that the National Green Tribunal does not have any power to direct a state government to deposit a huge sum of money as security to ensure compliance to its directions. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra and Indira Banerjee said that the Environment Protection Act and the rules, orders and directions, dealing with offences by government departments, do not provide at all for monetary deposit to secure compliance of an order. Further, there is no provision in the NGT Act for deposit of security to ensure adherence to an order of the Tribunal. However, there is a provision for the penalty, the court pointed out. The top court set aside a direction by the NGT of April 21, 2015 to the Madhya Pradesh government to deposit Rs 25 crore to ensure strict adherence to its order for petrol pumps not to supply fuel to owners of vehicle, having no pollution under control (PUC) certificate. In several cases, it has been seen that the green panel directed the state governments and other statutory bodies to deposit huge security deposits to ensure its directions were strictly complied with, failing which the amount would be utilised for environmental needs. With regard to direction for denying fuel to vehicles without PUC, the bench said such an order was not contemplated either in the 1989 Motor Vehicles Rules or in the NGT Act. "There can be no doubt that strong measures must be taken to protect the environment and improve the air quality whenever there is contravention of statutory rules causing environmental pollution. Stringent action has to be taken, but in accordance with law," the bench said. The court also pointed out when a statute or rules prescribed a penalty for any act or omission, no other penalty can be imposed. The registration certificate of vehicles without a valid PUC certificate, however, can be suspended or cancelled, and penal measures initiated against the owner, in accordance with law, the court added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngt-cant-seek-security-deposits-for-compliance-of-orders-supreme-court-879536.html
29-08-2020||National||August receives 25% more rainfall; highest in 44 years: IMD||India has received the highest rainfall in the month of August in the last 44 years, IMD data shows, as several parts of the country have witnessed floods. Until August 28, the month recorded a 25-per cent surplus rainfall. It has also surpassed the previous highest rainfall in August, which was recorded in 1983. In that year, August had recorded a 23.8-per cent excess rainfall. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) data shows that in August 1976, the country had recorded a 28.4-per cent excess rainfall. The country has so far recorded nine-per cent more rainfall than normal. Bihar, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Goa have recorded excess rainfall while Sikkim has recorded a large excess. Many states have seen floods after the swelling of rivers. According to the Central Water Commission (CWC), the overall storage position of the reservoirs in the country till August 27 is better than the corresponding period of last year. It is also better than the average storage of the last 10 years during the corresponding period, the CWC said. "Better than normal storage" is available in the basins of the Ganga, Narmada, Tapi, Mahi, Sabarmati, the rivers of Kutch, Godavari, Krishna, Mahanadi and the neighbouring east-flowing rivers, Cauvery and the neighbouring east-flowing rivers and west-flowing rivers of south India, the CWC said. The Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir, Manipur, Mizoram and Nagaland have recorded a deficient rainfall. The official rainfall season in the country is from June 1 to September 30. June received 17-per cent more rainfall while July recorded 10-per cent less rainfall than normal. In its Long Range Forecast for rainfall in the second half (August-September) of the 2020 Southwest Monsoon, the IMD had said August was likely to receive rainfall that is 97 per cent of the LPA, with an error margin of plus/minus nine per cent. "Quantitatively, the rainfall over the country as a whole during the second half of the season is likely to be 104 per cent of the LPA with an error margin of plus/minus eight per cent," it said. The LPA rainfall over the country for the 1961-2010 period is 88 centimetres. Monsoon in the range of 96-104 per cent of the LPA is considered normal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/august-receives-25-more-rainfall-highest-in-44-years-imd-879538.html
29-08-2020||National||Mortal remains of army jawan who died of cardiac arrest brought to Gujarat||The body of an Army jawan, who died of a cardiac arrest in Uttar Pradesh, was brought to his howetown Ahmedabad on Saturday morning and was received with military honours, an official said. Rajnish Patni, a sepoy, died at the military hospital in Meerut on August 27, a defence spokesperson said. "The mortal remains of sepoy Rajnish Patni of EME Battalion at Meerut were flown to Ahmedabad. Military honours as per the standard operating procedures were given at city airport," the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mortal-remains-of-army-jawan-who-died-of-cardiac-arrest-brought-to-gujarat-879544.html
29-08-2020||National||Experts welcome UN Secretary General's advice to India to phase out fossil fuel for combating climate change||Experts on Saturday welcomed UN secretary general's advice to India to phase out fossil fuel to combat climate change, saying it's possible to shift to renewable energy but the government needs an inclusive and comprehensive action plan to ensure a just energy transition and livelihood of workers. The experts felt that Antonio Guterres' remarks come timely and it can be a moment for India to create its global climate ambition but at the same time they raised concern over the country's need for financial and technological support. The UN SG had on Friday called on India to be at the "helm" of an ambitious global leadership on clean energy and climate action, saying the country can become a "true global superpower" in the fight against climate change if it speeds up its shift from fossil fuels to renewable energy. Greenpeace India's climate campaigner Avinash Chanchal said, "It's a known fact that burning coal is one of the major reasons for air pollution and the increasing climate crisis. The UN chief rightly mentioned that burning coal in power generation is not only impacting public health and climate but also the economy." Kamal Narayan Omer, CEO, Integrated Health and Wellbeing (IHW) Council, said the UN chief has complete support from advocates of clean air as fossil fuel has been found to cause various health problems in India. "Phasing out of fossil fuel from our life is no more an option, for the damage it causes is evident and scientifically proven. Fossil fuel still comprises a major chunk of thermal power provided through grids to light up our homes, cities. They are still a prevalent choice of fuels to propel our vehicles. "We can already see the ill-effects of air pollution caused by fossil fuel has been found to cause 30 per cent premature deaths, cancer and mental diseases in the country. A recent study found that emissions caused by diesel vehicles are responsible for 66 per cent of air pollution-related deaths in India. It's important to progressively shift to cleaner fuel alternatives for a cleaner air," Omer said. Environmentalist Vikrant Tongad, the founder of NGO Social Action for Forest and Environment (SAFE), welcomed Guterres' statement but urged the UN to find ways to financially and technologically support a developing country like India. "The Indian government will have to do this in future to deliver climate justice. Our leaders must consider it seriously. At the same time, the UN has to understand that we are a developing country and raising the living standards of our people is important to us. Often, renewable power sources are more expensive than coal, therefore the UN should look for ways to support India financially and technology wise in this segment," Tongad said. Chanchal, who shared a similar view, said that the government needs a holistic and comprehensive action plan to ensure a just transition and livelihood of workers. "Transition to renewable energy is possible and to an extent the process has started but the government needs an inclusive, holistic, and comprehensive action plan to ensure a just energy transition and livelihood of workers," he said. Chanchal said that India is estimated to bear Rs 10.7 lakh crore annually because of air pollution from fossil fuels. "At the same time, the market is also unfavourable for coal power. The pre-construction pipeline continued to shrink In India and it fell by half from 2018 to 2019. Mostly because of financial reasons, at least 42 coal-fired power plant units under construction at 19 locations totalling 19,255 MW were on hold as of July 2020," he said. He said that according to the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy, India has the potential for 1,050 gigawatt of renewable energy capacity by 2030 but "there is a need to ensure the growing demand is fuelled by sustainable and cleaner sources of energy and that is possible in today's world where renewable energy is not just environment and climate-friendly but is an economically cheaper option as well." Suyash Gupta, Director General, Indian Auto LPG Coalition termed Guterres' plea to India to invest in clean energy as important, saying it can create new job opportunities and help recover the economy. "Carbon emissions from fossil fuel burning has, over the past century, been the main driver of global warming whose impact is clearly visible today in extreme weather events being witnessed around the world. "UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres' plea to India to invest in clean and environmentally sustainable fuels is therefore important at this time as we work towards a post COVID recovery. Investing in clean energy solutions and creating new jobs in the sector can drive economic growth and recovery," he said. Gupta added that it was important to make well-informed decisions to bring about the transition and suggested replacing high carbon fuels like petrol and diesel in the transport sector with low carbon fuels like Auto LPG. Aarti Khosla from Climate Trends gave examples of a few states which have said no to coal and said it reflected the sentiments of investors as well as industry. "Gujarat was the first state in India to announce a no new coal policy last year, Chattisgarh followed up soon after though didn't make an official statement but has clearly hinted to move in that direction. Maharashtra just recently announced that it would also not build new coal plants. This shift coming from the ground, reflects the sentiments of investors, as well as industry," she said.  PTI AG AAR AAR||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/experts-welcome-un-secretary-generals-advice-to-india-to-phase-out-fossil-fuel-for-combating-climate-change-879548.html
29-08-2020||National||SSR case: Rhea Chakraborty appears before CBI again||Escorted by a team of Mumbai police, actor-model Rhea Chakraborty appeared before the CBI for the second day of questioning on Saturday.  At the request of Rhea and CBI, she was given an escort.  A team of police officers and personnel, escorted her from Prim Rose, her residence at Juhu Tara Road at Santacruz West to DRDO & Air Force office/transit facility at Kalina.  Rhea was accompanied by her brother Showik. On Friday night, Rhea had met officers at Santacruz police station seeking protection. The Maharashtra BJP unit, however, objected to the security and escort provided to her. The CBI had on Friday questioned the actress at the DRDO guest house in suburban Santacruz in connection with the case. Recently, she had said in a social media post that there was a threat to her and her family's life and sought protection from the Mumbai police. She took to Instagram and shared a video where her father was seen being hounded by the media outside her building compound. She said that she and her family members are trying to step out of their house to cooperate with the investigating agencies like the CBI, the Enforcement Directorate (ED)- but are not able to do so due to the crowd gathering outside the residence. Rajput was found hanging at his flat in Bandra on June 14. His father had lodged a complaint against Rhea Chakraborty and others, accusing them of abetting his son's suicide and misappropriating his money.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ssr-case-rhea-chakraborty-appears-before-cbi-again-879550.html
29-08-2020||National||Number of Covid-19 tests crosses 4-crore mark in India||With more than nine lakh samples tested for the third consecutive day, the number of tests for detection of Covid-19 has crossed the four-crore mark in India, while the number of such tests per 10 lakh people has also increased to 29,280, the Union health ministry said on Saturday as the total number of coronavirus cases mounted to 34,63,972 in the country. With the focussed, consistent and coordinated efforts led by the Centre and implemented by the states and Union territories, the country has set a new landmark of testing 4,04,06,609 people for Covid-19 so far, the ministry said. The number of daily tests has also seen an upsurge. Already having achieved the testing capacity of 10 lakh per day, 9,28,761 Covid-19 tests were conducted on Friday. "This has boosted the Tests Per Million (TPM) with a sharp increase to 29,280. As is seen in many states and Union territories that have increased the testing, the positivity rate will eventually fall with higher levels of testing. The national positivity rate has remained low at 8.57 per cent and is constantly falling," the ministry highlighted. The number of tests for detection of Covid-19 had crossed the three-crore mark in the country on August 17. India has come a long way from conducting the first Covid-19 test in January in a laboratory in Pune to crossing the milestone of conducting four crore such tests. The country is following the strategic approach of "test, track and treat", where testing forms the initial and crucial pillar of Covid response and management. It is only by aggressive testing that positive cases are identified at an early stage, their close contacts promptly tracked and isolated, and a timely and effective treatment is ensured for those in home isolation or in hospitals, the ministry underlined. Expanding the network of diagnostic laboratories and facilitating easy testing across the country through several policy measures have given a substantial boost to this upsurge in the national testing rates.  Currently, there are 1,576 laboratories in the country -- 1,002 in the government sector and 574 private ones -- where Covid-19 tests can be performed, the ministry said. India's Covid-19 tally rose to 34,63,972 with a single-day spike of 76,472 cases, while the death toll due to the disease climbed to 62,550 with 1,021 people succumbing to it in a span of 24 hours, the health ministry's data updated at 8 am showed. At the same time, the number of recoveries surged to 26,48,998, pushing the recovery rate to 76.47 per cent, according to the data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/number-of-covid-19-tests-crosses-4-crore-mark-in-india-879565.html
29-08-2020||National||There shouldn't be further delay in NCDRC appointments: Supreme Court||There should not be a further delay in appointing members of the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC), the Supreme Court has said, asking the Centre to complete the process soon. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat made the observation while extending the term of an NCDRC member who is scheduled to retire on Sunday. "The finalisation of the selections and appointments of members of NCDRC does not brook further delay," it said. "We hope and trust that the appointments to the NCDRC shall be made soon." The apex court was considering a plea by the NCDRC member who has filed an application seeking a direction for extension of his service till the regular appointments are made. Attorney General K K Venugopal submitted that the recommendations made by the selection committee were under the consideration of the appointments committee of the cabinet (ACC). The top court said as the applicant was due to retire on August 30, the term of his appointment was extended for a month. The apex court had earlier expressed its displeasure over pending vacancies in the NCDRC and said the issue had to be addressed urgently. "You (govt) keep creating forums to take away work from the judiciary, but then you do not man them and then they come to a standstill," the top court had said. "This is creating a problem and we must express our displeasure at this and this should be attended to urgently."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/there-shouldnt-be-further-delay-in-ncdrc-appointments-supreme-court-879586.html
29-08-2020||National||Brain dead man breathes new life into Covid-19 patient with severe lung infection||A brain dead man has breathed new life into a Covid-19 patient with a severe lung infection and given new hope to a young Mumbai woman after his lungs and hands were transplanted to the respective donors. The 34-year-old deceased man's wife also agreed to donate his heart, liver and skin for various recipients in city hospitals. Incidentally, the hands were airlifted to Mumbai with the hope of giving the woman a real pair of limbs after she lost her hands in a train accident in Ghatkopar on January 12, 2014. The transplant that benefited more than one recipient was made possible due to the donation from the deceased, who was declared brain dead by doctors at Gleneagles Global Hospital in Chennai after intracerebral haemorrhage on Thursday, hospital sources said. After his wife's consent, the departed man's organs were allotted to various hospitals. While Global Hospital Chennai retained the liver, the heart, lungs, kidneys and skin were donated to different hospitals in the city. His hands went to Monika More, a young woman from Mumbai's suburban area, who was using artificial hands and is now set to get a real pair if the bilateral surgery succeeds. The heart and lung transplant surgeries were performed at MGM Healthcare here. Incidentally, the 48-year-old recipient of lungs from Delhi turned out to be the first case of "successful completion of a critical bilateral lung transplant" on a Covid-19 positive patient, MGM Healthcare, where he is undergoing treatment, said. It claimed this was Asia's "first known lung transplant" on a Covid-19 positive patient and the second in the hospital since the lockdown began. The transplant was performed on August 27 and post the transplant, the patient is doing fine in the Transplant ICU at MGM Healthcare, the hospital said in a statement. The patient's lungs were severely damaged due to Covid-19 related fibrosis after he contracted the infection on June 8 and only a small portion of the lungs was still functioning then. As he became breathless and oxygen saturation came down, he was put on ventilator support on June 20. His condition continued to worsen and he was airlifted to MGM Healthcare from Ghaziabad on July 20, the hospital said. As his lung condition continued to worsen, he was put on ECMO (extracorporeal membrane oxygenation) support on July 25 for more than one month. Such patients are difficult to manage even in well-equipped ICUs. "Initially we were in a dilemma when his case was referred to us. But we prioritised the patient's overall health over anything else. We decided to proceed with the surgery. Our team of doctors and the other support staff took up the challenge and boldly stood by the decision to go ahead with the transplant without thinking about the risk to their own health and safety. "We are happy for the patient as the transplanted lungs are working well," said Dr K R Balakrishnan, Chairman and Director of Cardiac Sciences and Director of the Heart and Lung Transplant Program at MGM Healthcare here, who led the team. According to Dr Suresh Rao, Co-Director, Institute of Heart and Lung Transplant and Mechanical Circulatory Support, the hospital accepted the heart from the same donor to another patient who was waiting for a heart transplant, "thereby giving a new lease of life to two people." BJP leader Kirit Somaiya supported More with getting electronic artificial hands from his social outfit 'Yuvak Pratisthan' in July the same year. While she completed her graduation and started working at a local hospital at Kurla as a social worker, she subsequently registered herself for bilateral hands transplant at Global Hospital, located at Parel in that city. Somaiya claimed that the cost of her transplant is borne by Yuvak Pratisthan and Global hospital. "The surgery was proposed in summer itself but had to be postponed after the coronavirus crisis. Finally, the hospital and More's family decided to perform the surgery on August 27," Somaiya said. "The hands were retrieved from a deceased donor at a private hospital in Chennai and airlifted to Mumbai on Thursday. The surgery conducted by a 12 member team led by Dr Nilesh Satbhai included Plastic, microvascular and reconstructive surgeons, Orthopaedic surgeons and Anaesthetists started on Thursday late night and was completed on Friday evening," a statement from Global Hospital said. The patient has been shifted to the ICU postoperatively for further management, it said. A hospital spokesperson thanked the donor's family, donor's hospital, Zonal Transplant Coordination Centre, Transtan, Regional Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation and National Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation for the timely coordination and allocation. "It goes without saying that the support extended by Traffic Police and Airport Authorities of Mumbai and Chennai ensured timely transport of the organ," the spokesperson added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/brain-dead-man-breathes-new-life-into-covid-19-patient-with-severe-lung-infection-879587.html
29-08-2020||National||Influence of dictatorship on country's democracy rising: Sonia Gandhi||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday alleged that anti-national and anti-poor forces were spreading hatred and venom of violence in India and the influence of 'tanashahi' (dictatorship) on the country's 'lokshahi' (democracy) was rising. She also said that the founding fathers of the country would have never imagined that the Constitution and democracy will be in danger 75 years after the Independence as "bad thinking is now dominating, freedom of expression is in danger and democratic institutions are being ruined". Gandhi was addressing the foundation stone laying ceremony of the new Chhattisgarh Assembly building to be built in Nava Raipur, the upcoming capital city of the state, through a recorded video message in Hindi. "For the past some time, an attempt is beingmade to derail our country. New challenges have come before our democracy. Today, the country stands at a crossroads. Anti- poor and anti-nation forces and those who rule by making people fight against each other have been spreading hatred and venom of violence," she said. "Bad thinking is dominating good thinking, freedom of expression is in danger and democratic institutions are being ruined. The influence of 'tanashahi' has been increasing on 'lokshahi'," she added. Without naming anyone, Gandhi further said, they want to suppress the voice of the people of the country. "What do they want? They want people of the country, our youth, our tribal people, our women, our farmers, shopkeepers and small traders, jawans to keep their mouths shut," she said. Two years later, the country will complete 75 years of Independence, Gandhi added. "Father of the nation Mahatma Gandhi, former prime minister Pt Jawaharlal Nehru, G V Mavalankar (Speaker of Constituent Assembly of India), Dr B R Ambedkar and our other ancestors would have never imagined that after 75 years of Independence, the country will face such a difficult situation and our Constitution and democracy will be in danger," she said. Extending wishes on the foundation stone laying ceremony, she said, "Today is an important day and we all should take a pledge to protect the foundation of democracy. We should also take a pledge that till the time we are in power, we should take a decision keeping in view the interest of people standing at the end of a queue." "It should be remembered that the Constitution will not be saved by buildings rather it will be protected by emotions," she asserted. Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi also attended the programme via video-conferencing from Delhi, officialssaid. Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel, Chhattisgarh Assembly Speaker Charan Das Mahant and state ministers were present at the venue of the function in Nava Raipur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/influence-of-dictatorship-on-countrys-democracy-rising-sonia-gandhi-879595.html
29-08-2020||National||India controlled spread of locusts using modern technologies: PM||India has controlled the spread of crop-threatening migratory pest desert locusts by using advanced technologies, including drones, and ensured there was not much crop damage, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday. In his address after the virtual inauguration of college and administration buildings of Jhansi-based Rani Lakshmi Bai Central Agricultural University, the prime minister stressed on the need to promote greater use of latest technologies in the farm sector. Sharing how modern technologies are helpful in addressing the challenges faced by the farm sector, Modi said the speed at which locust swarms were spreading in the country, it was not possible to control them in traditional ways. "In May, the Bundelkhand region had faced the locust problem. ...I was told the region faced the locust attack after 30 years. Not only Uttar Pradesh, but more than 10 states also faced the locust problem," the prime minister said. India has controlled this problem in a scientific way, he said. "If there was no coronavirus, a week-long positive media debate would have been carried on this. A big success has been achieved," he added. Asserting that the central government worked on a "war footing" to save crops from this pest, Modi said a dozen control rooms, including one in Jhansi, were set up and authorities procured special spray machines and distributed in the affected areas. "Be it tractors or chemicals, all machinery was put in place to ensure farmers face less crop damage. To save tall trees, drones and helicopters were used for spraying. Following these measures, India has been able to save farmers from incurring huge losses," he said. Emphasising the importance of modern farm technologies, the prime minister exhorted young researchers and agri-scientists to work on 'One life, One mission' to promote technologies like a drone or artificial intelligence across the country. For the last six few years, the government has been making efforts to take farm research directly to fields and make available scientific advise to even small farmers, he said. "From college campus to field, there is a need to further strengthen the ecosystem for experts. For which, Rani Lakshmi Bai Central Agricultural University will also play an important role," he added. India faced the menace of locust problem in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Bihar. However, the problem now has been controlled to a large extent after timely measures were taken by both the Centre and state governments in about 5.66 lakh hectare area in affected states, as per official data. Even the UN's Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) had in its August 24 update said the risk of swarm migration to the Indo-Pakistan summer breeding area has nearly subsided.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-controlled-spread-of-locusts-using-modern-technologies-pm-879603.html
29-08-2020||National||Amit Shah greets sportspersons on National Sports Day||On the occasion of National Sports Day, Union Home Minister Amit Shah greeted sportspersons on Saturday and said the Narendra Modi government is committed to promoting sports and nurturing young talents. He also complimented all sportspersons who have been making India proud by their hard work and passion. The day is observed to commemorate the birth anniversary of hockey legend Major Dhyan Chand who was born on August 29 in 1905. "Modi government is committed and playing an instrumental role in promoting sports and nurturing the young talent through initiatives like Khelo India and Fit India," he said in a series of tweets. Paying tribute to the hockey wizard, on his birth anniversary, the Home Minister said Major Dhyan Chand was a phenomenal legend, who won three Olympic gold medals and mesmerised millions by his magical technique. Tributes to wizard of hockey Major Dhyan Chand ji on his jayanti. Major Dhyan Chand's talent, achievements and devotion towards the motherland continues to inspire the generations to come, Shah said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-greets-sportspersons-on-national-sports-day-879614.html
29-08-2020||National||Sushant Singh Rajput's leg was broken, doctors said it was murder: Hospital staff||Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister Shweta Singh Kirti shared a video on Twitter, which was originally aired by News Nation, of a man claiming to be a member of staff at Cooper hospital saying that one of Sushant’s leg was broken when his mortal remains arrived at the hospital. He is further heard saying that he knew that it was a murder and the marks on the body concurred with what he knew. He further says that senior doctors who examined the body said that it was clear case of murder but the police declared that Sushant had died by suicide. He also claims that Sushant’s leg was broken and twisted, which the doctors agreed with, but case files do not reflect it. The CBI is currently investigating the case and they have interrogated Sushant’s former girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik Chakraborty in relation to the case. The Enforcement Directorate and Narcotics Control Board have also been questioning Rhea.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sushant-singh-rajputs-leg-was-broken-doctors-said-it-was-murder-hospital-staff-879616.html
29-08-2020||National||Centre revives 2-yr PG-diploma courses for medical graduates||To address the paucity of specialist doctors in district hospitals, the Centre has revived post-graduate diploma courses that one can pursue by clearing the NEET-PG exam after completing MBBS. Hospitals with a minimum of 100 operational beds are eligible to seek accreditation with National Board of Examinations (NBE) for the diploma courses. The NBE, an autonomous body under the Ministry of Health has launched post-MBBS two-year diploma courses in eight broad specialities -- anesthesiology, obstetrics and gynaecology, paediatrics, family medicine, ophthalmology, radiodiagnosis, ENT and tuberculosis, and chest disease. The Medical Council of India (MCI) had in 2019 converted its diploma courses into degree courses to overcome the shortfall of teaching faculty in the country. To fill the void caused by discontinuing the MCI diploma courses, the health ministry had asked the National Board of Examinations to look into the possibility of launching the diploma courses under its aegis, and NBE official said. "During the Covid-19 pandemic, the weakness and shortcomings of primary and secondary healthcare delivery system became obvious, thereby putting an extra burden on tertiary care health centres with medical colleges being converted into dedicated Covid care and treatment centres. "It was, therefore, imperative to augment the hospitals catering to the population in rural, semi-urban areas, and tier-two and tier-three cities," Professor Pawanindra Lal, the Executive Director of NBE said. After a series of consultations with the NITI Aayog, the Medical Council of India and the health ministry, the NBE prepared a blueprint for starting diploma courses and subsequently notified the launch on August 20. The diploma courses of NBE are approved by the Union Health Ministry, and are included in the first schedule of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956, vide a gazette notification dated August 6. Professor Lal hoped the diploma courses will provide the much-required trained manpower to district hospitals. "This will enhance the readiness of the district and sub-district hospitals to provide effective healthcare in situations like the coronavirus pandemic," he said. The NBE diploma courses in anesthesiology, family medicine, tuberculosis and chest disease will provide trained manpower within the geographic region of the community for handling epidemics and common diseases, the NBE executive director said. The diploma courses in paediatrics, obstetrics and gynaecology will augment reproductive and child healthcare delivery system and will prove to be a milestone in reducing maternal and infant mortality, he added. Acknowledging the role of the health ministry in a speedy approval of NBE diploma courses, Dr Abhijat Sheth, the president of NBE, said, "These courses will provide the much-needed opportunity to our medical graduates to undergo post-graduate training considering that there is still a significant shortfall in the number of post-graduate seats as compared to that in MBBS." Professor Lal said the key emphasis of NBE diploma courses shall be on government hospitals and district hospitals. Entry to the diploma courses shall be through NEET-PG under the Post-Graduate Medical Education Regulations notified by the MCI. Also, keeping into consideration the requirement of the states, 50 per cent of NBE diploma seats in the district hospitals of a state shall be reserved for in-service candidates of the state concerned. This will reduce dependency on tier-I cities for providing healthcare.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-revives-2-yr-pg-diploma-courses-for-medical-graduates-879617.html
29-08-2020||National||IYC to reach out to unemployed youth through signature, letter campaigns||The Congress' youth outfit IYC will reach out to the unemployed through signature and letter campaigns under its 'Rozgar Do' programme, which was launched at the party's headquarters here on Saturday. The Indian Youth Congress (IYC) will also stage protests in front of residences and offices of BJP parliamentarians and ministers across the country to demand employment for the youth, the wing's president Srinivas B V said. He said that the IYC will also stage a 'Parliament Gherao' over their demands. "Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman says that the impact on the economy is due to coronavirus pandemic, but it’s actually lack of vision which has led to unemployment due to wrong policies of the Modi government," Srinivas said. The IYC president said that a song for the 'Rozgar Do' campaign will be released and it will be in different Indian languages. The youth wing will also organise wall writing and poster making drives on the unemployment issue, Srinivas said. All Indian Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge Krishna Allaveru accused the ruling BJP at the Centre for "destroying" the economy even before the outbreak of the coronavirus. "Demonetisation, GST and an unplanned lockdown in March, despite warnings of an 'economic tsunami' by Rahul Gandhi were not act of God but the policies and decisions of the Modi government that have led to unemployment among the youth," he said. Congress national spokesperson Pawan Khera said that unemployment had assumed "fearsome" proportions before the Covid-19 outbreak and around 13.5 crore youth are likely to lose their jobs due to the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iyc-to-reach-out-to-unemployed-youth-through-signature-letter-campaigns-879623.html
29-08-2020||National||Union Home Minister Amit Shah recovers, to be discharged shortly||Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who was admitted to AIIMS-Delhi for post-Covid-19 care 12 days ago, has recovered and will be discharged shortly, the hospital said on Saturday. The 55-year-old top BJP leader was taken to AIIMS after he complained of body ache and fatigue at 2 AM on August 18, four days after he was discharged from Medanta Hospital where he was undergoing treatment for Covid-19. "Amit Shah is admitted at AIIMS, New Delhi for post-Covid-19 care. He has recovered and is likely to be discharged in a short time," an AIIMS statement said.  Shah, who tested positive for Covid-19 on August 2 and admitted to Medanta Hospital in Haryana's Gurugram, had on August 14 announced on Twitter that he had recovered from Covid-19 and the fresh tests had confirmed he was Covid-19 negative. Shah had missed the Ram Temple 'bhumi pujan' function in Ayodhya on August 5 and the Independence Day celebrations at Red Fort where Prime Minister Narendra Modi unfurled the national flag and addressed the nation. In the past couple of days, there has been speculation about Shah's health. The AIIMS had not released any health bulletin on Shah, who is diabetic, after it issued a statement on August 18, which announced his admission in the hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-home-minister-amit-shah-recovers-to-be-discharged-shortly-879625.html
29-08-2020||National||Indian Railways surpasses last year's freight loading; speed of freight trains increased by 72%||Despite Covid-19 pandemic since March, Indian Railways is able to gain lost ground in freight transportation as its freight loading was 4.3% higher in August compared to the same period last year. Indian Railways has achieved a record loading of foodgrains, 80% more than last year. The railways also increased the speed of freight trains to enable it to the speedy delivery of goods. The average speed of freight trains saw around a 72% increase in the year 2020-21 as compared to last year. August 2020 saw an increase in the speed of freight trains of about 94% compared to August 2019, said the railways. With railways taking the number of initiatives to boost the freight, loading was August 2020 (till 27th August 2020) is 4.3% higher, compared to last year for the same month. "In the month of August 2020 (till 27th August 2020) the total freight loading was 81.33 million tonnes which is higher than last year for the same month (77.97 million tonnes)," said railways in a statement. With regular passengers trains suspended, the national transporter is taking a number of initiatives to improve the earning from freight. Apart from offering discounts in freight movement to attract freight, the railways also started fixed timetabled parcel train services with halts in major railway stations. To promote freight services and attract clients, the railways has also set up multi-disciplinary business development units (BDU) at its zonal and divisional levels.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-surpasses-last-years-freight-loading-speed-of-freight-trains-increased-by-72-879627.html
29-08-2020||National||Annual and development fees cannot be charged till schools reopen: Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court has held that annual and development charges cannot be taken from the parents of students "during the pendency of the present lockdown", when schools are yet to reopen. The prima facie opinion was expressed by Justice Jayant Nath in his order of August 25 while hearing a plea moved by the parents' association of a private school, which started taking the annual and development charges along with the tuition fees from July. The court restrained the school from taking the annual and development charges from the parents for the month of July till further orders. It also issued a notice to the Delhi government and the school, seeking their stand on the plea of the parents' association, which was represented by advocate Gaurav Bahl. The court has listed the matter for further hearing on September 16. According to the order, during the hearing via video-conference, the school contended that the lockdown is over and hence, it can levy the annual and development charges. However, the Delhi government, represented by its Additional Standing Counsel Gautam Narayan, told the court that the Directorate of Education's April 18 circular, asking the schools not to charge the annual and development fees during the lockdown period, continues to apply as none of the schools has physically opened. The Delhi government said therefore, the school in question cannot charge the annual and development fees till the completion of the lockdown period. After hearing both sides, the judge said, "In my opinion, prima facie, it appears that the annual and development charges cannot be charged from the parents during the pendency of the present lockdown." The court said the parents have to pay the tuition fees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/annual-and-development-fees-cannot-be-charged-till-schools-reopen-delhi-hc-879629.html
29-08-2020||National||Govt explores possibility of single voter list for LS, assembly, local body polls||The government IS discussing the possibility of having a common electoral roll for Lok Sabha, assembly and local body elections to avoid discrepancies and bring uniformity in the voters list, officials said on Saturday. At present, the Election Commission prepares the electoral roll or voter list for Lok Sabha and assembly polls. The state election commissions, which are altogether separate bodies as per constitutional provisions, hold elections for local bodies such as municipalities and panchayats in their respective states based on their own voter lists. Several state election commissions use the draft voter list of the EC to formulate their own rolls. The draft EC roll is often divided into wards for local body elections. Now, the Centre is exploring the possibility of having a single voter list for Lok Sabha, assembly and local body polls as this can help bring in uniformity and also save costs involved in an entire exercise getting repeated for making separate voter lists, officials said. There are provisions in the Constitution that empower states to formulate their own laws to hold panchayat and municipal polls. States also have powers to either have their own voter lists or to adopt the one prepared by the EC for assembly polls. "The government is discussing whether there can be a single electoral roll for these three types of elections. Now, states have to be persuaded to adopt the central electoral roll ( the one prepared by EC)," explained a senior functionary. According to another functionary, it is "desirable" to have one common electoral roll as at present an entire exercise gets repeated for the same purpose. "Money is also spent for the same exercise twice. One roll can be good for voters also and there would be no discrepancy in local body and assembly voter lists," he said. Often discrepancies have been noticed when names of voters are missing in one of the lists. Earlier this month, the Prime Minister's Office organised a meeting on the issue where top officials of the Law Ministry and the EC gave their views on the present status and the future possibilities. Asked whether the proposed single electoral roll was linked to the idea of holding simultaneous elections, a government official said the two are not linked as simultaneous polls typically refer to holding Lok Sabha and assembly polls together in the Indian context. The Election Commission, the Law Commission and the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Law and Personnel Ministries have supported the idea of a single voter list in the past also. In a letter written to the government in November 1999, the Election Commission had said that separate rolls prepared by the EC and State ECs "not only create confusion among the electors because their names may be present in one roll but absent in the other, or vice versa, but also result in duplication of effort and expenditure." In its report on Demands for Grants (2016-17) of the Law Ministry, the standing committee had also pointed out that  as of now, the EC and State Election Commissions have separate electoral rolls. "They carry out registration of voters and updation of electoral rolls separately. The numbers of voters in their electoral rolls usually vary," it had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-explores-possibility-of-single-voter-list-for-ls-assembly-local-body-polls-879634.html
29-08-2020||National||India's Covid-19 cases, fatalities per million among the lowest in world; 81% deaths from 7 states||For every million population, India's coronavirus cases and fatalities are one of the lowest compared to the global averages, the high-level Group of Ministers (GoM) on Covid-19 was informed on Saturday. At its 20th meeting held here on Saturday, the GoM on Covid-19 was briefed on the current status of the coronavirus outbreak in India, the Health Ministry said. The meeting was informed that as of Saturday, eight states — Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Odisha and Telangana — contribute around 73 per cent of the active caseload. Seven states — Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal — account for 81 per cent of total deaths due to coronavirus infection. At the meeting, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said the country has made tremendous strides in containing the Covid-19 outbreak and instructed his ministry to develop standard operating procedures (SoPs), comprising Covid-19 protocols and preventive measures, for Parliament and Assembly sessions. The GoM expressed concern about the forthcoming festival season and advised everyone to adopt safe and Covid-19-appropriate behaviour. "The global comparison depicted that India has one of the lowest cases per million (2,424) and deaths per million (44) compared to the global average of 3,161 and 107.2 respectively," the Ministry said. It underlined that despite being resource-constrained and densely populated, timely lockdown and rapid augmentation of infrastructure have enabled India to keep cases per million and deaths per cent million considerably low compared to other countries. According to an official statement, Vardhan expressed satisfaction at the coordinated efforts of the Centre, states and Union Territories. "In the month since the last meeting of GoM on July 31, we have made tremendous strides in containing the disease. As many as 26.4 lakh have already recovered. The country's case fatality rate is at its lowest at 1.81 per cent and consecutively recovery rate has increased to 76.47 per cent," he said. He further informed the GOM that with the creation of sufficient health facilities, the health infrastructure in the country has been amply strengthened. Also, only 0.29 per cent of cases are on ventilators, 1.93 per cent on ICU and only 2.88 per cent of cases are on oxygen support, the health minister said. "A total of 1,576 labs at present have led to an upsurge in testing and the goal of 10 lakh tests per day has been fulfilled. More than nine lakh samples were tested in the last 24 hours and this has led to the cumulative number of tests crossing the four-crore mark," he added. Vardhan also informed the GoM that more than 338 lakh N-95 masks, nearly 135 lakh PPEs and about 27,000 ventilators have been provided by the Centre to the states and UTs. NCDC Director Sujit Singh presented a detailed report on surveillance efforts undertaken in India during the pandemic through the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) network. He mentioned that there is a need for continued attention on promoting the wearing of masks, physical distancing and respiratory etiquettes. Dr Vinod K Paul, Chairperson of the Empowered Group-1 on Medical Emergency management plan, apprised the GoM of the process of Covid-19 vaccine development in India and around the world. He stated that 29 vaccine candidates, including two Indian, are in clinical trials. Of them, six are in phase-three of the trial. In India, Bharat Biotech's vaccine candidate, based on inactivated virus procured by the ICMR, is in the phase-two trial along with that of Zydus Cadila, which is based on viral DNA. The Oxford vaccine candidate being put in trial by the Serum Institute of India is already in phase-three in Maharashtra and some other states. Dr Paul also informed the GoM of the progress made by the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19. The group is tasked with facilitation of vaccine development, including trial and stockpiling, sorting out issues of financing, risk management, selection of potential beneficiaries and their order of reference, envisioning logistics, scale-up, digital system, defining principles for selecting beneficiary categories, and defining the scientific basis for selecting vaccine, the statement said. Three meetings of this national expert group have been held so far. Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan apprised the GOM on the efforts made by the Health Ministry towards addressing mental health during the pandemic. He stated that the Centre was in direct communication with the states reporting a surge in cases and those with higher mortality rates. Vardhan was joined by External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, Minister of Civil Aviation Hardeep Singh Puri, Minister of State, Shipping (Independent Charge), Chemicals and Fertilizers Mansukh Lal Mandaviya, Minister of State for Health Ashwini Kumar Choubey, and Minister of State, Home Affairs, Nityanand Rai, and Member (Health) NITI Aayog Vinod Paul virtually.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-cases-fatalities-per-million-among-the-lowest-in-world-81-deaths-from-7-states-879641.html
29-08-2020||National||NEET, JEE exams: NSUI leaders on hunger strike in Goa||Three leaders of the Congress-affiliated National Students Union of India (NSUI) on Saturday sat on indefinite hunger strike here demanding that JEE and NEET examinations be postponed. The leaders, including NSUI's Goa unnit chief Ahraz Mulla, Prasenjeet Dhage and Naushad Chawdhari, also demaded that college fees be waived by 60 per cent in view of the COVID-19 situation. Dhage alleged some colleges are charging Rs 60,000- 70,000 in fees from students which is putting huge financial burden on parents. He said the fast will continue till the Central government agrees to defer JEE and NEET exams. On Friday, ministers of six non-BJP states moved the supreme court against its August 17 order allowing the exams. The top court had refused to interfere with the conduct of the medical and engineering entrance exams, saying that life must go on and students can't lose a precious year due to the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/neet-jee-exams-nsui-leaders-on-hunger-strike-in-goa-879645.html
29-08-2020||National||Centre suggests states options of borrowing money to make up for GST shortfall||The central government on Saturday wrote to states suggesting options of borrowing money to make up for the Rs 2.35 lakh crore shortfall in GST revenues expected in the ongoing fiscal. Two days after first suggesting to states to borrow money to make up for the shortfall at the GST Council meeting, the finance ministry wrote to state governments saying they could borrow either via a special window it will facilitate through the RBI or raise debt from the market. While the Centre has reasoned its recommendations on premise that it is already saddled with a large borrowing requirement given the slowdown in revenue collections due to a slump in the economy, non-BJP ruled states such as Punjab, Kerala, Delhi and West Bengal have already stated that raising debt is not an option for already stretched state finances. In a letter to finance secretaries of all states and union territories, Union Finance Secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey said while additional borrowing by the Centre influences the yields on central government securities (G-secs) and has other macro-economic repercussions, the yields on state securities do not directly influence other yields and do not have the same repercussions. "Hence, it is in the collective interest of Centre and states and in the interest of the nation and of all economic entities including the private sector, not to do any avoidable borrowing at the central level when it could be done at the state level," Pandey wrote in the letter. Compensation payment has been an issue since August 2019 with GST collections faltering. In the current fiscal, the compensation requirement of states has been estimated at Rs 3 lakh crore, of which Rs 65,000 crore would be funded from the revenues garnered by levy of cess. This leaves a shortfall of Rs 2.35 lakh crore. The Centre has estimated that of this Rs 2.35 lakh crore, Rs 97,000 crore compensation requirement is due to GST rollout and the remaining is on account of the impact of COVID-19 on the economy. Giving two options, she said states can borrow either Rs 97,000 crore -- the deficit arising out of GST implementation -- or the entire Rs 2.35 lakh crore. States, on their part, have said that such a distinction is not constitutionally valid. Explaining in detail the borrowing options to meet the shortfall, Pandey said borrowing by states typically incurs a higher interest cost than borrowing by the Centre. "The Government of India is conscious of this and has factored this (in the options) with a view to protecting the states so that they are not adversely affected," he wrote. Under the first option, if the states choose to borrow Rs 97,000 crore, which is the shortfall arising out of GST implementation, under a special window, the Centre will endeavour to keep the cost at or close to the G-sec yield. Such borrowing would be over and above any other borrowing ceilings for which a state is eligible. "The interest on the borrowing under the special window will be paid from the cess as and when it arises until the end of the transition period... The state will not be required to service the debt or to repay it from any other source," the letter added. "The borrowing under the special window will not be treated as debt of the state for any norms which may be prescribed by the Finance Commission etc," It said. Under the second option, the entire shortfall of Rs 2.35 lakh crore will be borrowed by states through the issue of market debt. The interest shall be paid by the states from their resources, while the principal on the amount under will be paid from proceeds of the cess. "To the extent of the shortfall arising due to implementation of GST (i.e. Rs 97,000 crore approximately in aggregate), the borrowing will not be treated as debt of the state for any norms which may be prescribed by the Finance Commission etc," the letter added. Pandey said the GST Act lays out the spirit and purpose of the GST compensation -- to compensate states for loss of revenue “arising on account of implementation of GST”. "The wording of the Constitution and statutory preamble makes it clear that the spirit of the law is not to compensate states for all types of revenue losses, but rather for that loss arising from GST implementation," he said. "It is the correct and proper interpretation which was thoroughly discussed in the GST Council and in Parliament before the relevant legislation was passed," it said. "The Government of India will support extension of the compensation cess for such period as may be necessary to completely discharge any arrears of compensation," Pandey said. Pandey along with Expenditure Secretary T V Somanathan would address queries of the states relating to these options on September 1, an official statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-suggests-states-options-of-borrowing-money-to-make-up-for-gst-shortfall-879647.html
29-08-2020||National||Coronavirus positive patient falls to death at Moradabad hospital||A coronavirus patient allegedly committed suicide by jumping from the sixth floor of a hospital in Uttar Pradesh’s Moradabad, police said. According to them, the 42-year-old patient, who was a senior manager with a bank, was admitted to the Teerthankar University hospital on August 25. He jumped to his death on Thursday night, police said. Local police post-in-charge Praveen Kumar said a CCTV footage showed that he jumped from the sixth floor of the hospital. He was found dead at the ground floor of the hospital, Kumar said. His room has been sealed by police, Kumar said, adding that the cause of the incident will be known only after investigation. Prima facie, it appears to be a suicide case, he added. This is the second such incident at the Moradabad hospital since August 19. Earlier, a woman had fallen to her death from the second floor of the hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-positive-patient-falls-to-death-at-moradabad-hospital-879648.html
29-08-2020||National||From The Newsroom: P Chidambaram takes a swipe at Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, former Finance Minister P Chidambaram takes a swipe at Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman over 'Act of God' remark; Amit Shah to be discharged shortly and American star Chadwick Boseman no more.  Here is the top news of today, Saturday: August 29, 2020: Bengaluru-based Edu-tech firm 'Unacademy' has been roped in the as official partner for the Indian Premier League for three seasons, the BCCI announced on Saturday. The 13th IPL is scheduled to be held in UAE from September 19 to November 10. "We are pleased to have Unacademy on board as the 'Official Partner' of the Indian Premier League 2020 to 2022," IPL chairman Brijesh Patel said in a release on Tuesday. "IPL is the most-watched cricket league in India and as a homegrown Indian edutech company we believe that Unacademy can create a huge positive impact on the aspirations of the audience watching, especially the millions of Indian youth who are seeking inspiration in their careers." Commenting on the association, Karan Shroff, VP - Marketing, Unacademy, said: "We are delighted to become the Official Partner of IPL. Unacademy is a high-intensity brand that has disrupted the education and learning market with innovations and broken geographical barriers for Learners and Educators. "With this partnership, we will double-down on our efforts to make Unacademy the biggest brand in the consumer internet space in India. We thank the BCCI and IPL for the opportunity and look forward to a long and fruitful partnership." Taking a dig at Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman over her "Act of God" remark on the economy, Congress leader P Chidambaram on Saturday asked, "the FM as the Messenger of God" to "please answer" how to describe the "mismanagement" of the economy before the coronavirus pandemic. Sitharaman on Thursday said the economy has been hit by the pandemic, which is an "Act of God", and it will see a contraction in the current fiscal. Taking a swipe at Sitharaman over the remark, Chidambaram said, "If the pandemic is an ‘Act of God’, how do we describe the mismanagement of the economy during 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20. Before the pandemic struck India?" "Will the FM as the Messenger of God please answer?" the former finance minister asked on Twitter. In a series of tweets, the senior Congress leader also slammed the Centre for asking states to borrow more to make up for revenue losses due to pending GST dues. He asserted that the two options given by the Modi government to the states to bridge the GST compensation gap are unacceptable. "Under the first option the states are asked to borrow by pledging their future receivables under Compensation cess. The financial burden falls entirely on the states," Chidambaram said. American star Chadwick Boseman's death from colon cancer has led to an outpouring of grief in Hollywood with prominent figures from the industry, including Denzel Washington, Jordan Peele, Chris Evans and Kevin Feige, paying their respects to the actor. The 43-year-old actor passed away at his residence here with his wife and family by his side. The actor fought the disease for four years, Boseman's family said in a statement posted on his official Twitter handle on Saturday. Boseman made a name for himself by playing historical figures like such as Jackie Robinson in "42" (2013), James Brown in "Get on Up" (2014) and Thurgood Marshall in "Marshall" (2017). He was popular globally, owing to his starring role as T'Challa aka superhero Black Panther in Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) movies such as "Captain America: Civil War", "Black Panther", "Avengers: Infinity War" and "Avengers: Endgame". The news of his death sent shockwaves in the US and in the film industry with many celebrities, politician and people from different walks of life taking to social media to express their grief. The Border Security Force (BSF) has detected a tunnel, originating from Pakistan, just beneath the Indo-Pak international border fence in Jammu, officials said on Saturday. The force has launched a major search operation in the area to look for other such hidden structures that aid infiltration even as it analyses the about 3-4 feet wide structure that could be used for pushing terrorists and smuggling of narcotics and arms, they said. BSF Director General Rakesh Asthana has directed his frontier commanders to ensure that the anti-infiltration grid is intact and there are no gaps along this front, they added. The tunnel, about 50 metres from the border fence on the Indian side, was located by a BSF patrol on Thursday in the Galar area of Samba sector in Jammu. The force found that 8-10 plastic sandbags stuffed in the tunnel's mouth had "Pakistani markings" on them, officials told PTI. A senior official said BSF troops got suspicious after noticing the sinking of the earth at some places in a farmer's field due to recent incessant rains. An earth-moving machine was immediately pressed into service to completely unearth the tunnel that is about 170 metres from the IB on the Indian side, the official said. Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who was admitted to AIIMS for post-Covid-19 care, has recovered and will be discharged shortly, the hospital said on Saturday.  Shah was admitted to AIIMS on August 18 after he complained of fatigue and body ache.  Earlier on August 2, he was tested positive for Covid-19. He stayed in Medanta Hospital till his recovery on August 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-p-chidambaram-takes-a-swipe-at-finance-minister-nirmala-sitharaman-879651.html
29-08-2020||National||Uttarakhand BJP chief Bhagat tests Covid-19 positive||Uttarakhand  BJP president Bansidhar Bhagat on Saturday said he has tested positive for Covid-19. Taking to Twitter, Bhagat himself announced his test result and asked all those who came in contact with him last week to undergo Covid-19 testing. Uttarakhand BJP vice-president Devendra Bhasin said Bhagat's treatment has begun. He also wished the state party chief a speedy recovery. "I was tested for corona on Friday and my test report has come positive. I request everyone who came in contact with me last week to undergo a corona test, " Bhagat said in a tweet. "I hope I will be back soon with your blessings and good wishes," he said. Bhasin said the state BJP headquarters here has been closed for two days. The party office here will remain closed on Saturday and Sunday during which it will be fully sanitised, he said, adding it will reopen on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttarakhand-bjp-chief-bhagat-tests-covid-19-positive-879676.html
29-08-2020||National||Remove dedicated freight corridor bottlenecks: Railway Minister to states||From land issues, pending arbitrations and demands of villagers to sluggish work by state authorities, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal has flagged issues, which have hampered work on the Rs 81,000 crore dedicated freight corridor, in letters to nine chief ministers urging them to intervene and told them that the Prime Minister was "monitoring the project closely". Following concerns raised by the PMO, Goyal in letters to the chief ministers of Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Punjab, West Bengal, Haryana, Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Jharkhand has highlighted how the dedicated freight corridor has been facing "long-pending issues" which have remained "unresolved". The Minister has especially urged the Uttar Pradesh chief minister's personal intervention to resolve the bottlenecks in his state as over 1,000 km of the DFC passes through it. "The Prime Minister has been monitoring the progress of the project closely. Over 1,000 km length of DFC passes through the state of Uttar Pradesh... However, certain issues relating to land acquisition and ROB construction still persist, which need to be resolved urgently for ensuring commissioning of the project work within targeted time. "You may kindly appreciate that bottlenecks, even in a few stretches in this type of liner project, will stall the commissioning of the entire project," Goyal said in his letter. He has listed a slew of problems facing the Railways -- pending road over bridges (ROB), hindrances in physical possession of land in areas like Muzaffarnagar, Meerut, Saharanpur among others due to agitation, arbitration cases, demand compensation and jobs by villagers, undue demand of lease rent by the Uttar Pradesh forest department and protests by villages over the building of ROB in Mirzapur district. In the letters, Goyal has listed all the issues that are being faced by the Railways in specific areas in the states. In West Bengal and Jharkhand, the Minister has raised issues of delay in disbursal of awards, arbitration and mutation. "Out of total length of 1,839 km of Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor, 203 km (Gomoh-Dankuni) is passing through the state of West Bengal and likely to attract major investment being planned under the PPP model. The foremost criterion for initiating bidding for this project is to acquire at least 90 per cent land with a mutation. As such, the success of this project in your state depends upon the early availability of land. "However, delay in disbursal of awards, pending arbitration, mutations and hindrances in possession of land etc. in various districts have adversely affected project work... You will appreciate that removal of these hindrances is essential to ensure commencement of project work,” Goyal wrote in his letter to West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. In his letter to Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, Goyal said that the state was a major beneficiary of the project, as 236 km of Eastern DFC is passing through the districts of Gaya, Aurangabad, Kaimur and Rohtas and likely to attract major investment in your state. He said that land acquisition in certain stretches is held up for long due to delay in disbursal of awards, pending arbitration, mutations and hindrances in possession of the land which "adversely affected the project work". The Minister has highlighted two major issues in almost all the states -- land acquisition and delay by the local governments in building land approaches and road overbridges (ROB). In his letter to the Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani, Goyal highlighted how out of the total of 1,504 km of the WDFC, 565 km is in the state. Out of the 60 ROBs that were to be constructed, 32 were to be built by the state, however, only two have been built and the progress of the other 20 are slow. Land acquisition for the approaches for 46 out of the 60 ROBs are also pending, he said. Similarly in states like Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Punjab, delay in land acquisition for ROBs by the state governments have delayed the project. Railways will also hold a review with state government officials of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Gujarat and Maharashtra on September 1. DFCCIL has been tasked with developing Indian Railways' quadrilateral linking the four metropolitan cities of Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and Howrah, commonly known as the Golden Quadrilateral. The overall cost is pegged at Rs 81,459 crore. In the first phase, the organisation is constructing the Western DFC (1,504 route km) and Eastern DFC (1,856 route km) spanning a total length of 3,360 route km. These corridors were targeted to be completed in phases by December 2021. DFCCIL had completed a total of 500 km till January.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/remove-dedicated-freight-corridor-bottlenecks-railway-minister-to-states-879680.html
29-08-2020||National||Supreme Court to sentence Prashant Bhushan on August 31||The Supreme Court is scheduled to pronounce on Monday its order on sentence against advocate Prashant Bhushan after having convicted him of criminal contempt for his tweets. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari had on August 25 reserved its order. Bhushan, for his part, declined to tender an apology for his statements against the top court and its judges. His counsel Rajeev Dhavan asked the court to show large-heartedness to face not just criticism but extreme criticism. He said the court should close the matter without any punishment, warning or debarring him from practice, but with a general message to be a "little restrained" in future. Attorney General K K Venugopal said the court should close the matter by showing statesmanship if Bhushan withdrew his statement and expressed his regret. The court, which held Bhushan guilty of contempt on August 14, said he had gone to the extent of quoting Mahatma Gandhi but he could not apologise and his two statements justified the tweets. The court had on August 20 given the advocate an option to tender an unconditional apology for tweets posted on June 27 and 29. Bhushan, for his part, said an apology for expression of bona fide beliefs would be insincere and would amount to the contempt of his conscience and of an institution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-to-sentence-prashant-bhushan-on-august-31-879683.html
29-08-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi pitches for taking farm education to middle school level||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday pitched for taking farm education to middle school level, saying necessary reforms have been made in this regard in the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020. "There is a need to take knowledge related to agriculture and its practical application to school level. Efforts are (on) to introduce the Agriculture subject at middle school level in villages," Modi said. This will develop agriculture related understanding in students and enable them to give information about agriculture, its modern farming techniques and marketing, to their family members, he said, adding this will promote agro-entrepreneurship in the country. "For this, many reforms have been made in the National Education Policy," Modi said in an address after the virtual inauguration of college and administration buildings of Jhansi-based Rani Lakshmi Bai Central Agricultural University. The NEP approved by the Union Cabinet last month replaces the 34-year-old National Policy on Education and is aimed at paving the way for transformational reforms in school and higher education systems to make India a global knowledge superpower. Asserting that steady efforts are being made to connect farming with modern technology, the Prime Minister noted that research institutions and agricultural universities have a vital role to play. Currently, there are three central agricultural universities in the country, compared to just one university six years ago. Besides this, three more national institutions -- IARI Jharkhand, IARI Assam and Mahatma Gandhi Institute for Integrated Farming in Motihari, Bihar -- are being established. He remarked that these institutions will not only give new opportunities to students, but will also help in increasing their capacity, in providing technology benefits to the local farmers. Modi further said in the last six years, the government has endeavoured to establish a link between research and farming, and to provide scientific advice to farmers, at the ground level in villages. He sought the cooperation of the universities in developing the ecosystem to streamline the flow of knowledge and expertise from campus to agriculture fields. On use of modern technology in tackling farm sector challenges, Modi cited the recent locust attack and said the government worked on war footing to control the spread of the attack and to reduce the damage. He mentioned that dozens of control rooms were set up in several cities, arrangements were made to alert farmers in advance, and drones were supplied for spraying pesticides. Besides, dozens of modern spray machines used to kill locusts, were procured and provided to farmers. Asserting that the farm sector has a major role to play in making India 'Aatmanirbhar' (self-reliant), Modi said, "When I talk about aatmanirbhar in agriculture, it is not limited to foodgrains but the self-reliance of a village/rural economy." Self reliance in agriculture aims at making farmers both producer as well as entrepreneur. The growth of farmers and overall farm sector will lead to creation of jobs at village level, he said. To further boost the farm sector and double the income of farmers, Modi said the government is taking several historical reforms in the sector. He listed out the amendments in the Essential Commodities Act, and ordinances to allow farmers sell outside mandis. "Just like other industries, now farmers can also sell their produce anywhere in the country, wherever they fetch better prices," he said, adding that a special dedicated fund of Rs 1 lakh crore has been set up for providing better facilities and promoting industries in a cluster-based approach. Earlier, interacting with the students of Rani Lakshmi Bai Central Agricultural University, the Prime Minister expressed concern over the whopping Rs 75,000 crore edible oil import bill and asked for solution from the students to address this issue. He also stressed on the need to boost food processing levels and create awareness among farmers about micro, drip and sprinkler irrigation in the drought-prone Bundelkhand region and other parts of the country. During the interaction, the Prime Minister also stressed on promoting recycling of water and rainwater harvesting through innovative and less costlier technology in the region. He also mentioned that Israel's water technology can be of use. Besides, he talked about the need to increase agro-forestry, reduce consumption of chemical fertiliser, and adoption of organic farming as well as zero budget farming. Rani Lakshmi Bai Central Agricultural University started its first academic session in 2014-15 and is offering both under-graduate and post-graduate courses in agriculture, horticulture and forestry. It is currently operating from the Indian Grassland and Fodder Research Institute, Jhansi as the main buildings were getting ready. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Ministers of State for Agriculture Parshottam Rupala and Kailash Choudhary, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, and other senior officials were present in the virtual event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-pitches-for-taking-farm-education-to-middle-school-level-879695.html
29-08-2020||National||Unlock 4.0 guidelines: Metro to start operations from Sept 7; schools, colleges to remain shut till Sept 30||Metro services can resume operations in a graded manner from September 7, while political, social and other gatherings of up to 100 people will be allowed from September 21, the Unlock 4.0 guidelines issued on Saturday to further ease Covid-19 restrictions said. Although educational institutions will remain closed throughout the next month, students from Class IX to XII will be allowed to go to schools outside containment zones from September 21 to take guidance from teachers. International air travel, other than those permitted by the government, will also continue to remain suspended. In bad news for entertainment sector, the government has still not allowed opening of cinema halls, entertainment parks, theatres and similar places. Swimming pools will also be out of bounds for people.  However, open air theatres will be allowed to open from September 21. Similarly, bars will also be allowed to open, which could fetch more money for cash-starved states. The guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) also warn states against imposing local lockdown, which several have described as indiscriminate. If a state wants to impose local lockdown outside containment zones – state-wide, district, sub-district or city level --  it will have to consult the Centre before taking any such decision. Lockdown in containment zones will continue till September 30. Out of operations since late March, Metro services will be allowed to operate from September 7 in a "graded manner" by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MOHUA), which will prepare a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) in consultation with MHA. States like Delhi had demanded the resumption of Metro services and it is now likely to ease transport woes of people where the facility is available. Another highlight of the guidelines is the permission granted to hold social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious and political gatherings with a maximum of 100 people in attendance from September 21. However, such limited gatherings can be held with mandatory wearing of face masks, social distancing, provision for thermal scanning and hand wash or sanitizer. This would also mean that marriage related gatherings and funerals can have a guest list of 100 people from September 21. Till September 20, the restriction of 50 guests for marriages and 20 for funerals will remain in place. Allowing political gatherings, though with a restriction of 100 people, would be a relief for politicians in Bihar, which is headed for Assembly elections later this year. While educational institutions will remain closed with most states against re-opening of the same, Classes IX -XII students visiting their schools on "voluntary basis, for taking guidance" from their teachers, should have written consent from their parents or guardians. States could also permit up to 50 per cent of teaching and non-teaching staff to be called to the schools at a time for online teaching or tele-counselling and related work. An SOP will be published by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare in this regard. Those pursuing PhD and post graduate students enrolled for technical and professional programmes requiring laboratory and experimental works will be permitted by the Department of Higher Education ( DHE) in consultation with MHA, based on the assessment of the situation, and keeping in view incidence of Covid-19 in the states. Further opening up of services comes at a time when the country is witnessing a rise in coronavirus cases. India's Covid-19 tally touched 34,63,972 with a single-day spike of 76,472 cases of new infections. Amid complaints that some states were restricting movement of people and vehicles, the guidelines have made it clear that there will be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of people and goods. No separate permission or e-permit will be required for such movements. "Vulnerable persons, i.e., persons above 65 years of age, persons with co-morbidities, pregnant women, and children below the age of 10 years, are advised to stay at home, except for meeting essential requirements and for health purposes," the guidelines added. In Unlock 3.0 issued for August, the government had lifted night curfew from August 1, while allowing yoga schools and gymnasiums to open from August 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/unlock-40-guidelines-metro-to-start-operations-from-sept-7-schools-colleges-to-remain-shut-till-sept-30-879702.html
29-08-2020||National||India unlikely to participate in mega war game in Russia next month||India is unlikely to send a tri-services military contingent to take part in a multilateral war game in Russia next month which is to be participated by China and Pakistan, government sources said on Saturday. Last week India had conveyed to Russia that it will participate in the strategic command-post exercise to be held in the Astrakhan region in southern Russia from September 15 to 26. "A decision has been taken to not participate in the exercise," said a source. Though no reason has been cited officially about India's review of the earlier decision, people familiar with the development indicated that China's participation in the exercise could be a factor in India deciding not to be part of it. Indian and Chinese troops have been engaged in a standoff in several areas along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh for over three-and-a-half months. Both the countries are holding talks at military and diplomatic levels to resolve the dispute. China, Pakistan and a number of other member nations of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) are expected to participate in the exercise. India had earlier planned to send around 150 Indian Army troops, 45 Indian Air Force personnel and a number of Navy officers for the exercise. Russia has been a major partner of India in the defence sector and the cooperation has been steadily growing further. In June, a tri-services contingent from India participated at the Victory Day Parade at the iconic Red Square in Moscow to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the Soviet victory over Nazi Germany in the Second World War. A contingent from China had also attended it. Both India and China are members of the SCO, an influential regional grouping. The SCO, seen as a counterweight to NATO, has emerged as one of the largest transregional international organisations which accounts for almost 44 per cent of the world population stretching from the Arctic Ocean to the Indian Ocean and from the Pacific Ocean to the Baltic Sea.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-unlikely-to-participate-in-mega-war-game-in-russia-next-month-879704.html
29-08-2020||National||India withdraws from military drill in Russia to avoid wargames with China amid stand-off||India has decided to withdraw from a multilateral military exercise in Russia, apparently in order to avoid taking part in the drill along with China. New Delhi has conveyed to Moscow its decision to withdraw from the Kavkaz 2020 military drill, which is scheduled to be held in Russia from September 15 to 26. The spokesperson of the Ministry of Defence on Saturday cited the Covid-19 “pandemic and consequent difficulties in exercise, including the arrangement of logistics” as the reason for rolling back its earlier decision to send troops to participate in the wargames. A source in New Delhi, however, said that the government finally decided to withdraw from the drill in view of the continuing stand-off between the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in eastern Ladakh. The government decided that India should not participate in any military drill with China at a time when its soldiers were resisting aggressive and expansionist moves by the communist country along the disputed boundary between the two nations. The decision to withdraw from the Kavkaz 2020 exercise was taken during a high-level meeting to review the situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto boundary between India and China in the western sector. “The government could not have just turned a blind eye to continued belligerence of the Chinese Army along the LAC. This is not the time when the Indian Army should send troops for a drill which the Chinese Army too will take part in,” said another source aware of New Delhi’s diplomatic response to the communist country’s expansionist moves along the disputed boundary with India.    New Delhi’s decision to stay away from the military drill to be hosted by the Russian Armed Forces came just days before Defence Minister Rajnath Singh is likely to travel to Moscow to attend a meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO). The SCO Defence Ministers’ meeting in the first week of the next month will be followed by a conclave of the Foreign Ministers of the bloc in the capital city of Russia. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar is expected to attend the SCO Foreign Ministers’ meeting. India was planning to send a contingent comprising 180 personnel of its army, navy and air force to take part in the multilateral war drill in southern Russia. Russia has been hosting similar multilateral war drills over the past few years – Zapad 2017, Vostok 2018 and Tsentr 2019. India sent troops to take part in the Tsentr 2019 exercise last year. Apart from China, Pakistan is also likely to send troops for the Kavkaz 2020 drill. So are Iran, Turkey and several Central Asian nations. The stand-off between the Indian Army and Chinese PLA in eastern Ladakh started after the communist country’s soldiers in late April and early May stepped up attempts to alter the status quo along the disputed boundary between the two nations in Galwan Valley, northern bank of the Pangong Tso (lake) and several other locations in eastern Ladakh. The Indian Army too deployed additional troops to respond to transgressions by the Chinese PLA. The stand-off took the relations between the two neighbours to a new low, particularly after the violent clash between soldiers of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA in Galwan Valley on June 15, with both sides suffering casualties. The two sides early last month mutually agreed on a phased withdrawal of the front-line troops from the face-off scenes along the LAC. The process of “disengagement”, however, remained stalled since mid-July, as the Chinese PLA declined to withdraw troops completely from several face-off points along the LAC, including Depsang Y junction, Gogra Post and the northern bank of the Pangong Tso. Russia has been publicly maintaining that India and China should resolve the stand-off through bilateral talks. It, however, has been quietly in touch with New Delhi and Beijing and has been trying to defuse tension between the two neighbours. Keen to make it sure that the decision to opt-out of the Kavkaz 2020 does not strain New Delhi’s relations with Moscow, India on Saturday underlined its “close and privileged” strategic partnership with Russia. The spokesperson of the Ministry of Defence in New Delhi also pointed out that India had in the past participated “in many international events” on invitation from Russia. A tri-service contingent of the Indian Army, Navy and Air Force had taken part in the multinational military parade held at Red Square in Moscow on June 24 to mark the 75th anniversary of the erstwhile Soviet Union’s victory against Nazi Germany.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-withdraws-from-military-drill-in-russia-to-avoid-wargames-with-china-amid-stand-off-879707.html
29-08-2020||National||Covid-19: 10 things to know about Unlock 4.0 guidelines||The Minister of Home Affairs (MHA), on Saturday, issued guidelines for Unlock 4.0 which will be in force till September 30. Here is a list of things that will reopen and will remain closed in Unlock 4.0: 1) Metro rails across the country will be allowed to operate from September 7 in a graded manner. 2) Social/ academic/ sports/ entertainment/ cultural/ religious/ political functions and other congregations will be permitted with a ceiling of 100 persons, from Sept 21. 3) There shall be no restriction on inter-State and intra-State movement of persons and goods. No separate permission/ approval/ e-permit will be required for such movements. 4) Schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutions will continue to remain closed for students and regular class activity up September 30. 5) Students of classes 9 to 12 may be permitted to visit their schools, in areas outside the Containment Zones only, on a voluntary basis, for taking guidance from their teachers.  6) All activities, except the following, shall be permitted outside containment zones: (i) Cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres (excluding open-air theatre) and similar places. (ii) International air travel of passengers, except as permitted by MHA. 7) State/ UT Governments shall not impose any local lockdown (State/ District/ sub-division/City/ village level), outside the containment zones, without prior consultation with the Central Government. 8) Lockdown shall continue to be implemented strictly in the containment zones till September 30. 9) National Directives for Covid-19 management shall continue to be followed throughout the country while ensuring social distancing. Shops need to maintain adequate physical distancing among customers. MHA will monitor the effective implementation of National Directives. 10) Open air theatres will be allowed to reopen with effect from September 21.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-10-things-to-know-about-unlock-40-guidelines-879711.html
29-08-2020||National||Goa secretariat employees to work from home on alternate days||Employees of the Goa secretariat have been directed to attend their duties on alternate days to ensure that only 50 per cent staff members remain present on a given day in view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases, the state government said on Saturday. A circular was issued after several staff members working in different departments in the secretariat, located at Porvorim near here, claimed that more than 50 of them have tested positive for the Covid-19 infection. "On the account of the increase in Covid-19 cases in the secretariat, departments/offices, it is directed that not more than 50 per cent strength of the secretariat employees shall attend the office on a particular day and the remaining employees shall work from home on an alternate day basis," said the circular issued by the General Administration department. The order comes into effect on August 31 and remains in force until September 11, it added. Goa's Covid-19 case count stood at 16,006 as on August 28.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-secretariat-employees-to-work-from-home-on-alternate-days-879718.html
29-08-2020||National||ED freezes 4 bank accounts containing Rs 46.96 cr after raids on firms running Chinese betting apps||The Enforcement Directorate has frozen four HSBC bank accounts containing Rs 46.96 crore after it raided multiple premises of companies involved in running online Chinese betting apps, according to an official statement. It said the searches were carried out at 15 locations in Delhi, Gurgaon, Mumbai and Pune on Friday under various sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). "Searches were conducted on the registered offices of the companies, their directors and chartered accountants involved in illegally running online betting apps from websites which are hosted from outside India," the federal probe agency said in the statement on Saturday. "During the course of the search, ED has seized 17 hard disks, five laptops, phones, crucial incriminating documents and has also frozen Rs 46.96 crore held in 4 HSBC Bank accounts," it said. The money laundering case is based on an FIR filed by the Telangana Police against the accused early this year, it added. According to the statement, the probe found out that "with the help of some Indian chartered accountants, some Chinese nationals floated multiple Indian companies." "Initially dummy Indian directors were used to incorporate the companies and after some time Chinese nationals travelled to India and took directorship in these companies," it said. "Some locals were hired and used to open bank accounts with HSBC Bank and open trade accounts with online wallets namely Paytm, Cashfree, Razorpay, etc." the ED said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-freezes-4-bank-accounts-containing-rs-4696-cr-after-raids-on-firms-running-chinese-betting-apps-879721.html
29-08-2020||National||Ram Janmbhoomi-Babri dispute 'most fiercely-contested case in India's history': Ex-CJI Ranjan Gogoi||The Ram Janmbhoomi-Babri Masjid land dispute at Ayodhya was the "most fiercely-contested cases in India's legal history" in which every point was "hotly" debated and "passionately" argued by the lawyers, former Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi, who headed the bench that delivered the historic verdict, has said. In the unanimous verdict, the five-judge bench on November 9 last year cleared the way for the construction of the Ram Temple at the disputed site at Ayodhya and directed the Centre to allot a five-acre plot to the Sunni Waqf Board for building a mosque. In a message to journalist Mala Dixit, who has authored a book on the Ayodhya hearings and the decision, the former CJI said that multi-dimensional issues were decided on the basis of voluminous records. "One of the most fiercely contested cases in India's legal history, the Ayodhya case, will always hold a special place. Multi-dimensional issues called for a final resolution on the basis of voluminous records including oral and documentary evidence which had to be translated from a host of different languages. "Every point was hotly contested and passionately argued by a renowned group of lawyers who represented the contesting parties," Justice Gogoi said. Dixit has penned the book titled "Ayodhya Se Adaalat Tak Bhagavaan Shri Ram", chronicling details of hearings and the decision. It was released here on Friday. Justice Gogoi, who conducted the hearing for 40 days in the historic case, said that reaching to the final verdict was a challenging task for a wide variety of reasons. "The cooperation of eminent lawyers and their assistance to the bench over a period of 40 days of the continuous hearing was unprecedented," he said in his message. Former apex court judge Gyan Sudha Mishra, ex-high court judge SR Singh and journalists B R Mani, Ram Bahadur Rai and N K Singh were also present at the event held at the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts. The top court, in its decision, handed over the possession of the disputed 2.77-acre land rights at Ayodhya to the deity Ram Lalla, who was one of the three litigants in the case||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ram-janmbhoomi-babri-dispute-most-fiercely-contested-case-in-indias-history-ex-cji-ranjan-gogoi-879724.html
29-08-2020||National||Covid-19 cases in Goa on rise since Ganesh Chaturthi: Sawant||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Saturday claimed that coronavirus cases in the coastal state were on the rise since Ganesh Chaturthi and this was because people violated safety norms during the festival. There has been a spike in cases, as people did not wear masks or follow social distancing norms during the festivities, Sawant said. "We have noticed that the number of Covid-19 cases has increased after Ganesh Chaturthi. The daily count was hovering around 150 cases per day before the festival, but now there has been a rise," Sawant said. Urging people to practise social distancing, the chief minister said he took precautionary measures during his daily work routine. The chief minister was addressing people after flagging off Arogya Express vans at his Assembly constituency Sankhalim on Saturday. The coastal state has so far recorded 16,006 Covid-19 cases and 175 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-cases-in-goa-on-rise-since-ganesh-chaturthi-sawant-879727.html
29-08-2020||National||Vijay Mallya case: SC to pronounce verdict on Monday||The Supreme Court is to pronounce its order on Monday in a review petition filed by fugitive industrialist Vijay Mallya against his conviction in a contempt case in 2017. A bench of Justice U U Lalit and Justice Ashok Bhushan has on August 27 wrapped up its hearing in the matter. According to the SC website, the matter has been posted for pronouncement of order at 10.30 am on August 31. The top court's judgment may deal with "lapses" on the part of its registry for not listing the review petition for three years. In June, the court has sought an explanation from its registry as to why a review petition filed by Mallya against his conviction in a contempt case in 2017, was not listed for consideration in the last three years. It has directed the officials to furnish all the details including names of the people who had dealt with the file concerning the review petition for the last three years. On May 9, 2017, the court had held beleaguered promoter of Kingfisher Airlines guilty of contempt of court for transferring 40 million USD to his children's accounts despite an order against it. Mallya, who evaded law enforcement authorities in India and stayed at the United Kingdom, has suffered setbacks after the court over there allowed his extradition.  His date of return, however, is still uncertain due to undisclosed legal issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vijay-mallya-case-sc-to-pronounce-verdict-on-monday-879732.html
29-08-2020||National||Centre to discontinue medical equipment supply from October: Official||With most of the medical equipment such as coronavirus testing kits and masks available at cheaper rates in the market, the Centre has informed the Maharashtra government that it would discontinue their supply from October, an official said. The state will buy these items, needed by healthcare workers and hospitals dealing with coronavirus patients, entirely on its own, he said. "When the coronavirus outbreak started, nobody was making these items in the country. Now there are many suppliers, which has brought down the prices, so we can purchase them on our own," the senior state health department official told PTI on Saturday. "The RT-PCR testing kit would cost the Centre Rs 1,800, hence patients had to shell out around Rs 2,500 per test. Now these kits are going to be available at Rs 400 or Rs 600 and we will pass on the price benefit to patients," he said.  The medical equipment which the Union government provided included Personal Protection Equipment kits, RT-PCR kits, ventilators, N-95 masks, HCQ and other medicines and oxygen supply units. The Union government was meeting 20 per cent of Maharashtra's need for these items, barring RT-PCR kits, the official said. In the case of testing kits, 100 per cent supply came from the Centre. "The Maharashtra government has so far received 3,000 ventilators from the Centre against the requirement of 4,500," the official informed. As of Friday evening, the state had reported 7,47,995 coronavirus cases -- 1,80,718 of them active -- and 23,775 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-discontinue-medical-equipment-supply-from-october-official-879751.html
29-08-2020||National||Woman kills husband; buries dead body under bedroom||A woman allegedly killed her husband and buried him in their house in Bhaktikumarpara in Dhalai district of Tripura, police said on Saturday. The accused, 21-year-old Bharati buried Sanjit Reang (30) under the mud floor of their bedroom and fled to a nearby village on Thursday night, they said. Acting on a tip-off, police searched the house and recovered the body of the deceased, and arrested the woman from the village.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/woman-kills-husband-buries-dead-body-under-bedroom-879758.html
29-08-2020||National||French woman arrested for naked video on Indian holy bridge||A French woman has been arrested for making a video of herself naked on a holy bridge in the Indian city of Rishikesh, police said Saturday. The 27-year-old now faces charges under India's internet law with a maximum sentence of three years jail if found guilty. She was detained Thursday after posting footage of herself on the Lakshman Jhula, a footbridge over the Ganges river made famous by the Beatles in the 1960s and which remains a draw for backpackers and yoga practitioners. "Maybe in France these things are not considered objectionable," R.K. Saklani, head of the police station where the woman was taken, told AFP. "But Rishikesh is a holy place and the Lakshman Jhula is the place where (Hindu gods) Ram, his brother Lakshman and wife Sita crossed the Ganges." Police only identified the woman by her first name Marie-Helene and said she had been in Rishikesh since March, just before a nationwide coronavirus lockdown was introduced. "She told us she sells bead necklaces online and the shoot was aimed at promoting her business," Saklani said. Apart from the video on the bridge, the French woman had also taken naked pictures inside a hotel room Saklani added. Police were alerted after the footage and photos were posted on social media. The woman has been released on bail and the case could take months to complete, the officer said. Her mobile phone has been seized as part of the investigation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/french-woman-arrested-for-naked-video-on-indian-holy-bridge-879766.html
29-08-2020||National||Flipside of Covid-19: India’s tuberculosis burden will rise due to lockdown||In what may trigger a crisis in the coming months, the Union Health Ministry has announced 26% drop in tuberculosis notifications between January and June 2020 as compared to the previous year due to the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown that ensued. This is likely to increase the number of tuberculosis cases and death in a big way – a public health worry, flagged by several studies in the last few months.    At a meeting of the Group of Ministers on Covid-19, headed by the Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Saturday, the ministers were briefed on how the Covid-19 pandemic impacted the revised national tuberculosis control programme and how the ministry now planned to overcome the challenge. While concurring with the concerns expressed by the ministry, the experts point out that the numbers may be even higher. “Compared to the last year, there is a 40% decline in tuberculosis notification between January and May. The biggest dip was seen in May and June. We have begun to see an upward trend from July onwards only. To what extent Covid-19 has impacted the tuberculosis control programme will be known by mid 2021,” said Shibu Vijayan, global tuberculosis technical director at PATH, an international NGO. The reasons are people’s inability to travel to the health centres for testing due to the lockdown and diversion of the diagnostic machinery including the staff to tackle the epidemic. There was even a shortage of data entry staff to update the government’s tuberculosis database. Moreover, the economic hardship faced by the people during the lockdown forced people to cut down on food and nutrition, which not only impacted the existing tuberculosis patients but also pushed those who are vulnerable to pick up the infections. Studies have shown that under-nutrition accounts for 32-44% of tuberculosis cases in India. Taking all such factors into account, two medical researchers have estimated 59% reduction in tuberculosis case detection between March and May and 19.5% increase in tuberculosis deaths. In absolute terms, it would mean an additional 1.85 lakh tuberculosis cases and nearly 88,000 more tuberculosis deaths in 2020, they reported in a paper published in the Indian Journal of Tuberculosis. “TB is sensitive to economic and food crises. The food insecurity and under-nourishment that people faced during the lockdown have added to India’s tuberculosis burden. Under-nourishment will cause new cases while under detection will lead to more tuberculosis deaths,” Anurag Bhargava, a coauthor of the paper and a professor at the Yenepoya Medical College, Mangalore told DH. More than a quarter of the world's 10 million estimated cases and 449,700 of the world's estimated 1.3 million tuberculosis related deaths occur in India, which has committed itself to the ambitious goal of reducing tuberculosis incidence by 80% and tuberculosis deaths by 90% by 2025, five years before the global deadline in 2030.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/flipside-of-covid-19-india-s-tuberculosis-burden-will-rise-due-to-lockdown-879768.html
29-08-2020||National||IPS officer who probed Sushant case tests positive for Covid- 19||An IPS officer who was part of the Mumbai police's team which was probing actor Sushant Singh Rajput suicide case has tested positive for coronavirus infection. The IPS officer and all other members of his family have contracted the viral infection, a senior police official said on Saturday. He was sent on leave and has been quarantined at home, the police official said. The Rajput death case has been taken over by the CBI. The infected officer had questioned Rajput's girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty, and the CBI team which is now in Mumbai to probe the case had also met him recently, he said. Earlier two IPS officers of Mumbai police had tested positive for the viral infection. The pandemic has claimed the lives of at least 62 personnel of Mumbai Police. Around 4,500 have been infected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ips-officer-who-probed-sushant-case-tests-positive-for-covid-19-879772.html
29-08-2020||National||Nobody is safe: Priyanka Gandhi slams UP CM over double murder||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday attacked Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath over the alleged murder of a Railway official's wife and son at their Lucknow house, a few kilometers away from the CM's official residence, and claimed that "nobody is safe" in the state. The wife and son of the senior railway official were found dead at their Lucknow residence on Saturday in a suspected case of murder, a police official said. They were allegedly shot dead by unknown assailants at their residence located in the high-security Gautampalli area, which is a few kilometres away from the official residence of the Uttar Pradesh chief minister. "The UP CM may say anything in the House, but right next to his residence, in a VIP area, the wife and son of a senior railway officer Mr RD Bajpai being killed in broad daylight, shows that the perimeter of the 'Jungle raj' in UP has reached near close to the CM's residence," Priyanka Gandhi alleged in a Facebook post in Hindi. "Every day many families have to suffer due to this 'Jungle raj'. Nobody anywhere is safe here," she said. Earlier in the day, Priyanka Gandhi tweeted about a man killed in Uttar Pradesh's Auraiya and said that according to family and journalists, police allegedly continued to prove this kidnapping case of being a missing person's case for five days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nobody-is-safe-priyanka-gandhi-slams-up-cm-over-double-murder-879777.html
29-08-2020||National||India reports over 75,000 Covid-19 cases for third consecutive day||While India reported more than 75,000 fresh Covid-19 infections for the third consecutive day, the novel coronavirus pandemic gallops in south-east Asia while in most of the other parts of the world the epidemic curve is either moving south or getting flattened. In each of the last ten days, the Covid-19 numbers in India outpaced the infection counts coming from the USA and Brazil – the two countries that cumulatively have the world’s maximum number of Covid-19 patients. On August 20, India recorded 69,652 new cases as against USA’s 37,908 and Brazil’s 47,784. Ten days later, India continues to be in the pole position with 76,472 cases in comparison to USA’s 46,194 and Brazil’s 44,235. On Aug 26, the combined caseload of USA and Brazil was lower than India.  With the exception of the south-east Asia and Eastern Mediterranean regions, a decrease in the weekly case incidence was reported across the World Health Organisation regions in the last seven days, according to a WHO analysis that analysed the Covid-19 data for the week ending on August 23. The increase in the Eastern Mediterranean region was nominal compared to south-east Asia. Riding high on Indian numbers, south-east Asia currently accounts for 28% and 15% of newly reported cases and deaths respectively, globally in the past seven days (ending on Aug 23). The region has seen a steady increase in reported cases and deaths, with a 4% increase in the same period. A Group of Ministers on Covid-19 headed by the Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Saturday took stock of the grim situation a day after some of the worst affected states were asked by the Centre to pull up their socks and reduce the number of new infections and deaths. Within the country, eight states (Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Odisha and Telangana) contributed to around 73% of the active caseload as of Saturday, the Union Health Ministry said in a statement.  Moreover, seven States (Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal) account for 81% of total deaths. While discussing the concerns on Covid-19 management, the GoM reiterated its continued attention on the promotion of wearing masks, physical distancing and respiratory etiquettes, the ministry said in a statement. The rising caseload, however, has been attributed to an increase in Covid-19 tests with the country testing 9-10 lakh samples daily for the past week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-over-75000-covid-19-cases-for-third-consecutive-day-879788.html
29-08-2020||National Politics||Anna Hazare declines BJP's appeal to join agitation against AAP government||Activist Anna Hazare on Friday said it was "unfortunate" that the Delhi BJP should ask him to join in its agitation against the AAP government when it has a huge cadre of its own and wields power in the Centre. His going to Delhi would not make any difference as he did not believe any party can give the country a bright future, Hazare said in a letter to Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta. Gupta had on Monday written to Hazare, urging him to join his party's "mass movement" against the Arvind Kejriwal government, which he had claimed was "a new name of social, political and economic corruption". Reacting to Hazare's response, Gupta on Friday said, "The Delhi BJP has a strong organisation and is capable of leading all kinds of mass movements but wanted the symbolic presence of the social activist because the AAP was born out of the movement led by him". Several senior Delhi BJP leaders criticised Gupta for bringing "embarrassment" to the party. "What could be more embarrassing than this. It seems Gupta did not consult senior party leaders before writing to Hazare," said a former Delhi Bharatiya Janata Party president. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal was Hazare's key ally in his 2011 anti-corruption agitation in the national capital. "I felt disappointed reading your letter written to the press. Your party, BJP, has been ruling the country for the past more than six years," Hazare said. "What could be more unfortunate than leaders of a party, which has youth cadres in big number and claims to have the highest number of members in the world, urging an 83-year-old fakir (monk) like Anna Hazare who resides in a temple's 10X12 feet room and has no asset and power, to join in its protest," he wrote. The BJP-led Union government controls agencies like the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Hazare said, asking why no legal action was being taken against the Aam Aadmi Party government in Delhi if it was corrupt. His agitations were never against any party, the octogenarian said. The BJP came to power in 2014 showing dreams of corruption-free India, "but the worries of people have not lessened", Hazare said. Political parties find faults with their rivals, but need to introspect and talk about their own flaws, he said. "In the present condition, I don't think any party can give a bright future to the country. Many parties are stuck in the circle of making money out of power and attaining power using money," he said. "....people will not get relief until the system changes. Hence, I feel my coming to Delhi again will make no difference," Hazare added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/anna-hazare-declines-bjps-appeal-to-join-agitation-against-aap-government-879372.html
29-08-2020||National Politics||Sub-quota, a politically-potent move with repercussions||The contentious sub-quota issue is back in focus after the Supreme Court on Monday ruled that states can make categories for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Socially and Backward Classes. The politically-potent move will have its repercussions across the country when many sub-castes have raised the bogey of discrimination within the reserved categories, alleging that benefits of the quota are being sliced by somewhat developed and dominant groups in all the three categories. The BJP-ruled Karnataka, which has now decided to explore the possibility of giving quota within quota to the further-deprived classes after the Supreme Court order, will be joining the list of several states, which have done so successfully without breaching the over-all mark of permissible 50% reservation. JDU general secretary and former Rajya Sabha MP K C Tyagi, who has been closely associated with reservation issue, says though the move could kick in politics,he does not find any reason to oppose it. “The sub-quota system has already been implemented in many states like Haryana, Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan. In fact, it was Bihar Chief Minister Karpoori Thakur who had first pushed for quota within quota in 1978. The move does not lead to a breach of the 50% reservation ceiling put in by the Supreme Court in the judgement in the Mandal case (Indira Sawhney versus Union of India 1992),” Tyagi argued. In Bihar, the aspirations of non-Paswan (Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan’s community), was given voice in the past by Nitish Kumar, who set up a Mahadalit Commission. Similarly, Kumar also set up a commission for Extremely Backward Classes. With elections around the corner, the JDU leaders are burnishing and brandishing the ‘Atipichcha’ credentials of Kumar, recalling how the chief minister fulfilled the dreams of these communities ignited by Karpoori, who belonged to EBC barber community. In Uttar Pradesh, the BJP’s rise under Prime Minister Narendra Modi is also due to the substantial chunks of non-Yadav backward castes and non-Jatav Dalits having backed it when the Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party command the Yadav (OBC) and Jatav (SC) votes. While the JD(U) is going to the towns in Bihar brandishing how Nitish Kumar took the reservation out of the clutches of few castes, the RJD, whose core base is of Yadavs, have preferred caution saying they would first like to have socio-economic caste census data before the implementation of any sub-quota. Though BJP has got good support from EBCs but it is worried over the focus on caste census, which could centralise the politics in Bihar as OBC versus others, which it may find difficult to deal with as the Opposition parties in Bihar and UP have stronger faces among backward classes. In 2012, a massive row had kicked in UP over remarks of Minority Affairs Minister Salman Khurshid on minority sub-quota, drawing the ire of the Election Commission. The matter had also reached the Supreme Court. Earlier, Andhra Pradesh High Court had quashed the decision for 4.5% sub-quota for minorities in the OBC category. While the Supreme Court on Thursday referred the matter to a seven-member bench to take a final call on it, the issue has already caught up the imagination of politicians. Loktantrik Janata Dal leader Javed Raza advocates caution and feels that somebody may challenge the order of the apex court and file a plea against it. “After all Mandal Commission that had provided 27% reservation to backward classes, had not opted for subcategorisation of OBCs,” he argues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sub-quota-a-politically-potent-move-with-repercussions-879452.html
29-08-2020||National Politics||P Chidambaram slams Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman for 'Act of God' remark||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Saturday took a dig at Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman over her 'Act of God' remarks on the economy, saying will "the FM as the Messenger of God" answer how should the "mismanagement" of the economy before the coronavirus pandemic be described. Sitharaman on Thursday had said the economy has been hit by the pandemic, which is an 'Act of God', and it will see a contraction in the current fiscal. Taking a swipe at Sitharaman over the remarks, Chidambaram said, "If the pandemic is an ‘Act of God’, how do we describe the mismanagement of the economy during 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20. Before the pandemic struck India?" "Will the FM as the Messenger of God please answer?" the former finance minister asked. Chidambaram also slammed the Centre for asking states to borrow more to make up for revenue losses due to pending GST dues. He asserted that the two options given by the Modi government to the states to bridge the GST compensation gap are unacceptable. "Under the first option the states are asked to borrow by pledging their future receivables under Compensation cess. The financial burden falls entirely on the states," Chidambaram said. "Under the second option, states are asked to borrow from the RBI window. It is more market borrowing, only by a different name. Again, the entire financial burden falls on the states," he said in a series of tweets. Chidambaram claimed that the central government is absolving itself of any financial responsibility. This is a "gross betrayal" as well as a "direct violation of the law", he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/p-chidambaram-slams-finance-minister-nirmala-sitharaman-for-act-of-god-remark-879493.html
29-08-2020||National Politics||Uttar Pradesh Congress leader demands Ghulam Nabi Azad's expulsion from party||A Congress leader in Uttar Pradesh has said the party should expel Ghulam Nabi Azad, who was among the 23 signatories to a letter that called for an overhaul of the organisation. The 23 Congress leaders wrote to party chief Sonia Gandhi, seeking an active and full-time leadership of the grand old party among other organisational changes. "At the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting, party chief Sonia Gandhi said she was hurt by the letter but now the issue is over. Even after that, he (Azad) spoke to the media and posted about it on Facebook the next day," Naseeb Pathan, who was a party MLC between 2004 and 2016, told PTI-Bhasha on Friday. "As he has broken the party's discipline, he should be made 'azad' (free) and expelled from the party," he said. Pathan also released a video on social media over the matter. "You know you (Azad) got 320 votes in the Assembly when you contested for the first time. After that, you went everywhere as nominated. It is not appropriate to say such things about the party," he said. When contacted, Congress's media coordinator in Uttar Pradesh Lalan Kumar said, "I am aware of this statement but I am not well." This is not the first time that Pathan has come out with a statement against Azad. After the 2017 Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, he had said Azad, who was the AICC in-charge of the state at that time, should take responsibility for the party's poor show in the election and resign.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/uttar-pradesh-congress-leader-demands-ghulam-nabi-azads-expulsion-from-party-879498.html
29-08-2020||National Politics||Sushant Singh Rajput case: BJP targets MVA for escort to Rhea Chakraborty||Actor-model Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik were escorted by police personnel to their home on Friday night when they returned after the grilling by the CBI in connection with the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. However, the BJP’s Maharashtra unit has lashed out at the Maha Vikas Aghadi government for providing security to Rhea and her brother. While returning from the DRDO & IAF guesthouse, the duo drove down to the Santacruz police station, after that they were escorted to their house. They were being chased by media teams seeking replies from then on the death of the actor. BJP spokesperson Ram Kadam said: “Why is Rhea Chakraborty at police station… whom the Maharashtra government is trying to protect.” Meanwhile, Rhea had posted a small video on her social media account how her father Lt Col (retd) Dr Indrajit Chakraborty is being surrounded by media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sushant-singh-rajput-case-bjp-targets-mva-for-escort-to-rhea-chakraborty-879504.html
29-08-2020||National Politics||BJP stages protests to reopen temples in Maharashtra||BJP MLAs, legislators, corporators and office-bearers led the protests in all cities of Thane and Palghar districts, with activists resorting to 'ghanta naad' (ringing of bells) and banging of plates outside temples. BJP MLAs Sanjay Kelkar, Ravindra Chavan, Ganpat Gaikwad, Thane city president and MLC Niranjan Davkhare were among those who led the protests. Meanwhile, Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol, MLA Madhuri Misal and city president Jagdish Mulik led a similar protest at Saras Baug in Pune city. Local party leaders urged the state government to reopen places of worship as local transport and malls have been allowed to function.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-stages-protests-to-reopen-temples-in-maharashtra-879557.html
29-08-2020||National Politics||H D Kumaraswamy hits out at Centre for blaming Covid-19 for contraction of country's economy||He was referring to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman's comment during the 41st GST Council meeting where she had said the country faced an extraordinary situation and termed the coronavirus pandemic as "an act of God". In a series of tweets, the JD(S) leader alleged that the Centre has ruined the economy of the states. "The irresponsible attitude of the Centre in shirking its commitment towards GST shortfall of the states is condemnable. It has dealt a blow to the federal structure of the country by describing the crisis arising out of Covid-19 pandemic as an unforeseen "Act of God," he said. He accused the Centre of ruining the economy of states by asking them to resort to borrowings to make up for GST shortfall and also repay them. "The Centre has placed two options before states. They can opt for borrowing either the GST shortfall amount of Rs 97,000 crore or borrow the entire revenue gap of Rs 2.35 lakh crore that has arisen due to GST shortfall as well as Covid-19 situation," said the former Chief Minister. Kumaraswamy said the states were 'bewildered' over the development and added "What can they do if the Centre causes injustice to them citing Covid-19? The states that are in a bad economic condition due to Covid-19 and floods are cursing the Centre." He said the states were in dire straits due to the failure of the Centre whose management of the country's economy is flawed and marked by lack of vision. He advised that the Centre itself should borrow from the RBI and compensate the states for the losses, instead of asking the states to borrow from the central bank. "Long ago, the architect of the Indian constitution, Dr B R Ambedkar, had expressed concern that the danger of bringing about legislation that establish control over the state's economy through luring cannot be ruled out in the future. Now, the country is staring at such a danger," Kumaraswamy said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/h-d-kumaraswamy-hits-out-at-centre-for-blaming-covid-19-for-contraction-of-countrys-economy-879576.html
29-08-2020||National Politics||Cong writes to Facebook CEO again over allegations of 'bias' in favour of ruling BJP||The Congress on Saturday wrote to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg for the second time in a month, asking what steps were being taken on repeated allegations about the global social media giant's India unit being biased towards the ruling BJP. At a press conference, the opposition party also demanded an investigation by a Joint Parliamentary Committee into the alleged "links of Facebook employees and the ruling establishment". The Congress' letter to Zuckerberg came over an article in Time magazine, which the opposition party claimed "revealed" more information and "evidence of biases and a quid pro quo relationship" of Facebook India with the Bharatiya Janata Party. There was no immediate reaction from Facebook or the BJP on the allegations. A report in the Wall Street Journal earlier this month had brought to fore similar allegations, which were strongly rejected by both Facebook and the BJP. Tagging the Time magazine report, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi claimed in a tweet that it exposes the "WhatsApp-BJP nexus". "Used by 40 cr Indians, WhatsApp also wants to be used for making payments for which Modi Government's approval is needed. Thus, BJP has a hold over WhatsApp," he alleged, without elaborating. Popular messaging app WhatsApp is also owned by Facebook. In his letter to Zuckerberg, Congress general secretary organisation, KC Venugopal, referred to his earlier letter dated August 17 in which the party had requested the US-based company to investigate the allegations made in the Wall Street Journal article that the social media platform refused to apply hate speech rules to certain BJP politicians. "We draw your attention to the article in Time magazine dated August 27 that reveals more information and evidence of biases and a quid-pro-quo relationship of Facebook India with the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party," Venugopal said in the new letter dated August 29 and asked for details of steps being taken by the group. "We will also be pursuing legislative and judicial actions in India to ensure that a foreign company cannot continue to cause social disharmony in our nation for their pursuit of private profits," he said. At the party's press conference, spokesperson Pawan Khera and AICC data analytics department chief Praveen Chakravarty called for an "exhaustive and unbiased investigation by a Joint Parliamentary Committee between the unending links of Facebook employees and the ruling establishment". "The investigation must include how Facebook manipulated voter opinion, allowed hate speech and was oblivious to fake news, even when they were in clear violation of their own regulations," they said in a statement. "WhatsApp cannot be granted approvals for its payment operations until the inquiry is complete and the recommended actions are taken by the company," Khera and Chakravarty said. They also demanded that the report of the investigation ordered by Facebook into the conduct of its Indian unit be made public.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cong-writes-to-facebook-ceo-again-over-allegations-of-bias-in-favour-of-ruling-bjp-879628.html
29-08-2020||National Politics||Mamata’s absolute authority over her party gives her an edge against BJP||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is known to run the Trinamool Congress (TMC) with an iron fist ensuring that her decision is final in every party matter. The maverick politician is known to react sternly in case of any defiance despite her courteous manner with her other senior party colleagues. Although her style of running the party has drawn criticism from Opposition leaders accusing her of being an autocrat but it may very well prove to be a blessing in disguise to keep BJP at bay as her style of leadership has been able to iron out any factional feud at the top level of her party. The shrewd politician is aware that to take on a regimented and cadre-based party like BJP in the 2021 Assembly elections she has to have full control of TMC. Following the setback in the last Lok Sabha elections, Mamata made it clear that she would pay as much as attention to the party organization as she does to governance. Interestingly BJP capitalised on TMC’s faction feud in the last Lok Sabha elections and gave a major jolt to Mamata by bagging 18 seats in the state. The saffron party was able to rope in several TMC leaders known for their organizational capabilities. But now it seems that the tables are turning on the saffron party as according to sources a section of senior party leaders are not happy with the way state president Dilip Ghosh is functioning. Ghosh’s recent remark that he alone is capable of bringing “change” in the state has not gone down well with a section of state BJP leaders. BJP sources said that these leaders are viewing Ghosh’s comment as a means of making other state leaders irrelevant. TMC also has no lack of faction feud which often leads to bloodshed but unlike BJP the internal discontent is at the local level and has very little effect on the decision-making process of the party. A senior TMC leader said that Mamata‘s “tough style” of running her party will be her key advantage over BJP in the upcoming Assembly elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mamata-s-absolute-authority-over-her-party-gives-her-an-edge-against-bjp-879653.html
29-08-2020||National Politics||Congress backs Shashi Tharoor over Kodikunnil's criticism||While more Congress leaders came in support of Shashi Tharoor, Kerala PCC working president and MP Kodikunnil Suresh regretted over the 'guest artist' and 'immature' comments against the international diplomat turned politician. The Kerala PCC president Mullappally Ramachandran, who also made the critical comments against Tharoor a couple of days back, was also learnt to have warned the party leaders of a public spat. After many senior leaders, including Ramachandran attacking Tharoor, mainly by hitting at his 'global profile', many leaders have backed Tharoor. After young MLA K Sabarinadhan made a post hailing Thaoor's global profile, Congress MLAs P T Thomas, Benny Behanan and V D Satheesan flayed the criticisms against Tharoor and backed him. Benny Behanan, who is also United Democratic Front convenor, said Tharoor had accepted the high command's decision and hence it was not proper to criticise him again. Satheesan said that Tharoor is a Congress leader who had received global attention and he was never Congress's enemy. Kodikunnil Suresh said in a statement that even though he had political differences with Shashi Tharoor, he was also proud of Tharoor's calibre and achievements. He also said that if his remarks hurt him personally, he regretted it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-backs-shashi-tharoor-over-kodikunnils-criticism-879710.html
29-08-2020||National Politics||Congress targets BJP over WhatsApp links, demands JPC probe||After Facebook, Congress on Saturday alleged that popular messaging service WhatsApp was controlled indirectly by the BJP and reiterated its demand for constituting a joint parliamentary committee to probe the “unholy intimacy”. The fresh attack from the Congress came after the Time magazine claimed that a top WhatsApp official, Shivnath Thukral, used to operate websites and Facebook pages for the BJP before the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. Congress alleged that the WhatsApp was turning a blind eye to the BJP’s “hate speeches” on its platform as it was hopeful of launching its own payment platform. The fresh allegations have set the stage for a stormy meeting of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology on September 1, when officials from Facebook, which also owns WhatsApp, are expected to depose. Congress and BJP leaders have been gathering ammunition to target each other over links to the officials in social networking companies to score points over political rivals. BJP IT Cell chief Amit Malviya had claimed that his communications with Facebook and information on BKP leaders were leaked to Congress functionaries in gross violation of their privacy. Congress leaders have been sharpening their knives with reports from the Wall Street Journal and the Time magazine to target the BJP, claiming proximity of Facebook officials to the ruling party. “Can we turn a blind eye to an American firm trying to disrupt the communal harmony of our country and interfere in our election process. This is not a political issue and these are not allegations levelled by the Congress,” Praveen Chakravarthy, Chairman of the AICC Data Analytics Cell told reporters here. AICC General Secretary K C Venugopal shot off another letter to Facebook chief Mark Zuckerberg asking him to reveal what steps it is planning to take to investigate these matters and draw a plan of action to “stem the rot in your India operation”. “We will also be pursuing legislative and judicial actions in India to ensure that a foreign company cannot continue to cause social disharmony in our nation for the pursuit of private profits,” he said. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera sought an “exhaustive and unbiased investigation” by a JPC between the “unending links” of Facebook employees and the ruling establishment. “The investigation must include how Facebook manipulated voter opinion, allowed hate speech and was oblivious to fake news, even when they were in clear violation of their regulations,” Khera said. Khera also demanded that Whatsapp cannot be granted approvals for its payment operations until the inquiry is complete.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-targets-bjp-over-whatsapp-links-demands-jpc-probe-879757.html
29-08-2020||National Politics||Not social media firm, people of India rejected Rahul Gandhi and Congress: BJP on Facebook row||Hitting out at the Congress for alleging a nexus between the BJP and Facebook, the ruling party's IT cell head Amit Malviya on Saturday said it is not some social media firm but the people of India who have rejected Rahul Gandhi and his party. The Congress general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal on Saturday wrote to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg for the second time in a month, asking what steps were being taken on repeated allegations about the global social media giant's India unit being biased towards the ruling BJP. The Congress' letter to Zuckerberg came over an article in Time magazine, which the opposition party claimed "revealed" more information and "evidence of biases and a quid pro quo relationship" of Facebook India with the Bharatiya Janata Party. "Congress and Rahul Gandhi think that everyone other than themselves are responsible for their successive electoral defeats. They must realise that people have no faith in the Congress or Rahul Gandhi's lacklustre, vision less leadership. It is not some social media firm but people of India who have rejected them," Malviya said. Tagging the Time magazine report, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi claimed in a tweet that it exposes the "WhatsApp-BJP nexus". "Used by 40 Cr Indians, WhatsApp also wants to be used for making payments for which Modi Government's approval is needed. Thus, BJP has a hold over WhatsApp," he alleged without elaborating. Popular messaging app WhatsApp is also owned by Facebook. On the Congress letter to Facebook CEO, Malviya said these days everyone in the Congress from Manish Tewari to K C Venugopal is writing letters to the social media firm. "Maybe, they should figure out who should be taken seriously before we remind them that it was they who were dealing with Cambridge Analytica to manipulate the 2019 general elections," the BJP leader said. A report in the Wall Street Journal earlier this month had brought to fore similar allegations, which were strongly rejected by both Facebook and the BJP. After the controversy had broken out, the BJP had attacked the Congress over the opposition party's allegations, saying people whose political base has "shrunk like anything" seek to dominate discourse on these platforms while asserting that everybody regardless of his ideology has got the right to air his views there. Senior party leader Ravi Shankar Prasad had said that former Congress president Rahul Gandhi believes that any organisation that does not work to his liking is acting under the pressure of the BJP and the RSS. Malviya had also cited instances of certain Facebook officials' biases against the ruling party and had even communicated to the social media giant about it. Facebook had earlier said the company's social media platform prohibits hate speech and content that incites violence, adding these policies are enforced globally without regard to political affiliation. However, Facebook, which counts India among its largest markets globally, acknowledged that "there is more to do".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/not-social-media-firm-people-of-india-rejected-rahul-gandhi-and-congress-bjp-on-facebook-row-879792.html
29-08-2020||North and Central||Three militants, one soldier killed in encounter in Jammu and Kashmir's Pulwama||Three militants and an army soldier were killed in an early morning encounter in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district on Saturday. This was the second encounter between militants and security forces in south Kashmir within 24 hours in which seven ultras were neutralized. “#PulwamaEncounterUpdate: 03 #unidentified #terrorists killed. #Incriminating materials including #arms & ammunition which. Search going on (sic),” J&K police tweeted. Defence spokesperson Colonel Rajesh Kalia, said, “One AK 47 and two pistols have been recovered. One soldier was critically injured and succumbed to his injuries. A joint operation is in progress.” Reports said the gunfight broke out after a joint team of J&K police, Army’s 50-Rashtriya Rifles and CRPF launched a cordon-and-search-operation in Zadoora area of Pulwama, 28 km from here during wee hours on Saturday. As the search party encircled the suspected spot, the hiding militants fired upon them. The fire was retaliated by the joint team, triggering off an encounter, they said. Earlier on Friday, security forces killed four militants during an encounter in Kiloora area of neighbouring Shopian district. Army also said that one militant had surrendered. Since the beginning of this year, security forces have killed nearly 160 militants, including 26 top commanders in J&K.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-militants-one-soldier-killed-in-encounter-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-pulwama-879464.html
29-08-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh minister Satish Mahana tests Covid-19 positive||Uttar Pradesh cabinet minister Satish Mahana said on Saturday that he had tested positive for the novel coronavirus and isolated himself at home. Mahana requested those who have come in contact with him in the past few days to get their coronavirus tests done. "After initial symptoms of Covid-19, I got myself tested yesterday (Friday) and the report came positive," the infrastructure and industrial development minister tweeted. "I have isolated myself at home on the advice of doctors."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-minister-satish-mahana-tests-covid-19-positive-879513.html
29-08-2020||North and Central||Pranab Mukherjee still in deep coma; renal parameters improve||Former President Pranab Mukherjee continues to be in deep coma and on ventilator support, but his renal parameters have improved, the hospital said on Saturday. Doctors attending on the 84-year-old Mukherjee said he remains haemodynamically stable and is being treated for lung infection. A patient is haemodynamically stable when his blood circulation parameters -- blood pressure, heart and pulse rate -- are stable and normal, doctors say. Mukherjee was admitted to the Army's Research and Referral Hospital in Delhi on August 10 and was operated for removal of a clot in the brain the same day. He later developed a lung infection and had renal dysfunction, the doctors said. "Shri Pranab Mukherjee is being treated for lung infection. His renal parameters have improved. He continues to be in a deep coma and on ventilator support. He remains haemodynamically stable," a statement from the hospital said. The former President had also tested positive for Covid-19 at the time of his admission. Mukherjee was the 13th President of India from 2012-2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pranab-mukherjee-still-in-deep-coma-renal-parameters-improve-879521.html
29-08-2020||North and Central||SP members booked for violating Covid-19 norms||More than 20 Samajwadi Party activists have been booked for allegedly violating coronavirus guidelines and gathering for a protest here, police said on Saturday. The SP members, including former Muzaffarnagar district president Rashid Malik and youth leader Shamsher Malik, have burnt the effigy of the Uttar Pradesh government in protest against the baton charge on activists in Lucknow. A case has been registered against 20 activists, Kotwali police station in-charge Anil Kaparwan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sp-members-booked-for-violating-covid-19-norms-879527.html
29-08-2020||North and Central||Ten people injured in clash over property dispute in Uttar Pradesh's Shamli||Ten people, including a woman, were injured in a clash between members of a family over property dispute in the Jhinjhana area of Uttar Pradesh's Shamli district, police said on Saturday. The incident took place on Friday, they said, adding the injured have been shifted to a hospital. Police said they have launched an investigation into the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ten-people-injured-in-clash-over-property-dispute-in-uttar-pradeshs-shamli-879533.html
29-08-2020||North and Central||Flood-like situation in 4 Chhattisgarh districts, thousands shifted||Heavy rains battered several parts of Chhattisgarh over the last two days, creating a flood-like situation in some areas of at least four districts and causing rivers, including the Mahanadi, to flow above the danger mark, officials said. Nearly 12,000 houses in various districts of the state were partially or completely damaged due to the incessant rainfall and thousands of people were shifted to relief camps, they said. Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel chaired a meeting on Friday night with all district collectors and Superintendents of Police (SPs) through video-conferencing to assess the situation and take stock of relief measures being undertaken in flooded areas, a public relations department official said on Saturday. "Flood-like situation has been created in many districts of the state due to incessant downpour, which has sent rivers and rivulets in spate. Settlements in low-lying areas have also been inundated in several urban areas," the official quoted the CM as saying during the meeting. Baghel instructed the officials to ensure proper arrangements for food, drinking water and health facilities to the affected people, he said. The chief minister also asked the authorities to carry out the timely evacuation of the people stranded in floods and shifting them in relief camps. During the meeting, officials said that Raipur, Janjgir-Champa, Bilaspur, Durg and Raigarh districts witnessed "record rainfall" between Thursday and Friday, while there is the flood-like situation in some parts of Jangir-Champa, Raigarh, Rajnandgaon and Balodabazar-Bhatapara districts, the official said. As many as 11,942 houses were partially or completely damaged in various districts due to continuous rainfall, while 219 relief camps have been set up in rain-affected districts for people, he said. During the meeting, Janjgir-Champa collector said that the Mahanadi river, considered the lifeline of central Chhattisgarh, was flowing above the danger mark and he had spoken to his Sambalpur counterpart in neighbouring Odisha about opening the gates of Hirakud dam (build on that river), he said. "The gates of Hirakud dam have been opened," he said. In Janjgir-Champa district, around 4,000 houses were damaged due to rainfall and resulting flood and 2,091 affected people have been shifted to 45 relief camps, he said. Similarly, in Raigarh district, 27 villages in Baramkela and Pusaur areas were affected due to the floods, wherein 2,389 people were moved to 21 relief camps, he said. In Balodabazar district, 26 villages bore the brunt of the flood and 1,393 people were shifted to 24 relief camps there. At least 35 people were rescued from flooded areas in Balodabazar, he said. Rajnandgaon collector said the road link between Rajnandgaon and Kawardha towns snapped due to overflowing river on the route. Water of Aamner river was flowing above the bridge in Khairagarh town of Rajnandgaon, he said. The chief minister asked the rescue teams to remain alert to deal with the emergency situation. He also instructed the collectors to deploy a joint team of staff of Revenue, District Panchayat, Janpad Panchayat, Forest Department to provide relief to the affected people, the official said. According to the disaster management department officials, Jangir-Champa district received 211.9 mm rainfall on Friday, while Raipur witnessed 160 MM rainfall. Other districts which saw heavy rainfall on Friday are Bilaspur (119.5mm), Durg (142 mm), Rajnandgaon (99.9 mm), Balodabazar (108.9 mm) and Raigarh (119.3 mm).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/flood-like-situation-in-4-chhattisgarh-districts-thousands-shifted-879534.html
29-08-2020||North and Central||Four arrested for killing man in West Delhi||Four men have been arrested for allegedly killing a 23-year-old man after he, along with his associate, stole the mobile phone of one of them, police said on Saturday. The accused have been identified as Istihar (30), Anish (24) Mustaq Ahmed (32) and his brother Shiraj Ahmed (28), all residents of Naraina Industrial Area in West Delhi, they said. The incident took place on Friday in Naraina, police said. The body of the victim with severe injury marks was found lying under a tree. A rope and a white muffler was also recovered from the spot, they added. The man was later identified as Rahul, a resident of Jawahar Camp, Kirti Nagar, police said. Shesh Kumar, who witnessed the incident, told police that when he woke up around 5.30 am on Friday, he found that his neighbours -- Mustaq, Shiraj, Anish and Ishtihar -- were badly beating up a man and taking him to an adjoining park. The men had sticks, a pipe and an iron rod with them and they tied the man to a tree and started beating him, Kumar told police. Kumar tried to intervene and requested them to release the injured man, but they did not pay any heed to it, police said. The accused told him that the victim and his associate stole the mobile phone of one of them from a truck. While his associate managed to escape with the phone, they caught hold of Rahul, according to police. Based on Kumar's statement, a case was registered under sections 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and the four men involved in the offence were arrested, Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) Deepak Purohit said. "During interrogation, the accused disclosed that the victim and his associate had stolen Shiraj's mobile phone fom his truck. While his associate ran away with the mobile phone, they managed to catch hold of the victim and took him to an adjoining park of their shanty and tied him to a tree and beat him badly. When his condition started to deteriorate, they ran away from the spot," the DCP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/four-arrested-for-killing-man-in-west-delhi-879540.html
29-08-2020||North and Central||One more Covid-related death in Ladakh, toll reachs 28||One more patient died of coronavirus in Ladakh, taking the death toll due to the disease in the union territory to 28, officials said on Saturday. The patient, who was suffering from various ailments, died at a hospital in Leh district on Friday, they said. This was the 10th Covid-19-related death in Leh district, while rest of the 18 fatalities had taken place in Kargil district since the outbreak of the disease in March. Ladakh had so far recorded a total of 2,540 positive cases. While 1,742 patients have recovered and subsequently discharged, 798 are still undergoing treatment -- 480 in Leh and 318 in Kargil, the officials said. Meanwhile, Additional Deputy Commissioner, Kargil, Tsering Motup has stressed for thorough screening and sample collection of each and every inbound passenger entering into Ladakh so that the suspected cases would be identified on spot and further course of action is taken in a proper manner. Motup, along with Sub-divisional Magistrate Drass Asgar Ali and Chief Medical Officer, Kargil, Munawar Hussain Wazir, was inspecting the status of screening, testing and sample collection of inbound passengers traveling into Ladakh at Meenamarg, an official spokesman said. He said the ADC asked officers concerned to take strict legal action against the inbound passengers not cooperating with the screening and sampling teams. Keeping in view the recent spike in the number of Covid-19 positive cases, the administrations in both Kargil and Leh districts have intensified the process of screening, testing and sample collection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-more-covid-related-death-in-ladakh-toll-reachs-28-879549.html
29-08-2020||North and Central||BSF detects tunnel along India-Pakistan border in Jammu||The Border Security Force (BSF) Saturday detected a 20-feet long underground tunnel originating from the Pakistani side of the international border (IB) in Samba sector of Jammu. A BSF spokesperson said approximately 20 feet long and three-four feet wide tunnel was detected inside the Indian territory near the IB at Samba’s Basantar area. “Pakistan made sandbags with Shakargarh/Karachi written were also found at the mouth of the tunnel to hide it. The opening of the tunnel is around 170 Mtrs from IB towards the Indian side in the field of a local farmer,” he said. Sources told DH as the infiltration along the IB and Line of Control (LoC) has become difficult due to strict vigil by the security forces, Pakistani spy agency ISI wants to explore the possibility of infiltrating ultras and weapons through secret tunnels. In the wake of the detection of a secret tunnel in the forward area, they said, security units along the IB and the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir have been asked to keep a strict vigil on any digging in the border areas. “Army and BSF units have been asked to launch a spot investigation to find out if more such tunnels exist anywhere,” sources added. A BSF officer said its troops foiled nefarious design of Pakistan to infiltrate militants into Indian territory with the detection of the tunnel. “Efforts of alert BSF troops deployed in our counter-infiltration grid once again resulted in neutralizing the evil designs of terrorists,” he said and added patrol detected the tunnel 50 metres from the border fence on the Indian side. The officer said that influenced by the success of Hamas militants, who cleverly use tunnels against Israel Defence Forces, the Lashkar-e-Toiba and Jaish-e-Mohammad militant outfits in Pakistan are being trained by Pakistani Army experts in such technology.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bsf-detects-tunnel-along-india-pakistan-border-in-jammu-879552.html
29-08-2020||North and Central||PM Narendra Modi inaugurates college & admin buildings of Rani Lakshmi Bai Central Agri varsity||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday inaugurated the college and administration buildings of Jhansi-based Rani Lakshmi Bai Central Agricultural University, a prominent institute of the Bundelkhand region. After the inauguration, the Prime Minister interacted with university students and asked about ways to address certain challenges like reducing import of edible oils and increasing food processing, especially in fruits and vegetables. Modi asked a student whether awareness among farmers can be created about micro, drip and sprinkler irrigation in the drought-prone Bundelkhand region. During the interaction, the Prime Minister stressed on promoting recycling of water and rainwater harvesting through innovative and less costly technology in the region. Rani Lakshmi Bai Central Agricultural University started its first academic session in 2014-15 and is offering both under-graduate and post-graduate courses in agriculture, horticulture and forestry. It is currently operating from the Indian Grassland and Fodder Research Institute, Jhansi as the main buildings were getting ready. Speaking on the occasion, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the inauguration was long-awaited and will benefit farmers not only in the Bundelkhand region but the entire country. There is scope for promoting organic farming in the region towards which the government is working, he said, and added that the government is working towards doubling farmers' income by 2022. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said setting up of a central agricultural university in Jhansi will benefit the drought-prone Bundelkhand region and help farmers become self-reliant. He lauded the government's recent efforts that have brought changes in the region. The Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana has helped address drought to a large extent in the region, while Jal Jeevan Mission has resolved the drinking water issue here, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-narendra-modi-inaugurates-college-admin-buildings-of-rani-lakshmi-bai-central-agri-varsity-879572.html
29-08-2020||North and Central||NC's political affairs committee meets first time after revocation of Jammu and Kashmir's special status||A meeting of the political affairs committee (PAC) of the National Conference began here on Saturday, the first such gathering of the top decision-making body of the party after the revocation of Jammu and Kashmir's special status in August last year. The PAC meeting began at party headquarters Nawa-i-Subah here under the chairmanship of National Confenence president Farooq Abdullah, a NC leader said. He said party's vice president Omar Abdullah and other senior leaders, including general secretary Ali Mohammad Sagar, are present in the meeting. The leaders from the Jammu region, who are part of the PAC, have joined via video conference, the NC leader added. This is the first meeting of the NC's political affairs committee after the Centre revoked Jammu and Kashmir's special status in August last year and divided the erstwhile state into two union territories – Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh. Last week, Farooq Abdullah held meetings with over a dozen party leaders, in batches over three days, at his Gupkar residence here. The leaders, whom the NC president met, were under detention for the past one year and the party had challenged their detention in a court. However, the government had submitted in the court that those leaders were not under custody and were free to move anywhere.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ncs-political-affairs-committee-meets-first-time-after-revocation-of-jammu-and-kashmirs-special-status-879580.html
29-08-2020||North and Central||Uptick in Covid cases: 35% rise in demand for hospital beds in Delhi since July-end||The rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the national capital has led to a 35 per cent increase in the demand for beds in hospitals in the city, according to government data. On July 30, the occupancy of beds reserved for coronavirus patients was 18 per cent, with only 2,958 out of 16,038 beds being occupied. It was 23.02 per cent on August 10 and 23.40 per cent on August 11. It increased to 28 per cent on Saturday, with 4,004 out of 14,135 beds occupied, according to data shared by the hospitals on Delhi Corona app. Out of 1,229 CovidICU beds with ventilator support, 473 (38 percent) were occupied. The occupancy was 33 per cent on July 30. Delhi has recorded an increase in the number of new cases over the last few days, which experts attribute to the easing of lockdown curbs, complacency among people and return of migrants workers from neighboring states. The number of new cases hovered around 1,000 in the beginning of August – 1,118 on August 1 and 961 on August 2. The number rose to 1,450 on August 23 and 1,840 on Thursday, the highest single-day spike in 49 days. "Delhi has been witnessing a slight increase in the number of new cases because of various factors. People (migrants) are returning. Then there are people from other states who have come to the city for treatment," Dr Desh Deepak, the nodal officer for Covid-19 at Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, said. The government is gradually allowing businesses to reopen, other activities to resume under unlock period, he said. Dr B L Sherwal, the managing director of Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital, a dedicated Covid-19 facility, said the number of new cases is bound to increase with the easing of restrictions. "The occupancy of beds in the hospital had reduced to around 50 in the beginning of August. Now, it has again risen to more than 100," he said. "Our hospital is close to Uttar Pradesh. So, a number of people are coming in from there too," he added. Dr K K Agarwal, the head of Heart Care Foundation of India, with the government ramping up testing, more patients will be detected in the national capital and therefore, the demand for beds will also increase. Earlier this week, the Delhi government decided to double the number of Covid-19 tests -- from around 20,000 at present to 40,000 per day -- following a spike in the new cases in the capital. Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Friday said the government will increase the working hours of its dispensaries and clinics by two hours so that more Covid-19 tests can be carried out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uptick-in-covid-19-cases-35-rise-in-demand-for-hospital-beds-in-delhi-since-july-end-879594.html
29-08-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Army called in to help flood-hit Hoshangabad district||The Army has been called in to rescue people from flooded areas of Hoshangabad district in Madhya Pradesh on Saturday following heavy rains, an official said. Torrential rains lashed parts of Hoshangabad district, inundating several of its areas and causing the Narmada river to flow above danger mark there, the official said. "While two teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) are already posted in the district, two more will be deployed soon," Hoshangabad divisional commissioner Rajnish Shrivastava said. "Moreover, the Army has also been pressed into service to help the district administration. It will be reaching the region soon," he said. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan will carry out an aerial survey of the flooded areas and the places along the Narmada river in Sehore and Hoshangabad districts that were hit by a hailstorm, the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-army-called-in-to-help-flood-hit-hoshangabad-district-879599.html
29-08-2020||North and Central||Covid-19 strikes one-third of Uttar Pradesh cabinet as state's tally surges||Around one-third of Uttar Pradesh's cabinet have so far tested positive for novel coronavirus even as Covid 19 cases in the state surged to over two lakh. UP minister for industrial development Satish Mahana tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Friday. He, incidentally, was the 14th minister to have been struck by Covid-19. UP cabinet currently has 46 ministers. Senior BJP leader and state minister Siddharth Nath Singh had tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday.  Other ministers who had tested positive for the virus include Bhupendra Chaudhary, Atul Garg, Udai Bhan Singh, Jai Pratap Singh, Brajesh Pathak, Rajendra Pratap Singh, Mahendra Singh, Dharam Singh Saini, Raghuraj Shakya and Upendra Tewari. Minister and former cricketer Chetan Chauhan and Kamal Rani Varun had died of Covid-19. Meanwhile, the total number of coronavirus positive cases in the state has surged to over two lakh. The total count stood at 2.10 lakh on Friday, according to official sources. Over five thousand new cases were reported in the state in the past 24 hours. The number of deaths from Covid 19 stood at 3,400 on Friday, sources said. The state capital of Lucknow continued to be the worst affected district in the state with over seven hundred new cases being reported, sources said. The UP government has ordered for complete lockdown on the weekends to curb the rising number of coronavirus cases. Testing has also been ramped up in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-strikes-one-third-of-uttar-pradesh-cabinet-as-states-tally-surges-879601.html
29-08-2020||North and Central||Haryana minister Ranjeet Singh tests Covid-19 positive||Haryana Power Minister Ranjeet Singh said on Saturday that he had tested positive for the novel coronavirus. Singh, who is an Independent MLA supporting the BJP-JJP government, had got his test done just before the one-day Assembly session on Wednesday and his report returned negative. However, he developed symptoms after the session and got himself tested again. "I got my COVID test done again and the report came positive," the cabinet minister tweeted. "My health is alright, but I under home quarantined on the advice of doctors." The 75-year-old requested all those who might have come in my contact him to isolate themselves and get their tests done Singh, the Independent legislator from Rania in Sirsa district, is the brother of former chief minister Om Prakash Chautala and son of former deputy prime minister Devi Lal. Earlier, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, Agriculture Minister J P Dalal, Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma, Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta and four other BJP MLAs had tested positive for the infection. The state currently has over 60,000 coronavirus cases and over 660 fatalities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-minister-ranjeet-singh-tests-covid-19-positive-879606.html
29-08-2020||North and Central||UP Rajya Sabha polls: Nomination papers of BJP leader Syed Zafar filed||Nomination papers of BJP candidate Syed Zafar for the Rajya Sabha bypolls were filed here on Saturday. According to party sources, Islam was not well and could not file his papers personally. Main proposer and senior minister Suresh Khanna filed two sets of papers before returning officer B B Dubey in the absence of the candidate. Several senior party leaders, including ministers Suresh Khanna, Swami Prasad Maurya, Swati Singh, Ramapati Shastri, Rajendra Pratap Singh and state BJP president Swatantra Dev Singh were present on occasion. September 1 is the last date for the filing of nominations and the scrutiny will be held on September 2. September 4 is the last date for the withdrawal of nominations and the elections are scheduled for September 11. The election has been necessitated due to the death of former Samajwadi Party leader Amar Singh. Islam's victory is all but certain due to the BJP's overwhelming majority in the state assembly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-rajya-sabha-polls-nomination-papers-of-bjp-leader-syed-zafar-filed-879607.html
29-08-2020||North and Central||IIT-I teaches ancient sciences, mathematics in Sanskrit||The Indian Institute of Technology here has introduced a unique course to impart mathematical and scientific knowledge from ancient texts in Sanskrit, an official said on Saturday. Titled "Understanding Classical Scientific Texts of India in an Immersive Sanskrit Environment", the course was started to in a bid to expose the present generation to ancient knowledge, the official from the institute said. The All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE)-sponsored quality improvement programme began on August 22 and will continue till October 2 with a total of 62 hours of online classes, he said. Over 750 candidates from all over the world were participating in the course, he added. "Ancient texts of India, originally composed in Sanskrit, have a rich heritage of mathematical and scientific knowledge and the present generation is unaware of this. We started this course to make them aware of this ancient knowledge in Sanskrit itself," said professor Neelesh Kumar, officiating director of IIT, Indore. The course will inspire participants to research, innovate, study and teach mathematics and science in Sanskrit, he said. According to an IIT official, the course has been divided into two parts, under which participants will first be taught the nuances of Sanskrit to build their understanding of the language and in the next part, they will be taught classical mathematics in Sanskrit. A qualifying examination will also be conducted to evaluate the participants involved in the second part of the course and successful candidates will be awarded a certificate, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/iit-i-teaches-ancient-sciences-mathematics-in-sanskrit-879608.html
29-08-2020||North and Central||Kamal Nath seeks CBI probe into death of tribal leader Manmohan Shah Batti||Madhya Pradesh Congress chief Kamal Nath has demanded a probe either by the CBI or a high-level committee into the "suspicious" death of the tribal leader and Akhil Bharatiya Gondwana Party president Manmohan Shah Batti. In a letter addressed to Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Nath said he had visited the residence of Batti in the latter's hometown Deori in Chhindwara district on August 24, where people of Batti's community described his death as "suspicious and unexpected". "An inquiry by an independent and credible agency should be conducted to dispel this suspicion expressed by the tribal community. The inquiry should be conducted by a high-level committee or by the CBI," Nath stated. Batti (57), a former MLA from Amarwada, reportedly died due to a cardiac arrest in a Bhopal-based hospital on August 2. The ruling BJP has termed Nath's demand politically-motivated. "If Nath has any proof about Batti's death, he should present it before the MP police. The demand for an inquiry by the CBI or a high-level committee is just politics. The demise of any leader should not be politicised," state BJP spokesman Rajneesh Agrawal told PTI on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kamal-nath-seeks-cbi-probe-into-death-of-tribal-leader-manmohan-shah-batti-879618.html
29-08-2020||North and Central||Water projects worth Rs 10,000 cr sanctioned for Bundelkhand region: PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said the government is committed to the development of drought-prone Bundelkhand region and around 500 projects worth over Rs 10,000 crore have been sanctioned for improving water availability. Observing that the benefit of water from three rivers, Ken, Betwa and Yamuna, was not reaching the Bundelkhand region, Modi said the proposed Ken-Betwa river linking project has the potential to change the fortune of the area and the Centre is in discussion with both Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh on this issue.       He was addressing after the virtual inauguration of college and administration buildings of Jhansi-based Rani Lakshmi Bai Central Agricultural University.       "Both the Centre and the UP government are committed towards development of Bundelkhand region and restore its historic identity and past glory," Modi said.       The Prime Minister mentioned that before the 2019 general polls, he had promised to improve water availability in the Bundelkhand region in the next five years and several initiatives have been taken in that regard.     "Due to their blessings, 'Har Ghar Jal Abhiyan' (Tap water to every rural household) is working at a fast pace. Construction of water bodies and laying of pipelines in all districts is underway. The government has already sanctioned over Rs 10,000 crore for 500 water projects for this purpose," he said.       Of these, the work on projects worth nearly Rs 3,000 crore has commenced in the last two months.       "When these projects get completed, lakhs of families in this region will directly benefit," he said, adding that the government has also begun work on increasing the groundwater level in this region under groundwater management scheme.         Noting that the region was not getting the benefit of water despite three rivers, Modi said: "To change this situation, the Centre is working continuously. The Ken-Betwa River Link project has the potential to change the fortune of this region."       On this issue, the Centre is in discussion with two states. "I am sure, once the Bundelkhand region gets enough water, then life here will change fully," he added.       Besides water projects, Modi said thousands of crores worth of projects are being implemented in this region, including Bundelkhand Expressway and Defence Corridor, that will create job opportunities.     "The day is not far, Jhansi and adjacent areas which were famous for valour will make India Aatmanirbhar (self-reliant) in defence-security," he said.     The government is providing free ration, gas and depositing thousands of crores in women's Jan Dhan bank accounts across the country, including Bundelkhand region, he said.     "Around 10 lakh poor women in Bundelkhand region have been provided with free gas cylinder. Deposited thousands of crores in lakhs of Jan Dhan accounts of women," he said and added that about Rs 700 crore has been spent so far under the Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyan in Uttar Pradesh alone.     He said that lakhs of workers are getting jobs due to this initiative. Even many new ponds were being constructed and the old ones were being revived under this scheme, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/water-projects-worth-rs-10000-cr-sanctioned-for-bundelkhand-region-pm-narendra-modi-879637.html
29-08-2020||North and Central||Bodybuilder and celebrity fitness coach Satnam Khattra passes away at 31||Popular Jalandhar-based celebrity fitness coach, model and bodybuilder Satnam Khattra, 31, died of a heart attack on Saturday, according to reports. He was once addicted to drugs but sobered up and was into physical fitness and bodybuilding for the past eight years, say reports. His coach Rohit Khera announced the bodybuilder’s death on social media. Satnam’s fans were in awe of his dedication to fitness and he was widely popular among Punjab’s youth. His Instagram account has over 3,80,000 followers. Reports quoting sources say that he was not keeping well for some time, and was holding online fitness classes during the Covid-19 lockdown. Satnam was reportedly planning to launch his own fitness brand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bodybuilder-and-celebrity-fitness-coach-satnam-khattra-passes-away-at-31-879649.html
29-08-2020||North and Central||Longer halting time for trains, less people in lifts: Delhi Metro's new normal plans||Limiting the number of people in lifts and longer halting time for trains at stations to allow commuters to board and alight with social distancing norms, are among the measures the Delhi Metro will take to ensure safer travel for its passengers, whenever services resume. Metro rail services were closed on March 22 in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) had last week said that it will be prepared to resume operations whenever directed by the government. "We are still awaiting nod for the resumption of services. However, all safety protocols have been worked out and some more being worked out so as to ensure maximum safety for passengers whenever services are ordered to be resumed," a source said. Inside metro premises like stations and train coaches, wearing of masks will be mandatory and social distancing norms will be followed as per government guidelines, and people not wearing masks will not be allowed to enter metro premises, officials said. "Trains will halt for a longer duration than on regular days to allow commuters to board coaches and alight from it while maintaining a physical distance. Also, the number of persons permissible to board a lift will be reduced in view of social distancing, and the exact number is still being worked out," the source told PTI. One train coach can accommodate about 50 passengers on seats and a total of nearly 300 riders in the entire compartment, including standing commuters. With social distancing norms, this number will reduce drastically. From new smart cards with an auto top-up facility to stickers on social distancing norms pasted on seats and platform floors, Delhi Metro is all set to handle commuters in adherence to Covid-19 safety guidelines, whenever the services are ordered to be resumed, officials had earlier said. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had recently said that metro train services in Delhi should be resumed on a trial basis as the Covid-19 situation is improving in the city, and hoped that the Centre would soon take a decision on it. However, the number of fresh cases and active cases have risen in the last several days. Delhi recorded 1,808 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the tally in the city to over 1.69 lakh, while the death toll from the disease rose to 4,389, authorities said. This was the second successive day when over 1,800 new cases have been reported in August. On Thursday, 22 deaths were reported and the daily case count was 1,840, the highest single-day spike in August till now. Experts have attributed the rise in cases in the last week or so to reopening of the economy and many people not following safety protocols and social distancing norms in public. Sources also said a meeting was held by metro officials on Thursday with security officials, including from the CISF. Before Delhi Metro services were closed in March, a Rs 200 fine was mandated for spitting inside metro properties. However, it is likely be hiked multiple times, sources had earlier indicated. The economy has slowly opened up in a phase-wise manner in the unlock period since June, but the DMRC has not received a nod from the Centre to resume operations. "The DMRC shall be prepared to commence operations whenever directed by the government. All necessary guidelines in place to combat the spread of Covid-19 shall be implemented, and all efforts shall be made to make travel safe for our valued commuters," Anuj Dayal, Executive Director, DMRC was quoted as saying in a statement earlier. According to sources, the Delhi Metro has suffered a loss of nearly Rs 1,300 cr since the closure of services since late March due to the Covid-19 situation. On regular days, the average daily ridership of DMRC is over 26 lakh. Awaiting a nod to resume operations, the DMRC meanwhile, has been training its staff on compliance of Covid-19 safety norms and also on ways to make travel safer for commuters. Thermal scanners will take the temperature of commuters while entering and hand sanitiser will be kept for them too. Delhi Metro authorities have been working on protocols to ensure social distancing norms are in place whenever the commuters return. Seeking to promote greater e-transaction for commuters to avoid physical contact as such, the Delhi Metro on August 19 had announced a new facility that will enable riders to get their smart cards auto-topped up with money at AFC gates. The old smart card issued by the DMRC can also be upgraded to avail this facility, they said. "This feature comes handy at these times wherein, commuters are going to follow a new travel protocol, whenever metro services resume, which calls for social distancing and contactless services due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic," a senior official said. Among other measures, red lines have been drawn at regular intervals next to AFC gates and security checking gates, just before commuters enter near the platform area. On platform floors, large stickers bearing 'Ensure Social Distancing' message have been pasted at regular intervals, with a while circle bordered by an outer red circle, to alert commuters. DMRC authorities, however, remain tight-lipped on whether keeping Aarogya Setu app will be mandatory for travelling in metro whenever the services are resumed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/longer-halting-time-for-trains-less-people-in-lifts-delhi-metros-new-normal-plans-879666.html
29-08-2020||North and Central||BJP MP Sakshi Maharaj put in 14-day home quarantine||BJP MP Sakshi Maharaj was forcibly home quarantined here on Saturday for 14-day for violating Covid norms, a senior district official said. The MP from Uttar Pradesh had come to Giridih, over 200 km from Ranchi, to take part in a programme from Unnao via Dhanbad. Maharaj, who was returning to Dhanbad by road to take a train to Delhi, was intercepted by the district administration near Pirtand police station and sent on quarantine at Shanti Bhawan ashram, where he had gone to take part in a programme, Deputy Commissioner Rahul Kumar Sinha said. The action been taken in accordance with a state government order of 14 days quarantine for people coming from outside to the state, the DC said. "He had not informed the state government about his visit and therefore we have put him in quarantine for 14 days," Sinha said. The DC, however. said if he wanted he can apply for the exemption. On getting information about visit and return of the Uttar Pradesh politician without advance information, the administration sealed borders of the district and put barricades. A team headed by Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM) Prerna Dixit which was following him stopped the MP at a barricade under Pirtand police station and sent him on 14 days quarantine at Shanti Bhawan, the DC said. Maharaj told reporters that he had come to see his ailing mother in Giridih after giving prior information. He, however, said had he been told about the mandatory 14-day quarantine condition for visiting Jharkhand, he would not have come. The BJP MP talked to Uttar Pradesh Chief Secretary from the place he was intercepted in the presence of media and also put the DC over phone to the chief secretary. But, it did not help him and he was taken by the police to Shanti Bhawan for putting him in home quarantine. He took exception to th adminstration "forcibly" putting him in quarantine, saying "I am Member of Parliament and Jharkhand is part of India. Can't I meet my ailing mother? "I have to take part in a meeting of the standing committee of Parliament on Sunday and I have been forcibly quarantined here...its really disgusting," he said. He said, RJD chief Lalu Prasad's son Tej Pratap Yadav had on Wednesday visited Ranchi to meet his father in RIMS and returned to Patna by road, but the administration did not take any similar action. "This appears to be inspired by political jealously," he alleged. Jharkhand has a coalition government of JMM, Congress and the RJD headed by Hemant Soren.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-mp-sakshi-maharaj-put-in-14-day-home-quarantine-879671.html
29-08-2020||North and Central||Two report Covid-19 positive 'without' swab tests in Jharkhand, probe ordered||Two people, who could not give their swab samples due to a long queue at a hospital here, "tested positive" for Covid-19, while a BJP functionary was administered treatment for coronavirus at a government health facility for 10 days, only to discover that he had tested negative, a senior official said. The two bizarre incidents have prompted the authorities to order separate probes, said Neelum Chaudhary, civil surgeon, Ramgarh, describing the issue as something "very serious". The BJP functionary was admitted to a Covid care centre almost 10 days before the reports of his swab sample came out, the official said. He was later informed that the report of his first swab sample was negative and discharged from hospital. In another incident, a man and a woman had to return home after standing in a queue for hours at Sadar Hospital to give their samples, Chaudhary said. However, they later got a message that both of them tested positive. "These are serious issues and probes have been intitiated to look into the matter," the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-report-covid-19-positive-without-swab-tests-in-jharkhand-probe-ordered-879681.html
29-08-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh bypolls: Chambal-Bundelkhand on Centre's radar||The Modi government has turned its focus to the parched region of Bundelkhand spread across parts of Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh as assembly bye-elections that would decide the future of Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan loom large. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday inaugurated the college and administration buildings of the Rani Lakshmi Bai Central Agricultural University through video conferencing and interacted with students of the varsity, giving them tips to promote drip irrigation in the arid region. Modi also read out a list of water supply projects worth Rs 10,000 crore lined up the end the water scarcity in the region. “Out of this, work on projects worth Rs 3,000 crore has already commenced in the past two months,” the prime minister said. He added that the Centre has also allocated Rs 700 crore under the Atal Bhujal Yojana to the Bundelkhand for initiatives to raise the groundwater level in the region. The Prime Minister also recalled how the government had worked on a war footing to repulse the locust attack in April-May, the worst in the last three decades. Bye-election are due in Madhya Pradesh for 27 seats represented by Congress MLAs who quit in March and shifted to the BJP along with Jyotiraditya Scindia, bringing down Chief Minister Kamal Nath’s government. BJP needs to win at least nine of the 27 seats if Chouhan wants to have a simple majority in the 230-member assembly. Of the 27 seats for which bypolls are to be held, 18 fall in the Bundelkhand-Chambal region. Earlier this week, Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari had launched national highway projects worth Rs 9,400 crore in Madhya Pradesh and reiterated the government’s commitment to build the Rs 11,000 crore Chambal Expressway connecting Kota in Rajasthan and Etawah in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-bypolls-chambal-bundelkhand-on-centres-radar-879700.html
29-08-2020||North and Central||792 villages in 16 districts of Uttar Pradesh affected by floods||As many as 792 villages in 16 districts of Uttar Pradesh have been affected by floods, with the Sharda and the Saryu rivers flowing above the danger mark at some places in the state, a government official said on Saturday. The flood-affected districts in the state are Ambedkarnagar, Ayodhya, Azamgarh, Bahraich, Ballia, Barabanki, Basti, Deoria, Farrukhabad, Gonda, Gorakhpur, Kushinagar, Lakhimpur Khiri, Mau, Shahjahanpur and Sitapur. According to the office of the relief commissioner, of 792 villages hit by the deluge, 437 villages are completely flooded. The Sharda river was flowing above the danger mark at Palia Kalan in Lakhimpur Kheri, while the Saryu river was flowing above the danger mark at Ayodhya, Elgin Bridge in Barabanki and Turtipar in Ballia. Chairing a meeting of senior officials of the state government, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday said relief work in flood-hit areas should be conducted in full steam. Ration kits and medical facilities should also be arranged in flood-affected areas, he said and asked officials to conduct an early survey of the damage to the crops and compensation payment. Backward Class Welfare and Divyanjan Empowerment Minister Anil Rajbhar on Saturday said the chief minister has issued instructions to ensure constant patrolling of embankments and asserted that all embankments are safe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/792-villages-in-16-districts-of-uttar-pradesh-affected-by-floods-879701.html
29-08-2020||North and Central||17-year-old girl raped in Jammu, accused arrested||A 17-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a man here, following which the accused was arrested, police said on Saturday. The girl alleged that the accused, identified as Suraj Singh of Jourian, called her to the neighbour's house on Friday and raped her, a police official said. Acting on the complaint of the teenager, a case was registered at Kahna Chak police station under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Subsequently, two teams were formed to nab the accused. Singh was arrested from Akhnoor area, the official said, adding that probe into the matter was underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/17-year-old-girl-raped-in-jammu-accused-arrested-879720.html
29-08-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: Delhi again records highest spike in cases in August; death count rises to 4404||Delhi recorded 1,954 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, the city's highest single-day spike in August till date, authorities said. With these fresh cases, the tally in the city has increased to 1,71,366. The death toll due to the disease has mounted to 4,404, they said. Fifteen fatalities have been recorded in the last 24 hours, according to the latest bulletin issued by the Delhi health department. The city had recorded its previous highest spike of 1,840 fresh cases on August 26. On Friday, 20 deaths were reported and the daily case count was 1,808. The active cases tally on Saturday rose to 14040 from 13,208 the previous day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-delhi-again-records-highest-spike-in-cases-in-august-death-count-rises-to-4404-879749.html
29-08-2020||North and Central||'Depressed' minor girl kills mother, brother in Uttar Pradesh's Lucknow||A “depressed” minor girl allegedly shot dead her mother and brother at their residence in Uttar Pradesh’s Lucknow on Saturday, a senior police official said. The incident took place in the high-security Gautampalli area, which is a few kilometres away from the official residence of UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. According to a police official, the deceased have been identified as Malini Bajpai (45), wife of a senior railway official, and son Sharad (20). Police got information about the murders around 3.30 pm. Lucknow Police Commissioner Sujeet Pandey said they had got information that the wife and son of R D Bajpai, Executive Director, Railway Board, Delhi, have been murdered. "It was found that the mother and son died of gunshot injuries. The son was shot on the head. During the investigation, it was found that his daughter, who is a juvenile, has committed the crime,” Pandey said. She confessed to the crime, Pandey said, adding that the weapon used in it has been recovered. Police said Bajpiai’s inflicted wounds on herself using a razor, which too has been recovered. "Till now, it has been found that she is in depression. We will send the girl to a juvenile home. Her father is on his way to Lucknow," Pandey said, adding that the bodies were found in a bedroom. Sujeet Pandey said their servants told them that the entire family had breakfast together in the morning. After that, they went to sleep. Later, the girl woke up and brought out the weapon, Pandey said. Pandey said the girl told them that she loaded five bullets into the weapon. “Of those, three were used," he said, adding that one was shot at a glass, on which the girl had written "disqualified human" for herself. "After this, she shot her mother and brother," Pandey said. The police commissioner said a DCP-rank police officer was present when they questioned the girl. “Her grandfather was present throughout," he said. The police commissioner said there was no forced entry into the house as all doors were closed. Pandey said six teams were pressed into action to crack the case. UP DGP H C Awasthy was also present at the spot of the crime.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/depressed-minor-girl-kills-mother-brother-in-uttar-pradeshs-lucknow-879767.html
29-08-2020||North and Central||Jammu & Kashmir: 2 cops caught on camera taking bribe, suspended||Two traffic policemen in Jammu and Kashmir's Samba district were placed under suspension after a video showing them taking bribe from a driver went viral on social media, officials said on Saturday. Head Constable Ashwani Kumar and Selection Grade Constable Roop Lal were identified on the basis of the video clip and subsequently placed under suspension with immediate effect, the officials said. Citing the order issued by Senior Superintendent of Police (Traffic), rural Jammu, Mohan Lal Kaith, they said the department viewed the action of the two policemen as “highly objectionable” and a departmental inquiry has been ordered into the matter. Deputy Superintendent of police (Traffic), Samba-Kathua has been appointed as the inquiry officer and was directed to submit his findings within three days, the officials said. The video shows the two policemen stopping a vehicle on the roadside after an apparent chase and allegedly taking money from the driver before leaving the spot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-kashmir-2-cops-caught-on-camera-taking-bribe-suspended-879771.html
29-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi L-G gives nod to hold JEE, NEET exams in city||A proposal for holding JEE and NEET exams in Delhi was put forth in the last meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), which was attended by the L-G and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, sources in the Delhi government said. "The Delhi government in its file sent to the L-G on Saturday recommended not to hold the exams in view of safety of students. Delhi Chief Minister had also decided against holding JEE and NEET in view of the pandemic. However, the L-G returned the file giving his permission to hold the exams," sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-l-g-gives-nod-to-hold-jee-neet-exams-in-city-879797.html
29-08-2020||North and Central||Returning home to Delhi, woman raped on a private bus||A Delhi-based woman was allegedly raped while returning home on a private bus on the Yamuna Expressway on Saturday, police said. The woman faced the ordeal after a crew member inside the bus assaulted her, the police said, while adding that the vehicle was coming from Lucknow. “She called the 112 helpline on Saturday morning when the bus reached Mant toll plaza in Mathura and informed us about the rape by the bus cleaner," police further said. The woman and the accused cleaner Ravi were instructed to get down after which the bus was checked, police stated, after which it left for Delhi. Later, the woman underwent a medical examination. Afterwards, she was escorted back to her home in Rohini, Delhi under police supervision, while the accused Ravi, a resident of Bahraich district, has been sent to judicial custody, the police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/returning-home-to-delhi-woman-raped-on-a-private-bus-879817.html
29-08-2020||Right in the Middle||On faux pas and embarrassments||Once in a while, everyone faces a situation in which they want the terra firma beneath them to open up and swallow them whole. When you want to dissolve and merge into the atmosphere, just to avoid embarrassment after doing something silly.  Unfortunately, I have had the ignominy of going through such cringe-worthy moments several times.  When I was in school, we had a science teacher called BKP. He was single at the time and when his wedding was fixed, it turned out that he was getting married to a woman who was close to our family. On the day of his wedding, I was in attendance. An elder relative told me to do “namaskara” to my teacher. I went the full step and did a “shastang namaskara” and fell at the groom’s feet! I am not sure who was more embarrassed, the groom or me! In college, a lecturer asked the classroom who our favourite stars from movies and cricket were. When my turn came I stood up and said I liked Rajkumar. When the lecturer asked me why and I promptly said because he was my fan! The entire class had a good laugh at my expense. I had meant to say I was his fan and he was my idol, but the words just tumbled out. In another instance, several years into my work life, I was driving to office when I suddenly noticed that my shirt had a few stains. Being a stickler for clean dressing, I called my manager and told him that I was near office but my clothes were stained. So, I would return home to change and reach the office a bit late. He was okay with it. When I returned, he loudly told me in front of all my colleagues that I could have taken the day off if I had an upset stomach. Leaving me red-faced and trying to explain the situation.  Recently, at the prestigious World Trade Centre in Bengaluru, I was on the 22nd floor. The elevators here are state of the art and you need to press the button for the floor you wanted to reach on the outside. I was pre-occupied and kept pressing 22 but nothing was happening. A lady standing next to me waited patiently and then pressed 0 and presto, an elevator was allotted. I did not get into that elevator as I could not ride down 21 floors with her with my face red again! I would say I am lucky, as these faux pas were not recorded for eternity. I have seen a video on WhatsApp where a groom’s dhoti slips off right in the middle of his “saath pheras”. I wouldn’t want to be in his dhoti, ever!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/on-faux-pas-and-embarrassments-879381.html
29-08-2020||Second Edit||Covid-19 in Andaman is worrying||Even as India struggles to contain Covid-19 infections across the country, a tragedy is unfolding in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands (ANI). Five members of the Great Andamanese tribal group have tested positive for the coronavirus. This may seem a small, even negligible number. It is not as the Great Andamanese are a Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Group (PVTG). There are just 44 of them, according to the 2001 Census, which means that they are on the brink of extinction. Five of the ANI’s six indigenous communities have been declared PVTGs. While there are around 380 Jarawa, 101 Onge and 229 Shompen, there are just 15 Sentinelese surviving today. People with high immunity and access to the best of healthcare have fallen prey to the coronavirus and many have even lost their lives. The ANI’s tribal communities are particular vulnerable to the virus as they are known to have very low immunity. The loss of even one life to Covid-19 could be disastrous as it will bring these PVTGs closer to extinction. Contact with the outside world has not worked well for the ANI’s indigenous communities. During colonial rule, European settlers introduced diseases like syphilis, tuberculosis and measles that were foreign to the archipelago. Thousands of tribals contracted infections and many perished. The size of the indigenous communities diminished precipitously and some like the Aka Kols and Aka Bea became extinct in the early decades of the 20th century. The last surviving member of the Bo, a subgroup of the Great Andamanese perished in 2010. The Jarawa, a group that is perhaps the PVTG that is most in touch with settlers in the ANI, has suffered grievously. It has fallen prey to repeated measles outbreaks in recent decades. ANI authorities say that outsiders infected the Great Andamanese. It is important that all those infected are isolated. It is important, too, that members of this community as well as the other PVTGs are isolated immediately. Interaction between them and outsiders must be halted and the Andaman Trunk Road, which links Port Blair with Diglipur and runs through the Jarawa Reserve should be shut down immediately. This road may be an economic lifeline for the outsiders living and working in the ANI but for the archipelago’s indigenous groups, this highway has only brought disease and destruction. All members of the PVTGs are being tested for Convid-19 infection. This will not be possible with the highly hostile Sentinelese. India must enable the survival of the ANI’s indigenous communities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/covid-19-in-andaman-is-worrying-879375.html
29-08-2020||South||Puducherry reports 550 new Covid-19 cases, 12 deaths||Puducherry on Saturday reported 550 new Covid-19 cases taking the overall tally to 13,556 while 12 deaths pushed the toll past the 200 mark. The 550 new cases were identified after examination of 1,602 samples, Director of Health and Family Welfare S Mohan Kumar said in a press release. Of the total 13,556 cases in the union territory (after transfer of 18 cases to Tamil Nadu's account), the active cases were 4,834. As many as 8,511 patients have recovered and have been discharged so far while the 12 fatalities in the last 24 hours ending 10 am today took the toll to 211. The Health Department Director said that 431 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours. Fatality rate was 1.56 per cent while the recovery rate was 62.78 per cent. Mohan Kumar said 71,723 samples were tested so far and of them 56,819 were found to be negative.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-reports-550-new-covid-19-cases-12-deaths-879519.html
29-08-2020||South||Telangana reports 2,751 fresh Covid-19 cases, 9 deaths||The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) recorded 432 fresh positive cases, followed by Karimnagar (192), Rangareddy (185), Nalgonda (147), Khammam (132), Medchal Malkajgiri (128), Nizamabad (113), Suryapet (111) and Warangal Urban (101) districts, a state government bulletin said on Saturday, providing data as of 8 pm on August 28. All 33 districts in the state reported positive cases in double digits. Aggressive testing continued in the state with as many as 62,300 samples being tested on August 28. Cumulatively, 12,66,643 samples have been tested. The samples tested per million population was 34,117, the bulletin said. The case fatality rate in the state was 0.67 percent, while it was 1.81 percent at the national level. The total number of people who have recovered from the infectious disease so far stood at 89,359, while 30,008 were under treatment. The recovery rate in the state was 74.3 percent in the state, while it was 76.49 per cent in the country. The number of individuals in home/institutional isolation was 23,049.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-reports-2751-fresh-covid-19-cases-9-deaths-879541.html
29-08-2020||South||Journalist's alleged link with Kerala gold smuggling racket puts BJP in defensive||The BJP is in the defensive in Kerala as a senior journalist employed by a Malayalam news channel, which was said to be a BJP backed one, was quizzed by Customs in connection with the gold smuggling case. The CPI(M) and the Congress have stepped up attack against the BJP in view of the fresh development. Minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan is also being targeted citing his initial statements that the baggage from which gold was seized was not diplomatic baggage. Though the BJP state leadership initially maintained that they had no connection with the channel, later they admitted that they maintained a close relationship with the channel. Anil Nambiar, coordinating editor of Janam TV, was quizzed by the customs after the key accused in the gold smuggling case, Swapna Suresh, who was a former employee of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram, stated that Anil Nambiar advised her to mislead the probe. After Customs intercepted the diplomatic baggage, Anil, who was close to Swapna, allegedly advised her that the consul general may be asked to issue a statement that the baggage was not diplomatic baggage. Anil, who was earlier involved in fabricating an intelligence report against Congress leader K V Thomas who was then Tourism Minister in Kerala, also allegedly sought consulate's investment support to BJP. BJP state president K Surendran had initially maintained that the party had no connection with Janam TV. However, he had to later admit that the BJP had an ideological affinity with the channel as an earlier social media post of Surendran expressing affinity with the channel was widely circulated. While Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala of the Congress raised concerns over the future of the probe owing to BJP links of the accused, Kerala Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran alleged that a section of the accused in the gold smuggling case were having nexus with the BJP, while another section was having nexus with a key partner of the Congress. The CPI(M) camps were also recollecting repeated statements of Kerala's Chief Minister that as the probe into the gold smuggling racket progresses, the opposition parties might be having sleepless nights.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/journalists-alleged-link-with-kerala-gold-smuggling-racket-puts-bjp-in-defensive-879630.html
29-08-2020||South||110-year-old woman recovers from Covid-19 in Kerala||In yet another relief for Kerala's health sector amidst the Covid-19 surge, a 110-year-old woman recovered from Covid-19 at Malappuram district in North Kerala. Pathu, a native of Randathani, is the third centenarian and eldest person to recover from Covid in Kerala. Pathu was infected by local transmission from her daughter. She was tested Covid-19 positive on August 18 and was admitted to the government medical college at Manjeri in Malappuram. She recovered in 11 days from the infection. Doctors who treated her said that she reacted very positively to the treatment and she was stable throughout the treatment. She was only having mild symptoms and had not other major health issues. Pathu and her family members expressed their gratitude to the medical care they received. A team of doctors were monitoring her considering her age. On being discharged from hospital on Saturday, she was advised to remain in home quarantine for 14 more days. Asma Beevi, 105, of Anchal in Kollam district and Pareed 103 of Aluva in Eranakulam were the two other centenarians who recovered from Covid-19 in Kerala. A couple hailing from Ranni in Pathanamthitta aged 93 and 88 had earlier recovered from Covid-19. Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja said that it was a pride for Kerala health sector that many aged people were recovering from Covid-19. Health department sources said that of the 274 odd Covid-19 deaths in Kerala so far, over 70 per cent of the victims were aged above 60. Hence the recovery of the centenarians assumed much significance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/110-year-old-woman-recovers-from-covid-19-in-kerala-879644.html
29-08-2020||South||Tamil Nadu has highest recovery rate of 85.45 per cent, says CM Palaniswami||Tamil Nadu has achieved a recovery rate of 85.45 per cent with 3,49,682 people having been cured of coronavirus, the "highest" in the country, Chief Minister K Palaniswami said here on Saturday. The state's mortality rate was a "very low" 1.7 per cent, he said. In his video-conference meeting with District Collectors on Saturday to review the lockdown being enforced to contain the spread of coronavirus, Palaniswami said his government had so far spent Rs 7,162 crore towards controlling the pandemic, treatment and relief measures. "I wish to point out that Tamil Nadu has the highest recovery rate of 85.45 per cent (3,49,682 cured) in the country and the death rate is a very low 1.7 per cent," he said. As of Friday, Tamil Nadu's overall tally of coronavirus cases stood at 4.09 lakh. So far 7,050 related deaths have been recorded. Currently, there are 58,840 beds in Covid hospitals, 77,223 beds in Covid-19 special centres, and 26,801 beds with oxygen facilities. Apart from these, there are 4,782 beds in Intensive Care Units and 5,718 ventilators have also been kept ready. With 146 testing facilities for Covid-19, including 83 private units, the government has so far tested 45.73 lakh people in the state, he said. Also, zinc and vitamin tablets are being given free of cost to frontline workers. "Kabasura Kudineer (a herbal concoction) is being distributed to improve immunity. Due to these measures the recovery rate in Tamil Nadu stands at 85.45 per cent and death rate is at 1.7 per cent," Palaniswami said. On the free distribution of reusable masks, he said the government had distributed 46 lakh masks in Chennai, besides 72.56 lakh masks in the rest of Tamil Nadu. The Chief Minister called upon the District Collectors to ensure that Coronavirus guidelines are strictly adhered to. Apart from listing out the various measures launched to mitigate the conditions of the people, Palaniswami said his government set apart Rs 200 crore under the Covid-19 Relief and Upliftment Scheme (CORUS) to mitigate hardship of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME). In addition, the state obtained sanctions for about Rs 7,518 crore under the Central governments loan scheme for industrial units due to his efforts in holding State-level bankers committee meetings and plea for immediate disbursal of loans to the industry. As a result, Tamil Nadu has emerged as the top state in the country in this regard, he asserted. "Even during the Covid-19 pandemic, the government signed 42 Memoranda of Understanding (MOU), involving an investment of Rs 31,464 crore with a potential to generate 69,712 jobs," Palaniswami said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-has-highest-recovery-rate-of-8545-per-cent-says-cm-palaniswami-879646.html
29-08-2020||South||PCC President A V Subramanian tests positive for Covid-19||Puducherry PCC President A V Subramanian tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday and has been advised home quarantine, health department sources said. Director of Health and Family Welfare S Mohan Kumar told PTI that samples collected from Subramanian had tested positive. Subramanian, the former Speaker of the Puducherry assembly, has been placed under home quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pcc-president-a-v-subramanian-tests-positive-for-covid-19-879654.html
29-08-2020||South||Security cover stepped up for BJP MLA Raja Singh||Security cover has been enhanced for Telangana's lone BJP MLA Raja Singh in the wake of 'threat perception' to him and he has been asked not to move around on a two wheeler in his constituency, police said here on Saturday. He has instead been requested to use the bullet proof vehicle provided by the government. However the legislator, in a video message, demanded to know what this threat perception was and said he had to move around on a two wheeler at times as some areas had narrow alleys where a four wheeler could not enter. The city police, in a letter, said that it had been noticed that he was moving around in a motorcycle at times, which poses a great security threat to him It requested him to avoid using a motorcycle and travel by the bullet proof car alloted by the government and added that providing security to all legislators was their top priority. Raja confirmed having received the letter dated August 28 from City Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar on the security issue and wanted to know which organisation was posing a security threat to him. He clarified that he moves around in his constituency for two hours every day, some areas of which have narrow alleys where a four wheeler cannot enter "I cant change my schedule and keep away from my people, the BJP legislator said in the video message.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/security-cover-stepped-up-for-bjp-mla-raja-singh-879655.html
29-08-2020||South||Congress man held for cheating businessman from Karnataka||A Congress Youth Wing functionary has been arrested for allegedly cheating a businessman from Karnataka of Rs 10 lakh on the promise of sending textile goods, a few months ago, police said on Saturday. According to police, Hariharasudhan, a Congress Youth wing secretary and resident of Avarampalayam in the city, was contacted by the businessman from the Northern region of Karnataka on trading in textile goods. Hariharasudhan promised to send the goods through online trading and reportedly took the money, police said. The businessman, who did not receive the goods for more than six months, asked him to return the money, but to no avail, following which a complaint was lodged. A team of police officials from Karnataka reached here last evening and after producing the congress functionary before a special court took him to their State on transit warrant,police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-man-held-for-cheating-businessman-from-karnataka-879657.html
29-08-2020||South||Dalit man tonsured by seven including wife of reality show contestant in Andhra Pradesh||Visakhapatnam police have on Saturday arrested seven people, including the wife of a reality show contestant and filmmaker, for assaulting and tonsuring a Dalit youth accusing him of stealing a phone. 20-year-old Srikanth Parri was working as a house help at the Pendurthi residence of Nutan Naidu and had left the job on 1 August. On 27 August, Naidu’s wife and prime accused in the case Priya Madhuri had summoned Srikanth through another accused Chebrolu Varahalu, the housekeeping supervisor, to enquire about the phone. Replying that he is not connected to the phone’s missing, Srikanth went back home. “Srikanth was called back again on Friday afternoon when Priya along with other staff restrained him and beat him indiscriminately with sticks, iron rod while alleging that he stole Priya’s phone and hacked the cell phone of (A2) Indira Rani. The attack caused injury to his head. As the complainant begged them not to kill him, the accused brought a barber (A4) Ippili Ravi and got his head tonsured. They further threatened him of dire consequences if the incident was revealed to anyone,” the police said. Based on the complaint of the victim, a case was registered at the Pendurthy PS, Visakhapatnam city under various IPC sections including 307 (attempt to murder), and provisions of the SC, ST Prevention of Atrocities Act.    Visakhapatnam Assistant Commissioner of Police (SC/ST Cell-I) examined the scene of the offence, seized the tonsured hair of the complainant and weapons including stick, iron rod and also the CCTV footage.  The Opposition Telugu Desam Party has been alleging that the atrocities on Dalits are on the rise since Jaganmohan Reddy’s YSRCP came to power last year. In July, a Dalit youth was assaulted and tonsured in a police station in Seethanagaram of East Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dalit-man-tonsured-by-seven-including-wife-of-reality-show-contestant-in-andhra-pradesh-879658.html
29-08-2020||South||Three cheating cases lodged against MLA Manjeshwar in Kerala||Three cheating cases have been registered against MLA of Manjeshwar in Kasaragod, M C Kamaruddin, for allegedly cheating investors of a jewellery shop headed by the IUML leader. Three persons had lodged a petition against the MLA accusing that around Rs 35 lakh invested in the Fashion Gold jewellery shop business was not returned and the shop was shut also. The Chandera police in Kasaragod registered three separate cases for cheating against Kamaruddin, who is the chairman of the shop and managing director T K Pookoya Thangal, said the station house officer. While one of the complainants, Abdul Shukkoor of Cheruvathoor was said to have invested Rs 30 lakh, the two other complainants, Arifa and M T P Suhara invested only Rs 3 lakh and one lakh. Suhara also gave around 15 sovereigns of gold. There were around 800 investors in the firm, said sources. Meanwhile, the MLA reacted that the cases were politically motivated as the dues to the investors were being settled. The jewellery which had three branches at Kasargod and Kannur district was closed by January due to loss. There were many investors in the registered firm and all the investors were assured that the dues would be settled in three months, he said. The CPM had earlier alleged that nine mahal committees had illegally investments in the MLA's jewellery business. Kamaruddin, who was elected to the Kerala Assembly last year in the by-polls following the death of P B Abdul Razak, had recently faced allegations pertaining to a land deal. A trust headed by Kamaruddin purchased two acres of land at Trikaripur in Kasardog from the Wakf Board at a very low rate. After the deal became controversial, the land was returned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/three-cheating-cases-lodged-against-mla-manjeshwar-in-kerala-879660.html
29-08-2020||South||Tamil Nadu's Covid-19 tally crosses 4.15 lakh with 6,000 fresh cases||Tamil Nadu reported over 6,000 fresh coronavirus cases on Saturday, pushing the overall tally beyond 4.15 lakh as the number of deaths stood at 7,137, including 87 new fatalities. The state reported new infections over 6,000 after quite some time, as it logged in excess of only 5,000 daily cases for the past many days. As many as 6,352 cases, including those who had returned from domestic and foreign destinations, pushed the total number of infections so far in Tamil Nadu to 4,15,590. A government bulletin said 6,045 people were discharged after recovery today, with the total number of those cured of the dreaded virus being 3,55,727. Subsequently, there were 52,726 active cases, it said. As many as 44,99,670 people have undergone RT-PCR tests so far, including 78,973 today. Chennai continued to top the districts in both daily cases, at 1,285 on Saturday, as well as the cumulative numbers, which was 1,33,173. Of the 37 districts, Nilgiris reported the lowest daily positive cases of 17, while Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur, all neighbouring Chennai, Salem and Cuddalore witnessed high virus caseloads. Of the 87 dead, five had no comorbid conditions, the bulletin said, adding, the deceased included a 96-year-old man from Kancheepuram and a seven-year-old girl from this city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadus-covid-19-tally-crosses-415-lakh-with-6000-fresh-cases-879699.html
29-08-2020||South||Former IPS officer Annamalai appointed Tamil Nadu BJP Vice President||Former IPS officer K Annamalai was on Saturday appointed as vice president of the Tamil Nadu unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), days after he joined the saffron outfit. With Annamalai’s appointment, the state unit now has 11 vice presidents. Annamalai’s appointment came hours after he met state BJP President L Murugan, who has been at the helm of the party since March this year. The former IPS officer, who quit his service in 2019, joined the BJP in New Delhi on August 25. The former IPS officer was inducted into the party as the BJP makes a concerted effort to project it as an alternative to the Dravidian political parties in Tamil Nadu. The BJP has embarked on a major recruitment drive in the state which goes to crucial assembly elections in May next year. After joining BJP, Annamalai had told DH that he chose BJP as he was a nationalist. “I wanted to be myself and bring about a social change, but I have realised that a political change is also necessary. Especially for a state like Tamil Nadu which needs a different path now. I have always maintained that I admire Narendra Modi and keeping all these in mind, I thought BJP was the best choice,” he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/former-ips-officer-annamalai-appointed-tamil-nadu-bjp-vice-president-879717.html
29-08-2020||South||More than 10,000 Covid-19 cases in Andhra Pradesh for 4th consecutive day||The rapid surge of coronavirus cases continued in Andhra Pradesh as more than 10,000 were added afresh for the fourth day in a row. With 10,548 new cases added in 24 hours ending 9 am on Saturday, the states overall Covid-19 tally rose to 4,14,164. The latest bulletin said 8,976 patients got cured and discharged in the last 24 hours while 82 more succumbed to the pandemic. The overall toll rose to 3,796, while the total recoveries increased to 3,12,687, according to the bulletin. The state now has 97,681 active cases, it said. The infection positivity rate in AP climbed further up to 11.49 per cent after 36,03,345 tests were completed at the rate of 67,478 per million population. While East Godavari district continued to report fresh cases of over 1,000, SPS Nellore too has been showing a similar spike for the past three days. Kadapa (991) and Visakhapatnam (988) reported close to 1,000 new cases, while West Godavari, Anantapuramu, Chittoor and Prakasam added over 800 each. Chittoor reported 15 fresh fatalities and SPS Nellore 11 in 24 hours, the bulletin said. East and West Godavari reported eight more casualties each, Anantapuramu, Guntur and Kurnool six each, Prakasam and Visakhapatnam five each, Srikakulam and Vizianagaram four each. Kadapa and Krishna added two deaths each to their tally.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/more-than-10000-covid-19-cases-in-andhra-pradesh-for-4th-consecutive-day-879726.html
29-08-2020||South||Couple accused of cheating Rs 2,000 crore surrenders in Kerala||Managing director of a Kerala-based finance firm, accused of Rs. 2,000 crore deposit cheating and his wife surrendered before the police on Saturday, a day after their daughters were held in Delhi airport while trying to board a flight to Australia. Popular Finance managing director Roy Daniel and his wife Prabha Thomas surrendered before Pathanamthitta district police chief K G Simon. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that since the case was suspected to have international links, the police would seek Interpol's assistance too for the probe.  Two daughters of the couple, Rinu and Riya who were held in Delhi, are being brought to Pathanamthitta, while their another daughter is suspected to have fled the country. The properties of the firm are being attached by the court. Police sources said that so far around 500 complaints have been received against the firm. The preliminary assessment is that the firm had investments to the tune of Rs. 2,000 crore from 1,600 investors, many of whom were from the economically weak background. The around 50-year-old firm based at Konni in Pathanamthitta has around 300 branches in the state and outside.  Accepting deposits and giving gold loan were the major business activity of the firm. The cheating surfaced recently after police started receiving complaints regarding non-return of deposits. Depositors also staged a protest in front of the firm.  The police had already issued a lookout circular for the accused. A 25-member police team under the district police chief is probing the case under the supervision of Thiruvananthapuram-range IG Harshita Attaluri.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/couple-accused-of-cheating-rs-2000-crore-surrenders-in-kerala-879745.html
29-08-2020||South||Firebrand Telangana BJP MLA asked by police to move only in bullet-proof car||The Hyderabad police have advised the lone BJP MLA in Telangana T Raja Singh to stop moving on a two-wheeler pointing to “a grave security threat.” In an audio message on Saturday, Singh, known for his incendiary speeches, sought to know from where the threat to his life is – “from terrorists, some local groups, or because of personal feuds?”    Singh’s statements are often seen as targeting a minority community.    Singh was recently mentioned in a Wall Street Journal report on Facebook’s alleged favouritism towards the ruling BJP at the centre and the company executive’s purported disinclination to act against such content and politicians. “In the last few days, additional DCP etc. have visited my house; weapons of my security guards have changed, and the neighbourhood was also surveyed. I am clueless as to what is happening,” Singh said. Singh said that he received a letter from Anjani Kumar, the Hyderabad city police commissioner on Friday, informing about the threat and an enhanced security. In the letter, the commissioner advised Singh to “completely avoid moving on motorcycles and travel by the bullet proof car allotted for security.” The firebrand leader has the habit of moving around on a two-wheeler which he says is the convenient mode to interact with people in the narrow lanes of his constituency Goshamahal in the old quarters of Hyderabad. “I am writing to the central home minister Amit Shah and state home minister Md Ali about the letter, seeking what exactly the threat to me is,” Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/firebrand-telangana-bjp-mla-asked-by-police-to-move-only-in-bullet-proof-car-879755.html
29-08-2020||South||Telangana govt issues guidelines for international arrivals||Asymptomatic international passengers who have compelling reasons, including pregnancy and death in the family, may be exempted from institutional quarantine as per the latest guidelines issued by the Telangana government. Those passengers who produce negative RT-PCR test report on arrival with the test conducted within 96 hours prior to departure may also be exempted from institutional quarantine, according to the guidelines. The guidelines were issued in a Government Order (GO) on August 26. The GO said the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) issued standard operating protocol (SOP) (on August 22) for travel on Vande Bharat and Air Transport Bubble flights. According to the SOP, guidelines on health protocols and quarantine for international arrivals, as issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW), from time to time will be observed, it said. Under the MoHFW guidelines for international arrivals in the country (issued on August 2), states can develop their own protocol with regard to quarantine and isolation as per their assessment post-arrival of passengers in the state concerned.  According to the GO, the guidelines with regard to quarantine and isolation arrangements for international arrivals in the state are issued after examining the matter. The guidelines state that thermal screening will be carried out for all passengers upon disembarkation and those who are found symptomatic shall be isolated and taken to medical facilities as per health protocol. The asymptomatic passengers shall be sent in paid institutional quarantine for a period of seven days followed by seven days of home isolation. The passengers may be exempted from the requirement of institutional quarantine, if they have compelling reasons/ cases of human distress such as pregnancy, death in the family, serious illness, and also parents with children of 10 years of age or below, and permitted for 14 days of home quarantine. Those passengers who produce negative RT-PCR test report on arrival with the test conducted within 96 hours prior to departure may also be exempted. Such passengers shall be required to undertake 14 days of home quarantine, it said. Passengers travelling for business reasons and having negative RT-PCR test conducted within 96 hours prior to departure shall be exempted from the requirement of home/institutional quarantine. However, the passengers should return within four days of arrival as evidenced by confirmed return tickets, it said. The government reserves the right to test any passenger who has submitted negative RT-PCR test results at random with Rapid Antigen Test. Those who are found positive shall be immediately isolated and taken to medical facilities as per health protocol, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-govt-issues-guidelines-for-international-arrivals-879795.html
29-08-2020||South||Woman sells one-month-old granddaughter for Rs 1.1 lakh||A woman in Karimnagar district of Telangana allegedly sold her infant granddaughter for Rs 1.10 lakh, police said on Saturday. According to police, the infant's father got married about three years ago. He was living in Hyderabad with his wife. The mans wife gave birth to a baby girl one month ago and she was staying at her mothers place at Veenavanka in the district, they said. The mans mother-in-law allegedly sold the baby on Friday as she was in need of money, they said. After coming to know about the matter, the infant's father complained to the state government's Child Welfare Committee (CWC) yesterday. The committee inquired about the issue and referred it to police, along with a report. Based on a complaint from the man, the Veenavanka police registered a case under the Juvenile Justice Act against the infant's grandmother and the alleged purchaser. The infant and her mother were sent to the child care centre at Karimnagar. Efforts were on to arrest the grandmother and the alleged purchaser, police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/woman-sells-one-month-old-granddaughter-for-rs-11-lakh-879799.html
29-08-2020||State||After SC order, Karnataka to discuss internal quota||The Karnataka government said it will explore providing internal reservation among SC, ST and OBCs after the Supreme Court allowed states to make sub-categories among these social groups.  The issue of providing internal reservation is a political hot potato, with groups within the SC, ST and OBCs vying for restructuring their quota.  “My personal view on this is very clear. Reservation was brought into force to ensure justice to oppressed communities. The benefit has to be available to all members of these communities. We will discuss it in the Cabinet,” Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol, the social welfare minister, told DH. “The Supreme Court has cited an example of how a basket of fruits cannot be given only to the mighty. This is an apt observation. The government is in favour of ensuring justice to all,” Karjol added.  At present, Karnataka has 15% reservation for SCs, 3% for STs and 32% for OBCs. Reservation is provided for 101 Scheduled Castes, 50 Scheduled Tribes and 207 OBCs.  The state government’s intent to move towards internal reservation could revive the 2012 report by the A J Sadashiva Commission, which recommended that the 15% SC quota be divided into 6% for SC (Left), 5% for SC (Right), 3% for ‘touchables’ and 1% for other SCs.  Dalits in Karnataka are largely divided into two groups: left-hand and right-hand castes. The left is said to be angry because most of the benefits are going to the right-hand castes.  Also, there is a perception that the Congress has neglected the Dalit left. The BJP has cashed in on this by promoting Karjol, MPs Ramesh Jigajinagi and A Narayanaswamy, who are Dalit left. Political analyst D Umapathy said the BJP had a lot to gain from internal reservation. “Moreover, it’s only fair that the left community gets its share of reservation,” he said, adding that the debate at this juncture makes one cautious about the political machination at play.  Also, there is a clamour for higher reservation for Valmikis within the STs.  But former Backward Classes Commission chairperson C S Dwarkanath pointed out that the Supreme Court had only made an “observation”. “It has to be referred to a larger bench,” he said. Former Congress minister Priyank Kharge said there was a need for a “deep dive” on the issue. “On the one hand, the government is talking about 10% reservation for EWS. On the other hand, we are also exploring the possibility of expanding the existing reservation for the SC and ST communities,” he said.  Justice Sadashiva lamented that his report had seen no progress. “The government should’ve placed it before the Assembly and referred it to the Centre long back,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/after-sc-order-karnataka-to-discuss-internal-quota-879398.html
29-08-2020||State||Minister, MP comment against Vishwanath's Tipu statement||BJP leaders, including a minister and MP, took exception to party MLC A H Vishwanath's remarks in favour of Tipu Sultan. In Chamarajanagar on Saturday, Suresh Kumar said that Vishwanath’s stand on Tipu Sultan is his personal views but, being a BJP leader, he must think about the party’s stand. Pratap Simha, speaking to reporters in Mysuru, commented that Vishwanath, who joined BJP recently, nominated as MLC from the field of literature. “He must have minimum knowledge of History before speaking,” he commented. However, Vishwanath denied commenting on the issue. Vishwanath had earlier said, “Tipu Sultan doesn’t belong to any party, caste or religion. He is the son of this soil and we shouldn’t reduce him to anyone caste or religion”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/minister-mp-comment-against-vishwanaths-tipu-statement-879737.html
29-08-2020||State||Karnataka's excise revenue down by 50%: Minister H Nagesh||The excise revenue in the state has come down by 50% resulting in a loss of Rs 3,000 crore due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Excise Minister H Nagesh said. Speaking to reporters here on Saturday, Nagesh said that pubs, bars and restaurants were likely to be opened next month after which the excise revenue may go up. "I have information about transportation of liquor to Goa illegally through Kanakumbi in Khanpur taluk. I have directed the officials to take stringent action in this regard. The government is also planning to impose severe punishment for sellers of spurious liquor," Nagesh said. The minister said that the excise department personnel are likely to be attacked whenever they conduct raids on illegal liquor dens. Therefore, the government would provide them with weapons for self defence, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnatakas-excise-revenue-down-by-50-minister-h-nagesh-879739.html
29-08-2020||State||NCB may serve notices on Sandalwood actors||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) officials may shortly serve notices on a few Sandalwood actors, musicians and others. Following the arrest of a drug peddler in Mumbai, the NCB officials have been tipped off about the peddlers in Bengaluru.  They conducted raids at three places in East Bengaluru and arrested three peddlers - Anika D, Anoop M and R Ravindran. According to NCB officials, the suspects - who are currently in judicial custody - have already given detailed statements during their interrogation revealing some big names of Sandalwood, including actors, musicians and television artists. Anika is said to have many friends in the film industry and she is also the classmate of one of the actors, who has acted in films in three languages of South India. According to sources, Anika came into close contact with several actors and musicians. She allegedly supplied MDMA pills during rave parties and special parties in the farmhouses and residences of the actors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ncb-may-serve-notices-on-sandalwood-actors-879782.html
29-08-2020||State||Railways to begin Ro-Ro service on Karnataka-Maharashtra route||Moving goods between Karnataka and Maharashtra need not be a time-consuming task dependent on road traffic as the South Western Railway will transport the trucks on flat wagons starting from Sunday. Loaded trucks carried on flat wagons in the Roll-on/Roll-off (Ro-Ro) service. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will inaugurate the trail run between Nelamangala and Solapur (Bale), heralding a new era in logistics movement. The service is seen as an eco-friendly move with one Ro-RO train saving 9 to 10 litre of diesel, thereby reducing the cost of the transport. At the same time, train transportation is seen as more reliable and timely. The SWR's project comes over 20 years after the Konkan Railway began carrying loaded trucks between Suratkal (Dakshina Kannada) and Goa, Mumbai. In April, the Railway Ministry notified the Karnataka-Maharashtra Ro-Ro service. Considering the restriction on passenger trains,the railways has been giving emphasis to the goods movement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/railways-to-begin-ro-ro-service-on-karnataka-maharashtra-route-879800.html
29-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Spiritual guidance needed to become culturally Atmanirbhar: Rajnath Singh||Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said that becoming ‘Atmanirbhar’ is not just financially and economically, but also culturally and psychologically and for this, we need spiritual and religious guidance. He was delivering his inaugural speech, from New Delhi, as part of the day-long digital and virtual events, organised by Suttur Jagadguru Sri Veerasimhasana Mahasamsthana Mutt (Suttur Mutt), to celebrate the 105th birth anniversary of the 23rd seer Shivaratri Rajendra Swami, on Saturday. The Defence Minister said, getting inspired by other civilisations and cultures in not a problem. “Emulating good things is always welcome, but, aping others blindly, is a problem. For this, education is important. Education creating literates is easy. Moulding them into scholars should be the objective of education. This should be based on spirituality and values. The National Education Policy and the gradual evolution of education over the years is a step in this direction,” he said. Rajnath Singh said, Veerashaiva philosophy, which the Suttur Mutt propagates, is based on two principles — peaceful co-existence and worship of work. “These two principles helped us, as a nation, to tackle the Covid pandemic. The doctors, other healthcare professionals, government officials, members of non-government organisations and also volunteers have been serving the society selflessly, because they regard work as worship,” he said. He said, spiritual and religious institutions are vital for a healthy — both physical and psychological health — society. “They have always strived for social welfare. Their services during the pandemic have been valuable. Their journey over the decades have been of great civilisational value. They have given new dimension to education and culture. They journey is towards making a strong and awakened Bharat,” he said. Former prime minister H D Deve Gowda presided over the event, while Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa released animation films ‘Suttur Srimutt - Guru Parampare’ in Kannada and ‘The Heritage of Sri Suttur Mutt’ in English. Opposition Leader Siddaramaiah released Telugu translated book ‘Kayaka Thapaswi Sri Shivaratri Rajendra Swamigaru’, Tamil translated book ‘Bhakthi Bhandari Basaweswararin Vasanangal’ and ‘Neeti Samrajya Shathaka’. Deputy Chief Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan released souvenir ‘Prasada’. District in-charge Minister S T Somasekhar felicitated Abdul Kareem of Shoonyeka Solutions, makers of the animation films. The event began with puja to ‘gadduge’ (memorial) of Shivaratri Rajendra Swami and Mantra Mahasrshi at Suttur in Nanjangud taluk. Floral tributes were paid to the statue of the seer at the Mysuru branch, by seer Shivaratri Deshikendra Swami. MP Prathap Simha, MLC A H Vishwanath, secretary of JSS Mahavidyapeetha S P Manjunath and executive secretary C G Betsurmath were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/spiritual-guidance-needed-to-become-culturally-atmanirbhar-rajnath-singh-879520.html
29-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||NEP: Special action plan for SC/ST, OBC students ||Social Welfare Minister Govind Karjol said on Saturday that a special action plan catering to SC/ST and OBC students will be prepared under the new education policy (NEP). "Students belonging to SC/ST and OBC are largely dependent on government schools. The NEP provides ample opportunities for qualitative development of government schools. A special action plan is required for this and to ensure impactful higher education and vocational studies," Karjol said, adding that SC, ST and OBC students were considered as an underrepresented group. He was speaking after a meeting with social welfare officials. The dropout rate is expected to come down with multiple entry-exit options in the higher education space, Karjol said. "SC/ST kids, especially those from tandas, are prone to dropping out because of migration," Karjol noted. The minister directed the Karnataka Residential Educational Institutions Society to upgrade infrastructure at residential schools as per the NEP. "The number of students in residential institutions should go up from 1.7 lakh to 2.5 lakh," Karjol said. Three officials from the Karnataka Maharshi Valmiki Scheduled Tribes Development Corporation have been suspended over bribery charges, said Karjol. Corporation general manager S S Nagesh, assistant general manager Manjula and office superintendent P D Subbappa were arrested by the Anti-Corruption Bureau for bribery under the Land Purchase Scheme aimed at making landless ST women agricultural labourers as landowners. The officials have been suspended pending a departmental inquiry and a criminal case has been filed against them, Karjol said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nep-special-action-plan-for-sc/st-obc-students-879730.html
29-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||NEP will rev up edu sector in state: DyCM||Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan has reiterated that Karnataka was poised to become the first Indian state to implement the new education policy (NEP) and all administrative and legal preparations were underway for this.  Narayan, the higher education minister, was speaking at a discussion organised by Assocham on the implementation of NEP and the changes it will bring in the higher education space.  “We have examined the policy. A high-level task force has been constituted and several rounds of talks have been held. We have also studied reports of the task force’s sub-committees. Once the task force submits its final report, we will take steps to implement the NEP,” Narayan said.   On Friday evening, Narayan met Governor Vajubhai R Vala along with Azim Premji University Vice-Chancellor Anurag Behar and briefed him on the implementation of the NEP.  At the discussion, Narayan said the NEP will revolutionise the education sector, in which Karnataka is already a leading player. “On average, every district in the state has two universities. In Bengaluru alone, there are over 880 colleges. So, the city has a potential to emerge as the education capital,” Narayan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nep-will-rev-up-edu-sector-in-state-dycm-879736.html
29-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 8,324 fresh Covid-19 cases and 115 deaths||As many as 8,324 fresh Covid cases were reported in the state on Saturday with 115 deaths. The day also saw 8,110 discharges taking the number of recoveries to more than 2.35 lakh. Bengaluru Urban reported 2.993 cases followed by Ballari (468) cases, Davangere (319), Hassan (325) and Mysuru 309 cases.  Out of the 115 deaths, 19 were due to non-Covid reasons. The total number of Covid cases is more than 3.27 lakh in the state and 721 in the ICU. A total of 72,684 tests were done on Saturday out of which 25,453 are antigen tests.       Bagalkote, Bengaluru Rural, Gadag, Kalaburagi, Chikkamagaluru, Chikkaballapura and Udupi were among the districts which also reported fresh Covid-19 cases. The department said 11 deaths due to coronavirus were reported today in Mysuru, nine each in Dharwad and Haveri, seven in Dakshina Kannada, six in Hassan, five each in Shivamogga and Tumakuru. Deaths were also reported in Bagalkote, Belagavi, Chikkamagaluru, Davangere, Kalaburagi, Vijayapura, Kolar, Koppal and Mandya. While a majority of those who died were above 50 years, there were young people who succumbed to the infection. There were two people in their teens (14 and 17), who hailed from Mysuru, six in their thirties and 11 in their 40s. Most of those who died of coronavirus had Severe Acute Respiratory Illness or Influenza-Like Illness.  The department said as of today, 3,98,584 lakh people were home quarantined whereas, in the past 14 days, 3.72 lakh primary contacts and 3.16 lakh secondary contacts have been traced. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-8324-fresh-covid-19-cases-and-115-deaths-879742.html
29-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Provide KPSC exam answer scripts under RTI, rules HC||The Karnataka High Court has ordered that a candidate who appeared for Karnataka Public Service Commission (KPSC) examination can seek copies of his evaluated answer scripts under the Right to Information Act. The bench, while passing the order on the petition filed by the KPSC challenging the order of the Karnataka Information Commission (KIC), held that the authorities concerned cannot deny the information when the applicant is seeking information about himself. The candidate Vinay Kumar Ramaiah had appeared for the main written examinations held from December 16, 2017 to December 23, 2017. The result of the examination was announced on January 28, 2019. The personality tests commenced from August 2, 2019 and a provisional selection list was published on December 23, 2019. As the candidate was not selected, he sought information of marks awarded to each question in  written examinations. The KPSC refused to share the information citing the decision of the Supreme Court in Angesh Kumar’s case. Contending that the information sought for is neither confidential nor sensitive, the candidate filed an appeal. The KIC passed an order directing the KPSC to provide the information. The commission moved the high court challenging the order of the KIC. Justice Suraj Govindaraj held that providing an answer script to the candidate ensures transparency. “I am of the considered opinion that the disclosure of information as sought for by the respondent 1 (candidate) is in the public interest so as to maintain the transparency of the examination and evaluation.” The bench added that the identity of the examiner shall not be revealed while providing the information. The bench further said that the information will have to be provided so long as the application satisfies the parameters laid down by the Supreme Court in three cases, Aditya Bandopadhyay, Parsa Jain and Angesh Kumar.  These parameters include - the applicant has to be a candidate in the exam, required to make an application in a prescribed form, make payment for the information and the information sought for does not come within the exemption/exception of Section 8 of the RTI Act.   “Thus, I am of the considered opinion that the embargo in the decision of the Apex Court in Angesh Kumar’s would not be applicable in the present case, since the application filed by the first respondent satisfies the parameters laid down in Angesh Kumar case,’’ the judge said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/provide-kpsc-exam-answer-scripts-under-rti-rules-hc-879762.html
29-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Marks of 2,144 II PU students change after re-evaluation||The re-evaluation of the II PU answer scripts has altered the marks scored by as many as 2,144 students. While some have secured more marks, some students even have been failed on account of negative marks. As many as 12,041 students had applied for re-evaluation this year. As per the data accessed from the department of pre-university education highest marks allotted during re-evaluation is 38, and it is in English subject. Second highest marks allotted is 35 - for Kannada languagepaper. More than 542 answer scripts were found to have been not evaluated at all or had major mistakes in evaluation.  “There were some scripts which were not valued and total marks were missing in some,” a senior official of the departmentsaid. However, the evaluators are likely to be exempted from any action this year, given the pressure due to Covid-19 pandemic.  “In normal course we issue notice to evaluators. But, this year there was lot of pressure during evaluation due to lockdown and spiking pandemic. So we are thinking of excusing them,” the official said.  Some of the students who applied for re-evaluation have now failed due to poor performance. “Some students who had passed the exams earlier applied for re-evaluation anticipating more marks. Unfortunately they have failed as they got negative marks,” the official explained. The details available from the department shows that in such cases the difference of marks is between -9 and -13.  The department will refund the re-evaluation fee for the students whose marks have recorded a difference of 6%. This year around 6.50 lakh students appeared for PU examinations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/marks-of-2144-ii-pu-students-change-after-re-evaluation-879783.html
29-08-2020||West||Tokyo professor sends books to village children learning Japanese||Students of a Zilla Parishad-run school in a remote village of Maharashtra's Aurangabad district, who have been learning Japanese language, have received help straight from the Land of the Rising Sun. A professor based in Tokyo has sent several sets of books to help these students learn Japanese in a better way. Gadiwat village, located around 25 km from Aurangabad city, came into focus after students from the local ZP-run school started learning Japanese through a social media platform and speaking that foreign language. In September last year, the school decided to launch a foreign language programme, under which students from Classes 4 to 8 were asked to choose a language they would like to learn. Most of them chose Japanese as they were interested in robotics and technology. A local Japanese expert then started teaching Japanese online free of cost. Currently, 70 students are learning the language. Talking to PTI, ZP education extension officer Ramesh Thakur said, "A professor named Prashant Pardeshi from the National Institute for Japanese Language and Linguistics, who has been residing in Japan for the last 25 years, came to know about this initiative and decided to help these children to learn the foreign language in a better way." "Pardeshi took details of the project from me over a phone and sent six sets of books on Marathi and Japanese languages. We have received the books, which includes a Japanese-Marathi dictionary, translated story books and books on grammar and other texts," he said. According to Thakur, the ZP has now decided to expand the project of teaching Japanese to four more schools in the district. "An orientation lecture has been organised for 35 students from four other schools, who wish to learn Japanese," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tokyo-professor-sends-books-to-village-children-learning-japanese-879474.html
29-08-2020||West||Governor Koshyari presents ‘Justice Nagendra Singh International Peace Award’ to Rajendra Singh||The Governor of Maharashtra, Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Saturday, presented the Justice Nagendra Singh International Peace Award to ‘Water Man of India’ Rajendra Singh. The Award was presented to Rajendra Singh through a virtual platform in recognition of his lifetime work for water conservation at the 31st National Convention on Water Conservation in India organized by the International Goodwill Society of India. Speaking on the occasion, Governor Koshyari said India has made significant progress in important indicators of development such as accessibility of water, sanitation, health, provision of toilets during the last 6 years. He said the dream of Atma Nirbhar Bharat can be fulfilled by making India self-sufficient in terms of availability of water. Commending the efforts of the government to provide tap water to all households in the country by 2024, he appealed to NGOs and citizens to join hands with the government in conserving water. Central President of the International Goodwill Society of India, retired IAS officer Dr Yogendra Narain, Secretary-General Dr R K Bhatnagar, Chairman of Indian Water Resources Society (Meerut Chapter) S K Kumar, Director of Indian Institute of Public Administration S M Tripathi and experts in water conservation were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/governor-koshyari-presents-justice-nagendra-singh-international-peace-award-to-rajendra-singh-879694.html
29-08-2020||West||Will send complaints against Sandip Ssingh to CBI, says Maharashtra govt||In a fresh development, the Maharashtra government has decided to send the complaints that it has received against filmmaker Sandip Ssingh vis-à-vis the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). Sandip Ssingh is the producer of a biopic on Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “I have received many requests and complaints to investigate the relationship between Sandeep Ssingh, who made biopic on Modi and the BJP, regarding his connection with Bollywood and drugs. I will send these requests to CBI for investigation,” Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh told reporters. The Maha Vikas Aghadi government has been under the fire of BJP for the handling of the Sushant Singh Rajput death case – and now the investigations have been handed over to the CBI. Maharashtra Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant said from September 1 to December 23 2019, Sandip Ssingh has called up the BJP office 53 times. “Who was he speaking to? Who is his handler in BJP?” he wanted to know. “For Modi ji's biopic, Sandeep Ssingh's Legend Global Studio was the only film company which signed MOU worth Rs 177 crores with Gujarat government at the Vibrant Gujarat summit. Why only Sandeep's company and not others? What makes him a blue-eyed boy of BJP?” he said. Sawant tweeted photos of former Chief Minister and now Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis, with Sandip Ssingh. The photo was taken at the poster launch of film ‘PM Narendra Modi’ – in which Fadnavis is also seen with lead actor Vivek Oberoi, the lead actor of the film and his father Suresh Oberoi. Sawant further said that while there are media reports that Sandeep Ssingh could flee to London while being on the radar of investigation into the drug connection in actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death. “The leaked WhatsApp messages of Riya Chakraborty, who is under investigation in the Sushant Singh Rajput case, are also from the time when the BJP was in power in the state. The then chief minister and the home minister belonged to the BJP, and it can be said that during the BJP rule, drugs were so easily available through just WhatsApp chats. So was the BJP government, which is now demanding an inquiry into Bollywood and the drug mafia, was supporting it? There are many questions and all these should be clarified. There is a lot of mystery behind the haste in ordering a CBI probe,”(sic) said Sawant. Meanwhile, BJP spokesperson Ram Kadam said that the Maharashtra government is trying to mislead the people. “The probe was with Maharashtra government for 65 days….why was Sandip Ssingh was not probed them,” he said. Kadam also accused the MVA government was trying to protect politicians, actors and drug mafia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/will-send-complaints-against-sandip-ssingh-to-cbi-says-maharashtra-govt-879714.html
29-08-2020||West||Mumbai's Kamathipura shuts doors to sex-buyers over Covid-19||Even as Mumbai unlocks, the residents and business owners of Kamathipura are working tirelessly to ensure that their locality doesn’t become a Covid-19 hotspot due to the red-light area. The residents recently started a poster drive and pasted over 250 posters across the streets, brothels, Ganesh pandals of Kamathipura, cautioning people about the spread of Covid-19 and discouraging sex buyers from entering the place. The poster initiative was supported by Rukesh Girolla, a social activist, representative of Sainath Mitra Mandal, and Suresh Pabba, a resident and social worker. A month ago, over 1,000 residents and business owners of Kamathipura sent a letter to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackrey, Mumbai South MP  Arvind Sawant, and municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal, requesting a strict vigilance to keep sex-buyers away from entering the locality. Kamathipura residents said that during the lockdown, there was no business in the brothel which led to only a few cases of Covid-19 infection. However, post lockdown and starting of unlocking, there has been a drastic increase in the number of sex-buyers frequenting the area and sex workers are also seen soliciting on the streets.  “Customers come to Kamathipura-Faukland area from all over Mumbai, and they could become potential carriers of Covid-19 virus. Locals fear that it is just a matter of time before the sex workers get infected and the virus starts spreading uncontrollably in the area making the region a super spreader,” said Girolla. Sameer Sable, a member of Raj Mudra Pratishthan and members of Kamathipura Vyapari and Rehavasi Ekta committee, stated, “Mask, gloves, hand sanitizers and condoms cannot protect customers or commercial sex workers from getting infected as maintaining social distance in sex trade is a laughable fact. It is a dark reality, men visiting these brothels can be the potential virus carriers. Thus, the infection once spread in the redlight area can easily spread around the community,”. Kamathipura, infamous for the sprawling red light area has been one of the few places in Mumbai that has managed to keep Covid-19 cases under control. When Mumbai went under lockdown, Kamathipura residents and business owners came together to ensure that the rules of lockdown are strictly adhered. Despite the city’s upward trajectory of Covid-19 cases, Kamathipura has managed to keep the cases within the range of a few hundred, and the community efforts have played a significant role in keeping the area under the green zone. Girolla, stated, “Schools, colleges, shops have remained shut to contain the spread of the virus. In such a situation, I am shocked that sex buyers are being allowed to freely roam outside. Has buying sex become an essential activity?” The residents are hopeful that the authorities will set-up mechanisms of strict vigilance to keep the customers out of red light areas until the end of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbais-kamathipura-shuts-doors-to-sex-buyers-over-covid-19-879743.html
29-08-2020||West||Maharashtra sees record one-day spike of 16,000 plus Covid-19 cases||Ahead of further unlocking of restrictions, Maharashtra on Saturday reported 16,867 new Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day spike till now.  The total progressive cases now stand at 7,64,281 in the state. On Saturday, 328 coronavirus deaths were reported taking the toll to 24,103.  In Mumbai, 1,432 coronavirus cases were reported taking the total to 1,43,389 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-sees-record-one-day-spike-of-16000-plus-covid-19-cases-879759.html
29-08-2020||West||Seaplane services between Ahmedabad and 'Statue of Unity' to be launched||The Gujarat government on Saturday announced the launch of seaplane service in the state from October 31 connecting Ahmedabad to Kevadia, the seat of Sardar Vallabhai Patel's 182-metre tall "Statue of Unity" and Sardar Sarovar Dam in Narmada district. The announcement comes following a high-level meeting on August 29 in Gandhinagar where the progress of the water aerodrome operation was reviewed, The meeting was presided over by the chief secretary Anil Mukim along with officials of civil aviation, Airport Authority of India and the private airline, Spicejet, which is launching the service. "The service is operated by Spicejet Airline from Sabarmati Riverfront, Ahmedabad to Statue of Unity, Kevadia," a release issued by the government stated. There will be four flights, including arrivals and departures, every day. The price of the ticket has been fixed at Rs 4,800 per person. The government stated that "the scheme is being implemented by the terms and conditions of a tripartite agreement between the state government, Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA), Government of India, and Airports Authority of India." In Ahmedabad, the water aerodrome will be Sabarmati River while in Kevadia, the officials have identified a lake locally known as "Panchmuli Lake". It is also known as "Magar Talav" for the crocodile population in the lake. There were reports of forest department shifting hundreds of crocodiles out of their habitat to other places.   Officials said that the inaugural flight is likely to happen on October 31, 2020. According to sources, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to be part of the launch. The "Statue of Unity", installed opposite Sardar Sarovar Dam, has witnessed a heavy footfall of tourists since its inauguration on October 31, 2018. The average footfall had crossed 15,000 a day in December 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/seaplane-services-between-ahmedabad-and-statue-of-unity-to-be-launched-879781.html
29-08-2020||West||HC relief for man facing case over tweets against Uddhav Thackeray||The Bombay High Court has granted interim protection from arrest to a man who is facing a case for 'offensive' tweets against Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and his son, minister Aaditya Thackeray. A complaint was filed by the Shiv Sena against petitioner Sameet Thakkar at Sadar police station here on August 12 for his tweets. He then moved the court, seeking quashing of the First Information Report (FIR), and also praying for interim protection. Thakkar's lawyer Raspal Singh Renu contended that the FIR had been filed with the intention of muzzling the freedom of speech and expression of a citizen. A division bench of Justices Sunil Shukre and Avinash Gharote of the Nagpur bench of HC on Friday ordered the police not to take any coercive steps against the petitioner. The investigation may proceed, but charge sheet shall not be filed till further orders, the court said, adjourning the hearing for two weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hc-relief-for-man-facing-case-over-tweets-against-uddhav-thackeray-879801.html
29-08-2020||West||BJP seeks to reopen religious places in Maharashtra||The Maharashtra unit of the BJP on Saturday staged `ring the bell' agitation across the state to press its demand that religious places be reopened. Chandrakant Patil, state unit president, said, "The state government has opened liquor shops as well as shopping outlets but not religious places. It is unacceptable." Party leaders and workers protested outside prominent temples and other religious places and rang bells. Patil claimed that the Union government has allowed the states to open temples and mosques (and other religious places) "but the state government remained adamant". Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said that if people are willing to follow the coronavirus-related norms, the state government should not stop them from following their faith. "People will get mental relief if they are allowed access to temples," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-seeks-to-reopen-religious-places-in-maharashtra-879812.html
