30-08-2020||Comment||Congress leadership crisis: Dissent against 'High Command' quashed, yet again||All Sanskrit plays and stories involving kings (and most of them do) have a scene where senior ministers and elders plead with the king to appoint a successor or name a prince to take over the desolate kingdom, lest anarchy should reign. The best known of such instances, of course, is in the Ramayana, where all the royal court pleads with Bharata to become the king when Rama has been exiled to the forest by Kaikeyi. Well, history always repeats itself in some way or the other. Or, to put it as a Sanskrit saying does, the world was never not as it is today. The efforts of senior Congress leaders to voice their dissent against the ‘High Command’ were quashed yet again, immediately followed by the same ‘rebels’ backtracking and reaffirming their trust in Nehru-Gandhi family’s able leadership. So today, let me tell you a story from the Bhojaprabandha on letting go of power. The legendary king Bhoja was a young lad when his uncle, Munja, who succeeded Bhoja’s father, was ruling the kingdom. A great astrologer who visited the court predicted that the young Bhoja would have a long and illustrious reign, which threatened poor Munja’s plans of staying on the throne for a long time to come. Munja then secretly ordered someone to kill Bhoja. When Bhoja found out that the king had ordered his death, he sent the king a message: “The king Mandhata ruled this earth in a more glorious era. He is long gone now. The mighty Rama, who built a bridge across the ocean and ended Ravana forever—where is he today? There were hundreds of kings, including the great Yudhishtira. They must be in heaven now. This earth that they ruled over—it did not accompany any of them when they went. But Munja, you need not worry. I am sure the earth will follow you.” Sobering thought, isn’t it? The reluctance to give up power is universal. Anyone following the politics around the US elections would have to agree with Yudhishtira’s assessment in the Mahabharata. “First, the two dogs wag their tails vigorously; then they growl at each other. They circle around the meat, teeth bared. Then they bark, and the battle begins. The stronger one wins and gets the meat (and the other must go away quietly). This is exactly how men behave—there is not an iota of difference.” And that would be the best of outcomes. Duryodhana, who fought Yudhishtira for power in the Mahabharata met a more horrific end. Kshemendra, always ruthless in his descriptions, tells us, “Duryodhana, who ruled over the vast earth, bounded by oceans bearing great treasures, lay alone on the battlefield with a broken thigh, and was eaten alive by wolves. Arjuna, who conquered the whole world lost to mere cowherds, and Krishna’s entire clan of Vrishnis was cut down by grass. Reflect on all this and cultivate some detachment.” For a long time in India, we were complaining about the old men in politics who refused to quit and make way for younger leaders. Now that we have a couple of ‘youngsters’ (you can guess who), here is a special saying for them in Sanskrit: “Youth, wealth, power, and a lack of discernment—even one of these is a recipe for disaster. What are we to do when all four come together?”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/congress-leadership-crisis-dissent-against-high-command-quashed-yet-again-879901.html
30-08-2020||Comment||US Presidential Polls: A very Indian election in America||There was supposedly a time when the average white American thought of Indians as exotic snake-charmers who lay down on beds of nails in their free time. That changed dramatically with the advent of globalisation. Indians then came to be known for math and microchips – and American movies and cartoons often featured an ‘Indian nerd’ in their cast. But rarely, if ever, have Indians been a hot topic in a presidential election. We are now. It all started with Donald Trump making common cause with Hindu Americans in New Jersey when he ran for president in 2016. During that engagement, Trump shot a campaign ad with the borrowed slogan, “Ab ki baar, Trump sarkar”, for which he reportedly had to do as many as 12 takes to get it right. Now, his Democratic rival Joe Biden has punched back by roping in Kamala Harris as his vice-presidential candidate. For most part of her political career, Harris – who was born to a Jamaican father and an Indian mother – has been known more as an African-American. But so far on the campaign, Harris has promptly played up her Indian-ness as well, with the Democrats cheering. The result has been a mix of cultural stereotyping and comic relief. On his Fox News show earlier this month, the conservative firebrand Tucker Carlson – who is often compared to a certain news anchor here in India – got into a tiff with a guest over whether Harris’ name should be pronounced ‘Kuh-maa-luh’ or ‘Cam-uh-laa’. Carlson eventually settled on “whatever”. Then, a Twitter account affiliated to the Biden campaign asked the Indian-American Nikki Haley why she felt compelled to change her name from ‘Namrata’ to ‘Nikki’. Haley responded by saying that her father wore a turban and her mother wore a sari. But the best moment in the entire election campaign so far came from Tomi Lahren, the Fox News host and conservative commentator. In a video that thanked Indians for their support for Trump, Lahren – who is as white as white America gets, being of German and Norwegian descent – said that Trump is “wise like an ullu”. (Elsewhere, someone asked her to try a Kannada translation the next time.) But the fun and games are going to soon end as policy takes centre-stage. India’s diaspora is caught up in this election – and it is more politically polarised in its attitude towards the Indian government than ever before. In the aftermath of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), members of the diaspora had protested in front of Indian diplomatic missions. That cue was picked up by the Democrats who, led by Bernie Sanders, joined in global criticism of the CAA, India’s actions in Kashmir and the riots in Delhi. During his visit to Washington last year, Foreign Minister Jaishankar had refused to meet with one of the Modi government’s critics – Indian-American Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal. And he was criticised for it by Kamala Harris herself. On her part, Harris has been notably vocal about India’s democratic ideals and principles, which have shaped her own progressive activism. She has often recalled her seaside walks in Chennai with her grandfather, who had sworn by those ideals and instilled them in her young granddaughter. With all this in the background, a change in government in Washington will bring a few thorny issues to the fore. The Modi government has not been entirely non-partisan in its approach so far, with the prime minister himself having echoed Trump’s campaign slogans in Houston last year. For Indian foreign policy, this election will mean a lot more than just idlis and saris.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/us-presidential-polls-a-very-indian-election-in-america-879902.html
30-08-2020||Comment||No place for immoral power||One day, in the valley of the Seven Hills, Maadeva lay on a rock. Half of his flowing matted hair was spread as a mattress, with the rest of it covering him like a blanket. Two wrathful deities, who were carrying pots filled with the milk of tigers and bears for Shravana, the king of Bankapura, walked in front of him. He asked them, “Can I have some milk?” They refused haughtily. Angered by it, Maadeva tied them up and kicked their pots. He then decided to visit the king. Shravana was a mighty king. The very earth was in his hands. After undertaking a harsh penance, he had got a powerful boon from Shiva. With the newly acquired powers, he stormed the celestial abode and took the three hundred crore gods captive. An alarmed Brahma visited him to plead for their release. Hugely amused, Shravana replied, “Dear Lord Brahma, I’ve made Lord Shani my cot. Goddess Ideyamma has become the mattress. Only a pillow was missing.” He then seized Brahma and made him his pillow. The arrogant king set his eyes on Kailasa, too. A terrified Shiva turned himself into a stone to conceal himself.  Shravana took his consort, Parvati, captive instead. He also seized Lakshmi and Saraswathi and made them his servants in the palace. The Goddess of Fire was already working as a cook. Kangolli Mallappa was a sweeper while Vishnu was entrusted with reading the almanac. And Ganga herself washed the king’s feet daily. When Maadeva appeared in his court, Shravana asked him for his name. The visitor let him know. Mishearing it as “Maadaari,” he took him to be an untouchable cobbler. He asked Maadeva to make him a pair of leather sandals: he wished to wear them while visiting his wives. Maadeva went to see Haralayya, a cobbler and a great devotee of Shiva, in Kalyana.  Haralayya greeted him, “Sharanu!” Maadeva said, “Sharanu! Sharanu!” On seeing that a superior Guru had greeted him twice, Haralayya anxiously asked how he could make amends for what he had done. Maadeva said: “I need a pair of sandals. They have to be made with human skin and the soles need to be filled with lac and chillies.” Ever a man of his word, Haralayya didn’t hesitate to kill his wife, Kalyanamma, to procure the skin for the sandals. Moved by their devotion, Maadeva brought her back to life afterwards. Maadeva took the sandals to Shravana. He suggested that he wear them in the presence of all the Gods. Shravana agreed. All the captive gods followed him as he made his way to the rock where the sandals had been placed. “When you slip your feet inside,” Maadeva advised, “imagine you are stepping on an enemy’s chest.” Putting on the new sandals, Shravana stamped his feet repeatedly. The sandals burst into flames. “Did you want to kill me, Maadaari? I’ll destroy you now!” the king cried loudly. The frightened gods scattered everywhere. But Lord Maadeva stood where he was. Becoming bigger and bigger, he tore out a large tree from the ground and used it as a crutch as he crushed Shravana’s head with his foot. At his behest, the Goddess of Fire burnt down the king’s palace. An allegory of the human lust for domination and its moral unacceptability, the episode found above punishes the king with death for his power games. Wielding power, it affirms indirectly, needs to be a moral affair. The story of King Shravana joins hundreds of other Indian stories that disapprove the limitless hankering after power. But it is distinct from them, too. Enslavement, for one, clearly appears a bad deed here. Besides, the leather sandals, the makers of which belong to the lowest of castes, find symbolic centrality as a means for ensuring justice in the story. The flame of the sandals is indeed a metaphor for the creativity of lower castes and tribes, which has let them evolve a distinct mythic world, a space of autonomy as well as of critique of the moral and aesthetic values of dominant communities. My narration of the King Shravana episode draws from three different versions of the major folk epic, Male Madeshwara Kavya, compiled respectively by J S Paramashivaiah, P K Rajashekhar and K Keshavan Prasad. The hugely popular epic from the hilly regions of the southern tip of Karnataka recounts the struggles of Madeshwara, a 14th century Saiva saint, to establish his faith.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/no-place-for-immoral-power-879905.html
30-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||'Adike Patrike' editor Manchi Srinivasa Achar dies||Eminent agriculture journalist and editor of the Kannada farm journal 'Adike Patrike', Manchi Srinivasa Achar, died at a hospital here after a brief illness, family sources said. Achar, 74, who died on Saturday, is survived by wife, son and a daughter, they said. He was former president of Puttur-based All India Areca Growers Association. He also served as the president of the Farmer First Trust which published Adike Patrike from Puttur for more than three decades. Achar was one of the trustees of the Mangaluru-based arecanut research and development foundation. In a condolence message, CAMPCO president S R Satish Chandra said Achar was a prominent voice for the cause of arecanut growers at the highest level.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/adike-patrike-editor-manchi-srinivasa-achar-dies-879942.html
30-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka: Animal skulls found in Holenarasipur||Hundreds of skulls, said to be that of dogs and pigs, were found near Kollihalla, near Sooranahalli, in the taluk, on Sunday, which has given rise to anxiety and suspicion. The skulls were found disposed of in an isolated area near Kollihalla. It is suspected that the miscreants might have killed the animals for meat and had dumped the remains here. Animal lovers have demanded that the authorities concerned should immediately conduct a probe and expose the truth behind the inhuman act. PSI Mohan Krishna said, the experts have visited the spot for inspection and have identified the skulls of pigs. A probe would be conducted, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-animal-skulls-found-in-holenarasipur-880116.html
30-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Rains resume after a break in Uttara Kannada district||Rains resumed in the coastal parts of Uttara Kannada district, Belgavi and Dharwad on Sunday after one-week break. Heavy rain coupled with gusty winds lashed Karwar since late Saturday night. Strong winds blew away the roof of a house in Keni village of Ankola taluk. The roof tiles of several houses have been damaged. There were reports of moderate rain in Sirsi, Siddapur and Yallapur. Intermittent rains lashed Belagavi on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rains-resume-after-a-break-in-uttara-kannada-district-880188.html
30-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||MLA tests Covid-19 positive under RAT, negative in RT PCR||The conflicting test reports have left Davangere North MLA S A Ravindranath in a fix. While the rapid antigen test (RAT) report came back positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, RT PCR test result returned negative the following day. The 74-year-old BJP legislator was assigned a case number (335558 in state bulletin and 9,035 in district bulletin) after his throat swab sample returned positive for Covid-19, under rapid antigen testing, on Saturday.  But before he was assigned a case number, the MLA had tested negative under the RT PCR method. Following the conflicting reports, the district hospital doctors visited Ravindranath and informed him that the RT PCR result was right. "I am doing fine. I tested positive under rapid antigen and negative under RT PCR. There is no need to make it a big issue," the MLA told reporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mla-tests-covid-19-positive-under-rat-negative-in-rt-pcr-880205.html
30-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Visually challenged becomes dist topper after PU revaluation||B C Sujatha, a student of Government PU College for Girls, has now been declared the district topper in the Arts stream, after revaluation of her English paper got seven additional marks. Partial blindness has not deterred Sujatha, who worked hard and has become an inspiration for the student community. Sujatha had scored a total of 557 marks when the results were announced on July 14, and secured third place in the district in the Arts stream. T R Abhilasha, who had scored 560 was the district topper. As Sujatha had expected more marks in English, she applied for revaluation. She had scored 69 marks earlier and after revaluation, she has got 76 marks and jumped to the first place with 564 marks. This has made her the district topper. Extra marks have now lifted her self-confidence. She has drawn acclaims for topping the district from a government college. Sujatha is the daughter of Chandrashekar-Lakshmamma couple of Bevukallu Koppal village. Chandrashekar is visually challenged. Both his son and daughter are suffering from partial blindness due to heredity. Sujatha can read, only if the book is brought very close to her eyes, in spite of wearing spectacles. She took her impairment as a challenge and created a record, becoming a role model for many. Sujatha’s brother is studying in final year diploma at the JSS Polytechnic in Mysuru. Mother Lakshmamma has brought up the children, selling vegetables in the market. Sujatha said, “I was disappointed over the marks in English paper, as I had done well. Thus I applied for revaluation and got seven marks more. I am happy as it has helped me top the district in the Arts stream.” College English lecturer N L Ravishankar said Sujatha was finding it difficult to read with thick glasses. But she has extraordinary memory power. We are happy over her achievement.” Sujatha has got admission at the Marimallappa Degree College in Mysuru. She wants to become an IAS officer. She has started necessary training with the help of the lecturers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/visually-challenged-becomes-dist-topper-after-pu-revaluation-880234.html
30-08-2020||Karnataka Politics||Make your stance clear on internal reservation for SC, ST, OBCs: H D Kumaraswamy to Karnataka govt||The state government has to make its stance clear on the issue of providing internal reservation among SC, ST and OBC communities, JD(S) legislature party leader HD Kumaraswamy demanded on Sunday. Backing internal reservation, the regional party leader charged that the government was offering "lip sympathy" on the issue without acting on it.  He questioned the government's motives in a series of tweets. "When the government can bring in 10 pc reservation for upper castes, what is stopping it from bringing internal reservation for SC, ST and OBCs? The state government should take all backward communities into confidence and implement internal reservation. The Supreme Court's recent observation on the issue is in favour of internal reservation. Implementing it, is the duty of the government in the interest of social justice," he said. Further, the Prime Minister himself being from an oppressed community, he should ensure internal reservation in the interest of all sub-communities, Kumaraswamy argued. "Even to this day, in the oppressed communities, there is a division of touchables and untouchables," he pointed out. Kumaraswamy's tweets saw a quick retort from SA Ramadas, MLA of Krishnaraja constituency who alleged that the comparison between internal reservation and the 10 percent EWS reservation was unfair. The MLA said the state government was very much in the process of implementing measures for the development of the backward communities. "What problem do you have with the EWS among upper castes getting 10 percent reservation? There is no discrimination among castes when it comes to poverty," Ramadas hit back at Kumaraswamy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/make-your-stance-clear-on-internal-reservation-for-sc-st-obcs-h-d-kumaraswamy-to-karnataka-govt-880011.html
30-08-2020||Mysuru||Education needs to be redefined: Amjad Ali Khan||Sarod maestro Ustad Amjad Ali Khan said on Sunday that there was a need to redefine education. “If those who earn the highest degrees, including PhDs, become communal or radical, we need to ask what did education do to them? It is sad that people kill each other in the name of religion. How is that their education did not reform them, to respect each other’s faith?” he said.  He was speaking from New Delhi in the virtual session on ‘Wafts of Melody,’ held as part of Mysuru Literature Festival 2020, on the sixth day on Sunday. Writer Roopa Pai from Bengaluru was the moderator. Khan said, “Why is there violence, is the question we often hear and discuss. Violence is a result of arrogance and lack of respect for each other. There is violence because we do not respect each other and each other’s faith, out of arrogance.” “Schools should encourage creative students and their talent. Teachers should dedicate one hour each day to interact with students to discuss love, compassion and the contribution of one’s parents to their lives. Books are not everything,” he said. “There are two worlds, one of words and one of sound. While words can be manipulated, sound is more transparent and reaches the hearts of the people directly. Thus sound or ‘swar’ is ‘Eshwar’ or God. Sound or music connects to God directly,” Khan said. “Lockdown is a boon in disguise for me personally. I could spend more time with family, sons and grandsons, especially,” he said. “Karnataka, specially Mysuru, is very near to my heart. Musicians from the north were court scholars of the Wadiyar kings. Ustad Abdul Karim Khan, who trained Bheemsen Joshi and others from Karnataka, was a court musician in Mysuru. I used to play in Dasara concerts,” Khan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/education-needs-to-be-redefined-amjad-ali-khan-880175.html
30-08-2020||Mysuru||Farmers in favour of simple Dasara celebrations this year||As the state continues to fight the spread of coronavirus and also witnessed natural calamity, the farmer leaders have suggested the state government to drop Dasara celebrations this year and divert the funds for combating Covid-19 and to compensate farmers. The Dasara celebrations will commence on October 17 and end on October 27, according to the calendar. However, the state government is yet to decide over the celebrations. Badagalapura Nagendra, president of Raitha Sangha and Hasiru Sene, urged the government to drop the celebrations this year. The government should scale down the celebrations in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak. People are under stress and it’s not a right time for grand celebrations. The government is facing fund shortage and is struggling to distribute compensation to the farmers. State Sugarcane Growers’ Association president Kurubur Shantakumar also demanded the government to drop the celebrations. Lakhs of people are facing hardship and thousands of people have lost lives due to Covid-19. The people of Mysuru and neighbouring districts have tested positive for the virus. Moreover, Dasara festival draws a large number of people to Mysuru and the possibilities of the virus spreading to a large number of people is more. It would become very difficult to contain the spread. Celebrations must be dropped for the welfare of the people, he said.      The government invests crores of rupees for the celebrations and this time the funds must be utilised to tackle Covid-19 and to compensate farmers, he opined. Another farmer Lingappa of Hunsur said Dasara can be celebrated grandly next year also. The government is aware of the difficulty in tackling the spread of infection. A simple event He also suggested for a simple Dasara to maintain the tradition. The festival was celebrated in a simple manner a number of times to maintain the tradition and it can be followed this year too.    Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has said that Dasara celebrations will be a low-key affair. District in-charge Minister S T Somashekar has said the mode of celebrations will be decided in a week at the High Power Committee meeting to be held this week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/farmers-in-favour-of-simple-dasara-celebrations-this-year-880227.html
30-08-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on August 30||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 35 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact: Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  3,612,503 as of August 30 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  64,368   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged:  27,13,933  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-august-30-879858.html
30-08-2020||National||ED freezes 4 bank accounts containing Rs 46.96 crore after raids on firms running Chinese betting apps||The Enforcement Directorate has registered a money laundering case against companies which allegedly ran numerous Chinese betting apps and websites in India, and moved crores of funds across the shores by using "lax regulatory" mechanism of online wallets, according to a statement. The federal probe agency said it has frozen four HSBC bank accounts containing Rs 46.96 crore after conducting raids at multiple premises of companies involved in running Chinese betting apps. This is the second action of a central probe agency against Chinese entities operating in the country. The Income Tax Department had early this month raided a Chinese national and his Indian associates for allegedly running a hawala racket using shell firms. The ED said searches were carried out at 15 locations in Delhi, Gurgaon, Mumbai and Pune on Friday under sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). "Searches were conducted on the registered offices of the companies, their directors and chartered accountants involved in illegally running online betting apps from websites which are hosted from outside India," it said on Saturday. "During the course of search, ED has seized 17 hard disks, five laptops, phones, crucial incriminating documents and has also frozen Rs 46.96 crore held in 4 HSBC Bank accounts," the statement said. The money laundering case is based on an FIR filed by the Telangana Police in Hyderabad against the accused early this year under various sections of the IPC and the Telangana State Gambling Act, the Prize Chits and the Money Circulation Scheme Act, it said. The police FIR was filed against Dokypay Technology Private Limited, Linkyun Technolgy Private Limited and others, and three people, including a Chinese national, were arrested. Those arrested were identified as Yan Hao, the Chinese national, Dhiraj Sarkar and Ankit Kapoor. The ED said these men were adopting a "novel modus operandi for doing online betting scam". The probe found that "with the help of some Indian chartered accountants, some Chinese nationals floated multiple Indian companies”, it said. "Initially dummy Indian directors were used to incorporate the companies and after some time Chinese nationals travelled to India and took directorship in these companies," the ED said. The agency said it found that some locals were hired and "used to open bank accounts with HSBC Bank and trade accounts with online wallets namely Paytm, Cashfree, Razorpay, etc." The agency alleged that these "online wallets had lax due diligence mechanisms and their non-reporting of suspicious transactions to the regulatory authorities helped the accused companies to launch pan-India operations". The ED said it suspects that "apart from indulging in banned activities like online betting, this network of companies with their reliance on online wallets and their lax regulatory systems could have been used for hawala transactions as well". Detailing role of the online wallets in its statement, the agency said, “Analysis of two bank accounts of Dokypay Technology Private Ltd revealed that in the last year, the account has seen collection of Rs 1,268 crore out of which Rs 300 crore came via Paytm payment gateway and around Rs 600 crore was transferred out via Paytm payment gateway." "Account analysis of Linkyun Technolgy revealed a similar pattern. It was also found that outward foreign remittances to the extent of Rs 120 crore (was made) from these accounts," it added. "Large unexplained financial transactions are also seen with other Indian companies who are running online Chinese dating apps for Indian customers," the ED said. Talking about the modus operandi, it said once bank accounts were opened, the "internet access credentials were couriered by the Indian employees to China" and major payment instructions came from the beneficial owners who were safely ensconced in China, it said. "Accused companies floated large numbers of similar looking websites which were hosted through Cloudfare, USA. These websites attracted gullible persons to become members and to place bets on various online apps which promised attractive rewards on simple games of chance," it said. The agency said these entities hired a network of agents to attract new customers for these betting games. "These agents created closed Telegram and WhatsApp groups and attracted lakhs of gullible Indians. Referral codes were used to privately invite new members. This also helped the sponsoring member to earn commission. Paytm and Cashfree were used to collect money and pay commission to all these agent members," it said. Hundreds of websites were created to promote online betting under the garb of e-commerce, it said. The ED found that all such websites were "not activated daily". Some were activated for placing bets and information on daily active websites was shared with members using Telegram groups, the statement said. The agency said the probe in the case is still underway and it is in the "process of obtaining information from online wallet companies, HSBC Bank, ROC (registrar of companies)".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-freezes-4-bank-accounts-containing-rs-4696-crore-after-raids-on-firms-running-chinese-betting-apps-879900.html
30-08-2020||National||India records world's highest single-day Covid-19 spike with 78,761 cases, tally crosses 35-lakh mark||The total coronavirus cases rose to 35,42,733, while the death toll climbed to 63,498 with 948 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The recovery rate has increased to 76.61 percent while the Covid-19 case fatality rate has further declined to 1.79 percent. There are 7,65,302 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 21.60 percent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 cases rose from 20 lakh to 30 lakh in 16 days, 10 lakh to 20 lakh in 21 days while it had taken 59 days for the cases to cross the 10 lakh-mark. It took 110 days for Covid-19 cases in the country to reach one lakh while just 59 days more to go past the 10-lakh post.   India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 and went past 30 lakh on August 23. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 4,14,61,636 samples have been tested up to August 29 with 10,55,027 samples being tested on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-worlds-highest-single-day-covid-19-spike-with-78761-cases-tally-crosses-35-lakh-mark-879911.html
30-08-2020||National||Unlock 4.0: When are cinema halls, schools reopening?||Among services that are allowed to open are Metro rail services, social/academic/sports functions and more, but is everything open under Unlock 4.0? Schools Schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutions will continue to remain closed for students and regular class activity up September 30. However, Students of classes 9 to 12 may be permitted to visit their schools, in areas outside the Containment Zones only, on a voluntary basis, for taking guidance from their teachers. States/UTs may permit upto 50% of teaching and non-teaching staff to be called to scholls for online teaching/tele-counselling and related work after September 21. Cinema halls/parks/pools You may have to wait even longer to go to the movies, however, the govt has given some exceptions for open-air theatresCinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres and similar places will remain closed under Unlock 4.0. However, open-air theatres will be allowed to reopen with effect from September 21. Air travel While domestic air travel is available, international air travel of passengers is forbidden, except as permitted by the Ministry of Home Affairs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/unlock-40-when-are-cinema-halls-schools-reopening-879913.html
30-08-2020||National||DH Toon | 'Just ignore the naysayers'||Nothing happens, nobody comes, nobody goes, it’s awful!” says Estragon in Samuel Beckett’s classic Waiting for Godot. And Vladimir adds, “We wait. We are bored. No, don’t protest, we are bored to death…A diversion comes along and what do we do? We let it go to waste.” Even as the characters keep conversing in the play, nothing moves, and they just keep waiting for Godot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-just-ignore-the-naysayers-879922.html
30-08-2020||National||Live: PM Modi addresses nation in 68th Mann Ki Baat||PM Modi addresses his 68th monthly edition of the radio programme, Mann Ki Baat. Watch live: https://youtu.be/OgafNvdpGHI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/live-pm-modi-addresses-nation-in-68th-mann-ki-baat-879924.html
30-08-2020||National||Unlock 4.0: Will all metros reopen from September 7?||Among the services to open up under Unlock 4.0 is the metro rail, which will be available from September 7 on a graded basis. But will all the metro rails in the country be available from September 7? Namma Metro Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) has prepared an in-house SOP with strict measures for the eventual resumption of the services. From compulsory masks to screening of passengers for fever and installation of Aarogya Setu app on phone, several rules were proposed. However, the Unlock 4 guidelines by the Ministry of Home Affairs mentions that an SOP "will be issued". "We don't know whether the SOP from Centre will have different rules. We need to look into such details before talking of commencing operations," the official said. Delhi Metro "As per the latest guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs under Unlock-4, the Delhi Metro will be resuming its services for public from September 7 onwards in a calibrated manner," the DMRC said in a statement. Further details on the metro functioning and its usage by the general public will be shared once the detailed SOP on metro is issued by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs in the next few days, the officials said. Awaiting a nod to resume operations, the DMRC in these months, meanwhile, had been training its staff on compliance of Covid-19 safety norms and also on ways to make travel safer for commuters. Limiting the number of people in lifts, longer halting time for trains at stations to allow commuters to board and alight with social distancing norms, are among the measures the Delhi Metro will take to ensure safer travel for its passengers, when services resume next month. Kolkata Metro The  Kolkata Metro Railway had on Aug 27 said that it would restart services on receiving the go-ahead from the Union Home Ministry and the Railway Ministry, well before the release of the Unlock 4.0 guidelines. This too however, was restarting in a limited manner While these three have issued official statements on the resumption of metro services, there are many more metro rails in the country that are yet to issue an official statement on the matter. With DHNS and agency inputs||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/unlock-40-will-all-metros-reopen-from-september-7-879931.html
30-08-2020||National||Women at a disadvantage in fight against Covid-19, show studies||Studies about women’s susceptibility to Covid-19, and women facing less severe Covid-19 symptoms than men, are doing rounds through media reports. Some studies also suggest that women who contract Covid-19 may have a higher relative-risk of succumbing to the infection in India. Seroprevalence survey done in various states answer a few questions raised by these studies. Comparisons of Delhi, Mumbai and Ahmedabad’s SARS-CoV2 seroprevalence surveys show that the prevalence of Covid-19 was higher among women than men. Pune’s SARS-CoV2 seroprevalence survey, however, found almost no difference in the infection prevalence in men and women. A study published in the Journal of Global Health Science found that 2.9 per cent of men who contracted the virus died while 3.3 per cent of women who contracted the Covid-19 died in India. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/women-at-a-disadvantage-in-fight-against-covid-19-show-studies-879953.html
30-08-2020||National||India can become world's toy hub, time to be vocal about local toys: PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday called upon startups and entrepreneurs to "team up for toys", as he noted India's minuscule share in the global toy market of over Rs 7 lakh crore and asserted that the country has talent and ability to become a hub for the industry. In his monthly 'Mann ki Baat' address, he said it was time for startups to be "vocal for local toys" and also asked them to develop computer games in and based on India, citing the nation's rich heritage and traditions that can drive innovations in the toy and gaming industry. "Our country has so many ideas, so many concepts; our history has been very rich. Can we make games based on that? I call upon the young talent of the country - make games in India and make games based on India too. It is said that let the game begin! So, let us start the game," he said. The Prime Minister had also recently chaired a meeting aimed at boosting India's share in the global toy trade in which China is one of the largest manufacturers and exporters. Modi touched on a number of issues in the broadcast and lauded people for maintaining unprecedented restraint and simplicity in celebrating festivals during the Covid-19 pandemic and praised farmers for an increase in the sowing area for crops. He also asked teachers to work to apprise students of local events and heroes of the freedom struggle as India approaches 75 years of Independence in 2022, saying it will bring to the fore stories of lakhs of "unsung heroes", who lived and died for the country but had faded into "oblivion". Touching on his government's 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' campaign, he said in his address that the country has to be self-reliant in every area and added that a big opportunity lies in the toy and gaming sector. "You will be surprised to know that the global toy Industry is of more than Rs 7 lakh crore. Such a big business but India's share is very little in this. Now, just spare a thought for a nation which has so much of heritage, tradition, variety, young population, will it feel good to have such little share in the toy market?" he asked. The Prime Minister said India has had a rich tradition of local toys and has talented and skilled artisans with expertise in making good toys, noting that some parts of the country are developing as toy clusters. "We can do two things through toys – bring back the glorious past in our lives and also spruce up our golden future. To my start-up friends, to our new entrepreneurs, I say team up for toys. For everybody it is the time to get vocal for local toys," he said. Modi asked entrepreneurs to develop computer games based on Indian concepts and history. In this context, he also urged people to raise dogs of Indian breeds at their homes if they consider keeping a pet dog. Indian breed dogs are being inducted by security forces as well, he said. In this regard, he also highlighted the contributions of canines in general in thwarting numerous bomb blasts and terror conspiracies while mentioning a few incidents. Even in relief operations, dogs play a crucial role in finding out people buried under rubble. "At a time when Aatmanirbhar Bharat is becoming a mantra of the people, how can any domain be left untouched by its influence," he said. Modi also spoke about an 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' app innovation challenge organised earlier this month and noted that nearly two thirds of the around seven thousand entries were from tier two and three cities. "This is a very auspicious indication for self-reliant India, for future," he said. Underscoring a deep connection between Indian festivals and environment, he noted that eco-friendly Ganesha idols were installed at most places recently. 'Ganeshotsav' was also celebrated at certain places, he said, praising people's discipline. Lauding farmers, Modi said they have proven their mettle during the pandemic. He said the area for the sowing of kharif crops increased by seven per cent compared to last year, paddy by nearly 10 percent, pulses close to five per cent, oilseeds around 13 per cent and cotton by about three per cent. He said September will be observed as "Nutrition Month" and added that the need for having a good nutrition is being converted into a "mass movement", especially in villages. "An Agricultural Fund of India is being created and it will have complete information about the crops grown in each district and their related nutritional value. This fund can be of great use for all of you," he said in his address. The Prime Minister also urged people to follow the coronavirus guidelines regarding keeping social distance and wearing masks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-can-become-worlds-toy-hub-time-to-be-vocal-about-local-toys-pm-narendra-modi-879960.html
30-08-2020||National||We are not anyone's puppets: Farooq Abdullah's retort to Pakistan||Reacting sharply to Pakistan hailing the recent Gupkar Declaration in which six political parties of Jammu and Kashmir vowed to fight collectively against the abrogation of Article 370, National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah on Sunday asserted that "we are not anyone's puppets". "Pakistan has always abused mainstream political parties of Jammu and Kashmir but now suddenly they like us", the former chief minister said when asked about Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi's statement that the declaration issued by the NC, PDP, Congress and three other parties was "not an ordinary occurrence but an important development". "Let me make it clear that we are not anyone's puppets, neither New Delhi's nor of anyone across the border. We are answerable to the people of Jammu and Kashmir and will work for them," he told PTI from Srinagar. In response to a question on cross-border terrorism, Abdullah said, "I would urge Pakistan to stop sending armed men into Kashmir. We want an end to the bloodshed in our state. All political parties in Jammu and Kashmir are committed to fight for our rights peacefully, including for what was unconstitutionally snatched away from us on August 5 last year". At the same time, the NC leader urged both India and Pakistan to resume their dialogue "for everyone's greater good". "Our people are being killed on both sides of the Line of Control every time there are ceasefire violations. For God's sake bring a halt to that", he said. In a declaration issued on August 22, six prominent mainstream political parties came together for restoration of Article 370 and statehood to Jammu and Kashmir after describing as "unconstitutional" steps approved by Parliament last year to end the erstwhile state's special status and slice it into two union territories. The joint statement is known as "Gupkar Declaration-2", being second declaration on Article 370 issued after meetings held at the Gupkar Road residence of Abdullah which clearly asks the Centre that "there can be nothing about us without us", an indication that the Centre has to take into confidence the people before implementing any constitutional change.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-are-not-anyones-puppets-farooq-abdullahs-retort-to-pakistan-879975.html
30-08-2020||National||Nature should be nurtured, not just consumed: Mohan Bhagwat||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Sunday stressed on the conservation of nature, saying it should be nurtured and not just consumed as is being done in the present world. Addressing a programme organised by the Hindu Spiritual Seva Foundation through virtual mode to celebrate 'Prakruti Din', Bhagwat emphasised on the way of living followed by our ancestors who nurtured nature as an important part of their life. He said people believe nature is for their consumption and that they do not have any responsibility towards it. "We are living like this for last 200 to 250 years and its ill-effects and consequences are coming to the fore now. If it continues like this, then neither we nor this world will survive," he said. In order to address this problem, the concept of the Environment Day came into existence, Bhagwat said. "Our ancestors understood the truth of existence in its entirety and that we are one part of the nature and it is the responsibility of humans to nurture the nature," he said. "Our way of life was respecting all, but we were misguided by the world's way of living. Hence, today we have to remember all this by observing the Environment Day," he said. Referring to the 'Nag Panchmi', 'Govardhan Puja' and 'Tulsi Vivah', Bhagwat said "all these 'sanskars' should be celebrated and rejuvenated, and the new generation will also learn that we are part of the nature and we need to nurture the nature and not just consume it". "If the future generation will think this way, then only we will be able to correct the harm done over the last 300 to 350 years, in next 100 to 200 years wherein the world and humankind will be safe and life will be beautiful," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nature-should-be-nurtured-not-just-consumed-mohan-bhagwat-879976.html
30-08-2020||National||Many transgender community members battling mental, physical abuse amid Covid-19||Reshma, a transwoman from Ajmer, was the sole breadwinner of her family of five, whom she started supporting at an early age of 16 by begging in trains. She says she has heard all kinds of taunts and sarcastic comments about her gender from outsiders all her life, but was shattered when her own family's attitude changed towards her since the lockdown. "As the lockdown progressed and I was not able to bring anything back home, slowly the taunts started, which soon turned into verbal abuse. My family members, especially my brothers, for whom I had to drop out of school so that they could study, started calling me a disgrace," Reshma (36) said. "They did not realise that I was a disgrace when I was supporting them financially. Slowly, the verbal abuse gave way to physical violence and one day, it became so unbearable that I decided to move out," she added. For 33-year-old Sunehri (name changed), a transwoman from Bihar, the issue of domestic violence pushed her out of her home years ago. She was sending money back home every month but ever since the lockdown was imposed, she lost all means of livelihood and had no option but to move back with them. "I had to go back to my home as I had no money left to live alone. I thought the situation might have changed as my family was dependent on my earnings, but I was wrong. They were not there for me when I needed them. Their abuse started soon after I returned in May. I cannot wait to get back on my feet and end this torture," she said. Krishna (name changed), a 33-year-old transwoman from Bengaluru, says she was shocked when her long-time partner hit her for the first time in April. Treating it as a one-off incident, she forgave him but as the months passed, the abuse became more frequent. "The violence increased up to a point that I started fearing for my life. My partner lost his job of a security guard soon after the lockdown and his frustration and anger turned violent as even I was unable to bring any money home," 40-year-old Krishna, who danced at celebrations to earn her living, said. "I finally left him and moved back with my family members, who also do not want me to stay with them for long, but till I get back on my feet, there is no other option," she said. The transgender community has been hit hard by the coronavirus pandemic. Relegated to the sidelines of the society, many of the country's estimated 4.88 lakh transgender people are forced to make a living through begging, dancing at celebrations like weddings and sex work, according to rights groups. But ever since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, many trans community members have lost their means of livelihood and have been struggling to earn a living. They say they have been subjected to taunts, verbal abuse and domestic violence by their partners and family members in the last few months. "They were of no value to their family members anymore once they stopped earning, so the family members started treating them as they wanted," said Jaipur-based transgender activist Pushpa Mai. Bittu, an LGBTQ activist, said several transgender community members had to be rescued from their houses due to violence since the lockdown. "We had to rescue a number of transmen during the lockdown because they were facing so much violence at their homes," he said. Akhila Sivadas, the managing trustee and executive director of the Centre for Advocacy and Research (CFAR), a non-profit organisation, said the only way domestic violence, social stigma and discrimination will stop is by empowering transgender persons and groups. "Constitute state and national-level commissions and councils for transgenders and let the National Legal Services Authority mandate the district legal services authorities to appoint transgender people as paralegal volunteers and not only sensitise everyone on law but also on the legal rights and entitlements of transgender people," she said. Meera Parida, co-founder of Sakha, said, "The COVID-19 outbreak has pushed us back to those times when we were struggling to come to terms with our identity, get heard and save ourselves from life-threatening challenges." In the context of the coronavirus pandemic, she urged the government to consider the concerns of transgenders while framing policies and strategies. "The trans community needs the help and support of the society and the government more than ever now," she noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/many-transgender-community-members-battling-mental-physical-abuse-amid-covid-19-879977.html
30-08-2020||National||Driving change: Women e-rickshaw drivers hit by Covid-19 pandemic but stay the empowerment course||No rides, no income and no money to repay the loans they took. But the band of intrepid women who took the decision to steer the course of their lives by driving e-rickshaws and also owning them aren’t giving up. It will take more than a pandemic to get them back into the confines of their homes, say the women who decided to defy convention when they stepped out of the door and got behind the wheel of their e-rickshaws. Organisations such as Humsafar and SMV Green Solutions which helped train scores of women and facilitated their loans said none of their ‘drivers’ have reached out to them to sell their vehicles. "I am ready to do all kinds of odd jobs temporarily to make money, but there is no way I am selling my rickshaw," said Sima Khan, a doughty Lucknow-based woman who went from being homemaker to entrepreneur. She is among the scores of women across the country who bought e-rickshaws through support centres in their city by somehow managing the money for down payments and have been earning a living and also paying their EMIs. Until now that is. After a few years of driving an e-rickshaw on rent, the 30-year-old said she decided to invest in a three-wheeler of her own about eight months ago to avoid the interference of a middle man and ensure that her earnings were her own.  Until the lockdown, which came into effect on March 25 to curtail the spread of Covid-19, her income was steady enough for her to run the household smoothly and also repay the loan for her rickshaw. An e-rickshaw costs about Rs 1,45,000. The loans are sanctioned by banks at an interest rate of 14 per cent per annum, making the total amount to be repaid equivalent to approximately Rs 1,86,000.  Like many other women drivers, Khan had been paying Rs 2,849 every 14 days, making the monthly instalment as high as Rs 5,698. This was doable in the days before the Covid-19 pandemic but the last six months changed everything. “It has been harrowing,” Khan told PTI. In these last few months, she has mortgaged her jewellery, borrowed money from informal lenders and is now trying to pay them back. When the payments get delayed, the bank threatens to confiscate her e-rickshaw. “There was zero income during the lockdown. Even after that, we have been getting hardly any passengers. I earn less than half of what I did before the lockdown. I have been trying my best to repay the loan, but if and when it gets delayed, they call and say, ‘paise nahi doge toh rickshaw utha lenge’,” she said.  Given that the end of the pandemic is nowhere near and the challenges are likely to continue, selling the rickshaw might seem like the easier thing to do. But that is not an option, said Khan, determined to continue on the path of empowerment and self-sufficiency. She decided to become an e-rickshaw driver after seeing a few women in her neighbourhood. The decision to drive one, and then own it too, was not easy. She faced resistance from her in-laws. But Khan did not budge, and took driving lessons at Humsafar, a support centre for women in the city. “I realised that no work was good or bad, and when I saw some women driving e-rickshaws in the area, I wanted to be like them. So, I approached one of them, who told me about Humsafar,” Khan, who drives a rickshaw in Lucknow’s Alambagh area, said. It wasn’t until recently that women like Khan got their first taste of independence after decades of unquestioningly conforming to the societal roles -- they cooked, they cleaned, and took care of children. The rules went for a toss a few years back when the handful of women decided to drive change with their e-rickshaws. The lockdown has been a major setback but ask these women drivers to give up and they say it will take something a lot bigger than a pandemic to force them back to their old lives. In fact, almost all the 55 e-rickshaw drivers who trained at Humsafar since the first batch in 2015 have found themselves in dire circumstances in the last few months. But giving up on their rickshaws is not something they want to even consider. “In the last five-six months, we have received calls from so many of our women drivers  about how they were struggling to make ends meet. We provided dry ration in many of these households.  “They have been calling us to check if there were any other jobs they could take up temporarily, but not one woman has even mentioned giving up on driving, or selling their rickshaws,” Richa Rastogi of  Humsafar told PTI. Similar stories of perseverance can be found on the streets of Allahabad where 58 women over the last three years have discovered a sense of identity after a start-up, SMV Green Solutions, launched its Vahini Project in 2017 allowing women to drive, as well as own e-rickshaws.  One of those who benefited from the scheme was 48-year-old Sushila Devi. With a perpetually drunk husband, she was the one left to spearhead decisions in her family. Driving an e-rickshaw, she said, gave her a new found sense of freedom of mobility. Sushila Devi, who drives the rickshaw for nearly 12 hours (6 am -6 pm) in Allahabad’s north Malakka area, was an egg vendor until two years ago. Someone suggested the e-rickshaw idea and she snapped at it. She trained at SMV Green Solutions and bought a vehicle right before Diwali in 2018. She took a loan for Rs 1,45,000 at a 15 per cent reducing interest rate, translating into instalment payments of Rs 3,000 every 14 days. However, the last six months have been particularly difficult, and she hasn't been able to pay the EMIs on multiple occasions. "I would earn Rs 1,500 a day before Covid-19, but now I barely manage to make Rs 400. Every time I miss a payment, I have been told I will have to pay more later (due to the accrued interest according to RBI moratorium guidelines). "Which is why I have also been helping vegetable vendors move their stock in the market, but that is still not enough," she said, echoing Khan in saying that selling her three-wheeler is not on the cards.  In March this year, RBI announced a moratorium on payment of instalments on term loans till August 31. While the measure to support the sagging economy in the face of Covid-19 allowed deferral of the payments, the interest continued to accrue during this period, resulting in an overall increase in the total amount to be paid. “The (accrued interest) amount can be as high as 10 per cent of the total loan yet to be repaid. The waiving can reduce the burden significantly as there was no income during the lockdown and still the earning is around 50-60 per cent less than what it used to be in pre-corona scenario,” said Naveen Krishna, founder of SMV Green Solutions. No woman driver has approached him yet to sell her vehicle.  “All Vahinis are first-time borrowers and owners of assets. The sense of ownership dwells confidence amongst women e-rickshaw drivers coupled with the financial freedom that they get,” he said.  The start-up has also been facilitating e-rickshaw ownership among women drivers in cities like Delhi, Lucknow and Varanasi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/driving-change-women-e-rickshaw-drivers-hit-by-covid-19-pandemic-but-stay-the-empowerment-course-879978.html
30-08-2020||National||Former President Pranab Mukherjee still in deep coma, haemodynamically stable: Hospital||Former President Pranab Mukherjee continues to be in deep coma but is haemodynamically stable, the hospital treating him said on Sunday. Doctors attending to 84-year-old Mukherjee said he is on ventilator support and is being treated for lung infection. Doctors say a patient is haemodynamically stable when his blood circulation parameters, like blood pressure, heart and pulse rate, are stable and normal. Mukherjee was admitted to the Army's Research and Referral Hospital in Delhi on August 10 and was operated upon the same day for removal of a clot in the brain. He had also tested positive for Covid-19 during his admission. He later developed a lung infection and had a renal dysfunction, they added. "Shri Pranab Mukherjee is being treated for lung infection. He continues to be in a deep coma and on ventilator support.  He remains haemodynamically stable," the hospital said in a statement. Mukherjee was the 13th President of India from 2012-2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-president-pranab-mukherjee-still-in-deep-coma-haemodynamically-stable-hospital-879993.html
30-08-2020||National||'Valour wall' of gallantry-winning CRPF officers inaugurated in Gurgaon||A "valour wall" depicting the names of gallantry award-winning CRPF officers has been inaugurated at the force's training academy here, officials said on Sunday. The bravery wall with the names of 138 officers, including five who got the awards posthumously, was inaugurated by Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) Director General A P Maheshwari on Saturday. The country's largest paramilitary force with about 3.25 lakh personnel in its ranks is among the top two police organisations in the country that have bagged the maximum gallantry medals over the last decade. The Jammu and Kashmir Police is the other organisation. "The valour wall is a tribute to all the officers who graduated from the officers training academy in Kadarpur, Gurgaon," CRPF spokesperson Deputy Inspector General (DIG) Moses Dhinakaran said. The academy was established in October, 2005. Maheshwari also planted saplings in the campus in the memory of four CRPF personnel, who were killed in the line of duty and were awarded the police medals for gallantry on this Independence Day, August 15, he said. The force also marked the National Sports Day by holding volleyball matches at 1,600 locations with a reduced team strength in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. Olympic medal-winning wrestler Sushil Kumar was present to mark the event in the academy campus, during which he asked the force to nurture more sporting talent. A seed dispersal event through drones was also held as part of the environment protection initiative at a chosen patch in the Aravalli mountain ranges that flank the academy, the spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/valour-wall-of-gallantry-winning-crpf-officers-inaugurated-in-gurgaon-880004.html
30-08-2020||National||Idol of Lord Nataraja found in Tamil Nadu lake||A six-kilo metal idol of Lord Nataraja found in a suburban lake by a local resident while fishing has been handed over to revenue officials, police said on Sunday. Murali, while angling at the Sirungavoor lake near suburban Red Hills on Saturday, snared a leather bag, which had a one and half foot tall idol of Lord Nataraja, weighing six kilos. He immediately informed the local police, who handed over the idol to revenue officials. Police said they could not immediately ascertain if the idol was stolen and later dumped in the lake. V Subramanian, secretary of a voluntary organisation 'Jankalyan,'pointing to the theft of idols from temples, told PTI that authorities should come forward to digitise images of all idols for easy identification and restoration in case they were stolen. "Whenever authorities recover idols, they should hand them over to the nearest temples for puja," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/idol-of-lord-nataraja-found-in-tamil-nadu-lake-880008.html
30-08-2020||National||Over 4.14 crore Covid-19 tests conducted in India so far||With a record of over 10.5 lakh tests conducted for detection of Covid-19 in a single day, the number of such tests performed in the country has crossed 4.14 crore, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday. The exponential jump in the testing capacity and the number of tests has resulted in an upsurge in the Tests Per Million to 30,044 as on date, it highlighted. With a record 10,55,027 tests conducted on Saturday, the country has further strengthened the national diagnostic capacity of testing more than 10 lakh samples for Covid-19 on a daily basis. The total number of Covid-19 tests conducted in the country currently stands at 4,14,61,636. The Centre, keeping in view the evolving global context of Covid-19, conceptualised and implemented the continuum of care strategy of "test, track and treat" in close coordination with the states and Union territories.  Pivoted on the strong pillar of aggressive testing, the positive cases are identified early, which enables and ensures that their contacts are efficiently tracked in a timely manner, the ministry underlined. This is followed up with prompt isolation at home or a facility setting for the mild and moderate cases, and hospitalisation for the severe and critical patients, it said. The World Health Organization (WHO), in its guidance note on "Public Health Criteria to Adjust Public Health and Social Measures in the Context of Covid-19", has advised comprehensive surveillance for suspected coronavirus cases. It has advised that a country needs 140 tests per 10 lakh people every day. All the states and Union territories have crossed the advised number of tests. Several states have demonstrated a better performance by registering a positivity rate that is lower than the national average, the ministry said. India's Covid-19 tally rose to 35,42,733 with a record single-day spike of 78,761 cases, while the death toll due to the disease climbed to 63,498 with 948 people succumbing to it in a span of 24 hours, the ministry's data, updated at 8 am, showed. The testing strategy also ensured a steady expansion of the laboratory network across the country. As many as 1,583 laboratories -- 1,003 in the government sector and 580 private ones -- are providing comprehensive Covid-19 testing facilities to people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-414-crore-covid-19-tests-conducted-in-india-so-far-880014.html
30-08-2020||National||Army JCO killed in Pakistan firing along Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri||A Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO) of the Army was killed on Sunday in firing by Pakistani troops along the Line of Control (LoC) in Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir, a defence spokesman said. The firing from across the border in the Nowshera sector was unprovoked and responded strongly by the Indian Army, the spokesman said. He said Naib Subedar Rajwinder Singh was critically injured in the "unprovoked ceasefire violation" by the Pakistan army. Singh later succumbed to injuries, the spokesman said. "Naib Subedar Singh was a brave, highly motivated and a sincere soldier. The nation will always remain indebted to him for his supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty," the spokesman said. Singh is survived by his wife and two children -- a son and a daughter, the spokesman said, adding his mortal remains would be taken to his home town Amritsar in Punjab on Monday morning. Army sources said Pakistani troops started firing soon after the Indian Army noticed suspicious movement and alerted the forward posts to scuttle any infiltration bid by terrorists from across the border. Pakistani army usually targets forward posts and villages to provide cover to infiltrators to help them cross over to the Indian side, they said. The sources said Pakistani troops also suffered casualties in the retaliatory action by the Indian Army.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-jco-killed-in-pakistan-firing-along-line-of-control-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-rajouri-880019.html
30-08-2020||National||Census, NPR data collection unlikely in 2020 due to Covid-19||The first-leg of Census and updation of National Population Register (NPR), which was to end by next month but postponed, is likely to be delayed by at least a year owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. A senior official said the pandemic has shown no signs of slowing down and it appears that it is unlikely to start anytime soon. The official said the schedule for starting the operations has not been finalised yet and it is likely that the whole exercise may be delayed by a year. The Phase 1 of the Census 2021, which is the House Listing and Housing Census, and updation of the controversial NPR were to begin on various dates decided by states and Union Territories beginning April. The Centre has set September 30 as the deadline for completing phase 1, while the second phase -- population enumeration -- was scheduled during February 9-28 next year. The exercise involves lakhs of officials and visits to each family. The official said the present situation does not allow them to undertake the exercise amid heightened health risks. Earlier, several Opposition-ruled states had said that it would not conduct NPR as it is associated with Citizenship Amendment Act and National Register of Citizens (NRC). While states like Kerala, West Bengal, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Puducherry state Assemblies have passed resolutions against the implementation of NPR, Bihar and Delhi Assemblies have passed resolutions saying that it will allow NPR in the 2010 format only.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/census-npr-data-collection-unlikely-in-2020-due-to-covid-19-880027.html
30-08-2020||National||Carelessness leading to rise in Covid-19 cases: Experts||Careless behaviour of people and complacency are leading to a spike in Covid-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh, which saw a 78 per cent rise in cases in the past two months, according to medical experts and government officials. A senior official from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Bhopal expressed concern over the government's fresh guidelines allowing political, social and religious congregations of up to 100 people from September 21. Till Saturday, Madhya Pradesh reported 60,875 Covid-19 cases since the disease outbreak in the state on March 20. An analysis of the government data shows that 47,282 of these total cases, or about 78 per cent, were reported in July and August. These two months also reported 773 deaths, accounting for 57 per cent of the total 1,345 fatalities due to the disease so far in the state.  Talking to PTI, AIIMS, Bhopal, Director Prof Sarman Singh said "complacency among people" with regard to social distancing and other preventive norms, and the easing of restrictions are leading to the rise in Covid-19 cases. "Across the world, the spurt in Covid-19 cases is due to complacency among people, who have started taking the situation lightly. The use of masks and social distancing norms are not being followed," he said. He also said the government is going to relax the norms by allowing the gathering of 100 people for religious, social and political functions, which is "worrying". It has been seen that people are violating norms and more number of persons gather at a place than allowed, he said. Singh said life can go on without political and social functions. "Only offices and economic activities should have been opened which is needed for a livelihood...but I don't want to comment on what led to the relaxation of norms. I can say this was not medically desirable epidemically." This is the "second spurt" in Madhya Pradesh, which is performing better than other states as far as the control of Covid-19 is concerned, he said.  "The situation is not good, but under control. The situation has improved in Madhya Pradesh when compared to earlier," he said. Madhya Pradesh health department's additional chief secretary Mohammed Suleman said the state government is focusing on raising awareness about the coronavirus as its containment depends on the people. "The rising number of coronavirus cases shows people are meeting each other. The government is making people aware through various medium about social distancing and face covering," he said. "Our concept is clear that we will treat those who reach out to us for treatment. Most of the people are recovering from the infection. The mortality rate is about two per cent," he said It is clear that the government cannot protect people from infection. "Only the people can protect themselves and the government is treating those coming to us. We will continue to provide medical treatment to people," he said. Dr Ajay Goenka, director of Chirayu Medical College and Hospital, one of the biggest private facilities designated for Covid-19 treatment in the state, blamed lack of awareness and laxity among people for the rising cases. "The containment of coronavirus depends on public awareness. It can be contained only when people stop making mistakes," he said, adding that people are scared and hiding the disease. People should follow the social distancing norms, wear face masks and come out for treatment in time to stem the spread of the pandemic, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/carelessness-leading-to-rise-in-covid-19-cases-experts-880028.html
30-08-2020||National||Rahul Gandhi wishes Indian team for Chess Olympiad finals||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi sent his best wishes to the Indian chess team on Sunday for the finals of the Chess Olympiad, saying billions of hearts are rooting for them. He said it is a matter of pride for India that the team has entered the finals of the Chess Olympiad for the first time. "All the very best to the Indian team for the online Chess Olympiad. It's a matter of great pride to be in the finals for the first time ever. Go for the win! Billion hearts are rooting for you," Gandhi said on Twitter. India reached the finals of the FIDE Online Chess Olympiad after Koneru Humpy took the spotlight and beat Poland's Monika Socko in a nervy tie-break on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-wishes-indian-team-for-chess-olympiad-finals-880031.html
30-08-2020||National||Flying to India for NEET amid Covid-19 risk stressful, impractical: Aspirants in Gulf nations||Travelling to India to write the medical entrance exam NEET is not only stressful but also impractical, several candidates in Gulf countries have said, citing the risk of contracting Covid-19 and the need to undergo a mandatory quarantine, among other issues. Some of them have decided the skip the National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET) altogether this year. "What choice do I have? It is impractical," said Royston Mendonca, who is based in Dubai. Several Indian students like her said the Supreme Court's refusal to allow exam centres for the NEET in Gulf countries has left them the lurch. Many of these students have their JEE-Main exam in the Gulf and the NEET in India. While exam centres have been set up abroad for JEE Main, there is no such plan for NEET. Reaching India in time to be able to complete the mandatory quarantine period before the exam, arranging a stay before taking a flight back home, additional expenses, the risk of contracting Covid-19 and being quarantined again back home, are among several concerns on the mind of the aspirants. The National Testing Agency (NTA), which conducts medical and engineering entrance exams, has decided to hold NEET on September 13 and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Mains from September 1 to 6. Mendonca said, "Even if I take the next possible Vande Bharat flight, I will not be able to finish my quarantine period by then. And how can one appear for such a crucial exam amid this much stress," he told PTI over phone from Dubai. Shailaja Vishwanathan, a Doha-based candidate, said, "I had contacted the Indian embassy here and I have been told that though I had not applied earlier, I would be accommodated in the next Vande Bharat flight. But it is too much of a hassle right before an exam for which I have been preparing for two years. I wish I was able to take the exam in Doha, but I don’t have much choice. I will go anyhow." Jonathan Vergis, who resides in the United Arab Emirates (UAE), has to write both these exams, the JEE-Main in Dubai on September 3 and the NEET in India 10 days later. “If I leave after this exam (JEE Main), I will not be able to finish the quarantine period before September 13, when the NEET exam is scheduled,” he said. However NTA officials said the JEE exam centre in such cases can be shifted to India and the students should reach out to the agency. NEET candidate Jasim, a resident of Saudi Arabia, said, "This is very impractical. I have not travelled alone before this. If my parents fly with me, we will have to bear extra cost which is an added burden at the moment. The time taken to complete the quarantine, appearing for exam and then completing quarantine here once back, will require a lot of leaves from work for them too. We are still working out what to do." Another candidate based in Oman, who did not wish to be identified told PTI, she has decided not to appear for the exam this year. "I think I will take the exam next year now. I know a year is precious but it is just not feasible to travel to India for the exam now. I was really hoping that they either postpone the exam or set up centres in Gulf countries too," she said. On Monday, the Supreme Court of India declined to pass direction to the Central government to hold NEET in Gulf countries. The court directed the government to allow students to come through Vande Bharat Mission flights to write the exams. The SC was hearing a plea filed by parents of nearly 4,000 NEET candidates, who alternatively had sought to postpone the examination until the coronavirus pandemic subsides. The parents of these candidates, who reside in Doha, Qatar, Oman and the UAE, had approached the apex court challenging the High Court of Kerala order which had dismissed their plea in June. The NTA informed the Supreme Court that it had duly consulted the MCI (Medical Council of India) on the students' demand for overseas test centers. However, the MCI had clarified that since the exam is conducted in pen and paper mode, it will not be feasible to have a different pattern for Gulf countries or establish a centre there amid the pandemic situation. Among Indian states too, there has been a growing chorus for postponing the two exams in view of a spike in Covid-19 cases. However, the Ministry of Education has clarified the exams will be conducted on schedule in September as any further delay now can lead to a zero academic year. These exams have already been deferred twice in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. The JEE-Main was originally scheduled to be held from April 7 to April 11, but was postponed to July 18 to July 23, the NEET-UG was originally scheduled for May 3, but pushed to July 26. They were postponed again and are now scheduled in September.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/flying-to-india-for-neet-amid-covid-19-risk-stressful-impractical-aspirants-in-gulf-nations-880034.html
30-08-2020||National||India to start bidding process by October to procure 6 submarines costing Rs 55,000 crore||India is all set to launch the bidding process by next month for a Rs 55,000 crore mega project to build six conventional submarines for the Indian Navy to narrow the gap with China's growing naval prowess, government sources said on Sunday. The submarines will be built in India under the much-talked-about strategic partnership model that allows domestic companies to join hands with leading foreign defence majors to produce high-end military platforms in the country and reduce import dependence. The sources said the groundwork like specifications of the submarines and other critical requirements for issuance of the RFP (request for proposal) for the mega project, named as P-75 I, has been completed by separate teams of the defence ministry and the Indian Navy. The RFP will be issued by October, they added. The defence ministry has already shortlisted two Indian shipyards and five foreign defence majors for the project, being billed as one of biggest "Make in India" ventures. The shortlisted Indian entities were L&T group and state-owned Mazagaon Docks Ltd (MDL) while the select foreign entities included ThyssenKrupp Marine Systems (Germany), Navantia (Spain) and Naval Group (France). Initially, the defence ministry will issue RFPs to MDL and L&T and the two firms will have to submit their detailed bid after receiving the document. Subsequently, the L&T and MDL will have to select a foreign partner out of the five shortlisted entities, the sources said. The Indian Navy plans to acquire 24 new submarines, including six nuclear attack submarines, to bolster its underwater fighting capability. It currently has 15 conventional submarines and two nuclear submarines. The Navy has been focusing on significantly bolstering its overall capabilities in view of China's growing efforts to increase its military presence in the Indian Ocean Region. The Indian Ocean, considered the backyard of the Indian Navy, is critical to the country's strategic interests. According to global naval analysts, Chinese navy currently has over 50 submarines and about 350 ships. The total number of ships and submarines is projected to go past 500 in next 8-10 years. The Indian Navy is also in the process of procuring 57 carrier-borne fighter jets, 111 Naval Utility Helicopters (NUH) and 123 multi-role helicopters under the strategic partnership model. The policy envisages the establishment of long-term strategic partnerships with Indian defence majors through a transparent and competitive process wherein they would tie up with global original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) to seek technology transfers. Initially, the strategic partners will be selected in four segments - fighter aircraft, helicopters, submarines and armoured fighting vehicles/main battle tanks. It is expected to be expanded to other segments. In the last few months, the government has unveiled a series of reform measures and initiatives to make India a hub of defence manufacturing. On August 9, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh announced that India will stop the import of 101 weapons and military platforms like transport aircraft, light combat helicopters, conventional submarines, cruise missiles and sonar systems by 2024. In May, the government announced increasing the FDI limit from 49 percent to 74 percent under the automatic route in the defence sector. India is one the largest importers of arms globally. According to estimates, the Indian armed forces are projected to spend around USD 130 billion in capital procurement in the next five years. The government now wants to reduce dependence on imported military platforms and has decided to support the domestic defence manufacturing. The defence ministry has set a goal of a turnover of USD 25 billion (Rs 1.75 lakh crore) in defence manufacturing in the next five years that included an export target of USD 5 billion (Rs 35,000 crore) worth of military hardware.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-start-bidding-process-by-october-to-procure-6-submarines-costing-rs-55000-crore-880041.html
30-08-2020||National||PIL in Supreme Court for removal of 'anomalies' in adoption, guardianship||A Public Interest Litigation (PIL) seeking removal of anomalies in the grounds of adoption and guardianship and making them uniform for all citizens has been filed in the Supreme Court. The plea filed by advocate and BJP leader Ashwini Upadhyay has also sought directions to declare that the “discriminatory grounds” of adoption and guardianship are violative of Articles 14, 15, 21 of the Constitution and to frame “uniform guidelines” for adoption and guardianship for all citizens. Article 14 of the Indian Constitution talks about all citizens’ equality before the law, Article 15 prohibits discrimination of Indians on basis of religion, race, caste, sex or place of birth, and Article 21 says no person shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty except according to procedure established by law. The PIL, filed through advocate Ashwani Kumar Dubey, contended that the current practice of adoption is blatantly discriminatory as Hindus have a codified law of adoption but Muslims, Christians, and Parsis do not have it. "Adopted child has the right to inherit property under the Hindu law but not under the Muslim, Christian and Parsi law. Adopted child by the Hindus can become a legal heir whereas adopted child by Christians, Muslim, Parsis cannot,” the plea said. "Adopted child by Hindus turn equivalent to a biological child of adoptive parents whereas it's just the opposite in Muslims, Christians and Parsis. Adoptive parents can be the natural guardian of the adopted son and his wife under Hindu Law but not in Muslim, Christian and Parsi Law," the plea said. It also sought directions to the Law Commission to prepare a report on 'Uniform Grounds of Adoption & Guardianship' within three months, while considering the best practices of laws and international conventions. The PIL stated that adoption and guardianship is one of the most important and crucial aspects of human life but even after 73 years of independence, India does not have a gender-neutral and religion-neutral law of adoption and guardianship for all citizens. "Muslims, Christians and Parsis don't have adoption laws even after 73 year of independence and 71 years of India becoming a democratic republic. Due to lack of a common law for all, Muslims, Christians, Parsis approach the Court under Guardians & Wards Act, 1890,” the plea said. "Muslims, Christians and Parsis can take a child under the said Act only under foster care. Once a child under foster care becomes major, he can break away all his relations. Moreover, such a child doesn't have the legal right of inheritance, which creates a lot of hardship and confusion among citizens, which can very easily be solved by having uniform law of adoption and guardianship for all citizens," the plea said. The petition said in the case of Shia Muslims, the mother is entitled to the custody of a boy until the age of two years and girl until she attains seven years of age if parents are separated. "The custody after the prescribed period dwells upon the father and after him to grandfather how high soever. The rationale given is that after birth, the mother might have custody of the child but the father has the guardianship, entitling him for the right to take any decision for the future of the child,” the petition stated.  It said the father has the ultimate authority to decide matters regarding the future of the child, be it education or contracting marriage. “That is why mother living far from the residence of the father was one of the grounds for disqualification of the mother for taking custody," it said. Referring to Christians, the plea said that they have no adoption laws and have to approach the court under the Guardians and Wards Act, 1890. Christians can take a child under the said Act only for foster care. Once a child under foster care becomes major, he is free to break away all his relations and also he does not have the legal right of inheritance, it said. "Parsi law also does not recognize adoption. In the present world when society has changed a lot, the present law does not meet the requisite demand. Section 49 provides that the court has the power to decide interim custody of the child. The court can prescribe such terms and conditions, which it deems necessary for the welfare of the child," the PIL said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-in-supreme-court-for-removal-of-anomalies-in-adoption-guardianship-880048.html
30-08-2020||National||India, France in discussion for Mission Alpha-like equipment for Gaganyaan astronauts||Space agencies of India and France are in an advanced stage of discussions for providing necessary equipment to ‘Gaganyaan’ astronauts, similar to the one to be used by French astronaut Thomas Pesquet for Mission Alpha next year, officials said. A senior official of the National Centre for Space Studies (CNES), the space agency of France, said work on the equipment for Mission Alpha is on. French astronaut Thomas Pesquet, as part of the European Space Agency (ESA), will be returning to the International Space Station (ISS) while flying on Crew Dragon spacecraft early next year. "Discussions are in the final stage. An announcement is likely to be made soon. Work on the instrumentation for Mission Alpha is on," the CNES official said without elaborating on the details of the equipment. India and France share a robust collaboration in the area of space. Space agencies of the two countries are also collaborating on nearly Rs 10,000 crore Gaganyaan mission that aims to send three Indians to space by 2022. Last year, flight surgeon Brigitte Godard, then with the CNES, was in India to train physicians and engineers. France has a well-established mechanism for space medicine. It also has the MEDES (French Institute of Space Medicine and Physiology) space clinic, a subsidiary of CNES, where space surgeons undergo training. "The Indian space surgeons will also go to France next year once the coronavirus situation eases," an ISRO official said. He also did not comment on specific collaboration for the supply of the equipment to Gaganyaan astronauts. Four short-listed Indian Air Force pilots and prospective astronauts for the Gagangyaan mission are currently undergoing training in Russia. Meanwhile, ‘Alpha’ was chosen as the name for Pesquet's new mission after a competition organised by the European Space Agency in partnership with CNES that attracted more than 27,000 entries. The name came up 47 times in the entries received. Pesquet, who spent six months on ISS between November 2016 and June 2017, is currently training with Crew Dragon spacecraft and station simulators for Mission Alpha. To allow Europe's scientists to gain access to ISS and to coordinate activities on the station, the ESA has established User Support and Operations Centres (USOC), of which the CADMOS centre for the development of microgravity applications and space operations at CNES's Toulouse Space Centre is one, according to an official statement on Mission Alpha. For human space flights, CADMOS is the point of contact between the ground segments in Europe, the United States and Russia and the science teams supporting astronauts, as they perform experiments in real-time, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-france-in-discussion-for-mission-alpha-like-equipment-for-gaganyaan-astronauts-880049.html
30-08-2020||National||Hospital has right to insist on payment but prime duty is to take care of patient: NCDRC||A hospital has every right to insist on payment but it also has the prime duty to take care of a patient facing a health emergency, the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC) has said while awarding a compensation of Rs 25 lakh for medical negligence to a woman whose husband died at the Christian Medical College (CMC), Vellore. A bench of presiding member S M Kantikar and Dinesh Singh awarded the compensation to the deceased patient's wife Yashumati Devi noting that there was an urgent need for the patient's brain CT scan but it was delayed for more than three hours as the hospital waited for a fresh receipt of Rs 1,850 towards charges for the procedure. "On the basis of the examination made above, deficiency/negligence is conclusively established. In our considered view, in the facts and specificities of the instant case, compensation of Rs 25 lakh with interest at the rate of 8 per cent per annum from the date of the death of the patient appears just and equitable," the bench said. The compensation shall be paid within six weeks of the pronouncement of this order, without fail, it said. "There was an urgent need for brain CT scan of the patient but it was delayed more than 3 hours for the want of a fresh receipt of Rs 1,850 towards CT scan charges even though complainants had already deposited 1,50,000 in advance. Hospital has every right to insist on the payment but it was also a prime duty to care (for) the emergency patient," the bench said. According to the complaint, the 58-year man, who later died, had a history of pain in his left arm after engaging in strenuous activity. In 2009, the patient visited the hospital's outpatient department complaining of pain in his left arm on exertion. The patient got admitted in CMC as a private patient. On next day, after examination it was diagnosed as a case of Coronary Artery Disease (CAD). The hospital began administering doses of Heparin to the patient, the complaint alleged, adding that it was started without any laboratory investigations or monitoring protocol. The patient complained to the hospital authorities of bleeding and disorientation, but despite repeated requests the doctors ignored it.   It stated that they continued administering the drug (Heparin) which was the cause of the bleeding, only to be informed later that he had suffered a stroke and there was an immediate need for a CT scan. Citing unpaid dues, the CT scan sought was denied for over three hours despite the fact that Rs 1,50,000 was already deposited. “The delay in treatment and the improper administration of Heparin led to anticoagulation, resulting in the brain haemorrhage, and the patient suffered a stroke in the morning at 08:30 AM, since then the doctors at CMC virtually did nothing till 10.30 PM and after a long struggle the patient died on 20.06.2009 at 6.30 am,” it said. The hospital raised preliminary objections that the complainants filed a false complaint and suppressed the correct facts. It was further contended that the blood thinners the patient had been taking prior to his treatment at the hospital may have caused internal bleeding. Being aggrieved, the patient's wife and son filed the consumer complaint against the CMC for the alleged medical negligence and callousness of the doctors seeking compensation of Rs 2.01 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hospital-has-right-to-insist-on-payment-but-prime-duty-is-to-take-care-of-patient-ncdrc-880053.html
30-08-2020||National||NIA arrests doctor in Lashkar terror group recruitment case of 2012||The NIA has arrested an Indian doctor, brother of 2007 Glasgow bomber after he was deported from Saudi Arabia where he was in custody for his alleged involvement in recruiting people in India for Pakistan-based terror group Lashkar-e-Taiba. The accused, Dr Sabeel Ahmed, who worked at a hospital in the Saudi kingdom, is the younger brother of aeronautical engineer Kafeel Ahmed who was involved in the 2007 suicide attack at Glasgow airport in Scotland in the UK. His mission had failed and he died on August 2 after their bombs went off. Ahmed, 38, who was in London at that time, was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) upon his arrival in New Delhi from Saudi Arabia where he had moved in 2010 and worked at King Fahad Hospital. He was deported from the kingdom after being detained for his alleged involvement in recruiting people for the LeT. A case was registered in connection with the case in Bengaluru in 2012 against 25 people. He is also an accused in the case. A non-bailable warrant and a look-out notice were issued against him. The case was initially lodged by the Bengaluru police which had claimed that it was a plot to attack columnist Prathap Simha, who is now a BJP Lok Sabha member from Karnataka's Mysuru. So far, 17 people have been arrested in the case out of whom 14 have been released after serving their sentence. The NIA established Ahmed's identity in the case after the deportation and arrest of a Hyderabad resident from Saudi Arabia in 2015. Earlier, he was identified as "Motu doctor" in an initial charge-sheet filed by the NIA in 2015 in this case. The NIA alleged that Ahmed was introduced to LeT recruitment plot by his brother-in-law Imran Ahmed, arrested in 2013 for travelling with a fake passport, and an engineer from Bengaluru Mohammed Shahid Faisal, who is still absconding.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-arrests-doctor-in-lashkar-terror-group-recruitment-case-of-2012-880059.html
30-08-2020||National||'Singhvi Trinity Scholarship' reshaped for Indian students||Congress MP and senior lawyer Abhishek Singhvi on Sunday redesigned his scholarship for studying at Trinity College, Cambridge, to cater exclusively to Indian students intending to pursue postgraduate LLM course. The “Singhvi Trinity Scholarship” comes as yet another beacon of hope for Indian law students who want to pursue their aspirations of a global legal education, a statement said. Singhvi, who had pledged Rs 2 crore to establish the scholarship at Cambridge, has reshaped it to focus exclusively on Indian residents desiring to pursue LLM. He is also likely to enhance the endowment corpus, the statement said. "We live in times of globalisation and international cooperation is instrumental in securing our world a better future," Singhvi said. It is important for Indian students to get exposed to international terrains and world-class education, so that they can transform themselves into global leaders, who can be flag-bearers of India in “creating history not only for our nation, but for the world around us”, he said. "The ‘Singhvi Trinity Scholarship’ has been conceptualised with the objective of providing international exposure and world-class education to Indian students. Studying law at Trinity, Cambridge, has been one of the most inspiring experiences of my life," the Rajya Sabha MP said. "It was truly transformative and I would like bright Indian law students to have this opportunity to access it, even when financial affordability becomes a challenge," he said. The endowment will be used to provide a scholarship for a student to pursue the LLM at Trinity College and the student will be recognised as the “Singhvi Trinity Scholar”. The scholarship shall be tenable for one year and may be applied towards the whole or any part of the cost of university and/or College fees, and/or for maintenance costs. The scholarship may be awarded to students holding other bursaries or scholarships. The recipient will also be given an opportunity to work as a lawyer at the Chambers of Dr Singhvi in India after the successful completion of the LLM degree, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/singhvi-trinity-scholarship-reshaped-for-indian-students-880060.html
30-08-2020||National||I never met Sushant Singh Rajput, saw Rhea last in 2017: Goa hotelier Gaurav Arya||Goa-based hotelier Gaurav Arya, whose name figured in WhatsApp chats of Rhea Chakraborty vis-à-vis drugs, flew to Mumbai on Sunday to join investigations. Before he left Panaji, he said that he did not know Sushant Singh Rajput personally, but admitted that his last contact with Rhea was in 2017. Arya, who runs Hotel Tamarind and Café Cotinga in Goa, will appear before Enforcement Directorate (ED), Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). “I have no connection with the case. I never met Sushant Singh Rajput. I met her (Rhea) in 2017,” he said. Arya added that he has no connection whatsoever in the Sushant Singh Rajput case. “I will cooperate (with investigating agencies),” he said, adding that he was being framed. Last week, ED officials had also visited Hotel Tamarind run by Arya at Anjuna, a coastal village in north Goa, but found it to be shut. They stuck a notice on the door of the hotel stating that Arya must meet Rajiv Kumar, assistant director, ED, at 11 am on Monday in connection with a case filed under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-never-met-sushant-singh-rajput-saw-rhea-last-in-2017-goa-hotelier-gaurav-arya-880061.html
30-08-2020||National||Covid-19 recoveries cross 27 lakh, case fatality rate drops to 1.79%: Health ministry||India's Covid-19 recoveries have sprinted past 27 lakh, taking the recovery rate to 76.61 per cent, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.79 per cent, the health ministry said on Sunday. It also highlighted that active cases of the infection comprise only 21.60 per cent of the total caseload. With more patients recovering and being discharged from hospitals and home isolation, the country’s total coronavirus recoveries have reached 27,13,933, the ministry said, adding that it has been possible because of effective implementation of the Centre’s policy of "testing aggressively, tracking comprehensively through timely surveillance of close contacts and treating effectively through a widening medical care infrastructure across the country". With a total of 64,935 patients have recovered in a span of 24 hours, India's recovery rate amongst the Covid-19 patients has improved to 76.61 per cent and is demonstrating continuous progress, the ministry underlined.  The recovery rate was 7.69 per cent on April 5. It improved to 26.59 per cent on May 3 and 47.76 per cent on May 31. It was recorded at 60.77 per cent on July 5. The number of patients recovering is on a steady rise over the past several months and as on date exceeds the active cases by 3.55 times, the ministry said. India has posted nearly 19.5 lakh (19,48,631) recoveries more than 7,65,302 active cases. The record high recoveries have ensured that 7,65,302 active cases of coronavirus, which is the "actual caseload of the country and the same comprises only 21.60 per cent of the total positive cases," the ministry underscored. This has aided the fast widening gap between the number of patients recovered and the active cases, it said. "Timely and effective clinical management of the patients in critical care through a slew of holistic measures has been instrumental in keeping the case fatality rate low and on a steady downward trajectory. It has further dipped to 1.79 per cent today," the ministry said on Sunday.  India's Covid-19 tally rose to 35,42,733 with a record single-day spike of 78,761 infections, while the death toll climbed to 63,498 with 948 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, the ministry data updated at 8 am on Sunday showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-recoveries-cross-27-lakh-case-fatality-rate-drops-to-179-health-ministry-880072.html
30-08-2020||National||Flood water of Mahanadi inundates several Odisha villages||Flood waters of the Mahanadi inundated several villages in coastal Odisha on Sunday with over 10 lakh cusec flowing through the Mundali barrage near Cuttack, officials said. Noting that an inflow of even 7 lakh cusec at Mundali usually triggers flood in the Daya and the Bhargavi, the two tributaries of the Mahanadi, Special Relief Commissioner (SRC) P K Jena said, the floodwaters have submerged many villages in Kanasa and Delang blocks in Puri district causing two breaches in the embankments of the Daya and another in the Rajua in Khurda district. The repair of the breaches will be taken up immediately after the flood water recedes, he said. The swollen river also flooded villages in Banki area of Cuttack district and affected road communication. Mahanadi, the biggest river in Odisha, is in spate following heavy downpour in its upper catchment areas in neighbouring Chhattisgarh three days ago and flow of the huge volume of water into the Hirakud reservoir, built across the river near Sambalpur in west Odisha. Forty-six of the 64 sluice gates of the Hirakud Dam have been opened by the authorities to discharge excess water from the reservoir which was receiving huge inflow from upstream. "Over 7.65 lakh cusec of water is now being discharged from the Hirakud Dam," Special Relief Commissioner (SRC) PK Jena told reporters after a high-level meeting. The water level at Hirakud Dam stood at 628 feet on Sunday noon as against the full reservoir level of 630 feet, the SRC said. "Excess water is being discharged from the reservoir due to the huge inflow and rise in water level," he said. As a result, the volume of the river water flowing through Mundali near Cuttack has touched 10.02 lakh cusec on Sunday, he said. "Flow of water from Chhattisgarh has now dropped. Inflow into the Hirakud reservoir which had shot up to 9.5 lakh cusec has come down to around 8 lakh cusec," the SRC said. Mentioning that the peak inflow through the Mundali barrage is likely to continue till Monday, the SRC said, the floodwaters are expected to reach Kendrapara, Puri and Jagatsinghpur districts later in the day. The flood in the Mahanadi river system is likely to affect coastal districts including Puri, Khurda, Cuttack, Jagatsinghpur, Nayagarh and parts of Kendrapara, Chief Engineer of Water Resources department, Jyotirmanya Rath said. Meanwhile, the water level of the Mahanadi stood at 26.86 metre at Naraj near Cuttack as against the danger mark of 26.41 metre on Saturday evening. Principal Secretary, Water Resources Department, Anu Garg said that engineers are keeping a close watch and carrying out patrolling in vulnerable areas. The state government has deployed 15 units of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), 14 teams of Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRAF) and 119 teams of Fire Service in the low-lying areas for carrying out rescue and relief operations, the SRC said. Evacuation will be undertaken in vulnerable areas to shift people to shelter centres where cooked food will be provided. Collectors of all the districts in the Mahanadi delta region have been alerted to remain prepared to deal with the situation, the SRC said. In Jagatsinghpur district, the water level of two tributaries of the Mahanadi has crossed the danger mark. While the water level of the Devi at Daleighai stood at 57.10 feet against the danger mark of 57 feet, it was 14.40 feet against the danger mark of 13 feet at Machhagaon. The water level of the Paika river was also rising, officials said. However, the flood situation created by the Subarnarekha, Budhabalanga, Baitarani and the Brahmani in 12 of the states 30 districts showed signs of improvement with water level gradually receding in many places, the SRC said. The four rivers had breached at least 32 locations, he said. The recent rain and flood in the state claimed at least 17 lives, besides affecting over 14.32 lakh people in 3,256 villages and 21 urban areas of 20 districts, the SRC said. As per the preliminary assessment, as many as 10,382 houses have been damaged and 1,68,904 crop area affected due to the flood which left over 2.65 lakh people marooned in 340 villages. Formation of a low-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal had triggered heavy downpour in Odisha since Monday. This was the fifth low-pressure area formed over the Bay of Bengal this month causing heavy rainfall in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/flood-water-of-mahanadi-inundates-several-odisha-villages-880075.html
30-08-2020||National||BJP has no connection with Sushant case: Union minister Danve||In a veiled attack on the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra government over actor Sushant Singh Rajput death case, Union minister Raosaheb Danve on Sunday said some people had opposed the CBI probe to protect "someone" and they are now trying to drag the BJP in the matter. Responding to a query on certain allegations levelled by state Congress general secretary Sachin Sawant, Danve said the BJP had no connection with the case. "We had been demanding a CBI probe in Rajput case, as we wanted truth to come out. However, it seems those opposing such investigation knew that something is fishy in the case. They were trying to protect someone. The BJP has no connection with the case. Now, they are trying to drag the BJP to save themselves," he told reporters. The Jalna MP also accused the state government of failing to check the Covid-19 pandemic. He criticised the government for not allowing religious places to open even as saloons and wine shops are allowed to function. Rajput (34) was found hanging in his flat in suburban Bandra in Mumbai on June 14. The Supreme Court last week upheld the transfer of an FIR, lodged by Rajput's father in Patna against actress Rhea Chakraborty and others for allegedly abetting his son's suicide and misappropriating his money, to the CBI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-has-no-connection-with-sushant-case-union-minister-danve-880077.html
30-08-2020||National||Shortage of beds for Covid-19 patients in Goa, alleges GFP||The Goa Forward Party (GFP) on Sunday alleged shortage of beds in hospitals for treatment of Covid-19 patients. In a letter addressed to state Health Minister Vishwajit Rane, GFP chief Vijai Sardesai alleged two floors of new South Goa district hospital were not being used to treat patients. "No Covid-19 specific beds are available in either the ESI Hospital or private hospitals in Margao and around. The fact that all political VIPs and even the Director of Health Services have sought treatment in private hospitals is a sorry comment on the capacity and quality of the Government's degree of preparedness," Sardesai stated. While Rane was not available for comments, a senior health department official said South Goa district hospital will be put to optimum use. "The facility has been in use since the last couple of months. Several functions from the old building of the district hospital have been shifted to the new building. In the coming days, the hospital would be fully utilised," he said. Goa's Covid-19 caseload stood at 16,553 as on August 30, as per the state health department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shortage-of-beds-for-covid-19-patients-in-goa-alleges-gfp-880081.html
30-08-2020||National||Centre to weed out inefficient, corrupt employees, asks departments to review service records of staff||The Centre has asked all its departments to review service records of employees who have completed 30 years in the job, to identify inefficient or corrupt staff and retire them prematurely in the public interest, according to a Personnel Ministry order. The employees's performance review is conducted under the Fundamental Rule (FR) 56 (J) and 56 (I), and also under Rule 48 (1) (b) of the Central Civil Services (Pension) Rules, 1972, that gives "absolute right" to the appropriate authority to retire a government servant, "if it is necessary to do so in the public interest". “It is clarified that the premature retirement of government servants under these rules is not a penalty. It is distinct from 'compulsory retirement', which is one of prescribed penalties under Central Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1965," said the order issued on Friday. The government may, at any time after a government servant has attained the age of 50/55 years or completed 30 years of service, as the case may be, retire him/her prematurely in the public interest, it said. Instructions have been issued from time to time for undertaking periodic review of the performance of government servants with a view to ascertain whether they should be retained in service or retired prematurely, the Ministry said. The latest order has been issued in order to bring in better clarity to the existing instructions and enable uniform implementation, it said. “An effort has been made to review, consolidate and reiterate the guidelines so far issued on the subject at one place,” the Ministry said in the order issued to the secretaries of all Central government departments. Giving details on the applicability of FR 56 (J), the order said the service record of a group A and B category officer can be reviewed if he/she has attained the age of 50 years (in case of joining service before 35 years of age) or after attaining 55 years (in case of joining service after 35 years of age). Under FR 56 (I), the appropriate authority has the absolute right to retire a government servant in Group C service or post who is not governed by any pension rules, after he has completed 30 years's service by giving him/her notice of not less than three months in writing or three months's pay and allowances in lieu of such notice, it said. For employees covered under Rule 48 (1) (b) of CCS (Pension) Rules, 1972, it said the review can be done at any time after a government servant has completed 30 years's qualifying service. “…and in the case of such retirement, the government servant shall be entitled to a retiring pension, provided that the appointing authority may also give notice in writing to a government servant at least three months before the date on which he is required to retire in the public interest or three months's pay and allowances in lieu of such notice,” said the order. The Personnel Ministry has also asked all the departments to maintain a register for conducting such a review. “A register of the government servants who are due to attain the age of 50/55 years or to complete 30 years of service, has to be maintained. The register should be scrutinized at the beginning of every quarter by a senior officer in the ministry/ department/ cadre…,” it said. The Personnel Ministry has also mentioned the composition of a review committee and broad criteria to be followed by it while conducting an assessment of the employees’s performance. “Government servants whose integrity is doubtful shall be retired. Government servants found to be ineffective shall also be retired. The basic consideration in identifying such government servants should be their fitness/competence to continue in the post held,” it said. No government servant should ordinarily be retired on ground of ineffectiveness, if, in any event, he would be retiring on superannuation within a period of one year from the date of consideration of his case, reads the criteria mentioned in the order. However, in case there is a sudden and steep fall in the competence, efficiency or effectiveness of a government servant, it would be open to review such a case also for premature retirement, it said. The entire service record, in addition to the Annual Performance Appraisal Report (APAR), of a government servant should be considered at the time of review, the order said. “The personal file of the government servant may contain valuable material. Similarly, his work and performance could also be assessed by looking into files dealt with by him or in any papers or reports prepared and submitted by him,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-weed-out-inefficient-corrupt-employees-asks-departments-to-review-service-records-of-staff-880090.html
30-08-2020||National||PM praises 'Sophie' and 'Vida', the two award-winning Army dogs, in Mann ki Baat||In his 'Mann Ki Baat' radio broadcast, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday paid glowing tributes to India's canine brigade and specifically mentioned about 'Sophie' and 'Vida', the two brave dogs who were awarded the Chief of Army Staff's Commendation Cards on August 15. Modi also exhorted those planning to raise a pet dog to adopt one from the Indian breeds, saying they are "very good and capable". "Sophie and Vida are the dogs of the Indian Army who have been awarded the Chief of Army Staff 'Commendation Cards'. Sophie and Vida received this honour because they performed their duties diligently while protecting their country," the prime minister said. Military sources said Vida, belonging to an Army dog unit under Udhampur-headquartered Northern Command, was instrumental in the timely detection of five mines and one grenade buried underground, preventing possible casualties and injuries of troops. Sophie, an explosive detection dog, saved lives by sniffing out the presence of initiator/accelerant which could have been hastily used to fabricate an IED (improvised explosive device), they said. "Sophie and Vida received this honour because they performed their duties diligently while protecting their country. Our armed forces and security forces have many such brave dogs who not only live for the country but also sacrifice themselves for the country," the prime minister said. He said such canines have played a very important role in thwarting numerous bomb blasts and terrorist conspiracies. In his radio broadcast, Modi also mentioned about 'Balaram', a canine who sniffed out ammunition on the route of the Amarnath Yatra, and 'Bhavana' who searched out an IED in 2002 but died later in an explosion triggered by terrorists. "You might have seen a very moving scene on TV a few days ago, in which the Beed Police were giving their canine colleague Rocky a final farewell with all due respect. Rocky had helped the police in solving over 300 cases," Modi said. Mentioning about Indian dog breeds, the prime minister said they cost less to raise and are better adapted to the Indian environment and surroundings, adding that the security agencies are also inducting these dogs. "Among the Indian breeds, Mudhol Hound and Himachali Hound are of excellent pedigree. Rajapalayam, Kanni, Chippiparai and Kombai are fabulous Indian breeds. They cost less to raise and are better adapted to the Indian environment and surroundings," Modi said. He further said: "Search for these breeds on the internet and know more about them - The beauty and qualities of these breeds will leave you astounded!" The military sources said the superiority of the "canine soldiers" employed by the Indian Army has led to an increasing demand from friendly foreign countries including Bangladesh, Myanmar and Cambodia for acquiring dogs trained by the Remount and Veterinary Corps (RVC). Countries like South Africa, Nepal, Myanmar, Sri Lanka and Seychelles are keen on getting their personnel trained in dog handling courses conducted by the Indian Army. Japan has also shown interest in the training standards of Indian Army canines, they said. The sources said since July last year, Army dogs have contributed to a number of operational successes including 30 cases of recovery of IEDs and explosives, 14 cases of recovery of arms, ammunition and other war-like stores and five cases of tracking of terrorists leading to their elimination. "In addition, they have also been saviors of many lives during avalanches, earthquakes and other natural disasters," said a source. The Indian Army has trained dogs under eight different roles which are: tracker, guard, mine detection, explosive detection, infantry patrol, search and rescue, assault and narcotic detection and avalanche rescue operations. "Army dogs trained in the Indian Army are rendering yeoman service to the nation by performing stellar ‘Op successes’ as ‘force multipliers’ in various counter insurgency/counter-terrorist operations," said the source.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-praises-sophie-and-vida-the-two-award-winning-army-dogs-in-mann-ki-baat-880092.html
30-08-2020||National||From The Newsroom: PM Modi tells entrepreneurs to 'team up for toys'||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Modi tells entrepreneurs to 'team up for toys'; South Western Railway begins transporting the trucks on flat wagons between Karnataka and Maharashtra; senior Congress leader Salman Khurshid speaks about the party’s leadership issue.      Hi, this is Ahmed Shariff and you are listening to, From The Newsroom— your daily evening news catch up show from Deccan Herald. Here are the top news of today, Sunday: August 30, 2020:   Prime Minister Narendra Modi said India has talent and ability to become a toy hub for the entire world and called upon startups to work towards realising this potential while being "vocal about local toys". He said the global toy industry is over Rs 7 lakh crore but India's share is very small, as he stressed on the need to work to increase it. Modi called upon start-up entrepreneurs to 'team up for toys' and said it is time to get vocal for local toys. In his monthly 'Mann Ki Baat' broadcast, the prime minister also said people have shown an unprecedented restraint and simplicity in their festivals during the COVID-19 pandemic. He also hailed farmers for an increase in sowing area for different grains. "This is a time for festivals but at the same time, there is also a sense of discipline among people due to the COVID-19 situation...There is a close link between nature and our festivals," Modi said. He also asked young entrepreneurs to develop computer games in and also about India. In his address, Modi also noted that India will complete its 75 years of Independence in 2022 and suggested a host of measures to teachers to help bring to light contributions of thousands and lakhs of "unsung heroes" of the freedom struggle. It is important that our youngsters are aware of them, he said. Moving goods between Karnataka and Maharashtra need not be a time-consuming task dependent on road traffic as the South Western Railway on Sunday began transporting the trucks on flat wagons, with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa giving the green signal for the trial run. Under the Roll-on/Roll-off service, loaded trucks are parked and locked on the flat railway wagons and carried to destinations, reducing the time in loading/unloading as well as the cutting transportation duration by avoiding the road traffic. Ro-Ro trains with a capacity to carry 42 loaded trucks (1260 tonnes) will commute between Nelamangala and Bale near Solapur, covering 682 km. The quick and reliable service is expected to benefit agriculture and industries. The chief minister stressed the importance of the multi-modal transport system. "The trucks are loaded in godowns and markets and climb the railway wagons. Once reaching the end station, they will roll off and go to the destination to unload. The service is also eco-friendly as it reduces traffic congestion and increases the life-time of trucks," he said. Yediyurappa further noted that the service will help in sending vegetables, coconut, agro and industrial products to Maharashtra and importing onion, pulses and other materials from the neighbouring state. "The APMC market in Nelamangala, industries in Peenya, Nelamangala and other areas will benefit from the service," he added.   The state government has to make its stance clear on the issue of providing internal reservation among SC, ST and OBC communities, JD(S) legislature party leader HD Kumaraswamy demanded on Sunday. Backing internal reservation, the regional party leader charged that the government was offering "lip sympathy" on the issue without acting on it. He questioned the government's motives in a series of tweets. "When the government can bring in 10 pc reservation for upper castes, what is stopping it from bringing internal reservation for SC, ST and OBCs? The state government should take all backward communities into confidence and implement internal reservation. The Supreme Court's recent observation on the issue is in favour of internal reservation. Implementing it, is the duty of the government in the interest of social justice," he said. Further, the Prime Minister himself being from an oppressed community, he should ensure internal reservation in the interest of all sub-communities, Kumaraswamy argued. "Even to this day, in the oppressed communities, there is a division of touchables and untouchables," he pointed out.   Domestic equity bourses in the coming week will be guided by Q1 GDP print, infrastructure output data for July and monthly auto sales numbers, which together will give an indication about the health of the economy, analysts said. During this data heavy week, the investor focus will also remain on global market trends and COVID-19 updates like the number of infection cases and news related to the progress of vaccines. "This week, participants will be closely eyeing auto sales number and GDP data for cues on how the economy is progressing. Besides, monsoon progress and news updates related to COVID-19 would also be on their radar," said Ajit Mishra, VP-Research, Religare Broking Ltd. The Indian market last week, ended August 28, showed a stellar performance, with the BSE Sensex gaining 1,032 points and the NSE Nifty adding 276 points -- both indices rising 2 per cent each. The National Statistical Office (NSO) will release the infrastructure output data for July and the GDP number for the April-June quarter on Monday. Various rating agencies and industry experts have been forecasting GDP contraction for the first quarter as the economy came under a severe pressure in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak and ensuing lockdowns during this period. As other macro data are concerned, auto companies will announce their monthly sales data for August this week and PMI data for manufacturing and services sector are also due.   Careless behaviour of people and complacency are leading to a spike in COVID-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh, which saw a 78 per cent rise in cases in the past two months, according to medical experts and government officials. A senior official from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Bhopal expressed concern over the governments fresh guidelines allowing political, social and religious congregations of up to 100 people from September 21. Till Saturday, Madhya Pradesh reported 60,875 COVID-19 cases since the disease outbreak in the state on March 20. An analysis of the government data shows that 47,282 of these total cases, or about 78 per cent, were reported in July and August. These two months also reported 773 deaths, accounting for 57 per cent of the total 1,345 fatalities due to the disease so far in the state. Talking to PTI, AIIMS, Bhopal, Director Prof Sarman Singh said "complacency among people" with regard to social distancing and other preventive norms, and the easing of restrictions are leading to the rise in COVID-19 cases. Asserting that there was no urgency to have an elected Congress president, senior leader Salman Khurshid on Sunday said he "can't see the heavens falling" for the need of a party chief as Sonia Gandhi was still at the helm and should be the one to decide on the leadership issue. Khurshid, a former Union minister and among the leaders considered close to the Gandhi family, told PTI in an interview that he would not have signed the letter even if he was approached by the group that wrote to Gandhi seeking urgent organisational overhaul, including an active and full-time leadership. On Ghulam Nabi Azad, the most vocal among the 23 letter writers, seeking organisational elections to ensure that the Congress does not remain out of power for decades, Khurshid said the senior leader from Jammu and Kashmir had been part of the top echelons of the party for years when there has been no such elections and still the party prospered. He said probably Azad wanted a change now in what the party has been doing over the years and expressed confidence that the leadership will give a thought to what he is saying as he is a senior leader. Khurshid said the leaders who have written to Sonia Gandhi always had access to her and could have approached her rather than writing to her. "It is very clear that the important persons in this letter do belong to the top echelons of our party and therefore Mrs Gandhi has indicated that it was best that they could have discussed it within the confines of the party," he said.   To know more about the conversation, listen to the podcast... Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-pm-modi-tells-entrepreneurs-to-team-up-for-toys-880093.html
30-08-2020||National||Victim can't seek enhancement of sentence: SC||The Supreme Court has declared that victim of a crime cannot file an appeal in court for enhancement of sentence in a case, though the state government has been assigned this power under the law.  "So far as victim’s right of appeal is concerned, it is restricted to three eventualities, namely, the acquittal of the accused; conviction of the accused for a lesser offence; or for imposing inadequate compensation," a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and R Subhash Reddy said.  The top court explained the legal position while rejecting a plea by Parminder Kansal for enhancement of life sentence to the death penalty for a convict in the case of kidnap-cum-murder of his son in Delhi.  The petitioner challenged the Delhi HC's order of November 27, 2019, dismissing his plea for awarding the maximum sentence in the case. The counsel contended that there is no reason to restrict the scope of appeal by the victim only to the stringent offence but not for a lesser sentence. He relied upon the proviso to Section 372 of the Criminal Procedure Code, which gave the victim the right to prefer an appeal when the accused is convicted for a lesser offence. The Delhi government's counsel submitted the victim's right was a qualified one which was maintainable in the event of acquittal of the accused or conviction for a lesser offence or for imposing inadequate compensation only. Whereas under Section 377 of the CrPC, the state government was empowered to prefer an appeal in the event of an inadequate sentence. After going through the legal provisions, the court said it is fairly well settled that the remedy of appeal is the creature of the Statute.  "Unless it is provided either under Code of Criminal Procedure or by any other law for the time being in force, no appeal, seeking enhancement of sentence at the instance of the victim, is maintainable," the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/victim-cant-seek-enhancement-of-sentence-sc-880108.html
30-08-2020||National||Akal Takht to honour radical outfit founder||The Akal Takht, the highest temporal seat of the Sikhs, has decided to confer the "Panth Sewak" award on radical outfit Dal Khalsa founder Gajinder Singh, one of the five men accused of hijacking an Indian Airlines plane to Lahore in 1981. India had put Gajinder's name in the list of 20 “most wanted” terrorists in 2002. An official of the Akal Takht on Sunday said it was decided during a meeting of five Sikh head priests recently to confer the award on Gajinder Singh. Seeking anonymity, the official said it was decided to honour him “for his contributions to the Sikh community”. He said the Akal Takht will shortly issue an official notification in this regard and fix a date to honour him. Presently, Gajinder Singh is residing in Pakistan’s Lahore. In the wake of the hijacking, the Union government had banned the Dal Khalsa in 1982. The ban was, however, lifted a decade later. In Pakistan, Gajinder Singh and others were sentenced to life imprisonment. They spent around 14 years in prison, said Dal Khalsa spokesperson Kanwar Pal. Gajinder Singh reached Germany in July 1996 to start his life afresh but he was deported to Pakistan. “A petition was filed by Dal Khalsa activists in the administrative court of Germany protesting the deportation of Gajinder Singh back to Pakistan. Since then, he is in exile,” claimed Kanwar Pal. About the Dal Khalsa founder’s family, he said his wife and daughter were allowed to visit him in prison in 1987-88 and when they again visited Pakistan in 1990, they never returned to India. Thereafter, his wife settled in Germany and daughter was married in the UK. His wife Manjit Kaur expired in Germany last year, he said. Gajinder Singh is presently the patron of the Dal Khalsa, he said. The plane was hijacked with 111 passengers and six crew members on board on September 29, 1981. The accused forced the plane to land in Lahore of Pakistan, where they were arrested and underwent imprisonment from September 30, 1981 to October 31, 1994. The hijackers had demanded the release of several Khalistani extremists, including Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale. Pakistan used its elite commando force to get all passengers released.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/akal-takht-to-honour-radical-outfit-founder-880111.html
30-08-2020||National||Law students ask SC to reconsider judgement in Prashant Bhushan contempt case||Over 122 law students across the country have written to Chief Justice of India S A Bobde and other judges of the Supreme Court, asking them to reconsider the judgement on advocate Prashant Bhushan in the contempt of court case. They said that to criticise the judge fairly, albeit fiercely, is no crime but a necessary right. The court had earlier on August 14 held Bhushan guilty of contempt of court for his "false, malicious and scurrilous" tweets made on June 27 and 29 on "distorted facts", to scandalise the entire institution of judiciary. It is scheduled to pronounce his sentence on Monday, August 31, after he declined to offer any apology for it. In their letter, the law students said, "The judiciary ought to reply for criticism by the restoration of public confidence. The judiciary ought not to charge for contempt of court when criticism arises out of anguish and love for justice, from a person aiding in the profoundness of the same justice he asks for others." They said Bhushan has fought for transparency, accountability, environmental protection and human rights, and against corruption for years in courts. The tweets have layered anguish represented for the voiceless and marginalised community. Those tweets don't hurt the sanctity of the court as it depends on the approach of judges towards justice, their letter stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/law-students-ask-sc-to-reconsider-judgement-in-prashant-bhushan-contempt-case-880118.html
30-08-2020||National||Attack on dissenters against Congress' position: Adhir Rajan Chowdhury||As ‘dissenters’ in the Congress face attacks, senior leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Sunday said such verbal assaults targeting the group of 23 (G-23) letter writers went against the party's position on the issue laid down by Congress President Sonia Gandhi. Chowdury, the Leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha, also dismissed suggestions that the letter to the Congress President raising issues about the drift in the party was not a challenge to the leadership of Rahul Gandhi. “Not a challenge to Rahul Gandhi. Those people, how can they challenge Rahul Gandhi. But, I do not know why they are saying this,” Chowdhury, a five-term Lok Sabha member, told DH. The G-23 has been facing attacks from within the party since their letter to the Congress President seeking sweeping changes in the party and calling for organisational elections became public. After a stormy meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) on Monday last, a section of leaders called for the ouster of the G-23 from the party for questioning the leadership of the party. “So far as my knowledge goes it is not the party line. Even madam (Sonia Gandhi) herself has said we have to work together and fight (the BJP) together,” Chowdhury said disapproving of the attacks on the leaders. While a section of the G-23 has made peace with the party by expressing faith in the Congress President’s remarks at the CWC asking leaders to move ahead and let bygones be bygones. However, the defiant note struck by senior leaders Ghulam Nabi Azad and Kapil Sibal does not appear to have gone down well with the party which described them as “headline hunters”. “Congress President has clearly said we now should look to the future. Once the Congress President has said so, I think that letter and spirit must be observed in every which way. I don’t think it is appropriate after that for me or anyone else to comment, be it to be at the centre of the press or centre of headlines,” Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi told reporters here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/attack-on-dissenters-against-congress-position-adhir-rajan-chowdhury-880142.html
30-08-2020||National||IIT students, alumni launch portal to help JEE, NEET candidates in need of transport facility||Students and alumni of various Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) have launched a portal to help JEE and NEET candidates with transportation facility, officials said. Travelling concerns have been raised by students on social media amid the coronavirus risk. Also, many candidates have moved to different cities during lockdown and hence, are at far off locations from the examination centres. "During Covid-19 crisis, one of the major concerns amongst students is regarding difficulty in reaching the exam centres. Students and alumni of IITs have promptly come forward and launched a dedicated portal to connect with good samaritans who may want to help the needy candidates. “The portal called ‘eduride’ will ease burden of commuting for the candidates, especially from remote locations and poorly connected areas," IIT Delhi Director V Ramgopal Rao said. "After registration of alumni, volunteers and candidates, the portal will connect appropriate combinations of volunteers and candidates via exchange of contact details. The two can then coordinate to plan the travel to the exam centre. The donated money will help the organisers fund cab service for the exam-takers on the day of the exam," he said. There has been a growing chorus against holding of crucial entrance exams like JEE-Mains, JEE-Advanced and NEET in September, in view of rising Covid-19 cases. However, the Ministry of Education (MoE), has asserted that further delay in conducting the exams can lead to a zero academic year and hence, the exams will be conducted as per schedule in September. While the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) is scheduled to be held on September 13, engineering entrance exam JEE-Main has been planned from September 1-6. The exams have been deferred twice in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. The JEE-Mains was originally scheduled to be held from April 7-11, but was postponed to July 18-23. The NEET-UG was originally scheduled for May 3, but was pushed to July 26. Subsequently, the exams were postponed again and are now scheduled in September. Rao had last week appealed the students and alumni to come up with solutions to help the candidates with transport facility and other logistics support.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iit-students-alumni-launch-portal-to-help-jee-neet-candidates-in-need-of-transport-facility-880146.html
30-08-2020||National||Muslims, Dalits and tribals form more than 50% of prisoners in Indian jails||Muslims, Dalits and tribals constitute more than 50% of the prisoners in the Indian jails, which remains overcrowded with latest figures showing that 118-119 people occupy the space meant for 100. Also, more than two-thirds of the prisoners are either illiterate or have not crossed the Class X bar. The latest Prison in India 2019 report, prepared by the National Crime Records Bureau, once again reinforced the earlier trend that indicated that the have-nots and under-privileged face hurdles in getting out of jails or proper legal remedy. Among the over 4.78 lakh prisoners, 1,44,125 are convicts while 3,30,487 are undertrials and 3,223 detenues. One of the reasons for the rise in occupancy rate is mainly attributed to the increase in the number of undertrials. The data showed that 50.86% of the prisoners were Muslims, Dalits and tribals. Dalits accounted for 21.17% or 1.01 lakh prisoners, both convicts and undertrials, while Muslims accounted for 18.26% or 87,421 prisoners. Tribals accounted for 63,028 or 13.61% of the total prisoners. Activists have been pointing out that the under-privileged face trouble in accessing judicial remedies and their proportion in jails are higher while comparing it with their proportion to population. While Dalits account for 16.6% of the country's population, the proportion of the SCs in jails are 21.17%. While the tribal population is pegged at 8.6%, their proportion in jail is 11.42%. The proportion of Muslims, who constitute 14.2% of the population, is 18.26%. The report also said that 34.48% of the Other Backward Classes (OBCs) are in prison while they constitute around 41% of the population. A religion-wise categorisation showed that 48.18% (2.30 lakh) of the prisoners were Hindus. Of the 1.44 lakh convicts, 1.06 lakh are Hindus. Similarly among undertrials, 2.17 lakh are Hindus. The report also highlighted that the occupancy rate in Indian jails is rising and it was pegged at 118.5% as on 31 December, 2019 as against 115.1% in 2017 and 117.6% in 2018. The number of prisoners has increased from 4.18 lakh in 2014 to 4,78,600 in 2019, an increase of 14.4%, while the number of jails saw a decrease of 2.7%. However, the capacity of inmates witnessed a rise of 13.2% -- from 3.56 lakh in 2014 to 4,03,739 in 2019). This would mean that the occupancy rate of all the prisons at national level has an increase of 0.9% (117.4% in 2014 to 118.5% in 2019), the report said. "Overcrowding refers to the situation in which more inmates are staying than the sanctioned strength. In recent years, it is one of the biggest problems faced by prison inmates. Overcrowding results in poor hygiene, lack of sleep etc. Keeping in view the human rights of the prisoners, it is essential that they are given reasonable space and facilities in jails," the report said. Among the states, Delhi has the highest occupancy rate (174.9%) followed by Uttar Pradesh (167.9%) and Uttarakhand (159.0%). Karnataka's occupancy rate is at 101.4% -- 14,515 prisoners occupy the space available for 14,315. Uttar Pradesh has reported the highest number of prisoners (1,01,297) in its jails contributing 21.2% followed by Madhya Pradesh (44,603), Bihar (39,814), Maharashtra (36,798), Punjab (24,174) and West Bengal (23,092). These six states alone contribute around 56.4% of total prisoners in the country. While the number of prisoners were rising, one worries the administration is that the jails are still under-staffed. Against a sanctioned strength of 87,599, the actual strength of staff was 60,787.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/muslims-dalits-and-tribals-form-more-than-50-of-prisoners-in-indian-jails-880150.html
30-08-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi's 'team up for toys' pitch a message to China||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday pitched for making India a toy hub in the world by realising the potentials of young startups, a remark which triggered barbs by Rahul Gandhi, who said while JEE/NEET aspirants wanted the PM to do ‘Pariksha Pe Charcha’, the PM did ‘Khilone Pe Charcha’. In his monthly radio address, ‘Mann Ki Baat’ Modi called for increasing India’s share in the global toy market. Though Modi made no mention of it, the toy trade dominated by China and India is a key market for Chinese toys. He rued while the global toy industry is worth more than Rs 7 lakh crore, India currently has a very little share in it. Recalling an anecdote about toys shared by Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore, Modi said one of Tagore’s friends brought a big and beautiful “foreign toy” one day that led to children’s attention moving more on flaunting the toy than the game.  Rise in India’s share in the toy market will hurt the trade interests of China, whose ties with India have touched a new low after the Chinese incursions in various border areas with India. Modis’ “team up for toys” pitch and asking the start-ups to “go vocal for local” is in sync with his other announcements to boost domestic production in areas in which India is highly dependent on China. Currently, China is the largest manufacturer and exporter of toy products, manufacturing over 70% of the world’s total toy trade. Modi had recently chaired a meeting aimed at boosting India’s share in the global toy trade. Modi, whose government has banned a number of Chinese apps, also chose the occasion to laud those who have developed indigenous mobile apps to leverage the technology in line with his focus on self-reliant India. Modi talked about his deliberations with the Children University of Gandhinagar, Ministry of Women and Child Development, Ministry of Education and Ministry of Micro-Small and Medium Enterprises on how to make new toys available to the children and how India could become a big hub of toy production.      Modi lauded skilled artisans who possess expertise in making good toys and some parts of the country and also suggested making games based on the ideas and concepts of our history. Recalling Mahatma Gandhi’s Non-cooperation movement, Modi said, “today, when we are trying to make the country self-reliant, we have to move with full confidence; and make the country self-reliant in every area. A seed that was sown in the form of the Non-cooperation movement, it is now the responsibility of all of us to transform it into a banyan tree of self-reliant India.” Congress took a swipe tweeting “Arthvyavastha Ki Baat, @RahulGandhi ke saath” as the former Congress President, in the face, a mounting controversy on JEE-NEET exams said, “ JEE-NEET aspirants wanted the PM do ‘Pariksha Pe Charcha’ but the PM did ‘Khilone Pe Charcha’. #Mann_Ki_Nahi_Students_Ki_Baat”. Rahul Gandhi, who will launch a video series on his social media platforms slamming Modi government’s performance on the economic front, also drew attention on “how the Modi Govt has destroyed Indian economy.” In the first video that is to be launched tomorrow, Gandhi has accused the BJP government of having “made an assault on the economy of the unorganised sector through the three measures of ‘demonetisation, wrong GST and lockdown’.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modis-team-up-for-toys-pitch-a-message-to-china-880162.html
30-08-2020||National||India's Covid-19 count doubles in August; active case tally 21.6% of the total||India’s Covid-19 count had doubled in August with Sunday witnessing the biggest single-day spike in positive cases, pushing the total confirmed cases near the 36-lakh mark. However, the country has also witnessed a steady increase in recoveries from the disease with 27.23 lakh patients being discharged from healthcare facilities, pegging the recovery rate at 76.61%. The active caseload of Covid-19 in the country is 7.68 lakh, comprising 21.60% of the total confirmed cases in the country. On Sunday morning, the total Covid-19 count rose by 78,761, the biggest single-day spike so far. On August 1, India’s Covid-19 count stood at 17.5 lakh total confirmed cases of which 5.66 lakh were under active medical supervision in healthcare facilities. Much of August witnessed a daily increase in infections in the range of 62,000-65,000 cases, a number that has crossed the 70,000 cases daily mark in the last week. The total Covid count on August 8 was 21.52 lakh with active cases at 6.2 lakh, the numbers on August 15 were (25.88 lakh and 6.7 lakh), August 23 (31.02 lakh and 7.09 lakh) and August 30 (35.42 lakh and 7.65 lakh). “The number of recoveries in India today exceeds the active cases by 3.55 times,” a health ministry official said. Maharashtra with 16,286 new cases on Sunday, Andhra Pradesh (10,548), Karnataka (8,324), Tamil Nadu (6352), Uttar Pradesh (5,633) were witnessing a fresh surge in cases. India crossed a crucial milestone in testing for Covid-19 with a record number of 10.5 lakh samples tested for the disease on Saturday alone. The cumulative tests for Covid-19 have crossed the four crore mark. The testing strategy also ensured a steady expansion of the laboratory network across the country. As many as 1,583 laboratories – 1,003 in the government sector and 580 private ones – are providing comprehensive Covid-19 testing facilities to people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-count-doubles-in-august-active-case-tally-216-of-the-total-880168.html
30-08-2020||National||Gujarat's Covid-19 cases zoom past 95,000; deaths cross 3,000||Gujarat on Sunday reported 1,272 new COVID-19 cases, taking the total count of infections to 95,155, while the death toll crossed the 3,000-mark and rose to 3,008 with 17 patients, including five in Surat, succumbing to the infection, the Health department said. With 1,095 patients getting discharged in the day, the number of recoveries mounted to 76,757. Of the 17 fatalities, five deaths occurred in Surat district while four patients died in Ahmedabad. Bhavnagar and Vadodara reported two deaths each while one fatality each occurred in Amreli, Banaskantha, Jamnagar and Sabarkantha, it said. The state now has 15,390 active cases with the COVID-19 case recovery rate of 80.67 per cent. At 257, Surat reported the highest number of cases in the state in the day, the department said in a release. Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Rajkot and Jamnagar added over 100 cases each in the day at 169, 128, 119, and 106, respectively, it said. Elsewhere, Bhavnagar reported 68 cases, Gandhinagar 49, Panchmahal 35, Bharuch 30, Kutch 26, Morbi 23, Amreli 21, Banaskantha and Surendranagar 18 each, Dahod and Mehsana 17 each, Patan 15, Devbhumi Dwarka 14, Gir Somnath 13, Kheda 12, etc. A total of 69,488 samples were tested in the last 24 hours which comes at the rate of 1,069.05 tests per day per million population, the release said. The state has so far tested 22,65,473 samples, it said. Gujarat COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 95,155, new cases 1,272, deaths 3,008, discharged 76,757, active cases 15,390 and people tested so far 22,65,473.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarats-covid-19-cases-zoom-past-95000-deaths-cross-3000-880178.html
30-08-2020||National||Former envoy K Shankar Bajpai passes away||Katyayani Shankar Bajpai, a career diplomat who served as India's ambassador to the US, China, and Pakistan, passed away on Sunday, his family said in a statement. He was 92.  External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar condoled Bajpai's death. "Deeply grieved at the passing away of Ambassador Shankar Bajpai, mentor and friend. Will be missed by so many of us," he said in a tweet. Bajpai served as India's ambassador to the US, China, and Pakistan, the statement said. He was one of the few career diplomats to have been ambassador in India's three most important and challenging posts. Bajpai was India's ambassador to the US when former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi made his first vital trip to Washington in 1985, the statement by Bajpai's family added. The former diplomat was also the Indian government's political officer in Sikkim from 1970 to 1974 and was involved in the integration of the state into the Indian Union, it said. As a young officer, he served in Pakistan during the 1965 war. In 1966, he accompanied (former) prime minister Lal Bahadur Shastri to Tashkent for the summit with Pakistan's (former) president Ayub Khan, it said. After he retired from government service in 1986, Bajpai transitioned to academic life in many universities, including University of California in 1987-88, and was also a visiting professor in University of California, Berkeley, 1989-92, the statement added. He then went on to become the first professor of Non-Western Studies, Brandeis University, in 1992 and 1993. He rounded out his academic career as a visiting fellow at the Center for International Security and Cooperation, Stanford University, in 2002, it said. He served as chairman of the National Security Advisory Board from 2008 to 2010. Bajpai continued to be consulted informally by the Indian government, particularly on relations with the US. He had an extensive set of contacts and friendships in the US establishment and was knowledgeable about America beyond foreign policy issues, it added. "Bajpai was a man for many seasons. He could quote poetry classics from memory, was widely and eclectically read, was an avid film buff, but above all was known for his culinary skills and as a consummate host," the statement said. He remained engaged with India's foreign policy and governance, and at the time of his death was working on a biography of his father, Girja Shankar Bajpai, first secretary-general of the Ministry of External Affairs, and on his own memoirs, it said. Bajpai is survived by his wife Meera Bajpai and two sons Dharma and Jayanti Bajpai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-envoy-k-shankar-bajpai-passes-away-880181.html
30-08-2020||National||Justice Mishra turns down request to attend farewell function||Justice Arun Mishra, who is set to retire on September 2, on Sunday turned down a request from the Bar Association to attend a farewell function due to Covid-19 situation. Terming the Bar as the mother of the judiciary, the third senior-most judge in Supreme Court said when the situation comes back to normal, he himself would make a visit to pay his respect. In a letter to the Supreme Court Bar Association and Confederation of India Bar, he said, "taking into consideration the severe situation and sufferings the world over, my conscience does not permit to attend any farewell function." Earlier, on August 25, SC Bar Association President Dushyant Dave had denied as "false and bogus" a message circulated purportedly on behalf of the executive committee that it would not give a farewell to Justice Mishra. He condemned the move as "mischievous" and "attempt to malign the SCBA". Justice Mishra has been in the eye of the storm during his stint of more than six years in the Supreme Court. Four senior judges held a press conference in 2018, where Justice Ranjan Gogoi had then objected to posting of Mumbai judge B H Loya's death case before him. He had subsequently recused from the case. Justice Mishra-led bench is set to pronounce the sentence against advocate Prashant Bhushan on Monday, after having held him guilty of contempt of court for his tweets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/justice-mishra-turns-down-request-to-attend-farewell-function-880182.html
30-08-2020||National||Maharashtra: Two brothers drown in river while clicking selfies||Two brothers drowned in a swollen river in Thane district of Maharashtra while clicking selfies, police said on Sunday. The incident occurred on Saturday after Shahbaz Ansari (24) and Shahalam Ansari (22) went for fishing with their mother in Chavindra village amidst heavy rains, an official said. The duo was busy taking selfies when one of them slipped and fell into the river and washed away, he said, adding that the other brother jumped into the water to save his sibling but drowned. Their bodies have been fished out of the water, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-two-brothers-drown-in-river-while-clicking-selfies-880197.html
30-08-2020||National||Our chess players' success will motivate others: PM Narendra Modi||Congratulating Indian chess players for their joint victory with Russia in the 2020 Online Chess Olympiad, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that their success will motivate other players.  "Congratulations to our chess players for winning the FIDE Online #ChessOlympiad. Their hard work and dedication are admirable. Their success will surely motivate other chess players. I would like to congratulate the Russian team as well," he tweeted.  India and Russia were on Sunday declared joint winners of the 2020 Online Chess Olympiad after the final was marred by internet disconnection and server malfunction. This was the first time FIDE, the international chess federation, was holding the Olympiad in an online format due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/our-chess-players-success-will-motivate-others-pm-narendra-modi-880201.html
30-08-2020||National||Hardeep Singh Puri hopes to privatise Air India in 2020||The government should not be running airports and airlines, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Sunday, adding that he hopes to privatise Air India during 2020. His remarks come at a time when the Kerala government has opposed the Union Cabinet's approval on August 19 to lease out the Thiruvananthapuram airport to Adani Enterprises under the public-private partnership (PPP) model for a period of 50 years. Addressing a virtual meet on Namo app, Puri said, "I can tell you from my heart the government should not be running airports and the government should not be running airlines." The Centre-run Airports Authority of India (AAI) owns and manages more than 100 airports, including the one in Kerala's capital city. On Air India's privatisation, Puri said, "As a going concern, one that is attractive to potential bidders, we should privatise it (Air India). And I am hopeful that we will be able to complete that privatisation process during this year." The process of stake sale in the national carrier was initiated on January 27. This is the fourth extension given by the government for putting in bids. "If the government runs an airport or an airline, then they have to follow the government rules like L1 and L2, and that is not how commercial entities can run," Puri said. When the government issues a tender, the lowest bidder deemed as L1 is the winner. Puri said he expects that the domestic air traffic would reach pre-Covid-19 levels by the end of this year. Domestic flights resumed on May 25 after a gap of two months due to the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. Currently, airlines are allowed to operate maximum 45 per cent of their pre-Covid-19 domestic flights. The central government privatised six major airports — Lucknow, Ahmedabad, Jaipur, Mangaluru, Thiruvananthapuram, and Guwahati — in February 2019. After a competitive bidding process, Adani Enterprises won the rights to run all of them. In July 2019, the Union Cabinet had approved the proposal for leasing out three airports — Ahmedabad, Mangaluru and Lucknow — to Adani Enterprises. On August 19 this year, the Union Cabinet approved the proposal for leasing out the other three airports to the Ahmedabad-based company. Earlier this month, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi opposing the August 19 Cabinet decision to lease out the Thiruvananthapuram airport to the company. Vijayan stated in the letter that the Centre needs to reconsider the decision as it will be "difficult" for the state to cooperate. Kerala's repeated requests to entrust the airport management with the special purpose vehicle (SPV) in which the state government is the major stakeholder was also ignored, Vijayan mentioned. "In view of the unilateral decision taken by the Government of India without giving credence to the cogent arguments put forward by the State government, it will be difficult for us to offer cooperation to the implementation of the decision, which is against the wishes of the people of the State," he said in the letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hardeep-singh-puri-hopes-to-privatise-air-india-in-2020-880206.html
30-08-2020||National||CAIT urges government to probe Chinese investments in Indian startups||Traders' body CAIT on Sunday urged the government to order an investigation into Chinese investments in Indian startups to determine their investment control in these firms. In a letter to Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal, the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) shared a list of 141 prominent Indian startups claiming they have significant Chinese investments. These Indian firms relate to sectors including hospitality, food delivery, IT, logistics, payment applications, e-commerce travel, transport, pharmaceuticals, insurance, share market, healthcare, eye care, play applications and others. "It looks like a planned strategy by various Chinese companies to acquire vital data of Indian people and an exercise in the direction to dominate various Indian economic centres by virtue of their investments. Therefore, an immediate direction for an in-depth investigation into the working and business module of Indian startups covering the above mentioned concerns is all the more necessary," the CAIT said in the letter. It also suggested that any future overseas investment should be through government route and not through automatic route.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cait-urges-government-to-probe-chinese-investments-in-indian-startups-880207.html
30-08-2020||National Politics||Stopping Rahul Gandhi from leading party will destroy Congress: Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday said stopping Rahul Gandhi from taking over leadership of Congress will lead to "extinction" of the grand old party. In his weekly column Rokhthok in the Sena mouthpiece Saamana, Raut also said Congress lacks a leader who can stand up to Prime Minister Narendra Modi with full might. Referring to the letter by 23 Congress leaders to Sonia Gandhi on having a "full time" leadership that is active in the field and "visible" in party offices, Raut wondered who is stopping these leaders from being active. "Activeness to stop Rahul Gandhi will be instrumental in destroying the party and lead to its extinction," Raut said. Having a non-Gandhi as Congress President is a good idea, but no one in those 23 has that capability, said Raut whose party, along with Congress and NCP, is a constituent of the ruling alliance in Maharashtra. Referring to regional parties floated by former Congress leaders, Raut said, "The Congress still exists across India but with different masks. If these masks are thrown away, it can emerge as a prominent political party." He said Congress veteran late V N Gadgil described the Congress as an old woman who will never die."Rahul Gandhi has to decide what to do with the old lady," Raut added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/stopping-rahul-gandhi-from-leading-party-will-destroy-congress-shiv-sena-mp-sanjay-raut-879982.html
30-08-2020||National Politics||NDA govt not concerned enough to deal with problems caused by Covid-19: Owaisi||AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi has charged the NDA government with not showing enough concern to address the job losses and other adverse effects brought about by the Covid-19 pandemic in the country. He said 1.8 crore people all over the country were now not receiving salaries and eight crore daily wage labourers were out of work. Also, 10 crore school children who used to get mid-day meals have reportedly been deprive of it because of the lockdown, he said, addressing an online public meeting here on Saturday night. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had 'invited' all this on the country by imposing an unplanned, unconstitutional lockdown, he alleged. He also alleged that there has been a 64 per cent dip in child immunisation and that 10 lakh children had not received their BCG vaccination during the lockdown. Besides, six lakh children had missed getting their oral polio vaccine since the Covid-19 outbreak, he said. The Prime Minister, he alleged, also was not worried about Chinese intrusions along the nation's borders. Owaisi urged his supporters to help people during the Covid-19 pandemic, regardless of ones religion. He said his party would contest the coming assembly polls in Bihar. AIMIM had gained a foothold in Bihar in 2019, winning minority Muslim dominated Kishanganj assembly seat in a bypoll.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nda-govt-not-concerned-enough-to-deal-with-problems-caused-by-covid-19-owaisi-879983.html
30-08-2020||National Politics||'Can't see heavens falling' for need of elected Congress president: Khurshid||Asserting that there was no urgency to have an elected Congress president, senior leader Salman Khurshid on Sunday said he "can't see the heavens falling" for the need of a party chief as Sonia Gandhi was still at the helm and should be the one to decide on the leadership issue. Khurshid, a former Union minister and among the leaders considered close to the Gandhi family, told PTI in an interview that he would not have signed the letter even if he was approached by the group that wrote to Gandhi seeking urgent organisational overhaul, including an active and full-time leadership. On Ghulam Nabi Azad, the most vocal among the 23 letter writers, seeking organisational elections to ensure that the Congress does not remain out of power for decades, Khurshid said the senior leader from Jammu and Kashmir had been part of the top echelons of the party for years when there has been no such elections and still the party prospered. He said probably Azad wanted a change now in what the party has been doing over the years and expressed confidence that the leadership will give a thought to what he is saying as he is a senior leader. Khurshid said the leaders who have written to Sonia Gandhi always had access to her and could have approached her rather than writing to her. "It is very clear that the important persons in this letter do belong to the top echelons of our party and therefore Mrs Gandhi has indicated that it was best that they could have discussed it within the confines of the party," he said. Khurshid's remarks assume significance as they come days after the 'group of 23' wrote to Gandhi calling for far-reaching reforms within the party such as having a "full time, active and visible" leadership, devolution of powers to state units and revamping the Congress Working Committee (CWC) in line with the party constitution. Asked about the suggestions made in the letter, Khurshid said the discussion seems to be about electing a leader and the Congress president has indicated that it can be done at an appropriate time when physically it is possible. "For people like me, we already have leaders, we have a leader in Mrs Sonia Gandhi, we have a leader in Rahul Gandhi. So for me there is no sense of urgency about electing leaders. Electing a president, yes that will happen when it happens, I can't see the heavens falling down. What is the sense of urgency that is being expressed, is not clear to me," he said. "We don't have a part-time president, we have a full-time president but the full-time president is an interim president and no ordinary person as an interim president as she is the longest-serving president. We must just trust and leave it to the longest-serving president to take steps when she thinks it is appropriate," the Congress leader said. On whether it would have been better to go to the president for articulating concerns than writing a letter, Khurshid said the leaders had done that for the last 20 years and he did not know what was different now or had changed that they felt the need to write a letter. Asked about the future of the party with knives out within the organisation at a time it needs to be revitalised, he said, "The pens are out, so what is the problem. Of course the words written with pens can hurt and they did, but they don't draw blood...it's only ink, it's something we can live with and I am sure that the ink will fade in due course." Khurshid said no one had approached him for signing the letter and even if anyone had done so, he would not have signed because he does not agree with the letter. "There is nothing about that letter that gives an opportunity for me to express and say that I may want to say...We have always spoken directly with the leadership, so I don't know what changed because of which people are not speaking directly. Nothing has changed for me and therefore, I don't see the urge for writing the letter," he said. Khurshid said he still feels that instead of leaders continuously urging Rahul Gandhi to come back as party chief, they must leave the decision to him. "Surely he understands the implications of that letter more than I do, he will do what he thinks is the best to do," he said, when asked if it was now imperative for Rahul Gandhi to return as party chief to set the house in order. After the seven-hour meeting of the party's top decision-making body last week, the CWC urged Sonia Gandhi to continue as its interim chief till an AICC session could be convened and authorised her to effect necessary organisational changes to deal with the challenges facing the party. It made it clear no one would be permitted to undermine or weaken the party and its leadership. The CWC also resolved that inner-party issues cannot be deliberated through the media or in public fora and all such issues must be raised within the party "in the interest of propriety and discipline".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cant-see-heavens-falling-for-need-of-elected-congress-president-khurshid-880016.html
30-08-2020||National Politics||Congress questions Centre over CBI probe, wants Sandeep Singh’s ‘BJP-link’ investigated in Sushant's case||The Congress on Sunday questioned the "alacrity" exhibited by the Centre in ordering a CBI probe in the Sushant Singh Rajput case and sought investigation into alleged BJP links of Sandeep Singh, the producer of a biopic on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is under the scanner in a related drugs case. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi asked who in the BJP is trying to "save" Singh, who produced “PM Narendra Modi”, the posters of which were unveiled by the then Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. Singhvi alleged the film producer who claimed to be Rajput's close friend made 53 calls to the Maharashtra BJP office in the last few months. "Who he was seeking security from," Singhvi asked. He said political parties do not get into Bollywood matters. "But if a suspect is linked to the ruling party, the country wants to know who is he connected to and who in the BJP is trying to save Sandeep Singh.” "Was Sandeep Singh the reasons for showing alacrity in ordering a CBI probe? Why are such people linked to the BJP?" he asked. Singhvi said Fadnavis and senior BJP leader Nitin Gadkari should answer as to why Singh made these many calls to the Maharashtra BJP office and who was his boss. The Congress leader said Ssingh’s closeness to the ruling party is evident from the fact that he made the biopic on PM Modi. "He is not a common person as none other than the then CM Devendra Fadnavis released the posters of this film." On the drugs angle coming up during the investigation into the Rajput death case, Singhvi asked what was the Fadnavis government doing at the time as it was in power in 2017 and 2018. He also alleged that a case of assault on a minor Swiss national was lodged against Singh on March 29 in Mauritius, as per documents available from the Indian embassy. Singhvi also alleged that even though his company had shown losses, Singh was the lone film producer the Vibrant Gujarat in 2019 signed a Rs 177-crore agreement with. The Supreme Court had last week upheld the transfer to the CBI an FIR lodged by Rajput's father in Patna against actress Rhea Chakraborty and others for allegedly abetting his son's suicide and misappropriating his money.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-questions-centre-over-cbi-probe-wants-sandeep-singh-s-bjp-link-investigated-in-sushants-case-880066.html
30-08-2020||National Politics||Students wanted to hear 'pariksha pe charcha' not 'khilone pe charcha': Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said that the students wanted Prime Minister Narendra Modi to address the issue of NEET and JEE exams in his monthly radio programme, but he spoke on toys. His remark came after Prime Minister Modi in his "Mann ki Baat" address said that the country has the talent and ability to become a hub for the toy industry and called upon startups and entrepreneurs to "team up for toys". Using the hashtag "Mann_Ki_Nahi_Students_Ki_Baat", Rahul Gandhi tweeted, "JEE-NEET aspirants wanted the PM to do 'Pariksha Pe Charcha' but the PM did 'Khilone Pe Charcha'." In yet another push to his 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' campaign to make India self-reliant, Prime Minister Modi on Sunday urged the startups to develop computer games in and based on India, citing the nation's rich heritage and traditions that can drive innovations in the toy and gaming industry. Modi touched on a number of issues in the radio broadcast as he lauded people for maintaining unprecedented restraint and simplicity in celebrating festivals during the Covid-19 pandemic and praised farmers for an increase in the sowing area for crops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/students-wanted-to-hear-pariksha-pe-charcha-not-khilone-pe-charcha-rahul-gandhi-880083.html
30-08-2020||National Politics||Annamalai refutes reports on his 'RSS affiliation' before joining IPS||Tamil Nadu BJP leader and former IPS officer K Annamalai, who belonged to the Karnataka cadre, on Sunday refuted allegations that he got trained to appear for UPSC exams from an organisation affiliated to the RSS. The 36-year-old officer-turned-politician, who earned the sobriquet ‘Singham’ for his flamboyant style of functioning, also said he had worked under the Congress and JD(S)-led regimes for the most part of his career in Karnataka. Annamalai issued a terse statement on Sunday after rumours on the social media that he was “handpicked” by the RSS a decade back to be sent to the civil services and that he prepared for his UPSC exams from a Sangh-affiliated training centre. Social media was abuzz with “details” about Annamalai’s score in the UPSC exams and during the interview.  The former IPS officer is being heavily trolled on social media, especially in Twitter, for his “past affiliations” with the RSS before he joined the civil services. The trolling had increased after he joined the BJP on August 25 with the Tamil Twitter trending hashtags opposing him and his policies. “My interview and civil service selection happened in 2010-11 when UPA was in power, Training happened when UPA was in power. Not only the selection, but I am also an IPS training topper - second best for the batch of 64 RR,” Annamalai said. He added that he was selected by the IAS/IPS/IFS officers during the combined training at Mussoorie by voting and stood first for exhibiting “leadership qualities during the training and won a gold medal.”  “I never went to any academy affiliated to a party or to an organisation. Prepared on my own and all of these facts are in the open and in the public domain,” he said in the statement, without naming the RSS. He also said though he does not like to talk about his past laurels, he felt it is needed for the speculators about his past life. “All of these along with my whole life story will be in detail in my book which will be published shortly,” he said. The former IPS officer also refuted reports that the majority of his appointments in Karnataka were made by the BJP, the party he joined last week. “In Karnataka, out of my total service, only 4 days was with BJP. Close to 6 years with Congress, 1 year with JD (S) along with two years of training. All of my postings were done by Mr Siddaramaiah, former chief minister from Congress party for coastal Karnataka and Mr Kumaraswamy, former chief minister from JD (S) party for Bengaluru city,” he said.  Annamalai, who resigned last year from the IPS after serving in the state for nine years, has served in Udupi, Chikkamagaluru and Bengaluru South. He came to be known as ‘Singham’ for his tough and no-nonsense policing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/annamalai-refutes-reports-on-his-rss-affiliation-before-joining-ips-880125.html
30-08-2020||National Politics||Congress demands discussion in Parliament over Chinese activities on border||The Congress on Sunday claimed that satellite imagery shows China has installed missile sites on the eastern borders at Naku La and Doka La, posing a threat to India's security, and demanded that the government take the nation into confidence on the issue. Addressing a joint virtual press conference, Congress leaders Rajiv Shukla and Gaurav Gogoi said the government should discuss the issue during the Monsoon session of Parliament and Prime Minister Narendra Modi should respond to the concerns of all. Government sources maintained that the armed forces were keeping a close watch on activities at the border. The two Congress leaders questioned the government's "silence" on the issue. Congress's deputy leader in Lok Sabha, Gogoi, said this is a matter of grave concern that affects national security and could have dangerous consequences. "This is a very dangerous step and we have consistently reminded the Modi governments of the strengthening of the military by expansionist China, but the Indian government and the prime minister have remained silent," he said. The two leaders said the government must spell out its action plan to deal with the situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-demands-discussion-in-parliament-over-chinese-activities-on-border-880164.html
30-08-2020||North and Central||UP CM Yogi Adityanath reviews work plan to combat Covid-19 in Varanasi||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday reviewed the work plan to combat the Covid-19 pandemic in Varanasi and directed officials to conduct nearly 4,500 tests daily in the holy city. He said there should not be any shortage of beds in Covid-19 hospitals and asked officials to strengthen L2 and L3 health facilities in the city, according to an official statement. "Separate dialysis machines should be arranged for Covid and non-Covid patients," he said. Additional manpower as per the need should be deployed for surveillance, contact tracing and door-to-door survey, the chief minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-cm-yogi-adityanath-reviews-work-plan-to-combat-covid-19-in-varanasi-879822.html
30-08-2020||North and Central||Encounter breaks out between security forces, militants on outskirts of Srinagar||An encounter broke out between security forces and militants after the ultras fired on a 'naka' party of the forces on the outskirts of the city here on Saturday, police said. The militants fired on a joint 'naka' of police and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) at Pantha Chowk area late on Saturday, a police official said. He said the joint parties of the forces cordoned off the area and launched a search operation there. During the searches in the area, the militants again fired on the search party of the forces, who retaliated, leading to an encounter, the official said. He said reinforcements have been rushed to the area and the cordon has been tightened. Further details are awaited, the official added. This is the second gunfight of the day in the Kashmir Valley. Earlier in the day, three Hizbul Mujahideen militants and an Army jawan were killed in a gunfight in Pulwama district of south Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/encounter-breaks-out-between-security-forces-militants-on-outskirts-of-srinagar-879827.html
30-08-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir: 3 terrorists shot dead in overnight encounter, 1 police personnel killed||Three militants and a police officer were killed in an overnight gun-battle between security forces and ultras in Pantha Chowk area on the outskirts of Srinagar city on Sunday. The encounter erupted after three bike-borne militants attacked a joint team of police and paramilitary CRPF near Panthachowk late Saturday evening. Soon after the incident, a cordon and search operation started in the area that led to the encounter. Reports said throughout the night security forces installed lights and tightened the cordon in the area to ensure that trapped militants don’t flee taking advantage of darkness. A police spokesman said on Twitter that three militants and an assistant sub-inspector of police were killed in the firefight. The identity of the slain militants was not immediately known. The ASI who was killed was identified as Babu Ram. This was the third gunfight in the Valley in the last three days in which 10 militants have been killed. Earlier, three Hizbul Mujahideen militants and an Army soldier were killed in a gunfight in southern Pulwama district on Saturday. On Friday, four militants affiliated with Al-Badr outfit were gunned down by security forces in Shopian district on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-3-terrorists-shot-dead-in-overnight-encounter-1-police-personnel-killed-879873.html
30-08-2020||North and Central||Two suspected Khalistani operatives arrested in Delhi||Two suspected members of the banned Khalistan Zindabad Force (KZF), who raised Khalistan Flag at the rooftop of district commissioner's office in Punjab's Moga on the eve of Independence Day, have been arrested, Delhi Police said on Sunday. Inderjeet Singh Gill (31) and Jaspal Singh (27) were apprehended near Shani Mandir on GT Karnal Road on Saturday evening on a tip off that two youth would be reaching the capital to carry out "anti-national activities" on the directions of the self-styled commanders of KZF, who are based abroad, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Sanjeev Yadav said. "They were planning to cross over to Nepal and reach Pakistan for training but were apprehended while in the process of arranging their escape. Punjab police has been informed," Yadav said. During interrogation, Yadav claimed, Inderjit told the investigators that he was persuaded by his maternal brother Jagga to listen to a banned Youtube Channel 'Sikhs For Justice' and told him to vote in a referendum for Khalistan online. "Since his early years, he had a radical set of mind bent towards the pro-Khalistan movement," Yadav said. On August 9, Inderjit allegedly cast his vote through a link he received on WhatsApp. Inderjit also told police that one Rana from the United States and another person delivered anti-India speeches on the banned channel and also asked Sikh youths to wave Khalistan flag and tear the Indian flag on August 14, 15 and 16. A reward of USD 1.25 lakh for doing the same at the Red Fort and other historical buildings. "His friend Jaspal Singh is also from his village and presently runs an internet cafe. On August 11, Inderjeet along with Jaspal and Akashdeep Singh planned to wave the Khalistan flag and tear off Indian flag at the DC office in Moga, Punjab. On August 13, he along with Jaspal went to Nanakshaher and procured a Khalistan flag. They wrote 'Khalistan' with the help of a black marker," Yadav said quoting Inderjit. On August 14, Inderjit along with Jaspal and Akashdeep went to the DC Office in Moga on two motorcycles. Inderjit and Jaspal went to the roof and hoisted the Khalistan flag. "Thereafter, they lowered the Indian flag and tore it into pieces. Their accomplice Akashdeep who was standing outside the DC office on the road was video-graphing the whole episode. They conveyed the whole episode to Rana on WhatsApp and sent videos to him, which were uploaded on the channel that went viral," Yadav said. Akashdeep was later arrested, while the other two got underground. They were allegedly in contact with their handlers who directed them to go to Delhi. Yadav said Rs 20,000 was transferred to them for the journey. On July 1, the government had designated nine elusive Khalistan operatives as "terrorists" and it included Khalistan Zindabad Force chief Ranjee Singh and its Germany-based "key members" Bhupinder Singh Bhinda and Gurmeet Singh Bagga. Four days later, the government also blocked 40 websites of 'Sikhs for Justice', a banned Khalistani outfit that is running a campaign 'Referendum 2020' seeking a separate homeland for the Sikhs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-suspected-khalistani-operatives-arrested-in-delhi-879915.html
30-08-2020||North and Central||Forecast of light to moderate rains in Delhi for 6 days||Intermittent light to moderate rains will drench Delhi over the next six days, the weather forecast said on Sunday. Widespread rains are unlikely. However, moderate precipitation is predicted on Thursday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.   There is a forecast of cloudy weather and light rains on Sunday. Intermittent rains will be witnessed over the next six days, the IMD said. On Sunday, the maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to settle around 33 degrees Celsius and 26 degrees Celsius respectively. Delhi has recorded 236.5 mm rainfall against the normal of 245.7 mm in August so far, a deficiency of four percent. Overall, it has gauged 555 mm precipitation against the normal of 521.8 mm since June 1, when the monsoon season starts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/forecast-of-light-to-moderate-rains-in-delhi-for-6-days-879923.html
30-08-2020||North and Central||Ladakh records four more Covid-19 deaths, toll reaches 32||Ladakh has reported four more coronavirus-related deaths, taking the total number of fatalities due to the disease to 32 in the Union Territory, officials said on Sunday. Two deaths each linked to Covid-19 were reported from Kargil and Leh districts on Saturday, the officials said. The death toll comprises 20 fatalities in Kargil and 12 in Leh. On Saturday, the officials said 41 fresh Covid-19 cases were detected in Leh and 22 in Kargil district. Ladakh has recorded 2,603 cases of the novel coronavirus since the outbreak of the pandemic in March. The officials said while 1,745 patients have recovered from the infection and discharged from hospitals, 826 cases are still active in the twin districts – 496 in Leh and 330 in Kargil.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ladakh-records-four-more-covid-19-deaths-toll-reaches-32-879946.html
30-08-2020||North and Central||Yamuna flowing close to warning mark, but is receding gradually||The Yamuna was flowing close to the warning mark in Delhi on Sunday morning, but the water level is receding gradually, officials said. "The water level was recorded at 203.98 metres at the Old Railway Bridge at 9 am. It was 204.14 metres at 7 pm on Saturday and 204.41 metres at 5 pm on Friday," an official of the irrigation and flood control department said.    The warning level is 204.50 metres, and the danger mark is 205.33 metres. Water was being released into the Yamuna at the rate of 4,353 cusec at 8 am from the Hathnikund barrage in Haryana's Yamunanagar district. The flow rate was 11,445 cusec at 11 am on Saturday, the maximum in the last 24 hours.  “The flow rate has remained between 4,000 cusec and 15,000 cusec over the last two days, which is not very high,” he said. One cusec is equivalent to 28.32 litre per second. The water discharged from the barrage — which provides drinking water to Delhi — normally takes two-three days to reach the capital. The water level rose on Friday due to rains in Delhi and neighbouring areas, he said. The East Delhi district administration has deployed 24 boats, each with two divers, to monitor the situation.  More boats and teams of divers are on standby. Normally, the flow rate at the Hathnikund barrage is 352 cusec, but the discharge is increased after heavy rainfall in catchment areas. Last year, the flow rate had peaked to 8.28 lakh cusec on August 18-19, and the water level of the  Yamuna had hit the 206.60 metre-mark, breaching the danger mark of 205.33 metres. The Delhi government had to launch evacuation and relief operations after the overflowing river submerged many low-lying areas. In 1978, the river had swelled to the all-time record water level of 207.49 metres. In 2013, it had risen to 207.32 metres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yamuna-flowing-close-to-warning-mark-but-is-receding-gradually-879956.html
30-08-2020||North and Central||12-year-old raped, murdered in Uttar Pradesh's Maharajganj; one held||A minor was allegedly raped and murdered in Uttar Pradesh's Maharajganj district, police said on Sunday. The body of the 12-year-old girl, missing since Friday evening, was recovered from a forest in Sohagi Barwa Wildlife Sanctuary on Saturday evening, they said. Superintendent of Police Rohit Singh Sajwan said a case was registered against Manoj Paswan under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act in connection with the incident. Police said the accused has been arrested. The body has been sent for post-mortem, the SP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/12-year-old-raped-murdered-in-uttar-pradeshs-maharajganj-one-held-879958.html
30-08-2020||North and Central||Undertrial prisoner dies in district jail in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar, 2nd such death in two days||In the second such incident in two days, an undertrial prisoner has died in the district jail here, officials said on Sunday. According to Jail Superintendent AK Saxena, Rampal (58) was rushed to the district hospital in a serious condition, where he was declared dead on Saturday evening. The deceased, who had high blood pressure, was arrested in a murder case on August 13, 2018, Saxena said. This is the second such incident in two days. On Friday, another prisoner, Irfan, died of cardiac arrest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/undertrial-prisoner-dies-in-district-jail-in-uttar-pradeshs-muzaffarnagar-2nd-such-death-in-two-days-879959.html
30-08-2020||North and Central||Curbs imposed in Srinagar, Budgam districts to prevent people from taking out processions||Authorities in Kashmir imposed restrictions in parts of Srinagar and Budgam districts on Sunday to prevent people from taking out Muharram processions to mark the last day of the 10-day mourning period, officials said. They said restrictions on the movement and assembly of people under Section 144 CrPc have been imposed in parts of the city and Budgam. In Srinagar, the officials said, the curbs have been imposed in Lal Chowk and Zadibal areas. Shops and other business establishments in the areas where restrictions were in place, were shut, while public transport was off the roads, they said, adding, however, few private vehicles were plying. The officials said security forces have been deployed in strength in other areas of the valley to prevent any untoward incident. The restrictions were imposed to maintain law and order in these areas in view of the tenth day of Muharram, they said. The traditional Muharram procession, to mark the eighth day of the 10-day Muharram mourning period, used to pass through these areas, but have been banned since eruption of militancy in 1990 as authorities maintain that the gathering has been used for propagating separatist politics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/curbs-imposed-in-srinagar-budgam-districts-to-prevent-people-from-taking-out-processions-879987.html
30-08-2020||North and Central||Centre's Unlock 4 guidelines: Haryana withdraws order to keep markets shut on Monday, Tuesday||After the Centre's Unlock 4 guidelines, the Haryana government on Sunday withdrew its order to keep markets in urban areas closed on Monday and Tuesday. Issuing the Unlock 4 guidelines on Saturday, the Union Home Ministry had said that state governments shall not impose any local lockdown outside containment zones without prior consultation with the central government.       In a tweet, Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij said, “Under Unlock 4, the Central government has said that state governments shall not impose any local lockdown (outside containment zones), so the Haryana government has withdrawn the order issued on August 28 to keep the markets closed on Monday and Tuesday. Therefore, there will be no lockdown now". Sporadic and weekend lockdowns have been implemented by various state governments across the country. Earlier on August 28, to contain the spread of Covid-19, the Haryana government had ordered that malls and shops in marketplaces of urban areas will remain closed on Mondays and Tuesdays instead of weekends as instructed earlier. This order, however, was not for shops dealing with essential goods and services. The revised instructions on August 28 had come a week after the government had ordered offices and shops to remain closed on weekends throughout the state. "...to contain further spread of Covid-19 in Haryana, shopping malls and shops, except those dealing with essential goods and services shall remain closed on Monday and Tuesday in the market places of urban areas of the state. "Accordingly, there is no bar on opening of shops and shopping malls on Saturday and Sunday in these areas. These orders will be applicable till further orders," a state government order issued on Friday, had said. Earlier, on August 21, the state government had said all offices and shops, except those dealing with essential services, will remain closed on weekends. Haryana has recorded over 62,000 Covid-19 cases and over 670 fatalities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centres-unlock-4-guidelines-haryana-withdraws-order-to-keep-markets-shut-on-monday-tuesday-879996.html
30-08-2020||North and Central||Three more held in connection with killing of journalist in Uttar Pradesh's Ballia||Three more persons have been arrested in connection with the murder of journalist Ratan Singh here, a senior police official said on Sunday. Six people were arrested earlier in the case on August 25, police said. "A joint team of police, Special Operations Group (SOG) and surveillance on Saturday arrested Uday Narayan Singh, Anil Singh and Tejbahadur Singh," Superintendent of Police Devendra Nath said on Sunday. The three were carrying a reward of Rs 25,000 each on information leading to their arrest, the SP said. A stick and two axes used in the crime have been recovered, he said. The SP said a local court had issued a non-bailable warrant against the three accused. Ratan Singh (45), who worked with a Hindi news channel, was shot dead on August 24 night in the Phephana police station area of the district. A day later, a police officer was suspended while six people were arrested in connection with the murder. Ballia's Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP) Sanjay Yadav had earlier said that on the complaint of the journalist's father, six people -- Sushil Singh, Dinesh Singh, Arvind Singh, Suneel Singh, Vir Bahadur Singh and Vinay Singh --have been arrested. He added that Phephana police station in-charge Shashi Mauli Pandey was suspended. He said the complaint was lodged against 10 people. According to the ASP, the journalist's father, Vinod Singh, alleged that Sonu Singh of their village had called his son to his house around 8 pm where the accused were waiting with lathis and a revolver and they killed him. Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar had stated on August 24 night that Ratan Singh had a property dispute with his neighbour and after a fight between the two, he was shot dead. Accused Dinesh Singh is the parcener (pattidar) of Ratan Singh. An old enmity and a property dispute with the neighbour led to the journalist's murder, a senior police official had said. He said Ratan Singh's killing had nothing to do with his being a journalist. The incident drew flak from the Opposition, which alleged "poor" law and order and accused the state government of failing to curb crime. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath announced an ex-gratia of Rs 10 lakh to the family of the deceased and offered condolences.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-more-held-in-connection-with-killing-of-journalist-in-uttar-pradeshs-ballia-879998.html
30-08-2020||North and Central||Mayawati welcomes ‘unified’ central policy regarding Unlock 4 guidelines||BSP chief Mayawati on Sunday welcomed the “unified” policy of the Centre pertaining to Unlock 4 guidelines. The Union home ministry on Saturday issued the Unlock 4 guidelines under which metro trains would be allowed to resume services from September 7 in a graded manner, while political, social and religious congregations of up to 100 people would be permitted from September 21. However, schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutions will remain closed for students till September 30, with some relaxations for students of classes 9 to 12. "The unified policy (ek saamaanya neeti) of the Union home ministry pertaining to lockdown/unlock to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic is welcome. This has long been the demand of BSP. It will stop (people from) indulging in politics in the garb of coronavirus, and the public will get more facilities,” Mayawati said in a tweet in Hindi. In a significant directive, the home ministry said state governments shall not impose any local lockdown outside the containment zones without prior consultation with the central government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mayawati-welcomes-unified-central-policy-regarding-unlock-4-guidelines-880000.html
30-08-2020||North and Central||Vaishnodevi shrine to deliver prasad across country through post||Devotees across the country can now get 'prasad' from the shrine of Mata Vaishno Devi in Jammu and Kashmir's Reasi district delivered on demand at their doorstep. The shrine atop Trikuta hills reopened on August 16 after remaining closed for nearly five months due to the coronavirus pandemic. The board managing the shrine has now entered into an agreement with the department of posts for delivery of prasad to people across the country. “Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board (SMVDSB) entered into an agreement with the department of posts for the speedy delivery of prasad to devotees across the country,” the board said in a statement here. Chief Executive Officer of the Shrine Board, Ramesh Kumar and Director (Headquarters), Postal Service, J-K, Gaurav Srivastava signed the agreement at the Spiritual Growth Centre, Katra on Saturday. “For facilitating devotees, especially during the prevailing circumstances, the board introduced the facility of delivery of prasad at their places. “This initiative of the board will greatly help those devotees avail the prasad who could not undertake the yatra due to circumstances created by the pandemic,” the statement said. Three categories of prasad have been launched by the board on a no profit no loss basis, which can be booked either through the official website of the board or through telephonic mode on the dedicated mobile number (9906019475). Earlier, the shrine board had offered a facility for devotees to perform 'hawan' or 'puja', in absentia, at the Yagya Shala at Bhawan. The board, meanwhile, said the yatra to the holy shrine is picking pace with every passing day. Supplementary facilities like helicopter, battery operated vehicles and passenger ropeway between Bhawan and Bhairon have also been pressed into service for pilgrims, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vaishnodevi-shrine-to-deliver-prasad-across-country-through-post-880025.html
30-08-2020||North and Central||Pakistan national arrested in Uttar Pradesh's Noida for violation of visa norms||A Pakistani woman has been arrested in Uttar Pradesh's Noida for allegedly violating visa rules, Gautam Buddh Nagar Police officials said on Sunday. The 36-year-old woman, identified as Nausheen Naaz from Karachi in Pakistan, was held on Saturday. She was staying with her husband at their Ajmeri Gate home in Delhi on a long-term visa. The couple had got married in 2005, the officials said. “The woman had entered Noida in violation of the rules of her long-term visa. She was in a bus which was intercepted for checking under a flyover at Sector 14A of the city. She was arrested after inspection,” a police spokesperson said. An FIR has been lodged against her at the Sector 20 police station under Section 14 of the Foreigners' Act, 1946, and further legal proceedings are underway in the case, he added. According to officials, the woman's visa allowed her long-term stay in the country but not outside Delhi.  For travel anywhere outside the national capital she was required to have necessary permissions, they said. On Saturday, she was on her way to Sector 137 of Noida for a picnic along with some relatives in the mini bus but got arrested soon after crossing over into the UP territory. The others accompanying her were left after the inspection, the officials said. The Saturday arrest also came at a time when lockdown-like curbs are imposed in Noida, like elsewhere across Uttar Pradesh, over the state government's orders amid the Covid-19 outbreak. Security checks intensify across the state, especially at state and district borders, during the period of restriction, which begins 10 pm Friday and ends 5 am Monday, according to officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-national-arrested-in-uttar-pradeshs-noida-for-violation-of-visa-norms-880044.html
30-08-2020||North and Central||67 deaths, 6,233 fresh coronavirus cases in Uttar Pradesh||Sixty-seven more people died from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday as 6,233 fresh infections surfaced, pushing the state’s Covid-19 tally 2,25,632, an official said. So far, the infection has claimed 3,423 lives in the state with the fatality rate standing at 1.51 per cent, Additional Chief Secretary (Medical and Health) Amit Mohan Prasad told reporters. The number of active cases in the state is 54,666, he said, adding that 1,67,543 patients have recovered from the disease. He said the recovery rate in the state stood at 74.25 per cent. Prasad said on Saturday, over 1.39 lakh samples were tested in the state. So far, over 54.90 lakh samples have been tested in the state, he added. "The positivity rate of the state in the month of August is 4.7 per cent. High positivity rate has been observed in districts of Kanpur, Gorakhpur, Lucknow, Maharajganj, Deoria and Kushinagar,” he said, adding that low positivity rate was witnessed in Baghpat, Mahoba, Hathras, Sambhal and Hamirpur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/67-deaths-6233-fresh-coronavirus-cases-in-uttar-pradesh-880050.html
30-08-2020||North and Central||Yogi 'upset' over attacks on state govt by BJP lawmakers||'Upset' over continuous attacks on his government by the MLAs and MPs of his own party, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday warned the dissenters and asked them to bury their differences. Adityanath, who presided over a meeting of BJP legislators and MPs from his home district of Gorakhpur, said that their remarks had adversely impacted the party's image. Sources in the BJP said the chief minister gave ten days to the "warring factions" of the party in his home district to "mend fences". "The attacks by the BJP lawmakers have dealt a severe blow to the image of the party and the state government," a visibly upset Adityanath told the BJP leaders at the meeting held in Gorakhpur. Sources in the BJP said that the party had decided to crack down on the dissenters. "We will take action against anyone, who attacks the state government in public," said a senior UP BJP leader on Sunday. Several BJP lawmakers have attacked their own government over what they alleged was its 'failure' on the law and order front and 'persecution' of the Brahmin community. Gorakhpur city MLA Radha Mohan Das Agarwal accused the government of being 'casteist' after which the MP from the city Ravi Kishan sought his resignation. The MP from neighbouring Bansgaon Lok Sabha seat Kamalesh Paswan lent support to Agarwal. The state BJP served a show-cause notice to Agarwal seeking his explanation. Earlier BJP legislator Deomani Dwivedi had joined the opposition in accusing the state government of 'targeting' the Brahmin community. Two other BJP MLAs had also said that corruption was at its 'peak' under the current dispensation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogi-upset-over-attacks-on-state-govt-by-bjp-lawmakers-880058.html
30-08-2020||North and Central||Suspended J&K DSP Davinder Singh tasked by Pakistan to establish 'contact' in MEA: NIA charge sheet||The suspended Deputy Superintendent of Jammu and Kashmir Police Davinder Singh, who has been charge-sheeted by the NIA for providing support to banned terror group Hizbul Mujahideen, was tasked by his Pakistani handler with establishing a "contact" in the Ministry of External Affairs for carrying out espionage activities. According to the charge sheet of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) filed before a special court in Jammu, Singh, who was posted in the sensitive anti-hijacking unit of Jammu and Kashmir police, had been in constant touch with his handlers in the Pakistan High Commission who have since been repatriated to Islamabad. The 3,064-page charge sheet, filed under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and various sections of the Indian Penal Code against Singh and five others, gave a graphical description of the police officer's involvement in providing shelter to the terrorists of the banned group. The charge sheet said he had saved the number of his contact at the Pakistan High Commission as 'Pak Bhai' (Pakistani brother). The contact had been giving him various tasks which included the deployment of forces and arrival of “VIPs” in the Kashmir valley. After having committed himself to Hizbul Mujahideen, Singh was asked to establish a contact in the Ministry of External Affairs by his Pakistani handler so that espionage activities could be carried out there. However, Singh was unable to make any headway into the nefarious plan of the Pakistani embassy officials, the NIA officials said. The charge sheet, filed in the first week of July, has accused Singh and others of allegedly waging "war against India" with the help of Pakistan-based terrorists and members of the country's high commission in Delhi. Besides Singh, others named in the charge sheet are all self-styled commander of the Hizbul Mujahideen terror group Syed Naveed Mushtaq alias Naveed Babu, his brother Syed Irfan Ahmad as well as the group's alleged overground worker Irfan Shafi Mir, alleged accomplice Rafi Ahmad Rather and businessman Tanveer Ahmad Wani, former president of the Line of Control Traders Association. Detailing the conspiracy, the NIA alleged that Deputy Superintendent of Police Singh, who is in a jail here, was "in touch with certain officials of Pakistan High Commission in New Delhi through secure social media platforms. Investigation revealed that he was being groomed by Pakistani officials for obtaining sensitive information”. The central agency said in the charge sheet that the probe in the case has brought "on record that the Pakistani establishment has been devising all possible ways and means to fund, arm and sustain the terrorist activities of the banned terrorist organization Hizbul Mujahideen". Singh was arrested on January 11 this year along with Naveed Babu, Rather and Mir, an advocate, when their car was intercepted by Jammu and Kashmir police near Qazigund on the national highway connecting the Valley with the rest of the country. A search of the vehicle led to the recovery of an AK-47 rifle, three pistols and a cache of ammunition and explosives. The NIA took over the case on January 17. The investigation found that Singh, in an apparent bid to shield Naveed Babu, had shifted him along with the advocate to Jammu and arranged safe shelter for them in the city in February last year. Singh used his own vehicle for the movement of the Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists and also assured them help in procuring weapons, the NIA alleged. Investigations show that the accused were obtaining weapons and ammunition from across the border with the help of arms smugglers and Singh. These weapons were later used for terrorist activities, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/suspended-jk-dsp-davinder-singh-tasked-by-pakistan-to-establish-contact-in-mea-nia-charge-sheet-880064.html
30-08-2020||North and Central||Four wagons of goods train derails near Mathura||Rail traffic on the Mathura-Delhi route was disrupted as four wagons of a goods train derailed between Vrindaban Road and Ajhai railway stations here on Sunday, officials said. According to Northern Central Railway’s Agra Divisional Commercial Manager (DCM) S K Srivastav, the Ghaziabad-bound train was coming from Chhattisgarh’s Bhilai and its wagons derailed around 10 am. The DCM said it will take four to five hours to clear the rail line. Meanwhile, passenger trains have been diverted to the Aligarh route, he said. Iron bar-laden wagons have also disturbed an overhead electrification line as a few polls were damaged due to the impact, he added. North Central Railway’s Chief Public Relations Officer Ajit Kumar said at this state, it is difficult to tell the cause of the incident. He said an inquiry will be conducted by railway officials to ascertain the reason behind it. The official said an operation to clear the rail line is under way under the guidance of senior officers of the department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/four-wagons-of-goods-train-derails-near-mathura-880067.html
30-08-2020||North and Central||Covid-19 positive Samajwadi Party worker jumps to death from overbridge||A Samajwadi Party worker escaped from the Covid-19 ward of a hospital here and then allegedly jumped to death from an overbridge, police said on Sunday. Raman Jauhari (40), a district-level SP leader, escaped from the hospital on Saturday evening and allegedly died by suicide after jumping from an overbridge on Delhi-Bareilly-Nainital highway, said SHO, Bhojipura police station, Manoj Tyagi. The body was found under the overbridge on Sunday, the station house officer said. Jauhari was admitted to a private hospital after he tested positive for Covid-19 on August 25, he said. The hospital had informed police on Saturday that the patient fled by breaking the glass of a window, the officer said. A case has been registered in this regard and an investigation is underway, Tyagi added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-positive-samajwadi-party-worker-jumps-to-death-from-overbridge-880076.html
30-08-2020||North and Central||Men in uniform ready to shed khakhi for khadi in Bihar||At least three senior IPS officers, who retired as Director-General, and a SP-rank officer could throw their hat in the Bihar poll ring. Sample this: Barely one month after his superannuation, retired IPS officer Sunil Kumar has joined the ruling Janata Dal (United) and showered praise on Chief Minister Nitish Kumar. One of the most upright and competent cops, the retired DG-rank officer’s father was a member of the Constituent Assembly and his elder brother Anil Kumar is currently a Congress MLA from Bhore in Gopalganj. It is widely believed that Sunil may be the JD(U) nominee from Bhore although the party remained non-committal on the IPS officer-turned-JD(U) leader. “Who will contest election will be decided by the party at an appropriate time,” said Nitish’s close aide and Lok Sabha MP Lallan Singh. Ashish Ranjan Sinha is another retired IPS officer who is ready to enter politics after being in service for more than three decades. Sinha was Bihar DGP when Nitish first took over as Chief Minister of Bihar in November 2005. But Sinha, who was earlier with the BJP, could now be the Congress or RJD candidate, given his close proximity with the Grand Alliance leaders. The RJD is likely to get a shot in the arm when another DG-rank officer Ashok Kumar Gupta, who has retired, could join Lalu’s outfit soon. “Gupta may be fielded from any of the Assembly constituencies near Patna,” said a senior Grand Alliance leader. Another IPS officer Shridhar Mandal too is likely to join the electoral battle and could be a candidate for the Mahagatbandhan. Bihar has a history of IAS, IPS and IFS officers joining politics with the most notable one being Yashwant Sinha and Meira Kumar. Yashwant Sinha quit IAS in 1984 to become a Janata Dal Rajya Sabha member in 1988. Meira Kumar, on the other hand, was an IFS officer of 1973 batch before she won a by-election from Bijnore Lok Sabha constituency in UP after defeating Mayawati and Ram Vilas Paswan in 1985. She later became MP from Karol Bagh in New Delhi and then from Sasaram in Bihar. She was, however, defeated in 2014 and 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/men-in-uniform-ready-to-shed-khakhi-for-khadi-in-bihar-880079.html
30-08-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh floods: IAF helicopter rescues 3 people from Balaghat district||An Indian Air Force (IAF) helicopter rescued three people from flood-affected Balaghat district in Madhya Pradesh on Sunday. The rescued persons were handed over to the district administration for medical care. "Today morning, the IAF launched a Mi17V5 helicopter to rescue 02 youth and an elderly man from their inundated houses near Mowad village in Balaghat, Madhya Pradesh situated along the banks of the overflowing Wainganga river," the IAF said in a tweet. "The aircrew along with the Garud commandos carried out the rescue operation with pinpoint precision & professionalism," it added. Following heavy showers in several parts of Madhya Pradesh in the last couple of days, nearly 7,000 people have so far been rescued across the state and 170 relief camps are set up in the affected districts, according to the state government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-floods-iaf-helicopter-rescues-3-people-from-balaghat-district-880085.html
30-08-2020||North and Central||Jammu & Kashmir's Crime Branch registers land grab case in Jammu||The Crime Branch of the Jammu and Kashmir Police on Sunday registered a case against some persons including revenue officials for allegedly grabbing 5.4 hectares of state land worth crores of rupees here, a spokesman of the investigation agency said. The case was registered after an inquiry by sub-divisional magistrate, Jammu south, conclusively established that the status of mutations of the land at village Sunjwan are fake and forged, the spokesman said. He said the case has been registered against the revenue officials and the five beneficiaries -- Hassan Din, Fam Ali, Fazal Hassain and Rashad Ahmed (all brothers) and Abdul Majid (attorney holder) for hatching a criminal conspiracy to fraudulently create right of tenant and ownership rights over government land. The spokesman said the Crime Branch, Jammu conducted preliminary inquiry and verified revenue documents. "The allegations levelled against the accused beneficiaries and the revenue officers/ officials were prima-facie substantiated and for the omissions and commission of offences of cheating by fabricating false, fake documents, destroying some of the evidence and for using corrupt means, a formal case was registered for further investigation," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-kashmirs-crime-branch-registers-land-grab-case-in-jammu-880089.html
30-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi records 2,024 Covid-19 cases; death count rises to 4,426||Delhi recorded 2,024 fresh coronavirus cases on Sunday, taking the tally to over 1.73 lakh, while the death toll mounted to 4,426 with 22 fresh fatalities, authorities said. According to Delhi government's health bulletin, 6,881 RTPCR/CBNAAT/ TrueNat tests were done in the last 24 hours while 13,555 rapid antigen tests were conducted during the same time. The bulletin said that the total number of cases stood at 1,73,390, while 1,54,171 patients have either recovered, been discharged or migrated out. The number of active cases stands at 14,793 and the number of containment zones at 820.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-2024-covid-19-cases-death-count-rises-to-4426-880120.html
30-08-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: Delhi's weekly markets to open for 7 more days on trial basis||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Sunday extended the functioning of weekly markets on a trial basis till September 6 in the national capital, officials said. Last week, the DDMA had allowed such markets to open on a trial basis, one market per day per municipal zone, in the city for one week from August 24-30. In an order issued on August 30, Acting Chief Secretary Satya Gopal said that after reviewing the current Covid-19 situation, it was decided that one weekly market per day per zone will be allowed to function on a trial basis further for a week from August 31 to September 6. Weekly markets have been permitted to function from 4 pm to 10 pm and not more than two buyers are allowed to deal at any stall at one time. Weekly markets in the city were closed since March 23. Larger gatherings will continue to be prohibited and authorities concerned have appointed 'Weekly Market Officer' to ensure strict compliance of the Standard Operating Procedure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-delhis-weekly-markets-to-open-for-7-more-days-on-trial-basis-880126.html
30-08-2020||North and Central||Centre in favour of strict action against water wastage||To prevent the rampant wastage of groundwater, the Centre is favouring the states and union territories to take strict action against guilty including imposing fine.  The Union Ministry of Jal Shakti in its proposal to curb the wastage of groundwater also said that no person in the country should waste the potable groundwater. The Ministry proposal came in the background of National Green Tribunal (NGT) in its recent order asking the government to prepare an action plan including coercive measures to check wastage of water. The concerned authorities responsible for the supply of drinking water should ensure that no wastage or misuse of potable water tapped from underground. The authorities concerned should also develop a mechanism with coercive measures for violations, said the Ministry. Earlier the NGT has sought an action taken report from the Centre about saving water on a plea for making its wastage a penal offence. The Tribunal also noted that 33% of people in India do that just by keeping the taps running even when not in use, especially during activities such as brushing and bathing. The tribunal passed this order after hearing a petition filed by Rajendra Tyagi, a BJP councillor from Ghaziabad and an NGO, Friends, alleging that steps are not being taken to prevent the misuse of water. The petition said water wastage has assumed alarming proportions even as the situation is worsening day by day and needs to be arrested for the future generations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-in-favour-of-strict-action-against-water-wastage-880148.html
30-08-2020||North and Central||Chhattisgarh govt to arrange free travel for JEE, NEET candidates||The Chhattisgarh government will arrange free transport for candidates appearing for JEE and NEET examinations to be held next month, an official said on Sunday. He said Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel has instructed all district collectors to ensure free transport to and fro for candidates from their areas to examination centres, the official said. The CM also directed that district nodal officers be appointed to coordinate with Regional Transport Office (RTO) and District Transport Office (DTO) to arrange buses, vans and other vehicles, he said. The National Testing Agency (NTA), which conducts medical and engineering entrance exams, has decided to hold NEET on September 13 and the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Mains from September 1 to 6. "The JEE exam will be conducted from September 1, so buses will have to be run from August 31 for the candidates who hail from places located far off from examination centres," the official said. About 13,500 candidates will appear in JEE exam across the state for which five centres have been set up, he said. Collectors have been directed to immediately release the contact numbers of nodal officers to enable candidates to register themselves, he said. Candidates will be allowed to board vehicles on production of their admit cards, the official added. One of parents will be allowed to accompany girl students during journey, he said, adding that the expenditure of the entire travel will be borne by the state government. The CM also instructed to strictly maintain physical distancing norms in view of the coronavirus pandemic during the travel, he added. Baghel on August 28 had strongly opposed the Centre's move to hold NEET and JEE entrance exams amid the Covid-19 pandemic, saying it was not the right time to conduct the exams.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-govt-to-arrange-free-travel-for-jee-neet-candidates-880149.html
30-08-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh farmers seek aid for crop loss using Sushant Singh Rajput's portraits||Farmers in Madhya Pradesh's Vidisha on Sunday held a protest to seek compensation for crop loss due to heavy rains by placing late actor Sushant Singh Rajput's portraits at the site saying that just as people want justice for the filmstar, they should support the cultivators. Farmers at Jafarkhedi village in Vidisha, about eight kilometres from the district headquarters, staged the protest at their farms. Talking to reporters, a farmer and a Congress leader Devendra Singh Rathod said that due to heavy rains, the crops in the area have got destroyed. "The farmers staged a protest with the portraits of Sushant Singh Rajput at the site," he said, adding that they also paid tribute to the late actor. "During the protest, the farmers urged the media and people to stand up for them like the entire country is standing up for the justice to Rajput," he said. Another farmer, Sundar Singh, said that their families were sad due to the crop loss just as Sushant's family was grief-stricken due to his death. "Just as the government is making efforts to give justice to Sushant, it should work for the farmers in the same manner," farmer Shivraj Piprodiya said. "There are lakhs of farmers who lost their crops in Madhya Pradesh," he added. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is currently probing the death case of Rajput, who was found hanging at his apartment in Mumbai on June 14. During their agitation, the protesters were seen holding placards. Meanwhile, Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM) G S Verma said that assessment of crop damage will be done after harvesting. At present, the survey is being carried out, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-farmers-seek-aid-for-crop-loss-using-sushant-singh-rajputs-portraits-880152.html
30-08-2020||North and Central||French woman apologises for India holy bridge video, denies being naked||A French woman arrested for allegedly making a video of herself without clothes on a holy bridge in India apologised Sunday, but denied being completely naked and said she carried out the stunt to bring attention to sexual harassment. Indian police said Saturday that the 27-year-old -- identified as Marie-Helene -- faced charges under the country's internet laws after posting footage of herself on the Lakshman Jhula, a footbridge over the Ganges river made famous by the Beatles in the 1960s and which remains a draw for backpackers and yoga practitioners. "She told us she sells bead necklaces online and the shoot was aimed at promoting her business," said R.K Saklani, head of the local police station. But in a statement to AFP, Marie-Helene said no-one was around when she carried out the stunt, and she did it to raise awareness about harassment in India. "I chose to partially uncover on Laxman Jhula because each time I crossed the bridge I felt I was being harassed... My Indian sisters and fellow female travelers surely have experienced the same," she wrote. "The main goal was to help oppressed Indian women to access education and to leave abusive marriages or situations, where there are no other options or help." Police said Marie-Helene was arrested on Thursday and released on bail. Her mobile phone was seized as part of the investigation. "The first thing I want to say is that I am sorry my actions hurt the local community," Marie-Helene added. "I was lacking awareness on cultural specificities." Police said they were alerted after the footage was posted on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/french-woman-apologises-for-india-holy-bridge-video-denies-being-naked-880161.html
30-08-2020||North and Central||Teenage lovers end lives by jumping before goods train in UP||Two teenage lovers allegedly killed themselves by jumping before a goods train in the Bairia area of the district on Sunday, police said. The incident took place around 3 am on the Ballia-Chhapra rail section in Ibrahimabad village, Station House Officer of Bairia police station Sanjay Tripathi said. The driver of the train informed the Suremanpur station master about the incident, who alerted the police, he said. Police reached the spot and took the possession of the bodies and sent them for post-mortem, Tripathi said. Police sources said the boy and the girl, both aged 17, were from different castes. Their families would never have agreed for their marriage, and possibly they took the extreme step because of this, the sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/teenage-lovers-end-lives-by-jumping-before-goods-train-in-up-880173.html
30-08-2020||North and Central||Noida: Scolded by father, teen hangs self||Peeved at his father's scolding, a 16-year-old boy allegedly died by suicide in Uttar Pradesh’s Noida on Sunday, police said. The boy’s father is a daily wager and the family lived at Chhijarsi Colony in Sector 63 of Noida, they said. “The family found his body hanging from a fan at home. The body was brought down and taken to a hospital where doctors declared him dead,” an official of the local Phase 3 police station said. The child was allegedly peeved at scolding by his father, who would ask him to study and not waste time, the official said. Meanwhile, a 20-year-old married woman was found dead at her residence in the Sector 49 police station area, officials said. Her husband informed police that his wife was found hanging at their residence, a local policeman said, adding the reason behind her taking the extreme step is yet to be ascertained. “There is no complaint in the case yet from anyone,” the official told PTI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/noida-scolded-by-father-teen-hangs-self-880176.html
30-08-2020||North and Central||August rainfall in Delhi highest in 7 years: IMD data||Delhi recorded 236.5 mm rainfall in August this year, the highest for the month in seven years, according to an India Meteorological Department data. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded 236.5 mm rainfall against the normal of 245.7 mm till August 30, a deficiency of four percent. During this month, the precipitation on August 13 (68.2 mm) and August 20 (54.8 mm) accounted for more than 50 percent of the rains. The capital had gauged 119.6 mm precipitation in August last year, and 206.5 mm in 2018. It recorded 152.2 mm and 122.1 mm rainfall in August 2017 and 2016, respectively. The August rainfall in 2015 and 2014 stood at 195.4 mm and 139.1 mm. The rainfall in August 2013 was 321.4 mm. Overall this year, the city has gauged 555 mm precipitation against the normal of 521.8 mm since June 1, when the monsoon season starts. The weather department has predicted intermittent light to moderate rains over the next six days, but widespread rains are unlikely. Moderate precipitation is predicted on Thursday. On Sunday, a cloud cover, cool breeze and patchy rains kept the mercury in check. The maximum temperature settled at 31.5 degrees Celsius, which was three notches below normal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/august-rainfall-in-delhi-highest-in-7-years-imd-data-880194.html
30-08-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan's Covid-19 tally rises to 80,227 with 1,450 new cases||The Covid-19 death toll in Rajasthan reached 1,043 on Sunday after 13 more people succumbed to the disease, while the infection tally rose to 80,227 with 1,450 fresh cases, according to a health department official. There are 14,091 active cases in the state, while 63,977 people have been discharged after recovering the infection, he said. In Jaipur, the death toll due to Covid-19 is 273, followed by 98 in Jodhpur, 73 in Bikaner, 72 in Kota, 70 in Ajmer and 69 in Bharatpur, 44 in Pali, 42 in Nagaur, 27 in Udaipur, 24 in Alwar and 20 in Dholpur. Of 1,450 fresh cases, 241 were reported from Jaipur, 200 from Kota, 149 from Jodhpur, 123 from Jhalawar, 93 from Alwar, 55 from Pali, 49 from Ajmer, 47 from Udaipur, 46 from Bikaner, 40 from Nagaur, among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthans-covid-19-tally-rises-to-80227-with-1450-new-cases-880215.html
30-08-2020||North and Central||Chhattisgarh: Cop goes 'missing', naxal hand suspected||A police official went missing on Sunday while he was travelling to his native village in naxal-hit Bijapur district in Chhattisgarh, police said. Police suspect that Assistant Sub Inspector (ASI) Nagaiyya Korsa might have been abducted by ultras, an official said, adding that they are investigating various possible angles. Korsa had left Kutru police station in the district, where he was posted, this morning after taking leave, saying he was going home, the official said. When the ASI's family members could not contact him for a long time, they informed his colleagues, following which a search was launched to trace him,he said. "Korsa's motorcycle was found abandoned near Mangapetta village, which is around 20 km away from Kutru, on the route that goes to dense forest, considered as a Maoist stronghold," the official said. The missing ASI is a native of Cheramangi village in Usoor development block area, he said. "There are chances of his abduction by ultras as his mobile number is also out of the network area. However, so far no such concrete information has come to our knowledge and investigation is underway on every possible aspect," he said. A search operation is on in the forests near Mangapetta, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-cop-goes-missing-naxal-hand-suspected-880216.html
30-08-2020||North and Central||Chhattisgarh records 1,115 new Covid-19 cases, seven deaths||With 1,115 new cases and seven deaths, Chhattisgarh's overall Covid-19 count rose to 29,861 and toll to 269 on Sunday, a health official said. The day saw the discharge of 485 patients following recovery from the infection. The active cases now stand at 13,289 as 16,303 people have been discharged and 269 have died, he said. Raipur, which is the worst-hit district by the pandemic in the state, reported 518 of the fresh cases, which took the case tally in the district to 10,825, he said. The district has witnessed 144 deaths so far. Other districts, where news cases were detected are Bilaspur (102), Rajnandgaon (82), Durg (72), Surguja (58), Janjgir-Champa (42), Surajpur (35), Balodabazar (34), Raigarh (33), Kabirdham (24), Gariaband (13) and Jashpur (13), he said. Twelve cases each were reported from Bemetara, Dhamtari, Mahasamund and Korba districts, 11 from Narayanpur, 10 from Balod, four each from Mungeli and Balrampur districts, three each from Koriya and Dantewada districts, two from Bijapur, while one case each came from Kondagaon and Kanker districts, he said. Besides, two persons who had arrived from another state to Chhattisgarh, have tested positive, he said. Among the seven fatalities, five people were from Raipur and one each from Durg and Bilaspur, he said. A 59-year-old police Sub Inspector (SI) who was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Raipur on August 26 after testing positive, died on Sunday morning, the official said. A native of Raigarh district, the SI was posted as the Station House Officer (SHO) at a police station in Bilaspur. He was suffering from diabetes and high blood pressure, he said. Of the remaining deaths, four took place on Sunday and one on Saturday, while the information about death of a person on August 25 was received on Sunday, he said. Chhattisgarh's Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 29,861, new cases 1,115, deaths 269, discharged 16,303, active cases 13,289, people tested so far 5,71,177.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-records-1115-new-covid-19-cases-seven-deaths-880233.html
30-08-2020||North and Central||MP govt to arrange free transport for JEE, NEET students: CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||The Madhya Pradesh government will arrange free transport for candidates appearing for JEE and NEET examinations, to be held in the next month, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Sunday. "Government of Madhya Pradesh is arranging free-of-cost transport facility for students appearing for JEE/NEET exams. Arrangements will be done from block HQ (headquarters) and district HQ of exam centres. Examinees can call at 181 or can apply by clicking on http://mapit.gov.in/covid-19 from August 31," Chouhan said in a tweet. In different tweets, the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said the free two-way transportation facility will be provided to students taking the exams to ensure that they do not face any problem due to coronavirus. This facility can also be availed by one of the associates of the candidates, it said. Students seeking free travel will have to register themselves on helpline 181 or on the e-pass portal of the state government, the CMO said. While the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) is scheduled to be held on September 13, engineering entrance exam, JEE-Main, is planned from September 1 to 6. Many opposition parties have opposed the Centre's move to go ahead with these exams amid the COVID-19 pandemic questioning the safety of students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-govt-to-arrange-free-transport-for-jee-neet-students-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-880236.html
30-08-2020||North and Central||Militants hurl grenade at police post in J&K's Sopore||Militants on Sunday hurled a grenade towards a police post in Sopore area of Baramulla district in Jammu and Kashmir, an official said. No loss of life or injury has been reported in the incident so far, he said. At 9.25 pm, the militants hurled a grenade towards Warpora police post in Sopore area of the north Kashmir district, the official said. After the explosion, a sentry retaliated by firing a few shots in the air, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militants-hurl-grenade-at-police-post-in-jks-sopore-880237.html
30-08-2020||Opinion||When did Bengaluru turn ‘Communal’?||Bengaluru has been no stranger to ‘communal’ disturbances, especially since the 1990s, but they have not dislodged the special place occupied by the event known as ‘The Bangalore Disturbances,’ of 1928 also known as the ‘Ganapati Galabhe’ or ‘Hindu-Muslim Garshane’. In the wake of what has unfolded in DJ Halli and KG Halli since August 11, 2020, we could ask what that earlier moment tells us about ‘Mysore’s first communal riot’ as some popular accounts have it. First, the term ‘communal’ in Mysore State had quite a different connotation from its use in the Indo-Gangetic belt. The Miller Committee Report of 1918, which paved the way for reservations for ‘non-Brahmins’ to public service was often referred to as the ‘Communal G.O’ and the term had no pejorative meaning. ‘Rallying around the cow’ was not a preoccupation in Mysore at a time when it was more or less monopolising public life in the Indo-Gangetic region. Instead, there were fierce inter- and intra-caste rivalries about honours and insignia used by Hindu religious leaders in Mysore from the late 19th century. Also, in striking contrast to the predictable ways in which the faultlines have developed in 2020, were the unexpected positions taken by members of the bureaucracy, the government itself, the press and people in public office. A little image of the Ganapati in a Sultanpet school became the focus of a struggle between upper caste members of the Congress Right (notably Ramlal Tiwari, Jamakhandi Bhima Rao and H V Subrahmanyam), journalists such as Veerakesari Sitarama Sastry Vishwakarnataka’s Thi Tha Sharma and Muslims of the old city, led by Municipal President Abbas Khan. Though the disturbances of July 28-30, 1928, a largely schoolboy affair, were not major, and resulted in ‘wounds and bruises’ not fatalities, it shook the state government and public life of the city. A committee headed by M Visvesvaraya investigated the causes of the event and suggested possible remedies for the future. 1928 showed that communal riots, and government responses to them, are simply not alike, and are certainly not pre-ordained. For instance, N S Subbarao, then Director of Public Instruction, first passed the order for the removal of the idol, and held firmly to the view that “a school is no place of worship” (disagreeing with the later government decision to reinstall it). Abbas Khan resigned from his post as Municipal President following the riots. Both the committee and the Government of Mysore firmly denied any longstanding rivalry between Hindus and Muslims, acknowledging that “the objectives of the crowd underwent rapid changes” through the course of the ‘riot’. Moreover, the government, while proscribing four newspapers during the disturbances, refused to accept the committee’s suggestions that it “start one or two good daily newspapers” for fear of being accused of organising publicity. No doubt, the galabhe was a turning point in the city’s history: Bangalore’s first sedition case was against Surya Narayan Rao and Sitarama Sastry. But there is nothing to suggest that the charge that “Muslims are permeating all levels of the administration” gained much traction at that time or even later. The enquiry revealed neither longstanding communal differences nor conspiracies; instead, the ‘vernacular’ press was “inciting communal hatred and jealousies in the mofussil.” Was the Miller Committee Report of 1918 the “apple of discord” as the Visvesvaraya Committee had it? Many witnesses pointed to the simmering resentment of Mysore Brahmins whose monopoly of the administration had been displaced; public meetings addressed by Sitarama Sastry and many petitions to the government voiced that resentment. At what point did the Brahmin discontent turn into anti-Muslim sentiment? Were the road-widening measures of Abbas Khan merely the acts of an inspired Municipal President or a deliberate attempt to remove all religious markers from roads? Did the jubilance of the Hindu mobs following resumption of worship spark the violent response of the Muslims? Most important, how did local municipal issues acquire nationalist colour in a state where such feelings were only weakly developed? The Visvesvaraya Committee agreed that disallowing worship in a public school and so close to a mosque was correct; its own answer to such convulsions was the urgent secularisation of public life, vigorous economic development and the adherence to ‘merit’ as lasting remedies. These were vain hopes, and the ‘second Bangalore disturbances’, referring to serious rivalry between football clubs in the cantonment in 1931, resulted. But for some decades at least, Mysore was insulated from similar inter-religious strife, not least because the Mysore administration, under the Maharaja and the Dewan, remained firmly committed to giving “adequate representation to all communities in the public service...” Yet, the Bangalore Disturbances revealed how fragile were the networks of camaraderie and religious commingling, so true of the old city, in the face of unchecked rumour and determined exaggeration in the ‘vernacular press’. In short, it took effort to produce even that brief disruption.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/when-did-bengaluru-turn-communal-879848.html
30-08-2020||Opinion||Why is the stock market going up when the economy is going down?||The total collections of the goods and services tax (GST) between March and July stood at Rs 2.73 lakh crore. This is 34.5% lower than what the government earned during the same period in 2019. The stock market index Nifty 50 has rallied by 53% to 11,648 points between March 23 and August 28. It had touched this year’s low of 7,610 points on March 23. So, what’s the point in comparing the Nifty 50 with GST collections? The GST is basically a tax on consumption. If the GST collections are down by more than a third, what that basically means is that private consumption is down majorly. When consumption is down, companies’ earnings are bound to take a beating. Take the case of two-wheelers and cars. When people don’t buy as many of them as they used to, their production takes a beating. When that happens, it has an impact right down the value chain. It means lower production of steel, steering, glass, tyres, etc. A lower production of tyres means a lower demand for rubber. Lower production on the whole means lower demand for power. Industrial power largely subsidises farm power and home power (where power is stolen). If industrial consumption goes down, the losses of state electricity boards go up. When this happens, their ability to keep paying power generation companies goes down. When these companies don’t get paid, they are in no position to repay loans they have taken from banks. Many people buy two-wheelers and cars on loans from banks and non-banking finance companies. When the buying falls, the total amount of loans given by banks also comes down. When banks don’t get enough loans, they need to cut interest rate on their deposits. When this happens, people who are saving towards a goal, need to save more. This means they need to cut down on their consumption. Further, people who are largely dependent on interest from bank deposits will see their incomes fall. This means, they need to cut down on their consumption as well. So works the vicious cycle. This cycle will also lead to a fall in companies’ earnings. A Business Standard results tracker for 1,946 companies reveals that the sales of these companies for April to June 2020 were down 23.1% compared to what it was in the same period in 2019. The net profit for these companies was down 60.8%. The stock market does not wait for things to happen. It discounted for this possibility and the Nifty fell by 32.1% between end-February and March 23. The market was adjusting for an era of falling company earnings. But it didn’t stay at those low levels and has rallied by more than 50% since then. The trouble now is that the valuations are way off the chart. The price-to-earnings ratio of the Nifty 50 index, as of August 28, stood at 32.92. This means, investors are ready to pay close to Rs 33 for every rupee of earning for stocks that make up the Nifty 50 index. Such a level has never been seen before. Not during the dotcom bubble era, not even during early 2008 when the stock market rallied to its then highest level. Why has the stock market jumped so much? Does this mean that companies’ earnings will jump high in the near future? Not at all. The Covid-induced recession is not going to go anytime quickly. Also, the pandemic is now gradually making its way into rural India. So, why is the stock market rallying? The Western central banks, led by the US Federal Reserve, have printed a lot of money post-February to drive down interest rates and get people and businesses to borrow and spend. The Federal Reserve has printed more than $2.8 trillion between February 26 and August 5. Some of this money has made it into India. During this financial year, foreign institutional investors have net invested a total of Rs 83,682 crore into Indian stocks, after slacking off on India over the last few years. The stock market rally is clearly an impact of the easy money policies being run in much of the West. Further, the participation of retail investors in the stock market has increased this year. Between December 2019 and June 2020, the number of demat accounts rose by 3.9 million to 43.2 million accounts, a 10% rise. In fact, just between end-March, after a total lockdown was introduced to tackle Covid-19, and June, 2.4 million new demat accounts were opened. The latest monthly bulletin of Securities and Exchange Board of India, the stock market regulator, points out: “We have seen a huge surge in participation of retail investors in the equity market in the last few months. The fact that there is also a surge in opening up of demat accounts suggests that many of these retail investors are perhaps first-time investors in the stock market.” With after-tax return on bank fixed deposits down to 4-5%, when inflation is close to 7%, these investors are coming to the stock market in search of higher returns. The question is, with the stock market at all-time high valuations, will their good times last? Or once the dust settles, will another generation of investors come to see investing in the stock market as gambling? On that, your guess is as good as mine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-is-the-stock-market-going-up-when-the-economy-is-going-down-879849.html
30-08-2020||Opinion||Exxon Mobil taken off Dow, is Big Oil still a deal?||From Monday there will be just one oil company in the Dow Jones Industrial Average — Chevron Corp. The removal of Exxon Mobil Corp. from the index after an uninterrupted presence since 1928 shouldn’t come as a surprise. It’s not the end of Big Oil, but it may signal the start of the beginning of the end. It may seem odd to remove one of only two oil companies in the index at a time when the shale boom has transformed America's role in the global market. After all, the US now produces more oil and more natural gas than any other country. Last year’s domestic oil production was up by 125% from levels in 2010, while gas output has increased by 60%. But those figures only tell part of the story, and not the most important part. It’s not the first time that there’s only been one oil and gas company in the Dow. The last time was between 2000 and 2008, when Exxon was the sole industry representative. Before that you have to go back to the 1920s. For a brief period of two weeks in 1924, there were none at all. Why remove Exxon rather than Chevron? That’s easy. The Dow is calculated using share prices, not market capitalization, so Chevron's higher share price (it’s more than twice that of Exxon’s) gives it greater weight in the index. At the close of business on August 27, Chevron accounted for 2.04% of the Dow; Exxon just 0.96%. Removing Chevron would have reduced the weight of oil to an unreasonably low level. Its stock has also outperformed that of its larger rival over almost any recent period you care to choose. The replacement of Exxon with Salesforce.com, a cloud-software bellwether, reflects the evolution of the US economy even as the current president champions the fossil fuel industries. The first shale boom, which saw natural gas output start to rise from 2005 and oil follow it five years later, helped spur a massive surge in jobs in the sector. The number of people employed in oil and gas extraction rose from about 125,000 in the first half of 2005 to a peak of more than 200,000 at the end of 2014, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The second shale boom only created a quarter of the jobs that had been shed in the sector between 2015 and 2017 before it ran out of steam at the end of last year — and then the Covid-19 pandemic struck. Despite record production levels, oil and gas extraction contributed a mere 1% of US GDP last year, according to the Bureau of Economic Analysis. Oil just isn’t what it was to the US economy and, with much of the shale boom driven by small independent oil and gas companies, Big Oil is even less important. It is not just in the US that Big Oil faces headwinds. Its opportunities and reputation are in decline worldwide. The oil majors, including Royal Dutch Shell Plc, BP Plc and Total SE, operate in a world where they are often denied access to prime prospects. They’re kept from investing in key areas of low-cost production, such as Saudi Arabia, Iran, Venezuela and Russia, by local laws or the risk of sanctions. In other areas, they face contract terms that make investment unattractive. It’s not just the lack of opportunities to discover and develop big, new oil fields. The companies are facing the need to reinvent themselves in a world where their core product is coming under increasing pressure from consumers for its impact on climate change and local pollution. And the long, hard slog of trying to turn themselves into producers of sustainable energy has only just begun. Exxon’s removal from the Dow may not signal the end of Big Oil, or even that its end is near, but it is reflective of the industry’s failure so far to adapt.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/exxon-mobil-taken-off-dow-is-big-oil-still-a-deal-879951.html
30-08-2020||Opinion||US President Donald Trump’s coronavirus record is troubled at best||On night one of the 2020 Republican National Convention, President Donald Trump was praised for his management of the coronavirus pandemic. “As a healthcare professional, I can tell you without hesitation Donald Trump's quick action and leadership saved thousands of lives during Covid-19,” said Amy Ford, a registered nurse from West Virginia. Even Trump gave himself a pat on the back during his acceptance speech: “When the China virus hit, we launched the largest national mobilization since World War II.” But with over 180,000 deaths from the virus and millions of people unemployed, just how successful has Trump been in leading the nation’s pandemic response? Bloomberg Opinion columnists have been tracking his progress from the start. Covid-19 testing is broken and there's no plan to fix It: “When Covid-19 first escalated in the spring, President Donald Trump briefly came to recognize there was a battle to be fought. ‘I view it as a, in a sense, a wartime president,’ he said in March. ‘It’s a medical war. We have to win this war. It’s very important.’ But one month after setting up a coronavirus task force in the White House and putting his son-in-law, Jared Kushner, in charge of expanding testing, Trump effectively shifted primary responsibility for the battle to the states. It was as if, during World War II, Franklin D. Roosevelt had told governors to devise their own military strategies and produce their own tanks, ships and planes.” – Timothy L. O’Brien A horrifying US Covid-19 curve has a simple explanation: “A sluggish initial response and failure to ramp up testing let the virus spread far and wide in the US And instead of coordinating a coherent and aggressive national response, President Donald Trump has consistently downplayed the threat of the infection and left decisions to insufficiently supported states. As a result, decisions over lockdowns and reopenings have been chaotic and have ignored the guidelines put forth by federal public health officials.” – Max Nisen The HCQ saga is just how science works: “After President Donald Trump touted hydroxychloroquine as a ‘game-changer’ in March, the drug became the center of a political battle that led to retracted papers, lawsuits and even death threats. It’s also now the most widely studied treatment for Covid-19.” – Faye Flam Trump's immigration strategy is a casualty of Covid-19: “If Trump had made a genuine effort to keep Covid-19 from spreading, he might have had a better chance to cast the disease as a fellow traveller of immigrants. Instead, now it’s Americans who are shut out of countries that have done a better job containing the virus.” – Francis Wilkinson Did Trump really slow down coronavirus testing?: “Presidential leadership matters in encouraging action, especially quick action. That kind of leadership certainly hasn’t been apparent during the pandemic. Trump’s public statements have waffled between outright hostility to testing and a kind of ‘Mission Accomplished’ swagger about having ramped it up. In reality, rates of coronavirus testing have continued to improve. But it took a long time, and Trump was claiming success when daily levels were half of what they are now. So whether Trump ever deliberately tried to slow down testing probably hasn’t mattered that much. But his lack of leadership certainly has.” – Jonathan Bernstein||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/us-president-donald-trump-s-coronavirus-record-is-troubled-at-best-879992.html
30-08-2020||South||Puducherry reports 571 Covid-19 cases; tally reached 14,127||The Covid-19 tally in Puducherry rose to 14,127 on Sunday with 571 more people testing positive for the infection, while the number of deaths stood at 221 with 10 fatalities, a top health department official said. The new cases were detected out of a total of 1,866 samples which were tested in the last 24 hours ending at 10 AM in the Union Territory, Director of Health and Family Welfare S Mohan Kumar said in a release.  The total active cases stood at 4,938 with cumulative recoveries of 8,968 people after treatment. As many as 457 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours. According to Kumar the fatality rate in the Union Territory was 1.56 per cent and the recovery rate, 63.48 per cent. The Director said that 73,165 samples were tested so far, 57,839 had turned out to be negative. The UT's Puducherry region had 516 cases, Yanam 42, Karaikal 12 and Mahe 1, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-reports-571-covid-19-cases-tally-reached-14127-879966.html
30-08-2020||South||Intense coronavirus-induced lockdown shuts Tamil Nadu||An intense lockdown was observed on Sunday across Tamil Nadu as part of efforts to fight Covid-19 and only healthcare services and milk supply continued as usual. Effective since last month on all Sundays, the complete lockdown saw the closure of fuel pumps, markets and outlets selling essential commodities. People stayed indoors and roads were largely deserted and police set up checkpoints at important intersections across Tamil Nadu to check against violations. Policemen could be seen warning those who ventured out on streets without any valid reason in several regions. Amma Canteens and healthcare services — hospitals, pharmacies and labs — functioned and sanitary workers continued their routine clean up work. Personnel of civic bodies conducted door-to-door surveys to detect people with flu-like symptoms in addition to fever camps.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/intense-coronavirus-induced-lockdown-shuts-tamil-nadu-880033.html
30-08-2020||South||Kerala: Mother of kid who died after swallowing coin launches stir||Mother of a three-year-old child in Kerala who died after swallowing coins accidentally have launched an indefinite stir as the medical examinations concluded that the cause of death were not the coins. Prithviraj, the son a Raju and Nandini of Aluva, about ten kilometres from Kochi, met with the tragic end on August 2. The post-mortem examination concluded that the child died due to 'status asthmaticus', a respiratory ailment. But the parents allege that negligence of three hospitals in providing proper treatment to the child was being hushed up. Nandini, along with a couple of other relatives, started an indefinite stir in from of Aluva government hospital from Saturday. Prithviraj swallowed a coin on August 1 morning. He was rushed to the Aluva government hospital. The doctors referred him to Ernakulam general hospital and from there the child was referred to the Alappuzha government medical college hospital. The doctors reportedly advised the parents to give plantain, rice and water in plenty to child so that the coin would go out through excretion and they were sent back. But he suffered discomfort by night and died by Sunday morning. The post-mortem examination recovered two coins of Re. 1 and 50 paise from his body. A team of doctors led by the police surgeon who conducted the examination said that the death was not due to coins as the coins almost reached the rectum and would have come out with excreta. Chemical examination reports also did not reveal anything unnatural. The doctors concluded that the child would have been suffering from respiratory ailments. The Binanipuram police in Ernakulam probing the case is now probing into the previous medical history of the child. Station house officer V R Sunil said that medical records of the child were sought from the hospitals where he had undergone treatment earlier. Based on that further steps would be taken. Nandini said that she would continue the stir until the cause of the death was known. "I rushed my child to three hospitals and he died hours afterwards. Is it not medical negligence?," she asks. The death of Prithviraj had triggered a row in view of allegations that proper treatment was denied. The Aluva government hospital and Ernakulam general hospital authorities maintained that the unavailability of pediatric surgery and gastro surgery facilities were the reason for referring the patient to other hospitals. The medical college authorities said that the coin was found in the stomach and the child was having no other discomfort. Hence it was the normal practice to advice such child to take plenty of plantain and rice so that the object would go out through excretion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-mother-of-kid-who-died-after-swallowing-coin-launches-stir-880051.html
30-08-2020||South||Madurai school’s novel idea, offers free smartphones to new students||Online classes have become the order of the day due to Covid-19 induced lockdown, but not many, especially those studying in government and aided schools, can afford to spend the extra bucks to buy a smartphone. To take the burden off from parents and to encourage students, teachers of a government-aided school in Madurai have pooled in resources to buy 50 smartphones to “gift” to students who join the sixth standard. As advertisements of the “irresistible offer” went viral on the social media, 12 students mostly from the underprivileged sections of the society got admitted at the Thiagarajar Higher Secondary School in Vasantha Nagar in Madurai, 465 km from here, on Friday. The school, which began functioning in 1969 and is one of the oldest government-aided institutions in the temple town, expects to fill the remaining 38 seats on Monday and launch online classes from the first week of September. Admission for sixth and 11th standard in the school began in mid-August and that is when the idea of providing smartphones to students joining in the sixth standard hit S V Ramanathan, the headmaster, who also won the best teacher award of the state government last year. “We found many students who approached us neither had smartphones nor could afford them. I called my teachers and proposed the idea of pooling in money to buy smartphones and give them to students during admission. The teachers readily accepted, and we bought 50 smartphones. This way, we are also encouraging students to take up Tamil medium,” Ramanathan told DH. Ten teachers, including the headmaster, and three office-bearers have spent nearly 1.3 lakh for buying the smartphones and recharge vouchers for using them. “We chose for a smartphone that will support applications like WhatsApp, YouTube and a browser so that children can watch the state government’s television channel dedicated for education and one piece came around Rs 2,400. We also recharge the connection so that the burden does not fall on parents,” Ramanathan added. The response from parents is “overwhelming”, the headmaster said, expressing regret for not having come out with the idea in mid-August when the admissions began. Ramanathan said providing smartphones to students will help teachers to give them homework and follow up on their studies. “We have been taking online classes for students from 7th to 10th standard and for those in plus-two. Though the lessons are taught through the Kalvi TV, teachers send homework to students via WhatsApp and get them corrected. The new smartphones will help children who join our school from 6th standard to attend online classes and not miss out,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madurai-school-s-novel-idea-offers-free-smartphones-to-new-students-880086.html
30-08-2020||South||Tamil Nadu scraps e-pass within state, allows resumption of public transport||Tamil Nadu on Sunday extended the Covid-19 lockdown till September 30, but virtually opened up everything, including the resumption of public transport within districts, hotels, temples, and shopping malls, from September 1. While it scrapped the e-pass system, which earned notoriety during the lockdown, for travel within the state, it announced the continuation of the system for those coming from other states and those going to tourist places like Ooty and Kodaikanal. Everyone applying an e-pass from other states will be granted one, while district collectors will apply the passes for entry into the tourist spots. Announcing easing of restrictions, Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said in a statement that inter-district public transport will resume, including in Chennai, from September 1 with Standard Operating Procedures (SOP). However, cinema theatres, swimming pools, amusement parks, schools, colleges, and other educational institutions will continue to remain closed. The state government has also done away with the Sunday lockdown from September.   Chennai Metro will resume services on September 7 as per a notification from the Centre, while places of worship like temples, mosques and churches will be reopened across the state from September 1. However, the number of people allowed inside the Sanctum Sanctorum will be limited, Palaniswami said. Shopping malls, showrooms, and big format stores can reopen from September 1, while shops across the state will be open till 8 pm. Restaurants can allow in-dining services from 6 am to 8 pm and take away services till 9 pm. Though Information Technology firms have been allowed to reopen their offices with 100 per cent staff, Palaniswami asked them to ensure that only “necessary staff” report to the office physically, while the remaining can be allowed to work from home. Allowing parks to reopen, the state government asked private companies and industries to appoint a Nodal Officer for coordinating with officials concerned. The government also allowed cinema shooting by capping the number of people to be present at the spot to 75.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-scraps-e-pass-within-state-allows-resumption-of-public-transport-880119.html
30-08-2020||South||Covid-19: Kanyakumari MP laid to rest in native village||The funeral was held on Sunday morning, hours after the mortal remains of Vasanthakumar was brought from Chennai, where he breathed his last on August 28. With hundreds of people participating in the last rites ceremony, Covid-19 rules physical distancing and the wearing of masks went for a toss. The body was handed over to the Kanyakumari MP’s family on Friday evening by the private hospital where he was admitted since August 10 as his swab samples collected on the day he died returned as negative. Last rites of positive Covid-19 patients are conducted by government staff along with their family members. The mortal remains of Vasanthakumar were kept at his house in Agastheeswaram in the district for a few hours during which a host of leaders from various political parties, including AICC General Secretary K C Venugopal and former BJP Union Minister Pon Radhakrishnan, paid their last respects. The casket containing the Congress MP’s mortal remains were taken in a procession and he was buried near the resting place of his father and mother in a farm owned by the family. Heart-rendering scenes were witnessed as the casket was lowered in a pit and Vasanthakumar’s children – Vinoth and Vijayvasanth – cried profusely as they performed the last rites. Vasanthakumar,70, died on Friday after being infected with Coronavirus. The Congress leader began his life as a salesman and grew to become one of the most successful businessmen in Tamil Nadu by launching Vasanth and Co, multi-brand home appliances and electronics stores, that became a household name in the state over the years. Hailing from a Congress family, Vasanthakumar entered the Tamil Nadu Assembly from Nanguneri in Tirunelveli district in 2006 and got re-elected from the same seat 10 years later. However, he resigned in 2019 after he was elected to the Lok Sabha from Kanyakumari.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-kanyakumari-mp-laid-to-rest-in-native-village-880130.html
30-08-2020||South||Tamil Nadu to act tough on violators of Covid-19 rules||Tamil Nadu, which has reported over 4 lakh positive coronavirus cases, will introduce amendments to the Public Health Act to enable authorities to levy spot fines on people who do not follow rules like wearing of masks and maintaining physical distancing in public places. The government will issue an ordinance, in all probability within a week, incorporating provisions of not wearing masks and other rules as a compoundable offence. Top sources in the government told DH that the amendments to the Public Health Act will come into force after Governor Banwarilal Purohit gives his assent for the ordinance sent by the Health Department. The amendments will also allow authorities to impose fines on shopkeepers who do not follow the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) announced by the government. Besides, people who do not wear masks, fail to maintain physical distance at public places and events and jumping quarantine will be asked to pay fine by the authorities if they are found to have violated any of the rules. “Though there are many who follow the rules with regard to Covid-19, a few just do not wear masks or maintain physical distancing. Authorities are finding it very tough to handle people who do not follow rules and hence we decided to make them a compoundable offence to ensure compliance,” a top government official told DH. The official added an authorised staff of the Greater Chennai Corporation, Health Department, and the Police will be empowered to levy fines on violators. “This is just to bring the discipline that we need in times of Covid-19. A person not wearing a mask puts not just his life in risk, but that of others too. He could be transmitting the disease or contracting the virus without him knowing. So, such measures are needed,” the official added. Another official said violation of the SOP announced by the government by shopkeepers is also a serious issue that needs to be addressed. “This problem will also be addressed through the amendments to the Public Health Act. Shops need to follow rules as so many people come to buy a variety of things. Not just wearing masks, but every detail of the SOP should be followed,” the official added. At last count on Sunday morning, the state had reported a total of 4,15,590 cases, including 3,55,727 discharges and 7,137 deaths. The active cases in the state stood at 52,726.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-to-act-tough-on-violators-of-covid-19-rules-880137.html
30-08-2020||South||Youth's suicide over unemployment triggers protests in Kerala||The suicide of youth in Thiruvananthapuram allegedly owing to unemployment triggered widespread protests in Kerala on Sunday with BJP activists agitating in front of Kerala chief minister's house with the dead body of the youth. The incident caused embarrassment to Kerala government that faces allegations of backdoor appointments while rank lists of Kerala Public Service Commission were getting expired. Anu, 28, son of Sukumaran of Karakonam, about 30 kilometres from the Thiruvananthapuram city, was found hanging in his house on Sunday morning. In a suicide note recovered from the house, he wrote that he took the step because of unemployment. He had secured 77th rank in the public service commission recruitment test to the post of civil excise officer in Kerala Excise Department. But the rank list got expired in June and his hopes of extending its validity turned futile due to Covid-19 situation. Anu's father Sukumaran said that Anu had hopes of getting the government job as he secured a higher rank, and was upset when the rank list. As soon as the news spread, opposition political parties unleashed protest across the state alleging that government and public service commission were responsible for Anu's death. The BJP took out a march to the official residence of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan with the body of Anu. The body was taken back after government officials assured proper investigation into the circumstances that led to the death. Two women Youth Congress workers jumped the wall of the government secretariat and staged a protest. Yuva Morcha workers staged protests against local CPM MLA C K Hareendran who visited Anu's family. Meanwhile, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said at a press conference later that about 1.45 lakh candidates were given posting in the tenure of the current government. The Excise department's delay in reporting vacancies by the public service commission was stated to be the reason for the delay in the recruitment. Police sources said a case was registered and an investigation was on. Kerala recently witnessed a row over backdoor appointments after the gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh got a job at Kerala State IT Infrastructure Limited, an agency under the IT department, through a consultancy even though she lacked the required qualification.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/youths-suicide-over-unemployment-triggers-protests-in-kerala-880138.html
30-08-2020||South||Coronavirus Lockdown: Onam lacks festivity in Kerala this time||Kerala is celebrating the Onam festival without much festivities owing to Covid-19 this year. Even as the government had eased the lockdown restrictions and extended working hours of shops, the rush at major commercial streets across the state on Sunday, the eve of the main Onam day of 'Thiruvonam', was very low during this season compared to previous ones. Apart from calling off the usual week-long Onam celebrations of the government, the government had also imposed strict restrictions on Onam celebrations by groups. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan appealed to the people to limit the celebration to their houses during this Onam, which according to legends, marks the visit of King Mahabali. The state health sector is having serious concerns of a steep increase in fresh Covid-19 cases in the coming days as the considerable rush was witnessed in many commercial centres like markets and textile shops during the last few days. Though shops were directed to ensure proper social distancing norms, there was a lack of effective enforcement of this. Mohammed Siddique, leader of the 'Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopani Samathi', a leading traders' outfit, said that over the last few days the markets had slightly revived after the months of lockdown. But compared to the previous Onam season, the sales was hardly 25 percent only. It was mainly small scale traders who were facing the hardships as they were struggling to meet the shops rents and minimum wages of employees, said Siddique who is a trader at the Chalai market, the major commercial centre of Thiruvananthapuram. While floral carpets could be spotted at every nook and corner of the state during Onam, this year the government also raised caution against the use of flowers from other states for making floral carpets. Major chunk of flowers of Onam season reaches the state from neighbouring Tamilnadu. Hotels were trying to do business by offering Onam feast, popularly known as 'Onasadhya' in parcels. Many popular hotels had received hundreds of advance booking for Onam feast.  More options of online grocery shopping have also become a relief to the people during the time of Onam. Cancellation of Onam celebrations across the state has also badly hit the lively hood of many traditional art performers as they used to get chance for performance mainly during Onam season only.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-onam-lacks-festivity-in-kerala-this-time-880139.html
30-08-2020||South||Cows are like members of family, it is a crime to kill them: Karnataka Minister K Sudhakar||Cows were like a member of the family and it was a 'crime' to kill them, Karnataka Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar on Sunday said as the the BJP government in the state is mulling bringing back the anti-cow slaughter law. He also said cow dung acts as a disinfectant, recalling his family had a few cows in the past. Terming cow slaughter a 'sin', the minister said he would request Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to ban slaughtering of the animal in the state. "Cow is like a member of the family and its a crime to kill cows," Sudhakar said at the inauguration of 'Goshala' (a shelter for cows) in Chikkaballapura, a release from his office said. Also, there was a need for people's movement to create awareness against cow slaughtering, he said, adding "being Indians, all state governments should ban cow slaughtering." Further noting that cows were "worshipped in our culture", Sudhakar said, a detailed discussion on banning export of beef was required in both Houses of the Legislature. "Our party is committed to ban beef exports, there will be a decision soon on this," he said. Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chavan had recently said the state would soon implement a ban on cow slaughter, sale and consumption of beef in line with other states. Once the Covid-19 crisis eases, an expert committee would be constituted to look into the matter, and if need be, it will visit states like Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh to study about implementation of the ban there, he had said. The BJP in its manifesto for the 2018 assembly election had promised prohibition of cow slaughter. Despite resistance from opposition, the then BJP government led by B S Yediyurappa in 2010 had got the controversial Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill passed, proposing to replace the Karnataka Prevention of Cow Slaughter and Cattle Preservation Act, 1964. The bill had widened the definition of 'cattle' and imposed a blanket ban on cattle slaughter, coupled with stringent penalty clauses for violation. However, the Congress government headed by Siddaramaiah that came to power in 2013 withdrew the bill that was pending before the President for his assent. After the BJP came back to power in the state, several party leaders have been making a pitch to re-enact the anti-cow slaughter law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cows-are-like-members-of-family-it-is-a-crime-to-kill-them-karnataka-minister-k-sudhakar-880151.html
30-08-2020||South||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister orders opening of three dams from September 1||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Sunday ordered release of water from Papanasam, Servalar and Manimuthar reservoirs from September 1 to facilitate agricultural activities and meet the drinking water requirements as well in Tirunelveli and Tuticorin districts. He ordered the release of water through the 11 canals in Tirunelveli's Tamirabarani river for 15 days from September 1. Also, he directed the Public Works Department (PWD) officials to open the Papanasam, Servalar and Manimuthar dams for a period of 46 days from September 16 to October 31. "Accepting requests from farmers I have ordered the release of water from Papanasam, Servalar and Manimuthar reservoirs to sustain the crops irrigated by the 11 canals and also to meet the drinking water needs of the people," Palaniswami said in a release here. He urged farmers to use the water judiciously and obtain higher yields.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-chief-minister-orders-opening-of-three-dams-from-september-1-880156.html
30-08-2020||South||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan announces 100 projects in 100 days||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Sunday announced 100-day action plan aimed at commissioning 100 projects in 100 days. Enhancing the social security pension to 58 lakh people by Rs. 100 each, free essential commodities kit for four more months to the people in view of Covid-19, completion of 25,000 more houses for homeless and commissioning of schemes worth Rs. 28 crore at Sabarimala were among the schemes announced during the Onam festival of Kerala. The fresh popular announcements also assumed significance as Kerala would be heading for local body elections in few months time and the Assembly polls in eight months time. Announcing the schemes, Vijayan said that it was part of his government's emphasis on welfare and development over the last four years. The major achievement of the government was extending social security pensions to 23 lakh more people and taking the number of beneficiaries to 58 lakh from 35 lakh. The pension amount was also enhanced from Rs. 600 to Rs. 1,300 by this government and it was now being enhanced by Rs. 100 more. Moreover, the social security pensions were being disbursed with out dues, he said. Vijayan said that 153 family health centres would be inaugurated in the next 100 days time and 150 new courses would be stared at government and aided colleges. About 50,000 jobs would be created through new investments. Drinking water connection would be provided to 1.5 lakh consumers and 66 new tourism projects would be commissioned, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-chief-minister-pinarayi-vijayan-announces-100-projects-in-100-days-880157.html
30-08-2020||South||Doctor 'rapes' 28-year-old nurse in Telangana||A doctor has allegedly raped a 28 -year old nurse of a state-run hospital in Bhadradri- Kothagudem district in Telangana, police said on Sunday. In a complaint filed on Saturday, the nurse alleged the doctor, aged around 32 and working on contract basis at the hospital, raped her at her house on August 24, a police official said. The woman was also allegedly threatened and beaten up by the doctor, police said adding they have registered a case under relevant IPC sections against the doctor and investigations were on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/doctor-rapes-28-year-old-nurse-in-telangana-880167.html
30-08-2020||South||Pondy Health Minister cleans toilet in Covid-19 hospital after complaints of lack of maintenance||Puducherry Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao took it upon himself the task of cleaning a toilet in a government-run hospital here after complaints about its poor maintenance came to fore. The Minister who has been at the forefront in the fight against COVID-19 in the union territory had received complaints from relatives of COVID-19 patients that toilets in the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College (IGGMC) hospital in Kadirkamam were not clean. During his visit to the hospital accompanied by teams of Health department officials on Saturday, he saw for himself the poor maintenance and swung into action for a clean-up. The Minister wore personal protective equipment while doing the cleaning work. The video of him cleaning the toilet went viral on social media. He asked the sanitary workers to keep the premises clean. Seeing the Minister taking up cleaning work, one of the sanitary workers rushed towards him and requested him to hand over the brush to her as she would do the work. The IGGMC hospital is a facility designated by the ICMR to take care of coronavirus patients. Rao had been regularly visiting the hospital to ensure that there was no room for any deficiency in service. Earlier yesterday, Chief Minister V Narayanasamy praised Rao for his efforts to ensure that Puducherry was free from the pandemic at the earliest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pondy-health-minister-cleans-toilet-in-covid-19-hospital-after-complaints-of-lack-of-maintenance-880187.html
30-08-2020||South||'Chippiparai', Tamil Nadu's sprinter dog breed finds mention by Prime Minister||Tamil Nadu's native dog breed 'Chippiparai' that found a mention in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's 'Mann Ki Baat' radio address could run very fast and jump upto 10 feet at one go with ease. Besides it, all the three other Tamil Nadu breeds -- Kombai, Kanni and Rajapalayam -- are fearless and loyal to their masters, experts said. In an initiative to conserve the native dog breeds and to create awareness about them, Chippiparai, Kanni and Rajapalayam varieties were being reared here since last year by authorities of the Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (TANUVAS). "From the place it stands, Chippiparai could jump 10 feet quite easily and it could run really very fast. It is a tall androbust breed," Professor and Head, Department of Clinics, Veterinary College, TANUVAS, Namakkal, R Ezakial Napolean said. Kombai, is comparatively more intelligent and has a higher sense of smell, he told PTI. Mentioning about Indian dog breeds, the prime minister said they cost less to raise and are better adapted to the Indian environment and surroundings, adding that the security agencies had also been inducting these dogs. "Among the Indian breeds, Mudhol Hound and Himachali Hound are of excellent pedigree. Rajapalayam, Kanni, Chippiparai and Kombai are fabulous Indian breeds. They cost less to raise and are better adapted to the Indian environment and surroundings," Modi said. Other veterinary doctors, who too have a hands on experience in handling the native varieties in the state, said all the four breeds were highly usefuland dependable. These breeds, once used by royals and local chieftains for hunting and to help protectthem, were now being deployed by many farmers to guard their farms and all these breeds do not have much maintenance expenditure, they said. Of the four breeds, the number of Kombai dogs are "very low," one of the veterinarians said adding the three other varieties were found in many regions of the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/chippiparai-tamil-nadus-sprinter-dog-breed-finds-mention-by-prime-minister-880198.html
30-08-2020||State||SC to pronounce judgement for quota to in-service doctors in PG courses on Monday||The Supreme Court would on Monday pronounce its judgement on a plea to allow states to grant the benefit of reservation of seats to in-service doctors in Post Graduate degree courses. A five-judge Constitution bench of Justices Arun Mishra, Vineet Saran, Indira Banerjee, M R Shah and Aniruddha Bose would deliver the verdict on August 31 in a writ petition filed by Tamil Nadu Medical Officers Association and others. The top court had on July 14 reserved its judgement. The petitioners, including doctors from Kerala, Maharashtra and Haryana, contended giving reservation benefits would encourage those working in government hospitals and in rural areas. They challenged the validity of the Post Graduate Medical Education Regulations, 2000, framed by the Medical Council of India. Notably, 50% seats in PG diploma courses are reserved for medical officers in the government service but the MCI regulations barred it in PG degree courses. All the admission to PG degree courses are conducted through the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test and 50% seats are filled through all India quota and the remaining 50% from state quota. The petitioners pointed out the hardships faced by in-service candidates who were working around the clock for the benefit of the public and could hardly find time to update their knowledge and compete with the general merit candidate. They further contended that denying a separate channel of entry to the public sector or government doctors who served for years to under-privileged and under-served for the admission to PG Medical degree would discourage the motivated young medical graduates from taking up service. This could merely result in graduate doctors going for coaching classes for admission to the PG medical courses, in which case the whole public health care system serving the poorest of the poor population would suffer to a great extent. The Centre, as well as the MCI, opposed the plea, saying granting reservations or a separate source of entry for in-service candidates would directly impinge on the authority of MCI to coordinate and determine standards of medical education. The MCI regulation provided an incentive to in-service candidates at the rate of 10 % of the marks obtained, for each year of service in remote and/or difficult areas upto a maximum 30 % of the marks, in the NEET examination. On April 24, 2018, the top court had declined to pass any interim order in the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sc-to-pronounce-judgement-for-quota-to-in-service-doctors-in-pg-courses-on-monday-880121.html
30-08-2020||State||High dropouts dog Kasturba girls' schools||There are more than 2,000 vacant seats in the existing Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalayas (KGBV) in the state, the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD), has observed. According to a recent report of the MHRD's Project Approval Board, across the 144 Kasturba schools in Karnataka, there are 2,430 vacant seats. The KGBV schools are also seeing huge dropouts for classes 11 and 12.   These exclusive residential schools for girls were established with an intention to provide quality education to those belonging to disadvantaged groups. The KGBVs have classes 6 to 12. Girls who have dropped out of school before are admitted to KGBVs after putting them through bridge courses.  Speaking to DH, H E C Raghavendra, member of Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights, Ballari, who has worked extensively in rehabilitating children from distressed families, said there were infrastructure issues hindering enrollment. Hostels away from school For instance, majority of the schools in his district had classes only from 6-8 standard. For higher classes, the school and the hostel were in different places, leading to several girls dropping out, he pointed out. Misuse of rules "Parents hesitate to send their children if the school is far away. In some places, the facility is misused to allow those from influential backgrounds to seek admission. Hence, genuine stakeholders are losing out on opportunity," he said.  To check the dropout rate, the state government should ensure the implementation of the protocol under RTE rules, which stipulate that any child that drops out needs to be brought back to school within seven days of unexcused absence from school, activist Kathyayini Chamaraj, observed. Even though rules stipulate that the machinery to bring back the child should start working within the first few days of absence, they are not implemented effectively, she lamented.  However, K Raghavendra Bhat, who works as part of UNICEF child protection project, Koppal, said there was an overall improvement over the last two years. "There are some schools with problems, others are faring well. There has been a general improvement over the last two years, with the documentation process made flexible for admission. Several dropouts and rescued children have been enrolled," he said.   State Project Director of Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan, M Deepa, promised to look into the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/high-dropouts-dog-kasturba-girls-schools-880174.html
30-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Toy cluster at Koppala can generate 40,000 jobs in 5 yrs: B S Yediyurappa||India's 'first toy manufacturing cluster' to come up at Koppal has the potential to create 40,000 jobs in five years and attract over Rs 5,000 crore investment, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said here on Sunday. "In line with PM @narendramodi 's vision of #VocalForLocal & boosting toy manufacturing, Koppala will have India's first toy manufacturing cluster. With the eco-system to support toy cluster in place, this 400 acres SEZ will have top-class infra & generate 40,000 jobs in 5 years," Yediyurappa tweeted. The tweet by the Chief Minister came following Prime Minister Narendra Modi's address in his 'Mann Ki Baat' programme, pitching India to become the world's toy hub. Modi on Sunday said India has talent and ability to become a toy hub for the entire world and called upon startups to work towards realising this potential while being "vocal about local toys". He said the global toy industry is over Rs seven lakh crore, but India's share was very small, as he stressed on the need to work to increase it. The Karnataka government is inviting global toymakers to the "first of its kind" toy manufacturing cluster in India at Koppala and had recently held a webinar cum panel discussion with a panel of leading toys manufacturers. Karnataka is poised to emerge as a leading toy-making cluster in the country due to the robust ecosystem the state has created to support toy-making industries, the state government had recently said. It said, the state has supported and nurtured the setting up of Tool Manufacturing & precision engineering (TMTP), polymers manufacturing clusters Bengaluru, Dharwad, Tumkuru and Mysuru, robust design capacity and testing certification agencies in Bengaluru, Dharwad and Koppal and GTTC (Government Tool Room & Training Centre). With such a dedicated push by the government towards toy manufacturing, the state's toy industry has grown at a CAGR of 18 per cent (2010-17) and is expected to reach USD 310 million by 2023, it added. Karnataka is the third-largest market for toys in India (USD 159 million) 9.1 per cent of the national market.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/toy-cluster-at-koppala-can-generate-40000-jobs-in-5-yrs-b-s-yediyurappa-879999.html
30-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||CM BSY flags off Ro-Ro service on Karnataka-Maharashtra route||Moving goods between Karnataka and Maharashtra need not be a time-consuming task dependent on road traffic as the South Western Railway will transport the trucks on flat wagons starting from Sunday. Loaded trucks carried on flat wagons is named Roll-on/Roll off (Ro-Ro) service. Ro-Ro trains with a capacity to carry 42 loaded trucks (1260 tonnes) will commute between Nelamangala and Bale near Solapur, covering 682 km. The quick and reliable service is expected to benefit agriculture and industries. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will inaugurate the trail run between Nelamangala and Solapur (Bale), heralding a new era in logistics movement. "The trucks are loaded in godowns and markets and climb the railway wagons. Once reaching the end station, they will roll off and go to the destination to unload. The service is also eco-friendly as it reduces traffic congestion and increases the life-time of trucks," he said. One Ro-Ro train saves 9 to 10 litres of diesel, thereby reducing the cost of the transport. At the same time, the train transportation is seen as more reliable and timely. Yediyurappa further noted that the service will help in sending vegetables, coconut, agro and industrial products to Maharashtra and importing onion, pulses and other materials from the neighbouring state. "The APMC market in Nelamangala, industries in Peenya, Nelamangala and other areas will benefit from the service," he added. The SWR's project comes over 20 years after the Konkan Railway began carrying loaded trucks between Suratkal (Dakshina Kannada) and Goa, Mumbai. In April, the Railway Ministry notified the Karnataka-Maharashtra Ro-Ro service. Considering the restriction on passenger trains, the Railways has been giving emphasis to goods movement. Union Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi, Revenue Minister R Ashok, Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarakiholi and others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cm-bsy-flags-off-ro-ro-service-on-karnataka-maharashtra-route-880006.html
30-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka BJP chief Nalin Kateel tests positive for Covid-19||State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel has tested positive for Covid-19, joining a growing list of politicians from the state who have contracted the virus recently.  On Sunday, Kateel took to Twitter to announce the same. "I have undergone the Covid-19 test and the test report shows that I am Covid positive," he said. Even though he was asymptomatic, he was admitted to the hospital on precautionary grounds as advised by doctors, he stated while making an appeal to everyone who met him recently to be cautious of their health.  Kateel recently completed one year in office as the state BJP chief. Recently, KPCC chief D K Shivakumar had tested positive for the virus. Earlier this month, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and Health Minister B Sriramulu were among those from the ruling party who had tested positive for Covid-19 and recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-bjp-chief-nalin-kateel-tests-positive-for-covid-19-880038.html
30-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Unlock 4.0: Pubs, bars in Karnataka will be allowed to serve liquor from September||Bars, pubs, clubs and restaurants in Karnataka will be able to serve liquor from September 1, after five months of restriction on sales. Until now, shops were allowed only to sell takeaway. Confirming the same, Excise Minister H Nagesh said all the establishments will be allowed service of liquor, but with only 50 percent of their seating capacity. “They can fill only half their capacity. They have to maintain social distance and take other standard precautionary measures for Covid-19,” he said, adding that a detailed set of guidelines would be issued on Monday. The state government’s decision follows the Unlock 4.0 guidelines issued by the Centre on Saturday. After a complete shutdown of liquor sales in March following the first lockdown, the state government had opened partial sales of liquor in the beginning of May by allowing MRP outlets to open for takeaway. This was followed by permission for clubs, bars and restaurants to clear their stock, while later that month, pubs with RVB (Retail Vend of Beer) were also allowed to clear their stock. With restricted sales, the state has incurred an estimated loss of Rs 1435 crore till date, Nagesh added. “This is the estimated loss in comparison to the revenue generated at the same period last year. The losses would have crossed over Rs 3000 crore, if not for the state’s decision to allow takeaway of liquor,” according to the minister. The state government’s excise revenue target for the financial year 2020-21 is Rs 22,700 crore, as per the budget announcement this year. Meanwhile, even with the government permitting takeaway, there has only been marginal improvement of sales, said Bengaluru district Wine Merchants Association President Lokesh. The Association recently submitted a representation to the Chief Minister urging the state government to allow service of liquor. “The takeaway system was of no use for bars. People usually buy takeaway from retail stores. Most of the business flows into those stores. At least 600 bars in the district have not opened shops until now as there is no business. The state will accrue huge losses if this system is continued. We had sought permission for services at the earliest,” Lokesh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/unlock-40-pubs-bars-in-karnataka-will-be-allowed-to-serve-liquor-from-september-880078.html
30-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka has declared war against drugs, CCB looking into Kannada film industry links: Basavaraj Bommai||The Central Crime Branch police have been asked to look into alleged film industry links to drugs and the government was extending full cooperation to the Narcotics Control Bureau which recently busted a trafficking racket, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Sunday. Asserting that the state government has declared "a war" against drugs, he also said Kannada filmmaker and journalist Indrajit Lankesh has been asked to share information he has about his claim on Saturday that some actors were into drugs. Bommai noted that the NCB has arrested some people, including a woman, involved in synthetic drugs, and started investigations into the suspected involvement of some high profile personalities and film industry people. The state government was extending full cooperation to them, he told reporters in Hubballi. The NCB had on August 26 said some "prominent musicians and actors" in Karnataka are under its scanner after the drug trafficking racket was busted by the federal agency recently. The agency said it seized a large quantity of drugs, including 145 ecstasies or MDMA from an apartment here on August 21 and more pills and 180 LSD blots in follow up action. Three persons have been apprehended. Bommai said the Central Crime Branch (CCB) police have also conducted several raids and added that he has directed them to look into the alleged involvement of those from the film industry in drugs. "Indrajit Lankesh has made some statement in this regard. We have served him notice and called him to share the information that he has, based on which necessary action will be taken," he added. Lankesh had on Saturday claimed that a few film actors whom he knew were into drugs. "The drug network in sandalwood (Kannada film industry) is far and wide, Many young actors and actresses organise rave parties. I have heard many stories and also, I know many such incidents," he had told reporters. The Home Minister said whether it was the film industry or any other field, authorities were alert to both drug suppliers and consumers and would get to the root of the menace and stamp it out. "We have declared a war on drugs and it will continue... I have asked CCB to look into film industry connections if any, and they will work in this regard to find out the source of drug supply in the state. We are gathering information about supplies from domestic and international level as well," he said. He noted that the darknet was being used by those in the trade and consumers and it was difficult to get information from this medium on where and in what quantity supply takes place. He, however, claimed officials have been able to get a breakthrough. "Darknet also has other illegal activities like child pornography, prostitution, international arms and related transaction," he said. Karnataka DG and IGP Praveen Sood, speaking to reporters, noted that the raids have been conducted by the NCB and investigation was going on. The state police have conducted operations and have seized huge quantities of ganja, worth crores of rupees, he said. "We will take stringent action against drug dealers and consumers. Whether it is in schools and colleges or the general public or Sandalwood (Kannada film industry) no one should become victims or addicts to it," he added. On complaints that state police was only concentrating on ganja, the DGP said it comes to the notice of people because the seizures were in kilograms or quintals. Other drugs like heroin or morphine are sold in grams or milligrams and so the quantity seized would be less, he said, adding several seizures of these drugs have also been made. Meanwhile, senior Kannada actor Shiva Rajkumar said the truth about the alleged involvement of those from the film industry in drugs needs to come out. "...Truth has to come out...I'm not blaming anybody. So far I have not seen it (drugs) in our industry. But when things have come out, we cannot say outright that it is false unless we know about it. "When I saw it in the media reports, I got to know about the extent," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-has-declared-war-against-drugs-ccb-looking-into-kannada-film-industry-links-basavaraj-bommai-880122.html
30-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Konkani activist, writer Paul Moras passes away||Noted Konkani writer, activist, researcher and social worker Paul Moras died here Sunday after a brief illness, family sources said. Moras, 68, is survived by wife Juliet Moras, three sons and a daughter. Born on April 28, 1952, Moras rendered immense service to the Konkani community for the last three decades. He has published Konkani research volumes and several research articles and his books had been selected for higher studies in universities of Goa and Mangaluru. He was honoured with many literary awards including the Karnataka Konkani Sahitya Academy award and T M A Pai foundations best Konkani book award for his work Konkani Chalvoll. He had also won the district-level Rajyotsava Award. The funeral will be held on Monday, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/konkani-activist-writer-paul-moras-passes-away-880141.html
30-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's Covid-19 tally crosses 3.35 lakh-mark with 8,852 new cases||Karnataka on Sunday reported 8,852 new cases of Covid-19 and 106 related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 3,35,928 and the death toll to 5,589, the Health Department said. The day also saw 7,101 patients getting discharged after recovery. Out of 8,852 fresh cases reported on Sunday, 2,821 cases were from Bengaluru urban alone. As of August 30 evening, cumulatively 3,35,928 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 5,589 deaths and 2,42,229 discharges, the Health Department said in its bulletin. It said, out of 88,091 active cases, 87,361 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 730 are in ICU. As many as 27 of the 106 deaths reported on Sunday are from Bengaluru Urban, followed by Mysuru (11), Dharwad (9), Dakshina Kannada (6), Shivamogga (5), Belagavi, Davangre, Vijayapura (4), Ballari, Gadag, Haveri and Koppal (3). Most of the dead were either with a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Influenza-like illness (ILI). Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 2,821, followed by Mysuru (734), Ballari (428), Davangere (373), Belagavi (357), Dakshina Kannada (334), Tumakuru (314) and Dharwad (300). Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 1,27,263 infections, followed by Ballari (20,976) and Mysuru (17,544). Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with a total of 87,621, followed by Ballari (15,394) and Mysuru (12,385). A total of 28,52,675 samples were tested so far, out of which 66,957 were tested on Sunday alone. Among the samples tested today 26,176 were rapid antigen tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-covid-19-tally-crosses-335-lakh-mark-with-8852-new-cases-880144.html
30-08-2020||West||Band artistes look for work on last Ganesh immersion day in Maharashtra||Band artistes, who did not get any orders this summer due to restrictions on weddings in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, are now hopeful of revival of their business during the culmination of the Ganesh festival on Tuesday. After the lockdown came into force in March, many band artistes in Maharashtra's Aurangabad and Nanded districts had to leave their profession as they did not get any bookings for playing instruments since people cancelled or postponed wedding ceremonies in the last few months. But, they are now expecting some bookings during the immersion of idols, marking the conclusion of the 10-day Ganesh festival, on 'Anant Chaturdashi'. "Marriages generally take place every year between March and May, and between November (after Diwali) and January. This year half of our season went with almost zero earnings as weddings were cancelled due to lockdown," Aurangabad-based brass band player Nisar Qureshi told PTI. "Though big processions are not permitted on the last day of immersion of Ganesh idols, we still expect some orders for playing music," said Qureshi, whose four generations were in the same profession. He said the current situation came as a shock to him as he never experienced such a crisis in his life. "I have nearly 20 people dependent on my business and everyone has a family. Of late, we have had no practice sessions as nobody is calling us to play the band. Many of my team members are now working as farm or construction labourers, while some are selling vegetables," he said. Another band artiste Ashok More said every year they even used to get orders from other cities, but this time not a single order has come their way. "There are nearly 50 brass band teams in Aurangabad and about 10 of them have decided to leave this profession due to their debts. The government should help us," he said. More said the education of their children has also been affected as they cannot afford smartphones for every child at home for their online classes. "There are numerous issues now," he rued. More said they are planning to hold an agitation on Wednesday to make the government aware about their problems. Shankar Jogdand, a band artist from neighbouring Nanded, said his shop is locked since the last six months but he is still paying its rent of Rs 2,000 and electricity bill of Rs 400 every month. "My 20 team members are finding it difficult to survive. Everyone is looking for some other way of earning their livelihood. Many of them have chosen to work in farms. We never thought of any other work earlier," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/band-artistes-look-for-work-on-last-ganesh-immersion-day-in-maharashtra-879909.html
30-08-2020||West||Nitin Gadkari inaugurates major road projects in Maharashtra's Gadchiroli||In a major infrastructure boost in the Naxalite-affected Gadchiroli district of Maharashtra, three important bridges and two road improvement projects that would enhance connectivity between Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh and Telangana. The projects would go a long way in controlling the Left Wing Extremism in the area. The projects inaugurated on Sunday were: an 855-metre major bridge across Pranahita river on Nizamabad – Jagdalpur Road (NH 63) at a cost of Rs 168 crores,  630 metre high level bridge across the Indravati River near Patagudam on Nizamabad – Jagdalpur Road (NH 63) at a cost of Rs 248 crores, 30-metre high-level bridge near Lankachen on Bejurpalli – Aheri Road, improvement of Bejurpalli-Aheri Road (SH 275) between Watra and Moyabinpeta and the Garanji – Pustola Road. Union Minister for Road Transport & Highways Nitin Gadkari inaugurated through video link along with Minister of State for Road Transport and Highways Gen (Retd) VK Singh and Maharashtra Public Works Minister Ashok Chavan. Speaking on the occasion, Gadkari said with the construction of these key bridges, the National Highway connectivity in Maharashtra-Chhattisgarh –Telangana is complete now. “This is a dream which has come true after nearly 25 years, when it was conceived when I was a Minister in Maharashtra,” he said. “The all-weather road network in far-flung areas of Naxal affected districts like Gadchiroli will improve the socio-economic development in the region and in upcoming two years or so the Gadchiroli district will see an all-round transformation,” Gadkari said. Gen Singh complimented the completion of developmental Road projects in the area, and said, this will go a long way in mainstreaming of people living in Left Wing Extremism areas. “With more and more infra projects coming up in these areas, the extremism is coming down gradually,” he said. Minister wholeheartedly complimented the engineers and contractors who completed the construction of bridges in Gadchiroli, despite the fear of Naxals. He informed that the bridge across the Indravati river was completed under very trying and war-like conditions. A police station had to be set up in order to help construct the bridge. Gadkari also laid the foundation stones for 4 major bridges on Perimilli, Bandiya, Pearikota and Waingagana River in the district. The existing bridges across these rivers are narrow and often get submerged during monsoons. The bridge across the Wainganga River of approximately 825 meters will improve the connectivity between Gadchiroli and Chandrapur District. The Minister also asked NHAI officials to utilize the saved amount of Rs 50 crore during the works of Major bridges to construct 14 minor bridges  and ensure seamless transportation in otherwise inaccessible areas of Gadchiroli. Gadkari also promised to approve the 35 km road development between Alapalli – Bamragarh this year and the remaining 65 kms in the next financial year. The Minister also sought the state Government’s nod to connecting Desaiganj – Brahmapuri with Nagpur under the Broad Gauge Metro connectivity plan, which would reduce the travel time to 75 minutes from the current two-and-a-half-hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nitin-gadkari-inaugurates-major-road-projects-in-maharashtras-gadchiroli-880040.html
30-08-2020||West||Maharashtra minister Eknath Shinde condemns lathi-charge on Marathi people in Karnataka||Maharashtra Urban Development Minister Eknath Shinde has condemned the August 28 lathi-charge by police on Marathi-speaking people in Belagavi district in neighbouring Karnataka and demanded action. The incident had occurred in Peeranwadi village when a section of people objected to the installation of a statue of an 18th-century warrior and freedom fighter Sangolli Rayanna. They were opposed to the location where they wanted to install a statue of Maratha ruler Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. Police had resorted to lathi-charge to bring the situation under control. In a letter dated August 28 addressed to Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, Shinde, who is Coordination Minister for matters related to the Karnataka-Maharashtra boundary dispute, stated that Rayanna's statue was being erected in front of the statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. "Marathi-speaking people are not opposed to installing the statue of the freedom fighter. But the statue (of Rayanna) is being deliberately erected close to the statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. A demand was also made to rename Shivaji Maharaj Chowk where the statue stands," the Shiv Sena leader said. Shinde said the statue move was a deliberate attempt to create a Marathi-Kannada conflict. "When Marathi-speaking people were protesting, they were brutally lathi-charged by the police," he stated. Earlier, tension had prevailed in Mangutti village in Karnataka after the statue of the Maratha warrior king was removed. "The Karnataka government should take action in this regard and ensure there is no Marathi-Kannada conflict," Shinde added. Maharashtra and Karnataka have been locked in a bitter boundary dispute for decades, with the former demanding that villages with Marathi-speaking population in the southern state be merged with it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-minister-eknath-shinde-condemns-lathi-charge-on-marathi-people-in-karnataka-880045.html
30-08-2020||West||Maharashtra: Heavy rains pound parts of Nagpur, over 14,000 evacuated||More than 14,000 people were evacuated after torrential rains over the past two days triggered flooding in several tehsils of Nagpur district of Maharashtra, officials said on Sunday. Mouda, Kamptee, Parseoni and Kuhi were the worst affected tehsils, and the administration had to call in the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and the Army to rescue people at some places, they said. Besides Nagpur, several villages in neighbouring Gadchiroli district also witnessed flooding in some parts following heavy rains, officials said. "Till Sunday noon, 14,234 people were evacuated from 36 affected villages in Nagpur district as an incessant downpour in the last two days resulted in the flow of water from dams and rivers," Nagpur district collector Ravindra Thakre said in a statement. Nagpur district on Saturday registered 81.43 mm rainfall, he said. Due to heavy rains, nine villages in Mouda tehsil were flooded, from where 1,568 people were moved to a safer place by the State Disaster Response Team (SDRF) and the NDRF on Saturday. Similarly, eight villages in Kamptee tehsil were hit by rains and 620 people were shifted to safer places the rescue teams on Saturday. Defence spokesperson Basantkumar Pande said that as per the request made by the district administration, Army was deployed for assistance in the submerged areas of Kuhi. "UMANG Sub Area pressed into service two columns overnight for rescue and relief operations. With the unprecedented rains and resultant heavy flow of water in various rivers, a number of areas in Nagpur district have been inundated," he said in a statement. "The Army columns will be assisting the administration in rescuing villagers stranded in submerged areas of Kuhi and the surrounding places, and also help in restoring normalcy in these inundated areas," he added. The District Information Office of Gadchiroli said that 52 families have evacuated from the flooded parts of Desaiganj tehsil in the district on Saturday. Connectivity of five main roads was snapped due to excess water flowing from the Gosikhurd dam in Bhandara district, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-heavy-rains-pound-parts-of-nagpur-over-14000-evacuated-880047.html
30-08-2020||West||2 labourers killed after marble slabs fall on them at IIT Bombay||Two labourers were killed and another one was injured after some heavy marble slabs fell on them while being unloaded from a truck at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Bombay on Sunday afternoon, police said. The marble slabs, each weighing around 100 kg, were brought for some renovation work going on in the institute located in Powai area, senior police inspector Vijay Dalvi said. "While the labourers were unloading the slabs from a truck, they lost their balance and six slabs fell on them," he said. The victims were taken to the institute's hospital where Mahaveer Yadav (21) and Dinesh Jahangir (42), both hailing from Pune, were declared dead, the official said. The injured labourer was undergoing treatment at the institute's hospital and his condition was reported to be out of danger, he said. An Accidental Death Report (ADR) has been registered, he said, adding that a case may be registered against the contractor if any negligence is found.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/2-labourers-killed-after-marble-slabs-fall-on-them-at-iit-bombay-880052.html
30-08-2020||West||Rhea Chakraborty grilled again, Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister Meetu to be called now||With three rounds of intense grilling sessions of actor-model Rhea Chakraborty, the live-in partner of Sushant Singh Rajput, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) will now call his sister Meetu Singh to seek her version on the timeline of events. The 28-year-old Rhea has been blamed by Sushant’s father Krishna Kishore Singh and his sisters for the death of the actor. The testimony of Meetu is going to be important in joining the dots of what happened over days in the duplex flat at Mount Blanc building at Carter Road at Bandra in Mumbai. Sushant was found dead on 14 June, and more than two-and-a-half month has passed by but the cause is yet to be established.   The statement of Meetu has earlier been recorded by Mumbai police’s Bandra police station when it made inquiries under Section 174 CrPC after registration of accidental death report (ADR) and the Enforcement Directorate registered an enforcement case information report (ECIR). From the statement of Sushant’s flatmate and creative art designer Siddharth Pithani it has been established that Rhea left on 8 June and Meetu came to stay with her brother on that day. Meetu left on 12 June evening. Rhea too has said that it was Sushant who had asked her to leave on 8 June because of some health issues. She had even claimed that on an earlier occasion too Sushant had asked her to leave which she did but the actor called her back the next day. This time, he did not do so and she blocked his number. Rhea has also claimed that Meetu should be able to tell what happened between 8-14 June. On Sunday, Rhea was grilled for the third consecutive day and her brother Showik for the fourth day. Sushant’s former business manager Shruti Modi was also called the CBI office – to corroborate the statements that she had given to ED earlier. The statements of Rhea and what Meetu would speak would be matched with the testimony of Pithani, who was along with Sushant in the last few hours, and was the first to see Sushant hanging and lowering his body. It was Pithani who called Meetu to inform her about Sushant found hanging from the ceiling fan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rhea-chakraborty-grilled-again-sushant-singh-rajput-s-sister-meetu-to-be-called-now-880143.html
30-08-2020||West||Maharashtra's Covid-19 tally reaches 7.8 lakh with 16,408 cases||The death of 296 patients during the day pushed the fatality count to 24,399, it said. As many as 7,690 patients were discharged on Sunday following recovery, it added. With this, the number of recovered patients has gone up to 5,62,401. The state's recovery rate is 72.04 per cent and the fatality rate is 3.13 per cent. So far, 40,84,754 people have been tested across the state. There are 1,93,548 active cases in the state at present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-covid-19-tally-reaches-78-lakh-with-16408-cases-880169.html
30-08-2020||West||Police gear up to prevent protest in temple town Pandharpur||Barricades have been put up in Pandharpur town in Solapur district of Maharashtra to prevent members of the Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi (VBA) and Warkaris from holding any protest on Monday for reopening of the famous temple of Lord Vitthal, police said on Sunday. The VBA, led by Prakash Ambedkar, had supported the demand of the Vishwa Warkari Sena (VWS), an outfit of devotees of Lord Vitthal, to reopen the temple, which has been shut due to Covid-19 restrictions. The VWS had given a memorandum to Solapur district administration demanding that all temples be reopened in Maharashtra and warned of a protest on August 31. "In view of the agitation called by VBA and VWS in Pandharpur, we have barricaded roads leading to Pandharpur and to the temple," said Atul Zene, Additional Superintendent of Police, Solapur. He said 400 police personnel have been deployed and nakabadi checking is underway. "We are taking all precautions to ensure that there is no spread of coronavirus during the agitation," the ASP said. He said district officials have been conducting meetings with various bodies of warkaris to dissuade them from going ahead with the agitation. Another senior police officer said notices have been served to members of the VBA and other outfits under section 149 of CrPC (for prevention of cognisable offences).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/police-gear-up-to-prevent-protest-in-temple-town-pandharpur-880217.html
