31-08-2020||First Edit||Internal quota may lead to injustice||The ruling by a five-judge bench of the Supreme Court that states can go in for sub-categorisation of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (SCs and STs) for reservations has reopened the issue of unequal benefits from the reservation system for its beneficiaries. The bench has ruled that giving preferential treatment to some sections among SCs and STs can help ensure equal representation for all of them. But the judgement goes against a ruling given by another five-judge bench of the court in 2004 which had disfavoured creation of sub-categories within the SC, ST categories. The 2004 ruling had held that all SCs and STs must collectively enjoy the benefits, and that the states cannot tamper with the list. Since the two rulings are contradictory, the matter has now been referred to a seven-judge bench of the court which will give a final ruling. It is true that some castes have gained more from reservations over the years than others, and so the demand for preferential treatment to those that did not advance as much as others has gained strength. The latest ruling said that there is the need to adopt “a distributive justice method so that state largesse does not concentrate in a few hands’’. There is logic in the argument that a system that was intended to bring up the weakest sections of society should not lead to creation of inequalities among those sections. The proposal for a “quota within quota’’ has its basis in this. The Supreme Court has in fact accepted the idea of a “creamy layer’’ among the SCs and the STs in a 2018 judgement. Studies and reports of commissions have underlined the existence of inequalities, and some states like Punjab and Andhra Pradesh have tried to address the problem by dividing SCs and STs into sub-groups and parcelling out reservations among them. But this has not found favour with the courts in the past. Though there is merit in the idea that all sections among SCs and STs should get equal justice, its implementation may not be easy. There is no study of the relative backwardness and positions in terms of employment of different SC, ST sub-groups. The 2005 judgement had said that backwardness should not be a criterion because reservation is based on untouchability and not social and educational backwardness. There is also the danger of political and electoral considerations influencing the classification of SC and STs into sub-groups for division of the quota. Some states have tried to include or exclude castes on such considerations. This can cause injustice of a different kind to some sections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/internal-quota-may-lead-to-injustice-880266.html
31-08-2020||First Edit||Pranab Mukherjee: A statesman of the coalition era||Pranab Mukherjee held most of the important government positions in the country, including the most exalted one of the President, though many people and perhaps he himself thought that he was eminently suitable for the most important of them, which is the office of the Prime Minister. There were other leaders, too, who were eligible to become PM but did not. But Mukherjee, like another leader from Bengal, came close to it but did not make it. That did not diminish him but added to his image. He was commerce minister, finance minister, defence minister, external affairs minister and a minister without portfolio at different times, and also held other positions. That shows the range and diversity that his mind had. He was considered most suitable for all of the positions and was, in fact, the master of the remit in every one of them, though there could be differences of opinion over the merits of some of the decisions he made and the policies he adopted in those positions.     He was also a teacher, a scholar, a journalist and an able parliamentarian. Persons with multiple tastes and talents are a disappearing breed now, especially among politicians. Mukherjee had a prodigious intellect and information and, importantly, control over the information. He could use these gifts to make an impact on the ministerial and other official positions he held and to make a success of the political missions he often had to undertake, mainly towards the end of his political career. He was often the trouble-shooter for the Congress party in dealing with its allies and with recalcitrant leaders. He had the right mind and abilities of a coalition person in a coalition era, who could make a compromise out of difficult and conflicting positions and situations. That ability comes not just from shrewdness and negotiating skills but from a state of mind that looks for agreement in disagreement, amiability in hostility and consensus over divisions.  That made him grow into a statesman through his long career. He was the quintessential Congressman but did not have any conflict with the BJP government, which came to respect him and even consulted him. He did not compromise on his values, beliefs and positions and stuck to them, and was not shy of asserting them within the framework of the powers of the President. He had the best relations with the government and had friends in all parties. It is a measure of his acceptability and stature that the BJP government honoured him with the country's highest civilian award of Bharat Ratna. The country will be the poorer for his absence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/pranab-mukherjee-a-statesman-of-the-coalition-era-880704.html
31-08-2020||In Perspective||Celebrate public holidays meaningfully||The purpose of special holidays in memory of great personalities who have been the milestones of our history and culture is to pay tribute to their contributions and inspire the present generation. They are annual reminders to rededicate ourselves to their moral values and cultural legacies. Although such holidays were celebrated in our educational institutions with reverence and involvement in the early decades after independence, it has receded into background in the recent years. It is uncertain how this unfortunate slide has happened but its impact on the future generations is hugely felt by all right-thinking academicians and educationists. It is therefore time for a critical review of the ways that the special purpose holidays are being celebrated in educational institutions and suggest curative measures to bring back this moral component to fulfil both individual and institutional social responsibilities. In this article, I will first provide a general view of time usage on special holidays by the higher education institutions and thereafter suggest curative measures in terms of policy tweaks, responsibilities of the stakeholders and a performance framework for their meaningful celebration. The Karnataka government has declared many special holidays in memory of Basava, Kanakadasa, Valmiki and Mahaveera to pay tribute to great sons of this soil whose sacrifices, contributions and inspiring messages are relevant through generations, past, present and future. As a student of St Joseph’s college in 1970s, I recall that Nehru’s Discovery of India was prescribed as a non-detailed text. Similar inspirational measures were also part of other government institutions too. About 50 years ago, in government schools, inspiring quotes from history, freedom struggle, messages of peace and harmony were inscribed on the walls so that the students would enter the school in an ambience of ethical values. When I was a student of National High School, Bangalore, a selected passage from Bhagavad Gita was a part of regular prayer. In addition, selected quotes of Gandhi, Ambedkar and Vivekananda, and similar practices in other education institutions provided a culture to promote social leadership through moral education. In recent times, however, such institutional social responsibilities seem to have vanished. On special holidays, colleges/institutions greet visitors with closed doors with no student or staff available except the watchman. If at all held, only the officials in responsible positions and a few of the staff and students from NSS and sports are in attendance. The icons of sacrifices who have built our democratic and social fabric such as Independence Day, Republic Day, Gandhi Jayanthi and Ambedkar Jayanthi deserve grateful tributes. A small number of institutions and schools have still kept the flame alive, kindling hopes of reinventing the glorious past. Taking an optimistic note, the indifference need not be interpreted as total absence of appreciation on the part of stakeholders, particularly the youth who lack guidance and awareness. A robust institutional mechanism to galvanise their innate dedication, sincerity and a sense national and cultural pride needs to be put in place. To inject meaning into celebration of public holidays, one basic requirement is to first bring all the major stakeholders in education – government, institution and the students – to come on the same page. The government as a regulatory stakeholder should provide guidelines, specifying the procedures for celebrating special holidays. The institutions on their part shall translate these guidelines into live programmes to fulfil the purpose of special holidays. Academic Councils and faculties of universities and autonomous colleges have key roles to play by orienting the Boards of Studies to provide due space for value education in the non-core (non-detailed studies of yester years) component. Arranging invited lectures from eminent scholars and cultural events would seem appropriate. Essay writing Organising thematic essay writing and debate competitions by universities with prizes distributed by the vice-chancellors would expand the functional framework in a meaningful way. In such a congenial atmosphere, students would willingly participate to complete the functional loop. Once we restart inculcating basic ethics/morals at the primary level and re-stabilise it at the secondary level, students can easily walk the other professional dimensions - be it business, research, sports, civil services, public life or any other field on their own. Building a knowledge society on a robust moral foundation is a fundamental duty of the state. For this purpose, the special purpose holidays need to be taken to the next logical level of affirmative action. In this context, special holidays could be utilised as an interface between the government and the other stakeholders. The National Education Policy 2020 also emphasises inculcating moral and ethical values as a significant component of the holistic education - “Value-based education should include developing humanistic, ethical, oral and universal human values of truth (satya), peace (shanti), non-violence (ahimsa), righteous conduct (dharma) and love (prem) and citizenship values. Lessons in seva/service and participation in community service programmes will also be considered an integral part of holistic education”. The key is to attractively depict the central part played by great persons on whose shoulders one can clearly view of the glorious past of our country intertwined with a splendid future at the national and global levels (Einstein revisited). Once this is appropriately accomplished, I am optimistic that the youth who are generally more idealistic would seize the opportunity to create their own stories of success. Ultimately, it is bound to be the success story of the state and the country too. (The writer is Adviser, Education Reforms, Government of Karnataka, and Chancellor, PES University, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/celebrate-public-holidays-meaningfully-880269.html
31-08-2020||In Perspective||Refine land acquisition process to unclog courts||The debate over the recent Karnataka Land Reforms (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, has brought into focus the contestations over land in rural societies. Conflicts over land form a large proportion of civil litigation in India. DAKSH’s ‘Access to Justice’ survey in 2017 showed that 29.3% of civil disputes concerned land and property. Apart from disputes between private parties over inheritance, encroachment and eviction, there is widespread litigation over the compulsory acquisition of land by the state. DAKSH conducted a study of land acquisition litigation in six districts and the High Courts of two states, Maharashtra and Karnataka, between 2008 and 2018 to understand the nature and causes of such litigation. These cases relate both to the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (‘1894 Act’) before 2013 and the new Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013 (‘2013 Act’). At district court level, data was scraped from the eCourts website and at High Court level, data was scraped from the respective court websites. Pendency of cases In the selected districts of Maharashtra, Amravati, Beed and Raigad, land acquisition cases on average remained pending between 1,516 days and 2,462 days. In Amravati and Beed, execution cases in land acquisition took inordinately long to get disposed. Execution cases in this context would usually be for the payment of the compensation amount. This, in effect, adds to the time the litigant needs to wait for the closure of a case.  These delays in execution indicate serious flaws in the administration of the process, especially the payment of compensation by the State. If the State takes 1,424 days to merely pay money to a person whose land has been acquired, it points to a severe lack of planning in the executive processes. Such lethargy needs to be remedied by the enforcement of timelines and protocols to fix accountability. In Bengaluru Rural, Mysuru and Kalaburagi in Karnataka, land acquisition cases remained pending between 729 days and 4,038 days. In Mysuru and Kalaburagi, the large volume of appeal cases before the district courts indicates a general proclivity to appeal in the expectation of higher compensation or perception in the minds of parties that they have not been treated fairly. This tendency to appeal persists despite the prospect of the case being pending for years on end, indicating that the perceived benefits of a favourable order from the appellate court far outweigh the transaction costs of the litigants in terms of time, effort and money. Challenges in High Courts Cases involving a challenge to compensation constituted 52.9% and 51% of the land acquisition litigation before the Bombay and Karnataka High Courts, respectively. Among the cases challenging compensation, reference courts (district courts hearing appeals from the decision of the land acquisition officer) have almost always enhanced compensation owed to landowners. Despite the increase in compensation by the reference courts, people still approached High Courts, seeking a further increase in compensation. Among these cases, the Bombay High Court enhanced compensation in 46.8% of the cases and the Karnataka High Court did so in 41% of the cases. It would be fair to conclude that inadequate compensation coupled with a trend of courts increasing compensation incentivised landowners to litigate. The other major reason for litigation at the level of the High Court is procedural irregularities. The most common procedural irregularities alleged in both High Courts were related to the preliminary notification of acquisition, declaration of public purpose and invocation of the urgency provision. These echo one of the major criticisms of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, which is that of unbridled executive discretion. This kind of discretion led to a lot of room for arbitrary actions, various interpretations of statutory provisions and hence created fertile ground for litigation. The 2013 Land Acquisition Act has altered the legal regime governing land acquisition considerably. It has reduced executive discretion to determine compensation and has delineated the ambit of ‘urgency’ and ‘public purpose’. However, the new provisions relating to compensation, social impact assessment, rehabilitation and resettlement still leave scope for executive discretion and hence possibility of protracted litigation. Toward an efficient system The analysis of High Court orders and judgements revealed that the most common purpose for which land was acquired was for hydroelectric and irrigation projects. To solve these issues of land acquisition, state governments need to create guidelines and set up protocols that narrow the scope of executive discretion and hence create more equitable outcomes for all parties concerned. It would be useful to have nodal officers at the department-level to avoid and contain litigation. The 2013 Act has also ousted the jurisdiction of district courts over land acquisition matters and references from Collectors’ awards now lie with an authority to be created under the new Act. However, several states are also yet to establish these authorities even seven years after they were mandated to be set up. In order to ensure effective implementation, it is imperative that state governments issue guidelines on implementation and establish these authorities for the adjudication of land acquisition disputes.  Any changes in land laws will fall short on expectations unless the basic infrastructure for dispute prevention and resolution is in place. States would do well to deliver on the promise of the 2013 Act, not only to ease the land acquisition process but to free up Indian courts of long-drawn disputes that arise out of these transactions. (The writer is Research Manager, DAKSH, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/refine-land-acquisition-process-to-unclog-courts-880707.html
31-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||MITE inks MoU with National Highways Authority of India||Mangaluru, DHNS: Mangalore Institute of Technology and Engineering (MITE) Moodbidri has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). With this agreement, NHAI will provide the list of potential National Highway stretches to the Civil Engineering Department at MITE, which will facilitate the implementation of the project by providing relevant data through field office/consultant/concessionaire/contractor in the project and will also have an officer as a point of contact. As a part of road infrastructure in the country, NHAI is providing an opportunity to faculty, researchers and engineering students to improve existing NH roads near to the institute (NH-169) by conducting periodic detailed investigations, suggestions and feedbacks by preparing detailed reports on NH roads. In order to bridge the gap between industry and the institute, NHAI will provide internships with a stipend to selected students, which will be decided mutually between the institute and NHAI. “Our institute may provide consultancy services during conceptualisation, design and project preparation stages and can also suggest innovative technologies based upon site, topography for better socio-economic outcomes. NHAI may support to develop laboratory infrastructure in our institute and they are also interested to sponsor relevant research projects which will help as an alternative resource material during construction of roads. In addition, NHAI is also having concern to few areas like improvement in safety provision, improvement in continual maintenance of stretch using new technologies, localised solutions for removal of traffic congestion thereby increasing the average speed of traffic flow, improvements in the riding comforts through cost-effective measures based on the innovative technologies on practices applicable in the local area,” said a release from MITE. Viability of new wayside amenities for road user based on the existing traffic pattern and user expectations and also potential solutions to old/recurring problems based on local experience etc can be provided from Civil Engineering Department of MITE. The agreement with NHAI, India will boost the mission in grooming young minds and turn them into professionals with high intellectual capabilities and a strong technical background.  The civil engineering department is actively involved in many of the projects in the region like geotechnical and structural design consultancy services for Urban Water Supply and Drainage Board, Government of Karnataka; for the construction of abutment and wing wall for vented dam across Netravathi River, Dharmasthala; geotechnical investigation for the proposed construction of water treatment plant near Haladi, Udupi district; geotechnical investigation for the proposed construction of overhead tank at Udupi; structural design consultancy services for the design of roofing for elephant house at Shree Durgaparameshwari Temple, Kateel and many more consultancy services are provided including material testing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mite-inks-mou-with-national-highways-authority-of-india-880315.html
31-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||334 new Covid-19 cases reported in Dakshina Kannada||The Covid-19 graph in Dakshina Kannada continued to head north with the district administration recording 334 new cases on Sunday. Of the new cases, 68 are contacts of already infected people, while 138 with ILI symptoms have been tested positive. The contact tracing of 112 infected is underway and 16 infected were suffering from SARI, said Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V. Among the infected, 165 are asymptomatic and 169 are symptomatic. Mangaluru recorded the highest number of cases with 191, followed by 78 in Bantwal, 20 each in Puttur and Belthangady, 19 from other districts and six from Sullia. Sunday saw 213 recovered people discharged from hospitals, Covid care centres and from home isolation. The district has 2,665 active cases undergoing treatment. On the other hand, six more fatalities have been recorded in the district, taking the total tally to 356. Of the deaths, two each were from Mangaluru, Bantwal and other districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/334-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-dakshina-kannada-880317.html
31-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Elephant menace bedevils farmers in Periyashanthi||A herd of four elephants from Periyashanthi and Mannagundi Reserve Forest have been causing extensive damage to crops in Kaukradi, Bhoothaladka, Honnajalu, Aanadka, Mannagundi and surrounding areas. Arecanut, banana and paddy fields have been trampled upon by the herd of elephants. Farmers Honnappa, Prasanna, Hariappa and others said that the menace has been on the rise in the last one month. “We had replanted at the place where elephants had damaged crops in the past. The four elephants have been giving us sleepless night,” they said. Dhananjay, another farmer, said, “Owing to Covid-19, we carried out farming with great difficulty. The herds have damaged the entire crop.” Ranjith, another victim, said a lone tusker was creating ruckus all these days. Now, four elephants are engaged in the destruction. In spite of complaints, no measures have been initiated to chase the elephants. “We are scared to come out of the house in the night fearing elephant attack. The forest department officials have given us a few crackers to burst to chase elephants,” said Naushad, another resident. Fear has gripped the motorists travelling on the highway. The elephants that cross the road at night are a menace for drivers. Though the officials had constructed trenches to check the elephants from straying into the villages, the trenches have been damaged by the elephants. DCF Karikalan said, “We have considered the elephant menace in the area seriously. The issue was discussed in a meeting chaired by the district in-charge minister. A master plan had been prepared and sent to the government for approval.” He said the department will give permission to lay solar fences in the areas where the elephants enter the plantations. The financial assistance will also be given by the department. Measures will be taken to provide compensation for the loss of crops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/elephant-menace-bedevils-farmers-in-periyashanthi-880322.html
31-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Gang under influence of ganja stabs man for money||A gang of three persons under the influence of ganja, stabbed a man to rob him at Maragowdanahalli, under Jayapura Police station limits. The victim was identified as Prasanna. The trio waylaid Prasanna who was going to Maragowdanahalli and demanded money from . One of the accused stabbed him in his stomach and fled the spot.  According to the Police, the trio was under the influence of ganja and attacked him for money. Prasanna was rushed to KR Hospital where he is undergoing treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/gang-under-influence-of-ganja-stabs-man-for-money-880374.html
31-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Police constable dies of Covid-19 in Chamarajanagar||Another police constable died due to Covid-19 on Monday. The deceased was identified as 46-year-old Suresh. He was admitted to a private hospital on August 14. Suresh was working with Gundlupet police station in Chamarajanagar district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/police-constable-dies-of-covid-19-in-chamarajanagar-880410.html
31-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Rising crime in Hassan; police intensify night patrolling||With the crime rate on the rise in Hassan district, the police have intensified the night patrol system. It may be mentioned that an old couple was smothered to death for gains at Channarayapatna taluk on Saturday night. A beggar woman, bludgeoned to death and raped, captured on the CCTV camera, had shocked the people of the district. Following a series of crimes across the district, the police have intensified the night patrolling system. The people moving on the roads in a suspicious manner after 10 pm are stopped and inquired. If necessary, they are taken to the police station for further inquiry. According to police, youths have turned into robbery for easy money, due to Covid-19 crisis. Many youths had returned to their native places from other states and districts due to the Covid-19 pandemic, but were not able to find jobs. Many have confessed that they got into robbery to earn money as they could not find jobs, said police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rising-crime-in-hassan-police-intensify-night-patrolling-880474.html
31-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Heavy rain likely in parts of Karnataka this week||Heavy rain will continue in parts of south interior Karnataka during the course of the week as monsoon has strengthened again. According to the Meteorological Department, “rainfall intensity over peninsular India is very likely to increase from September 1, resulting in isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall in parts of Karnataka. Orange alert for very heavy rainfall (between 115.6 mm to 204.4 mm) is issued for districts in south interior Karnataka and Malnad region for September 3 and 4.” Yellow alert for heavy rainfall (64.5 mm to 115.5 mm) on September 2 was also issued for coastal and south interior Karnataka region. S S M Gavaskar, junior scientific officer, Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre, told DH that monsoon is expected to revive again, resulting in widespread rainfall across the state. “Three to four days after monsoon conditions improve in south interior Karnataka, similar conditions are likely in north interior and coastal Karnataka,” he said. According to extended range models of the Indian Meteorological Department, Karnataka is expected to receive rainfall slightly above the normal during September, with favourable monsoon conditions forecast till September 24.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/heavy-rain-likely-in-parts-of-karnataka-this-week-880638.html
31-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka High Court relaxes rules for filing petitions||The Karnataka High Court has waived several clauses in office objections raised by the registry in the process of filing of the petitions in order to avoid delay. The order will be in effect for pending petitions filed after March 21. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka passed the order in a suo motu petition. The bench said the waiving of several objections will benefit 7,000 cases pending for rectification of office objections. Of the 7,000 cases, 6,000 are pending before the principal bench at Bengaluru alone. The bench also stated that the time granted for rectification of objections shall be extended till September 30, 2020. The bench stated that the waiver will not be applicable to objections such as court fee not paid or paid insufficiently, non-production of documents which have been challenged in the petition or appeal, regarding maintainability, non-filing of second set of documents in case the petition is before a division bench etc. "Considering the fact that there is a large number of positive cases every day, rectification cannot be permitted in more than 50-60 cases per day. The reason is that members of the Bar cannot be allowed to enter office premises, which may lead to breach of rule of social distancing. This practice will have to continue for some time, unless the situation improves drastically," the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-high-court-relaxes-rules-for-filing-petitions-880639.html
31-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Plasma therapy successful in Chamarajanagar||Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi said that the plasma therapy for the Covid-19 patients has been successful in the district. Addressing through the Facebook live, the DC said, “Four Covid patients, who were in a critical condition were given plasma therapy and all of them have recovered. The expert doctors in the Covid hospital have been successful in treating the patients.” A 38-year-old man, serving the Revenue department tested positive for Covid and was suffering from hypertension. He was critical even after 17 days of treatment. Finally, with the permission of his family members, he was provided plasma therapy. He has recovered and is being discharged on Tuesday. A woman aged 48 years and two men aged 44 and 28, too were provided plasma therapy. They too are recovering well and would be discharged soon, Ravi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/plasma-therapy-successful-in-chamarajanagar-880641.html
31-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Police intensify night patrolling as crime rate rises||With the crime rate on the rise in Hassan district, the police have intensified night patrolling. It may be mentioned that an elderly couple was smothered to death for gains at Channarayapatna taluk on Saturday night. A beggar woman, bludgeoned to death and raped, captured on CCTV camera, shocked the people of the district. Following a series of crimes across the district, the police have intensified night patrolling. The people, moving on the roads in a suspicious manner after 10 pm, are stopped and enquired. If necessary, they are taken to the police station, for further enquiry. According to the police, youth have turned to robbery for easy money, due to Covid crisis. Many have confessed that they got into robbery, to earn money as they could not find jobs, said the police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/police-intensify-night-patrolling-as-crime-rate-rises-880644.html
31-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||139 murders in three years; 112 busted in Hassan||Superintendent of Police R Srinivas Gowda said, “Hassan police have been successful in busting 112 murder cases out of 139, that were reported in the district in the last three years.” Addressing a press conference here, on Monday, the SP said, “The district reported 139 murders, for various reasons, in three years. The murders were due to property dispute, family issues, personal enmity, drunken brawl and dacoity. While a few are in the investigation stage, some remain untraceable.” Most of the recent crime reported in the district are the handiwork of youth, who have returned to their native, from Bengaluru and other states. The murder incidents, reported in the last two months, are also by outsiders, he said. As Bengaluru and Tumakuru are nearer to Channarayapatna, miscreants easily gain entry into the town and plan crime. The remaining cases would be busted soon, the SP said. He further addes, “As the crime rate has increased in Channarayapatna, a special team, led by DySP has been constituted. As many police constables in the taluk have turned Covid-19 positive, there is a delay in tracing crime cases.” “The department is distributing handbills to create awareness among the public. The department needs the cooperation of the public, in checking crime. Dhaba, hotels and restaurant owners have been directed to alert if they find anybody suspicious. The miscreants are targeting lonely houses. If the people find any suspicious persons moving around, they should immediately alert the police, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/139-murders-in-three-years-112-busted-in-hassan-880646.html
31-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Police personnel bat for facility quarantine||With a few police personnel, who tested positive for Covid-19, succumbing, the Police department has recommended the infected personnel to be under facility quarantine, rather than home quarantine. As per the guidelines, those who are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms can be under home isolation or under home care. But, the police officials are advocating for facility quarantine for their personnel, after a constable attached to Nanjangud Police station, B Mahadevaswamy, died due to the infection on August 27. Mahadevaswamy was under home quarantine at the Police Quarters in Nanjangud after he tested positive. But, he developed sudden health issues and died within a few hours. A police officer said that he would have survived, if he was under facility quarantine as there are care takers. An officer said, Mahadevaswamy was diabetic and he did not disclose this until the last minute. “He developed breathing problem and could not get treatment immediately, which might have led to the death. Now, the department has decided to verify the health history of the victim. Until now, five police personnel have died of health issues since July, in Mysuru.” An officer said, the personnel don’t get adequate care and there will be no one to take care of them at home. “A majority of them are residing at police quarters. In many cases, the victims hesitate to take help of the family members, due to fear of transmitting the disease and feel uncomfortable. I have asked my colleagues to opt for facility quarantine. For us, our staff and their family is important. It is my duty to protect them,” he said. The higher officials have directed all policemen to undergo facility quarantine, if they develop health issues. An officer said, the personnel, also Covid warriors, are working in a tight schedule and many of them are under pressure. “We need our staff and their family to be healthy. Thus, I recommend them to go for facility quarantine,” he said.  Additional Superintendent of Police R Shivakumar said that Covid infected persons are given extra care and their health history will be studied. According to sources, while nearly 125 police constables of Mysuru district police tested positive for Covid, 55 of them recovered. Similarly, 322 personnel attached to Mysuru City Police tested positive for Covid and 230 of them recovered. Nearly, 90 personnel are under quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/police-personnel-bat-for-facility-quarantine-880648.html
31-08-2020||Karnataka Districts||Students' visit to school from September 21 is subject to parents' nod||Karnataka on Monday issued guidelines for Unlock 4.0, allowing high school students to visit schools from September 21 subject to “written consent” from parents and metro rail services to start on September 7 in a graded manner.   The order for Unlock 4.0, issued by Chief Secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar, mostly repeats what the Ministry of Home Affairs has said.   The Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) and the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA) will issue the standard operating procedures for metro services to resume on September 7, the order said.  “Students of Classes 9 to 12 may be permitted to visit their schools, in areas outside the containment zones only, on a voluntary basis, for taking guidance from their teachers. This will be subject to written consent of their parents/guardians and will be permitted with effect from September 21 for which SOP will be issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and the Primary and Secondary Education Department, Government of Karnataka,” the order stated. From September 21, the government will permit social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious and political functions with an attendance ceiling of 100 persons. It will be mandatory to wear face masks, maintain social distancing, undergo thermal scanning and other precautionary measures.  “However, marriage-related gatherings, with the number of guests not exceeding 50, and funeral/last rites-related gatherings, with the number of persons not exceeding 20, will continue to be allowed up to September 20, after which the ceiling of 100 persons will apply,” the order stated.  As decided by the Centre, the state government will allow open air theatres from September 21, while cinema theatres, swimming pools and entertainment parks will remain closed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/students-visit-to-school-from-september-21-is-subject-to-parents-nod-880649.html
31-08-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka govt appoints Shankargouda Eranagouda Patil as special representative in Delhi||The state government has appointed Shankargouda Eranagouda Patil as Karnataka government’s special representative in New Delhi. The post is of the rank of a cabinet minister, according to a government notification. Patil, until now, served as one of the political secretaries to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-govt-appoints-shankargouda-eranagouda-patil-as-special-representative-in-delhi-880297.html
31-08-2020||Karnataka Politics||Internal quota: Congress' Dalit leaders mount pressure on BS Yediyurappa||A section of Congress leaders belonging to the Dalit (Left) communities on Monday mounted pressure on the B S Yediyurappa-led BJP government to implement internal reservation for Scheduled Castes as recommended by the A J Sadashiva Commission. The government should take it up in the upcoming legislature session, former Union minister K H Muniyappa told a news conference. Hailing the recent Supreme Court rules that states can provide internal reservation, Muniyappa said doing so would ensure social justice to oppressed groups within such communities. “There are 101 sub-castes in the SC community. The Sadashiva Commission submitted a scientific report recommending reservation to these communities based on population,” hesaid. In 2012, the Sadashiva Commission submitted its report recommending that the 15% SC quota be divided into 6% for SC (Left), 5% for SC (Right), 3% for ‘touchables’ and 1% for other SCs. “Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol should take up the issue and ensure internal reservation. They should clear it in the Assembly or the Cabinet and send it to the Central government for approval,” Muniyappa said. Dalits in Karnataka are divided into two groups: left-hand and right-hand castes. The left-hand is said to be angry because most of the benefits are going to the right-hand castes. Muniyappa, however, dismissed talk of differences among the Dalit left and right communities regarding internal reservation. “All leaders from the Scheduled Castes (Right) in the Congress are for the reservation,” he said. Former MP M Chandrappa recalled that BJP leaders had promised to implement the Sadashiva Commission report within 24 hours of ascending to power. “They should come true to their promise,” he said. Social Welfare Minister Govind Karjol, who belongs to the Dalit Left, told DH last week that the government would explore providing internal reservation after the Supreme Court allowed states to make sub-categories among these social groups.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/internal-quota-congress-dalit-leaders-mount-pressure-on-bs-yediyurappa-880640.html
31-08-2020||Karnataka Politics||H K Patil accuses govt of hiding Covid-19 fatalities||Senior Congress leader H K Patil accused the state government of hiding the actual number of deaths owing to Covid-19 in Bengaluru. A total of 49,135 deaths were reported in Bengaluru between January to July this year, compared to 37,001 in the corresponding period in 2019, he said, citing data from crematoriums and burial grounds in the city. “The government is hiding something,” he said, seeking the reasons for the 32% increase in death rate, even though only 1,886 people had died of Covid-19 since March. Speaking at a news conference, he urged the state government to constitute a team for a quick study report to assess causes for the increase in deaths. When contacted, DyCM Dr C N Ashwath Narayan dismissed the allegations and said that the government had maintained proper data on Covid-19 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/h-k-patil-accuses-govt-of-hiding-covid-19-fatalities-880643.html
31-08-2020||Main Article||A curious case||The Constitution of India has embraced the ideas of co-operative and asymmetric federalism that sees an interplay between the Centre and the states in the world’s largest democracy. This supreme charter is the sole instrument that governs the destiny of a diverse demography spread over a vast geography. The concept of asymmetric federalism is not alien to constitutional democracies across the globe. Louise Tillin’s essay titled ‘Asymmetric Federalism’ in The Oxford Handbook of The Indian Constitution mentions that “the granting of differential rights to certain federal sub-units, and the recognition thereby imparted for distinct, territorially concentrated ‘ethnic’ or ‘national groups’, is a common feature of federalism in pluri-ethnic or pluri-national settings”. The founding fathers of the Indian Republic specifically accommodated this feature in Part XXI of the Constitution, which provides for ‘Temporary, Transitional and Special Provisions’. The most prominent provision was Article 370, which was conferred upon the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir. It was a special status that empowered the state to adopt its own separate constitution, whose powers now stands abrogated following The Constitution (Application to Jammu & Kashmir) Order, 2019 issued by the President of India and the passage of the Jammu & Kashmir Reorganisation Act, 2019 by Parliament. Over the years, Parliament, by way of constitutional amendments, accorded such special status to many states, including those in North-East India, which grant a certain degree of autonomy to these regions. Article 371A, inserted by way of the Constitutional (Thirteenth Amendment) Act, 1962 is a special provision that governs the state of Nagaland. The provision notes that no law passed by Parliament in respect the religious or social practices of the Nagas, Naga customary law and procedure, administration of civil and criminal justice in accordance with Naga customary law and ownership and transfer of land and its resources, shall be applicable to the state of Nagaland, unless the Legislative Assembly of Nagaland approves of the same by way of a resolution. The Governor of Nagaland is vested with certain discretionary powers, which he/she may invoke, based on the law and order situation in the state. The Naga conundrum It is often debated as to whether the Nagas formally acceded to the Union of India. A number of Naga organisations have often claimed that the Nagas constitute a separate sovereign, independent group from that of India so much so that August 14 is celebrated as ‘Naga Independence Day’. The region in and around Nagaland has witnessed deadly insurgencies and secessionist movements for several decades. The local population has often been harassed and subjected to extortion, under the veil of ‘taxation’ that is imposed by several organisations that claim to be representing the Naga movement. The imposition of laws such as the Armed Forces Special Powers Act and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act has also been a common feature in the region. Peace talks between the Government of India and the militant outfit NSCN (I-M), over the years, have yielded gradual progress, especially with the recent historic Framework Agreement (FA) that was signed in August, 2015. However, this FA has garnered controversy lately with the NSCN (I-M) alleging R N Ravi, the interlocutor appointed by the Government of India who also serves as the Governor of Nagaland, of altering the terms of the FA. Shared sovereignty The NSCM (I-M) has constantly claimed the idea of “shared sovereignty” and a separate Constitution that serves the interests and welfare of the Naga people. It has further been reiterated that regions in neighbouring states that have a sizeable Naga population be carved out and amalgamated to form a ‘Greater Nagaland’. But can a state, which is a part of the Union of India, adopt a separate Constitution? It may be argued in the affirmative, citing the separate Constitution that had existed in the erstwhile state of Jammu & Kashmir. However, it is relevant to note the nomenclature in Article 370 begins with the word ‘temporary’ and the State Constitution ceased to operate following the abrogation of powers under Article 370. On the other hand, Article 371A begins with the word ‘special’ and this word is used for all the other states that have been accorded with such status –Article 371 and Articles 371A to Article 371J. The word ‘special’ denotes the powers of autonomy that have been accorded to these states by the Constitution in keeping up with the spirit of asymmetric federalism. Moreover, the Supreme Court of India in S R Bommai v Union of India has held that federalism is a part of the basic structure doctrine and even went further to point out that the state, being a creation of the Constitution, does not have the right to secede or claim sovereignty. Although India is often described as an indestructible union of destructible states, with Parliament being empowered to alter the boundaries of states, any such attempt could potentially jeopardise the peace and stability in this volatile region. The state of Nagaland already enjoys a certain degree of autonomy under the provisions of Article 371A so as to ensure that the local customary practices and traditions of the Naga people are preserved and not interfered with the force of legislation passed by Parliament. However, the demand for a separate constitution for an ethno-geographic region within the territory of India is not consistent with the spirit of Indian constitutionalism. The Government of India must firmly tread with caution bearing in mind the best interests of the people of Nagaland who have for decades being subject to the horrors of insurgency and the sovereignty and territorial integrity of India, to arrive at a peace accord with the NSCN(I-M) and put an end to the several decades of conflict. (The writer is Senior Advocate, Supreme Court; she acknowledges inputs by Partha Mansukhani in writing this article)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/a-curious-case-880268.html
31-08-2020||Main Article||GST compensation: Centre-led fiscal push only way||The past week has been dominated by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s remark alluding to an “act of God”. She was referring to the Covid-19 pandemic, which is now seen as the main cause of the unprecedented recession in India and the world. Never mind that the slowing of GDP growth, or investment ratio or the stagnation of exports, or rising of the bad loan ratio in banking, preceded the pandemic. Naturally, the fiscal stress was rising, and the pressure of the inadequacy of tax collection was tangible even before the full fury of the pandemic. The FM referred to “an act of God” as a Force Majeure clause in a commercial contract. The “contract” in this case is actually an act of Parliament of 2017 which guarantees compensation to the states from the Centre, in case of a shortfall in tax collection from the Goods and Services Tax. The compensation clause says that any revenue growth falling below 14% annual growth from year to year will be compensated from the central treasury fund for a period of five years, i.e. till 2022. Meeting this legal obligation was becoming difficult, thanks to slowing GDP growth even prior to the pandemic. Even that 14% unconditional promise was faulty but let us not dwell on it now. In the present fiscal year, the tax forecast and arithmetic will go for a toss, and the central fiscal deficit will zoom. The situation of the states will be similar. But since the states were “insured” against loss of revenue,they were less worried. But now, after the GST council’s latest meeting, it looks like compensation will not be forthcoming. The Centre seems to be abdicating its legal obligation under the Act of 2017 citing exceptional circumstances caused by the pandemic. So, the Centre has basically told the states to go and fund their own shortfall, either by borrowing from the RBI, which the Centre will facilitate, or borrowing from the open market. This is problematic on several counts. Firstly, unlike the United States of America, which was a voluntary coming together of provincial entities, the states of India are the creation of the Union. New states can be created by the Centre, as has been the case several times in the past few decades. Indeed, states have even been reconverted to Union Territories as was seen in the case of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh. Hence, federalism in India has a different nature from other federally organised countries. Secondly, the Constitution explicitly prohibits the states from further indebtedness without the permission of the Centre. The states are prohibited from borrowing from abroad. They cannot borrow in dollars, even if the rate of interest is nearly zero, as of now. The recent case of Kerala borrowing via the rupee denominated “masala bonds” listed in London created a controversy. This restriction on the states has good rationale, since a dollar bankruptcy of a sub-national entity can have repercussions on the overall country rating. We have seen such disasters in the debt crisis of Latin America in the 1980s. Hence in India, an already indebted state is not allowed to increase borrowing from the RBI or the open market without explicit permission. That is why some statesresort to tricks like borrowing in the name of State-owned enterprises, and thus hiding the debt in a corporate balance sheet. The second reason for not pushing further debt raising to the states is due to debt servicing capacities. When states go to market or RBI, they will probably have to pay a much higher interest rate than the Centre. Since their tax autonomy is considerably restricted, thanks to GST, their repayment capacity is also curtailed. The Centre’s debt-to-GDP ratio still has enough headroom to grow, fully understandable and justifiable in these pandemic times. Indeed, the Centre can also float a special long-term, tax exempt Covid-19 bond to fund the extra fiscal push. There is some discussion about selling sovereign bonds to dollar investors, or to narrowly pitch it to non-resident Indians. These options are not available to the states. The parallels with PSU funding are worth remembering. The Indian Railway Finance Corporation or the Power Finance Corporation is able to raise funds from the market at much finer interest rates because of their respective sovereign backing. This low-cost fundraising is possible despite the fact that they raise funds for the Railways or the power utilities, both of whom are typically loss-making. The same logic applies to the Centre raising Covid-related fiscal funds on behalf of the states. The third reason is that even with the states borrowing individually, the overall borrowing requirement in the national aggregate will not be any different. It will be the same in the aggregate, whether the Centre does the borrowing all by itself, or it is done severally by the Centre and the states. You can’t fool the debt markets, or those country-rating analysts. Hence, it is more efficient to do it centrally at a distinctly lower cost, and pass on the benefit to the states. The fourth, and possibly the most important, reason is that the Centre simply cannot renege on a written and codified promise, act of God or not. We are all in this pandemic together. We are trying to build trust and a solid foundation for cooperative federalism. The GST curtails autonomy but gets us a unified common economic market across the nation. The states plus the Centre have to forge a common vision for the development of the nation. Balanced growth will need much more cooperation between the states and the Centre, and much give and take. This is the time that federal faith and trust will be tested. The Centre must bear the full fiscal burden. The Centre has many more options toraise fiscal resources (such as a loan against PSU shares from the RBI, or overseas borrowing, or a Covid bond) than the states. Let the GST compensation promise not be broken by saying the pandemic is an “act of God.” (The writer is an economist and Senior Fellow, Takshashila Institution)(Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/gst-compensation-centre-led-fiscal-push-only-way-880705.html
31-08-2020||National||Eminent cardiologist Dr Padmavati dies at 103 of Covid-19||Noted cardiologist Dr S Padmavati has died at 103 due to Covid-19, the National Heart Institute said on Sunday. She was undergoing treatment at NHI for past 11 days, doctors said. "Dr S Padmavati, an eminent cardiologist, rather the first female cardiologist of the India, popularly known as 'God Mother of Cardiology' passed away on August 29 due to Covid-19 infection," the NHI said in a statement. Founder of NHI, she was born in Burma (now Myanmar) in 1917, a year before the world was hit by the Spanish Flu pandemic. "She was admitted with Covid-19 and had breathing difficulty and fever. She developed pneumonia in both lungs and needed ventilator support. However, she sustained a cardiac arrest and passed away," the NHI said. Dr Padmavati was cremated at the designated Covid-19 crematorium at Punjabi Bagh on Sunday, it said. She had migrated to India in 1942 during the World War II. She graduated from the Rangoon Medical College and went overseas for higher education, the statement said. On her return to India, she joined as the faculty at the Lady Hardinge Medical College, it added. In 1962, Dr Padmavati founded the All India Heart Foundation and went on to set up National Heart Institute in 1981 as a tertiary care modern heart hospital in Delhi with first cardiac catheterisation laboratory in the private sector in the Southern Hemisphere, the NHI said. For her achievements and contributions to development of cardiology in India, she was awarded Fellowship of the American College of Cardiology and FAMS, and Padma Bhushan in 1967 and Padma Vibhushan in 1992 by the Government of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eminent-cardiologist-dr-padmavati-dies-at-103-of-covid-19-880253.html
31-08-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on August 31||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 36 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact: Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  36,79,782 as of August 31 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  65,355   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged:  27,74,801  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-august-31-880282.html
31-08-2020||National||At least 111 death sentences pronounced by courts in 2019; UP, MP, Karnataka account for 52% of sentences||Courts across the country sentenced at least 111 people to death in 2019 with Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka topping the list, accounting for more than half of the capital punishments awarded during the year. The number of death sentences could be higher as West Bengal has not provided data in this regard to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), which has recently released the Prison in India 2019 report. The NCRB report has pegged the death sentences at 121 by including 10 reported by West Bengal in 2017 in its latest report. Uttar Pradesh reported the highest number of death sentences last year at 27 followed by Madhya Pradesh (17) and Karnataka (14). Together, these three states account for 52.25% of the death sentences. Rajasthan is another state which has a higher number of death sentences awarded in 2019. However, no executions took place during this period across the country. According to Amnesty International, an NGO, at least 106 countries have abolished capital punishment while India continues to have death penalty in its statutes. Its latest report on death penalty released in April this year showed that there at least 2,307 death sentences in 56 countries last year compared 2,531 reported in 54 countries in 2018. It also recorded 657 executions in 20 countries in 2019, the lowest number of executions that Amnesty International has recorded in at least a decade, which is a decrease of 5% compared to 2018. The NCRB report showed that there were 400 prisoners on death row and languishing in jails at the end of 2019 and this included 279 people who were awarded capital punishment in the previous years. Maharashtra has the highest number of prisoners in condemned cells with 52 followed by Uttar Pradesh (49), Madhya Pradesh (37), Bihar (29) and Karnataka (28). West Bengal's 37, the figure for 2017, is also part of the 400 mentioned in the report. Sixty-eight death sentences were commuted during last year of which 17 came from Madhya Pradesh followed by Maharashtra (14), Rajasthan (10) and Uttar Pradesh (6). Capital punishment of two convicts in Karnataka was also commuted during this period. The report also showed that 1,031 convicts, including 41 women, could not leave the prisons after their sentence was completed, as they could not pay the fines imposed on them. Of this, 98 people were in jail for more than five years for not paying the penalty imposed on them while 23 are behind the bars for three to five years. Fifty-nine people have spent two-three years in jail for the same reason. During 2019, 1.04 lakh convicts were also released after they completed their sentence. When it comes to undertrials, there were 5,011 prisoners who spent more than five years in jail, as their trial has not concluded. Of this, 2,142 were in Uttar Pradesh while Karnataka has 124 such people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/at-least-111-death-sentences-pronounced-by-courts-in-2019-up-mp-karnataka-account-for-52-of-sentences-880292.html
31-08-2020||National||Small states have huge proportion of habitual offenders returning to jails; not a single one in Maha, Guj in 2019||Mizoram, Delhi, Nagaland, Meghalaya, and Andaman and Nicobar Islands are among the tiny states or union territories in the country but when it comes to habitual offenders returning to jails, they share the ignominy of being on the top. In contrast, the big states of Maharashtra and Gujarat did not have a single habitual offender among the prisoners who were convicted last year. While the national average of habitual offenders returning to jails after a repeated conviction was pegged at 3.6%, their proportion in these states were higher. Of the 1.88 lakh convicts who were sent to jails in India after conviction in 2019, 6,756 were habitual offenders or recidivists. Recidivism is defined as the tendency of a convicted criminal to reoffend. Mizoram has the worst record with 45.5% or 779 of 1,716 people who were convicted and jailed last year, the latest Prison in India 2019 report by the National Crime Records Bureau said on recidivism. Almost one-third of Delhi's prisoners who were convicted by courts in 2019 were habitual offenders -- 32.4% or 1,120 out of 3,455 people. Nagaland comes a distant third with 12.2% (19 out of 156), Meghalaya 10.7% (13 out of 122) and Andaman and Nicobar Islands 9.8% (8 out of 82). However, Maharashtra and Gujarat had hundreds of new convicts in 2019 but none of them were habitual offenders. Maharashtra had 12,809 people getting convicted in 2019 while Gujarat had 5,766 such people but none of them were habitual offenders. These two were among six other states Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Manipur and Sikkim did not have a habitual offender getting convicted last year. Three union territories -- Lakshadweep, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu -- also join them in this category. When it comes to absolute numbers, Uttar Pradesh was listed on the top with 1,247 such prisoners out of 29,496 convicted last year. Telangana had 502 habitual offenders out of 27,591. In Karnataka, 3.4% -- 124 out of 3,698 -- were convicts who were jailed during 2019. Kerala, the state with the highest literacy rate, also comes in top five with 421 (7.8% of convicts last year) habitual offenders getting jailed. Punjab (392), Andhra Pradesh (240) and Jharkhand (220) are other states which have higher number of habitual offenders entering jails last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/small-states-have-huge-proportion-of-habitual-offenders-returning-to-jails-not-a-single-one-in-maha-guj-in-2019-880344.html
31-08-2020||National||India reports 78,512 Covid-19 cases, tally tops 36-lakh mark||On Sunday, India's total of 78,761 new cases exceeded the previous record of 77,299 in the United States on July 16, a Reuters tally of official data showed. India, the world's second-most populous country, has been posting the highest single-day caseload in the world every day since August 7, exceeding the tallies of both the United States and Brazil. At 3.62 million total cases, India is fast catching up to these two countries in terms of cumulative caseload, but it has relatively lower death rate. India's deaths from Covid-19, the disease caused by the coronavirus, went up by 971 in the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 64,469, the health ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-78512-covid-19-cases-tally-tops-36-lakh-mark-880347.html
31-08-2020||National||'We lit a fire to Modi's social media campaign,' says Facebook public policy head Ankhi Das: Report||Das is at the centre of a controversy in India over Facebook’s handling of hate speech posts on the social media platform by members of BJP. She reportedly opposed to ban a BJP politician from the platform for Islamophobic posts. A day before Narendra Modi’s party BJP won the 2014 General Elections, Ankhi Das was recorded saying, “We lit a fire to his social media campaign and the rest is of course history.” She wrote in another post that, “It’s taken thirty years of grassroots work to rid India of state socialism finally,” commenting on the defeat of the Congress and praising Prime Minister Modi as the “strongman”. She also termed Facebook’s global elections head her “longest fellow traveler” in the company working with her on Modi’s campaign. When a Facebook staffer noted that in the early days when Congress had more followers on Facebook than Narendra Modi’s individual page, Das responded that, “Don’t diminish him by comparing him with INC. Ah well—let my bias not show!!!” Facebook said that the posts by Ankhi Das don’t show inappropriate bias. “These posts are taken out of context and don’t represent the full scope of Facebook’s efforts to support the use of our platform by parties across the Indian political spectrum,” spokesman Andy Stone said. Ankhi Das started working at Facebook in 2011 around the when the company rolled out training programs for Indian political parties on mobilising their supporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-lit-a-fire-to-modis-social-media-campaign-says-facebook-public-policy-head-ankhi-das-report-880348.html
31-08-2020||National||From 5,000 Covid-19 cases a day in May to 80,000 in August: How India's coronavirus cases spiralled||On May 17, India hit the 5,000 Covid-19 cases per day benchmark after which India’s Covid-19 case tally has exponentially risen hurtling towards the 4-million mark this week. India recorded the highest number of Covid-19 per day in the world on August 30 with 78,761 cases reported. According to data maintained by Times of India, India recorded over 80,000 Covid-19 cases in 24 hours. While the jump from 5,000 to 10,000 cases per day took nearly 3 weeks, the jump from 70,000 cases per day to 80,000 just 11 days. Meanwhile, India recorded 5,345 deaths in the week July 27- August 2, but in the week starting August 24, India saw a jump to nearly 7,000 deaths a week.  Experts and government officials attribute the rise in Covid-19 cases to the careless behaviour of people and complacency. "Across the world, the spurt in Covid-19 cases is due to complacency among people, who have started taking the situation lightly. The use of masks and social distancing norms are not being followed," said AIIMS, Bhopal, Director Prof Sarman Singh. He also said the government is going to relax the norms by allowing the gathering of 100 people for religious, social and political functions, which is "worrying". (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-5000-covid-19-cases-a-day-in-may-to-80000-in-august-how-indias-coronavirus-cases-spiralled-880358.html
31-08-2020||National||China opens up new front in Ladakh; fresh trouble on southern banks of Pangong Tso||In a fresh spiraling of tension in eastern Ladakh, China opened up a new front as People’s Liberation Army troops carried out “provocative military movements to change the status quo” on the southern banks of the Pangong Tso (lake) in eastern Ladakh, but Indian troops prevented such attempts and managed to occupy the dominant heights. While soldiers from India and China were locked in a stand-off for the last four months on the northern banks of the lake, PLA troops for the first time came to the southern banks of the 135 km lake and attempted to capture the heights to undermine the Indian position, sources told DH. Indian Army troops not only successfully blocked the Chinese move but went on to occupy some of the crucial strategically advantageous heights on the southern banks of the lake. Some of the dominating features – claimed by both sides – are now under Indian control. A special operational battalion of the Indian Army played a key role in the entire operation. “On the Night of August 29/30, 2020, PLA troops violated the previous consensus arrived at during military and diplomatic engagements during the ongoing standoff in eastern Ladakh and carried out provocative military movements to change the status quo,” Army spokesperson Col Aman Anand said in a statement. “Indian troops preempted this PLA activity on the Southern Bank of Pangong Tso Lake, undertook measures to strengthen our positions and thwart Chinese intentions to unilaterally change facts on ground. The Indian Army is committed to maintaining peace and tranquility through dialogue, but is also equally determined to protect its territorial integrity.” A Brigade Commander level Flag Meeting is in progress at Chushul to resolve the issue till the time filing this report. The 826 km long Line of Actual Control – the disputed boundary between India and China – in Ladakh was on the boil for more than four months with PLA troops entering the Indian territory at several points from Depsang Plains in the north to the northern banks of the Pangong lake, pitching up tents, setting up border infrastructure and blocking the traditional patrolling routes of Indian troops. The northern banks of the pristine lake in Ladakh is one of the spots where the PLA forced the Indian Army to stop its movement up to Finger 8 (mountain spurs on the banks identified by numbers 1-8), which was the Indian perception of the LAC. The Indian troops were stopped at Finger 4 and had to even retreat from the position because of a mutually agreed disengagement process. Other areas where stand-off between Indian and PLA troops resulted in simmering tension are Galwan valley, Hot Spring and Gogra Post as well as Depsang plains, north of Galwan. In June, the Galwan valley also witnessed the most violent clash since the 1962 war in which 20 Indian soldiers including a Col rank officer and a sizable number of PLA troops were killed in a brutal hand-to-hand contact. Five rounds of talks between senior military leaders and diplomatic engagement at the highest level including dialogues between the two Foreign Ministers failed to resolve the deadlock. Last week Chief of the Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat had stated that there were military options on the table too if talks failed. Gen Rawat, however, didn’t elaborate on the nature of the option.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-opens-up-new-front-in-ladakh-fresh-trouble-on-southern-banks-of-pangong-tso-880362.html
31-08-2020||National||SC rejects Vijay Mallya's review plea in contempt case||The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed a review petition filed by fugitive industrialist Vijay Mallya against his conviction in a contempt case in 2017. A bench of Justices U U Lalit and Ashok Bhushan found no merit in the plea by the promoter of defunct Kingfisher Airlines. On May 9, 2017, the court had held beleaguered promoter of Kingfisher Airlines guilty of contempt of court for transferring $40 million to his children's accounts despite an order against it. The court, however, had not imposed any sentence on him as he remained elusive. The court has on August 27 wrapped up its hearing in the review petition filed by him. The court had earlier also noted "lapses" on the part of its registry for not listing the review petition for three years. In June, this year, the court has sought an explanation from its registry as to why a review petition filed by Mallya against his conviction in a contempt case in 2017, was not listed before it for consideration in last three years. It had directed the officials to furnish all the details including names of the people who had dealt with the file concerning the review petition for the last three years. Mallya, who evaded law enforcement authorities here and stayed at the United Kingdom, has suffered setbacks after the court over there allowed for his extradition.  His date of return, however, is still uncertain due to undisclosed legal issues. The Enforcement Directorate has invoked provisions of the Fugitive Offenders Act, 2018 against Mallya, who had evaded the authorities after defaulting to pay back the loan of over Rs 9,000 crore to the banks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-rejects-vijay-mallyas-review-plea-in-contempt-case-880368.html
31-08-2020||National||SC allows states to grant quota to in-service doctors in PG degree courses||The Supreme Court on Monday allowed states to make a special route and quota for in service doctors in admission to Post Graduate degree courses. A five-judge Constitution bench presided over by Justice Arun Mishra said that the Medical Council of India regulations that barred such a reservation was arbitrary and unconstitutional. The court said the role of the MCI was limited to laying down of standards. The court, however, said the doctors must sign a bond for service in rural and remote areas. The bench, also comprising Justices Vineet Saran, Indira Banerjee, M R Shah and Aniruddha Bose delivered the verdict on writ petitions filed by Tamil Nadu Medical Officers Association and others. The top court has on July 14 reserved its judgement. The petitioners, including doctors from Kerala, Maharashtra and Haryana, contended giving reservation benefits would encourage those working in government hospitals and in rural areas. They challenged validity of the Post Graduate Medical Education Regulations, 2000, framed by the Medical Council of India. Notably 50% seats in PG diploma courses are reserved for medical officers in the government service but the MCI regulations barred it in PG degree courses. All the admission to PG degree courses are conducted through the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test and 50% seats are filled through all India quota and the remaining 50% from state quota. The petitioners pointed out the hardships faced by in-service candidates who were working around the clock for the benefit of the public and could hardly find time to update their knowledge and compete with the general merit candidate. They further contended that denying a separate channel of entry to the public sector or government doctors who served for years to under-privileged and under-served for the admission to PG Medical degree would discourage the motivated young medical graduates from taking up service. This could merely result in graduate doctors going for coaching classes for admission to the PG medical courses, in which case the whole public health care system serving the poorest of the poor population would suffer to a great extent. The Centre as well as the MCI opposed the plea, saying granting reservations or a separate source of entry for in-service candidates would directly impinge on the authority of MCI to coordinate and determine standards of medical education. The MCI regulation provided an incentive to in-service candidates at the rate of 10% of the marks obtained, for each year of service in remote and/or difficult areas upto a maximum 30% of the marks, in the NEET examination. On April 24, 2018, the top court had declined to pass any interim order in the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-allows-states-to-grant-quota-to-in-service-doctors-in-pg-degree-courses-880369.html
31-08-2020||National||SC imposes fine of Re 1 on Prashant Bhushan in contempt case||The Supreme Court on Monday imposed a token fine of Re 1 on advocate Prashant Bhushan in a contempt case for his tweets, failing which he will be sentenced to three months in jail and suspension of his practice for three years. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari pulled up Bhushan for trying to influence the court proceedings through media.  Pronouncing the sentence, the bench said court's decisions can't be influenced by publications or opinions in the media. "Bhushan's statements to press even before they were considered by this court was to influence the proceedings," the bench said. The apex court noted that Freedom of speech can't be curtailed but the rights of others need to be respected. The court said judges are not supposed to go to press, it is not permissible to rely on what is said by them outside the court. In the instant matter, the bench said we have not only have given Bhushan an opportunity but also, directly and indirectly, persuaded him to express regret, which was not heeded to by him. "We have considered the sane advise given by the Attorney General, and have concluded that the conduct of present contemnor also needs to be taken into consideration," the bench said. The court gave him time till September 15 to deposit the fine, otherwise, he would have to serve three months in jail and he would be debarred from practice for three years. Bhushan is expected to address a press conference at 4 pm on Monday. The top court had on August 14 held Bhushan guilty of contempt for "false, malicious and scurrilous" tweets made on June 27 and 29 on "distorted facts", to scandalise the entire institution of judiciary. The court had offered him to tender an unconditional apology but Bhushan remained adamant saying an apology for expression of bona fide beliefs would be insincere and would amount to the contempt of his conscience and of an institution. Attorney General K K Venugopal asked the court to let off Bhushan without any punishment due to his work in the public interest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-imposes-fine-of-re-1-on-prashant-bhushan-in-contempt-case-880392.html
31-08-2020||National||Mundra dockyard supervisor arrested by NIA on charges of spying for ISI||A supervisor working at the Mundra dockyard in Gujarat has been arrested by the National Investigation Agency on charges of spying for Pakistan's ISI. Rajakbhai Kumbhar was arrested on Sunday following investigations into a case from Uttar Pradesh where it came to light that one Mohd Rashid was allegedly spying for ISI. The Uttar Pradesh Police had on January 19 registered an FIR following inputs that Rashid was in contact with defence/ISI agents of Pakistan and providing photographs of sensitive, tactical and strategically important areas of India and the movement of Army along with the photographs of insignia of officers clicked using his mobile. The NIA took over the case and re-registered the case on April 6 under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). An NIA statement said that during investigations, it came to light that Kumbhar worked as an ISI agent and transferred Rs 5,000 through Paytm in the account of one Rizwan which was further handed over to Mohd Rashid. "This amount was remitted to accused Mohd Rashid by Kumbhar on the directions of ISI handlers in lieu of the information supplied by Mohd Rashid to ISI agents," it said. A search was conducted at the house of Kumbhar on August 27 and several documents were seized. Further investigation in the case was underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mundra-dockyard-supervisor-arrested-by-nia-on-charges-of-spying-for-isi-880405.html
31-08-2020||National||India is becoming the world’s new coronavirus epicentre||By Ari Altstedter, India is fast becoming the world’s new coronavirus epicentre, setting a record for the biggest single-day rise in cases as experts predict that it’ll soon pass Brazil -- and ultimately the US -- as the worst outbreak globally. As many as 78,761 new cases were added Sunday, the most any country has ever reported in one day, while 971 deaths were reported on Monday, pushing the Asian country past Mexico for the third-highest number of deaths worldwide. At the current trajectory, India’s outbreak will eclipse Brazil’s in about a week, and the US in about two months. And unlike the US and Brazil, India’s case growth is still accelerating seven months after the reporting of its first coronavirus case on Jan. 30. The pathogen has only just penetrated the vast rural hinterland where the bulk of its 1.3 billion population lives, after racing through its dense mega-cities. As the world’s second largest country, and one with a relatively poor public health system, it’s inevitable that India’s outbreak becomes the world’s biggest, said Naman Shah, an adjunct faculty member at the country’s National Institute of Epidemiology. “It would not be surprising, regardless of what India does,” said Shah, a member of the Indian government’s Covid-19 task force. From the Philippines to Peru, the novel coronavirus poses a unique problem to poor countries: the densely packed slums where millions of their citizens live present ideal conditions for the virus to spread, while their economic precariousness means that the shutdowns necessary to contain the pathogen are intolerable. Across the developing world, economies have been forced to open up even with the virus still running rampant, quickly overwhelming underfunded hospitals. The list of worst-affected countries globally has accordingly shifted from rich to poor as the pandemic races around the world. Where once countries like Italy, Spain and the U.K. had the biggest outbreaks and highest death tolls, now the US is the only advanced economy in the top ten, among other developing nations like Mexico, Peru and South Africa. Nowhere has the developing world’s plight played out more viscerally than in India, where an ambitious national lockdown imposed in March was lifted after two months as joblessness, starvation and a mass migration of workers leaving cities on foot became too much to bear. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government has since counseled the population to “live with the virus” while giving local officials freedom to impose restrictions on a state-by-state basis, which many have. The economy is projected to have contracted 18% in the quarter to June from a year ago, more than any other major Asian country. With antibody studies in capital New Delhi and other cities showing that the number of people with signs of past infection is between 40 and 200 times greater than the official case count, the true size of India’s epidemic is probably far larger than its reported 3.6 million infections. And there is every reason to believe that the coronavirus is still only getting started in India. Much of the country’s coronavirus burden so far has fallen on its globally connected megacities like New Delhi and Mumbai, but the disease is now starting to shift to its rural hinterland where nearly 900 million people live, and health-care infrastructure is sparse. A lack of testing and medical help will likely mean that scores of infections and deaths are going unreported. “The disease is moving from urban to rural areas, it’s moving from states with better health-care infrastructure to other places,” said Ramanan Laxminarayan, director of the New Delhi and Washington, D.C.-based Centre for Disease Dynamics Economics and Policy. “That all means that there will be more death, but they will not be counted because they will not be visible anywhere.” The Modi government has often pointed to India’s official mortality rate of around 1.8% -- among the lowest in the world -- as evidence that it is managing the virus’ spread, even if not containing it. But deaths are likely substantially under-reported, and skewed by the country’s disproportionately young population -- 65% are below the age of 35, the segment least in danger of dying from Covid-19. An age-adjusted analysis of India’s death rate by three economists at the National Bureau of Economic Research in Massachusetts found that India’s death rate was similar to the global average. “What we’ve done is delayed infections, but we haven’t been able to curtail the transmission,” said CDDEP’s Laxminarayan. “And that was never going to be possible in a country the size of India and with the health infrastructure India has. What has played out is almost exactly what one should have expected.” --With assistance from Jeff Sutherland and Matt Turner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-is-becoming-the-world-s-new-coronavirus-epicentre-880408.html
31-08-2020||National||Preparations on for second phase of human clinical trial of Bharat Biotech's 'Covaxin' vaccine||Preparations are underway at a hospital here for the commencement of the second phase of human clinical trial of 'Covaxin', India's indigenous Covid-19 vaccine, officials said. "The Phase I of the trial is still continuing as we are planning for the start of the Phase II trial shortly," Dr E Venkata Rao, Principal Investigator of the trial at Institute of Medical Sciences and SUM Hospital, faculty of medical sciences, said. The blood samples collected from the volunteers who received the vaccine were to ascertain how effective the vaccine was in terms of the level of antibodies developed, Dr Rao said, adding that there had been 'no side effects' in the first phase trial of the vaccine. The IMS and SUM Hospital is one of the 12 medical centres in the country chosen by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) for conducting the human trial of the vaccine developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech. "Two doses of the vaccine were administered to each volunteer after they were selected through a screening process conducted over a period of three to seven days prior to vaccination. The first dose was administered on Day Zero while the blood sample was collected. The second dose was given on Day 14 and the blood sample was also collected," Dr Rao said. Blood samples of the volunteers will also be collected on different days (28, 42, 104, 194 day) for estimating the duration of protection subsequently, he added. Dr Rao said there was a lot of enthusiasm among people to be part of the second phase of the human trial. Those who wish to be part of this trial could contact the centre, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/preparations-on-for-second-phase-of-human-clinical-trial-of-bharat-biotechs-covaxin-vaccine-880412.html
31-08-2020||National||Supreme Court notice to Tamil Nadu govt over Vedanta plea to reopen Sterlite Copper plant||The Supreme Court on Monday issued notice to the Tamil Nadu government on a plea by Vedanta Ltd for reopening its Sterlite Copper plant at Thoothukudi in Tamil Nadu. A bench of Justices R F Nariman, Navin Sinha and Indira Banerjee refused to provide any interim relief to the company in the matter. The court posted the matter for consideration after four weeks. It decided to consider on next date the plea by the company for staying the Madras High Court's order of August 18 rejecting its petition to restart the plant. The special leave petition by the company assailed the High Court's judgement which upheld the Tamil Nadu government's decision of May 28, 2018, to shut down the plant due to environmental concerns. In its 815-page judgement, the High Court had rejected writ petitions by Vedanta Ltd, saying prohibitory orders were rightly passed by the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board against the plant for violating laws related to pollution control. The order for closure of the plant was made subsequent to massive protests, resulting into killings of 13 people. The Tamil Nadu government, as well as local residents, have already filed a caveat in the top court for granting them hearing before passing any order in the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-notice-to-tamil-nadu-govt-over-vedanta-plea-to-reopen-sterlite-copper-plant-880418.html
31-08-2020||National||Coronavirus: Govt extends suspension of scheduled international passenger flights till September 30||The suspension of scheduled international passenger flights has been extended till September 30, said Indian aviation regulator DGCA on Monday. "However, international scheduled flights may be allowed on selected routes by the competent authority on a case-to-case basis," noted the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) in a circular. Scheduled international passenger services continue to remain suspended in India since March 23 due to the coronavirus pandemic. Meanwhile, special international flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat Mission since May and under bilateral air bubble arrangements with other countries since July. The circular said the suspension does not affect the operation of international all-cargo operations and flights specifically approved by the DGCA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-govt-extends-suspension-of-scheduled-international-passenger-flights-till-september-30-880423.html
31-08-2020||National||States have power to provide PG admissions quota to govt doctors serving in remote areas, rules SC||The Supreme Court on Monday allowed states to make a special route and quota for in-service doctors, working at primary health centres and other government facilities, in admission to post-graduate degree courses. A five-judge Constitution bench presided over by Justice Arun Mishra said that the Medical Council of India regulation that barred such a reservation was "arbitrary, discriminatory and violative of Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution". "The state has the legislative competence and/or authority to provide for a separate source of entry for in-service candidates seeking admission to post-graduate degree/diploma courses, in the exercise of powers under Entry 25, List III," the bench said. The court said the role of the MCI was limited to laying down of standards. The court, however, said such doctors, after completing their degrees, must serve in rural, tribal and hilly areas. The bench, also comprising Justices Vineet Saran, Indira Banerjee, M R Shah and Aniruddha Bose, delivered the verdict on writ petitions filed by Tamil Nadu Medical Officers Association and others. The court agreed to the petitioner's argument that if the right of the states to provide reservation for in-service doctors in postgraduate degree and diploma courses was not recognised, the ultimate sufferer would be the public health and the common people, particularly those residing in rural, tribal and hilly areas. The petitioners, including doctors from Kerala, Maharashtra and Haryana, contended giving reservation benefits would encourage those working in government hospitals and in rural areas. They challenged the validity of the post-graduate Medical Education Regulations-2000, framed by the Medical Council of India. Notably, 50% seats in PG diploma courses are reserved for medical officers in the government service but the MCI regulations barred it in PG degree courses. All the seats to the PG degree courses are conducted through the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET). 50% of seats are filled through all India quota and the remaining 50% from state quota.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-have-power-to-provide-pg-admissions-quota-to-govt-doctors-serving-in-remote-areas-rules-sc-880432.html
31-08-2020||National||Treat doctors losing lives in Covid-19 fight at par with martyrs of armed forces: IMA to PM Modi||In a letter to the prime minister, the country's largest body of doctors said only an "inclusive national solatium" for all doctors who have lost their lives fighting the pandemic would render justice to the sacrifice of their families. The IMA cited government data and said 87,000 healthcare workers had been infected and 573 of them had lost their lives due to Covid-19. However, the Centre has not officially released these figures. Noting that the data has raised concerns all across the country, the IMA said its data for doctors alone has registered 307 deaths and a total 2,006 infected. It said 188 of those died are general practitioners who are the first point of contact for people. "Doctors suffer a higher viral load and a higher CFR (Case Fatality Rate) as a community. IMA is constrained to point out that they could have stayed back at home during the epidemic safely. They chose to serve the nation in the best traditions of the medical profession," said the letter dated August 30. The solatium approved by the government for their colleagues in government services in all fairness is deserved by the children of these martyrs as well, the association said. "All doctors who have laid down their lives in fighting this epidemic should be treated at par with the martyrs of Indian Armed Forces and acknowledged appropriately. The surviving spouse or dependent should be provided a government job as per their qualifications," the IMA said. It also raised the issue that whatever solatium that is in place had failed to reach the beneficiaries due to the inadequacy of the chosen instrument and the "indifference". "The scheme is reported to have been lapsed as well. There is a pressing need to reconsider the same on merit and create a dedicated system to administer," the IMA said. A national scheme to support the "soldiers fighting a pandemic" cannot be allowed to degenerate into just another pecuniary benefit for government servants, it said. "We once again appeal to your goodself that such a sacrifice by doctors needs to be acknowledged by the highest office of the nation irrespective of the sectors," the IMA said in the letter to Modi. "We are also writing to you at this juncture since it has been predicted that India will top the world in number of cases in a few weeks. Healthcare manpower is precious. Uniform practices have to be put in place throughout the country," it said. The IMA said substantial differences were noticed from district to district in how doctors and healthcare workers were deployed. It asserted that districts were not sensitive to the safety angle, and the concerns of stress and fatigue of the medical manpower. Noting that the nation deserves a radical approach to the situation, the IMA appealed to the prime minister for the government to bring in appropriate reforms, which it said were long overdue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/treat-doctors-losing-lives-in-covid-19-fight-at-par-with-martyrs-of-armed-forces-ima-to-pm-modi-880437.html
31-08-2020||National||Puducherry reports 291 new Covid-19 cases, seven deaths push toll to 228||The 291 new cases were identified at the end of examination of 1,074 samples taking the overall tally to 14,411, Director of Health and Family Welfare S Mohan Kumar said in a press release. Seven patients including a 70-year-old woman succumbed to the infection during the last 24 hours ending 10 am today. Mohan Kumar further said of the total 14,411 cumulative cases, 4,849 were active while 9,334 patients had recovered and were discharged so far. He said 366 patients were discharged during the last 24 hours and the fatality and recovery rates were 1.58 percent and 64.77 percent respectively. Of the 75,031 samples tested so far, 59,102 samples tested negative and the result of examination of remaining specimens was awaited, he said. Meanwhile, Health Minister Malladi Krishna today visited the Government General Hospital in Yanam (his home constituency). A release said he interacted with coronavirus patients undergoing treatment in the hospital and got to know about the quality of food served to them and also the quality of treatment. Rao instructed officials to intensify steps to control the Covid-19 situation in Yanam which is an enclave of Puducherry in Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/puducherry-reports-291-new-covid-19-cases-seven-deaths-push-toll-to-228-880446.html
31-08-2020||National||Congress slams BJP govt over Chinese aggression at Line of Actual Control||The Congress on Monday attacked the government over the Chinese aggression at the border and asked when will Prime Minister Narendra Modi show his "red eyes" to China. "Another brazen attempt at aggression by China in Pangong Tso Lake. Everyday there is a Chinese intrusion...Pangong Tso Lake area, Gogra and Galwan valley, Depsang plains, Lipu Lake, Doka La and Naku La pass. "Our armed forces are standing fearlessly to protect Mother India. But, when will Modi ji show his red eyes," Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said in a tweet in Hindi. Another Congress spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill said China remains consistent and persistent in indulging in LAC misadventures altering status quo, but alleged that "the BJP Government remains hesitant in even admitting the reality". "Aatmanirbhar, Toys and Love for Indian Dogs can divert attention but should not be confused with strategy and scheme to evict China," he said in a series of tweets. In a fresh incident in eastern Ladakh, the Chinese PLA carried out "provocative military movements" to "unilaterally" change the status quo on the southern bank of Pangong Tso lake but the attempt was thwarted by the Indian troops, the Army said here. Army Spokesperson Col Aman Anand said troops from China's People's Liberation Army(PLA) "violated" the previous consensus arrived at during military and diplomatic engagements on the ongoing standoff in eastern Ladakh, and carried out provocative military movements to change the status quo on the night of August 29/30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-slams-bjp-govt-over-chinese-aggression-at-line-of-actual-control-880455.html
31-08-2020||National||AICC leadership issue: 'Group of 23' doesn't want Rahul to emerge strong, says Telangana Cong leader||The group of 23 senior Congress leaders who wrote a letter to AICC president Sonia Gandhi on leadership issues, do not want Rahul Gandhi to emerge strong, senior Telangana Congress leader M Shashidhar Reddy said on Monday. He hit out at former union minister Ghulam Nabi Azad for being critical of the party affairs. "The fact is that he (Azad) and some of his 'Group of 23' friends do not want Shri Rahul Gandhi to emerge strong," he alleged in a press release. He further charged Azad as union Health minister had then failed to aggressively campaign about the Rs 4,300 crore fund allotted for National Programme for Prevention and Control of Encephalitis and the Samajwadi Party made this a major issue and won in 2012 UP Assembly polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aicc-leadership-issue-group-of-23-doesnt-want-rahul-to-emerge-strong-says-telangana-cong-leader-880475.html
31-08-2020||National||India's Covid-19 cases top global rank as more of economy opens||India reported 78,512 novel coronavirus infections on Monday, more than any other country but fewer than the previous day when it posted the world's biggest, single-day tally, as authorities looked to open more sectors of the economy. On Sunday, India's total of 78,761 new cases exceeded the previous global record of 77,299 in the United States on July 16, a Reuters tally of official data showed. The world's second-most populous country has been posting the highest single-day caseload in the world since Aug. 7. At 3.62 million cases, India is fast catching up to the United States and Brazil in terms of total cases but it has a lower death rate. India's coronavirus deaths went up by 971 in the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 64,469, the health ministry said. The huge numbers have got authorities worried, especially with people in rural areas largely abandoning rules aimed at stopping the spread, officials say. Kumar Sanjay Krishna, the chief secretary of Assam, one of the worst-hit states, attributed the increasing cases to more testing, the opening of the economy and complacency. "People are not following precautionary steps and are violating the Covid protocols," he said on Twitter. "From Monday onwards there shall be visible strict action taken against those who violate the norms of social distancing or found not wearing a face mask." But at the same time, fears are growing for the world's fifth-largest economy, with a contraction in gross domestic product for the June quarter expected to be announced later on Monday. Hoping to avert more serious economic damage, the government is relaxing restrictions and has announced that urban metro trains can resume services from Sept. 7. Also, up to 100 people will be allowed to congregate for events including religious and political functions later in September. India's second-most industrialised state of Tamil Nadu said it would partially open public transport, allow shopping malls and places of worship to operate, abolish full shutdowns on Sundays and increase flights. The government is also allowing states to let some school staff report to duty and has resisted pressure to delay exams slated to start Tuesday, with more than 2 million students aiming for admission to medical and engineering schools. Interior Minister Amit Shah, who had been admitted to hospital twice after contracting the virus, was discharged from on Monday. Many senior politicians have been infected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-cases-top-global-rank-as-more-of-economy-opens-880476.html
31-08-2020||National||Grenade attack in J&K's Baramulla, six civilians injured||At least six civilians sustained injuries in a grenade attack by militants on an Army convoy in Baramulla district of Jammu and Kashmir on Monday,  officials said. The ultras lobbed a grenade on the convoy, which was on its way to Srinagar, at Azadgunj in Baramulla town, they said. Officials said the grenade missed the intended target and exploded on the roadside, causing injuries to six civilians. The injured were rushed to a hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/grenade-attack-in-jks-baramulla-six-civilians-injured-880479.html
31-08-2020||National||Chinese troops never cross the line of actual control at Indian border, says China foreign ministry||Chinese border troops "never cross the line of actual control", the Chinese foreign ministry said, as fresh conflict reignited between Chinese and Indian troops at the border of both countries. Both sides are in communication regarding the situation on the ground, Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian told a news briefing on Monday. The Indian army said in a statement on Monday that Chinese troops carried out military movements over the weekend to change the status quo on their disputed border in a fresh flare-up between the two sides.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chinese-troops-never-cross-the-line-of-actual-control-at-indian-border-says-china-foreign-ministry-880484.html
31-08-2020||National||'Not warranted': Former Law Minister Veerapa Moily on SC punishing Prashant Bhushan||The Supreme Court on Monday punishing activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan was unwarranted, former Union Law Minister M Veerapa Moily said and felt that the case against him could have been referred to the Bar Council of India. The senior Congress leader said that Attorney General K K Venugopal and many jurists and lawyers had urged the Supreme Court not to punish him. Moily expressed the view that judges should not take upon themselves to punish a person who makes allegations against them. "It looks as if it was not warranted," he said on the Supreme Court imposing a token fine of one rupee against Bhushan as punishment in the contempt case against him. "It's not in keeping with the question of natural justice.It's not in keeping with the high standards of judiciary," he said. Bhushan, who has been convicted for two tweets against the judiciary, has to deposit the fine with the Supreme Court registry by September 15, said a bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra. Failure to comply would entail a three-month jail term and debarment from law practice for three years, it said. Politicians, judges or anybody should "bear this kind of criticism" and not take upon themselves to punish a person who makes allegations against them, said Moily, a former Karnataka Chief Minister. "Judiciary will have to lay down certain norms, methods to deal with such situations," Moily told PTI. "At the most, they (SC) can make a reference to Bar Council of India.That is the right body to punish the lawyers." The bench, also comprising Justices B R Gavai and Krishna Murari, said freedom of speech cannot be curtailed but rights of others need to be respected. On August 14, the apex court held Bhushan guilty of criminal contempt for his two derogatory tweets against the judiciary and said they cannot be said to be a fair criticism of the functioning of the judiciary made in public interest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-warranted-former-law-minister-veerapa-moily-on-sc-punishing-prashant-bhushan-880486.html
31-08-2020||National||PM Modi's Mann ki Baat video gets over 6 lakh 'dislikes'; PMO channel disables comments||In his monthly 'Mann ki Baat' address, on Sunday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said it was time for startups to be "vocal for local toys" and also asked them to develop computer games in and based on India, citing the nation's rich heritage and traditions that can drive innovations in the toy and gaming industry. Modi touched on a number of issues in the broadcast and lauded people for maintaining unprecedented restraint and simplicity in celebrating festivals during the Covid-19 pandemic and praised farmers for an increase in the sowing area for crops. Nearly 24 hours later, the video put out by the Bharatiya Janata Party, had over 79,000 likes, but the clip saw a whooping 5.34 (534K) lakh dislikes. At the time of writing this article, the video on YouTube has over 6.33 lakh dislikes. The video on the BJP channel has been watched by around 10 lakh viewers, while the channel has 3.5 million subscribers. #Mann_Ki_Nahi_Students_Ki_Baat started trending on Twitter soon after the episode was aired. Many on YouTube and Twitter questioned the Prime Minister for not addressing the issues related to JEE and NEET exams.    Meanwhile, the clip uploaded by Narendra Modi's channel has 56,000 likes and 1.64 lakh dislikes. The PMO channel has over 41,000 likes and 1 lakh dislikes, and also the comments option for the video has been turned off.    Many comments in the videos reflected a sense of dissatisfaction for Modi not addressing the issue of the ongoing NEET/JEE examinations, which has been debated by many state governments and political parties. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said that the students wanted Prime Minister Narendra Modi to address the issue of NEET and JEE exams in his monthly radio programme, but he spoke on toys. In his address, PM also highlighted the contributions of canines in general in thwarting numerous bomb blasts and terror conspiracies while mentioning a few incidents. Even in relief operations, dogs play a crucial role in finding out people buried under rubble, he had said. Modi also spoke about an 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' app innovation challenge organised earlier this month and noted that nearly two thirds of around seven thousand entries were from tier two and tier three cities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modis-mann-ki-baat-video-gets-over-6-lakh-dislikes-pmo-channel-disables-comments-880501.html
31-08-2020||National||SC youth dies in police custody, family alleges torture; Cop suspended||A youth belonging to the scheduled caste (SC), on Monday, died in police custody allegedly owing to torture in Uttar Pradesh's Raebareli district, about 80 kilometres from here. While the family members of the youth alleged that he was brutally thrashed by belts and sticks by the cops, the latter denied the allegations. The cops claimed that the deceased suffered from pneumonia and also had a temperature.  Police sources said that the youth, identified as Mohit Kumar, a resident of Pure Baiju village in the district, had been picked up by the cops on suspicion of being a member of a gang, which was involved in stealing motorbikes. Sources said that Mohit complained of pain in the stomach and breathlessness after which he was admitted to the district hospital on Saturday. He died there on Sunday. An irate mob later blocked traffic on the main road connecting Raebareli, the Lok Sabha constituency of Congress president Sonia Gandhi, and Fatehpur districts in protest against the incident. Sources said that the in-charge of the police station had been suspended and a probe was ordered into the incident. ''We are investigating the matter,'' said a senior police official in Raebareli. UP Congress president Ajai Kumar Lalloo accused the state police of ''persecuting the Dalits''. ''Dalits have been facing discrimination under the present dispensation....instead of giving them justice, the police are killing the Dalits,'' Lalloo said. The Yogi Adityanath government has been under attack from the opposition and Dalit organisations over the alleged killing of the members of the community in the state in the past few months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-youth-dies-in-police-custody-family-alleges-torture-cop-suspended-880503.html
31-08-2020||National||Don't permit permit pvt insurance and pharma companies to access personal data: CPI(M) on Health Data policy||Demanding that the government should postpone the rolling out of the Health Data Management Policy (HDMP) and National Digital Health Mission (NDHM) till a full-fledged discussion takes place, CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury on Monday said that the proposal entails collection of sensitive personal data and handing them over to private insurance and pharma companies. Calling it a "serious breach" of personal data, he tweeted that the Modi government cannot permit access to sensitive personal data of Indians for the profits of private corporates. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he said the government has sought comments on the HDMP by September 3 and this needs to be postponed, as no policy should be finalised before a structured discussion on the serious implications contained in this draft are considered. Yechury said such a discussion becomes "imperative" given the fact that the HDMP is part of the NDHM that was announced by Modi during his Independence Day speech on August 15. Strangely, he said, the government has sought comments on the HDMP in isolation and not the NDHM as a whole. "The NDHM proposes to collect sensitive personal data of all citizens which will then be made available to private insurance corporations and the pharmaceutical companies. This is a serious breach of protection of personal data," he wrote in the letter. The CPI(M) leader said the Personal Data Protection Bill 2019, which was introduced after considerable discussion, is pending in Parliament and the proposed policy makes no reference to this Bill. "In fact the proposed HDMP has many provisions that amount to a serious dilution of the essence of the Bill before Parliament, regarding governance of data protection," he said in the letter. "No implementation of any Mission can be made unless parliament and its structures like the Standing Committee consider these proposals in depth. Hence, we urge you to defer the date of September 3, 2020 as the final date for comments," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-permit-permit-pvt-insurance-and-pharma-companies-to-access-personal-data-cpim-on-health-data-policy-880504.html
31-08-2020||National||Army kept India's sovereignty secure; why is Congress 'crying': BJP||Hitting back at the Congress after it targeted the Union government over the Chinese aggression at the Ladakh border, the BJP asked why the opposition party is "crying" when the Indian Army has kept the nation's territorial integrity secure by thwarting the neighbouring country's designs. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra at a press conference said that India and Prime Minister Narendra Modi have shown "red eyes" to China and questioned as to why is the Congress showing "moist eyes". He was responding to Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala's jibe at the government. The Congress leader had said in a tweet, "Another brazen attempt at aggression by China in Pangong Tso Lake. Every day there is a Chinese intrusion...Pangong Tso Lake area, Gogra and Galwan valley, Depsang plains, Lipu Lake, Doka La and Naku La pass. Our armed forces are standing fearlessly to protect Mother India. But when will Modi ji show his red eyes." Patra said the issue pertaining to China is not about one party but about the country, and noted that the Ministry of Defence has issued a statement in which it said that the Chinese army tried to violate Indian sovereignty but its attempts were thwarted. "The BJP and the people of India salute the Indian Army. The bravery with which they have discharged their duty and protected India's sovereignty deserves our salute," he said. Attacking the Congress, he said, "India and Modi ji have red eyes. Indian Army has shown its red eyes. That is why India's sovereignty is intact. Nobody can challenge it. Everyone has trust in the Indian Army and Modi, and stands by them.” Patra said that as long as this government and the army are there, nobody can play with the country's sovereignty. "I want to ask Randeep Surjewala, Rahul Gandhi that we have red eyes but why do you have moist eyes? Whenever we are attacked or we carry out a surgical strike to destroy terrorist camps, then why do you start crying? You should be happy," he said. “Our army has valour, and our government and the prime minister have self-confidence,” he said, asking why does it bother the Congress and why is it crying. In a fresh incident in eastern Ladakh, the Chinese PLA carried out "provocative military movements" to "unilaterally" change the status quo on the southern bank of Pangong Tso lake but the attempt was thwarted by Indian troops, the Army said on Monday. Army Spokesperson Col Aman Anand said troops from China's People's Liberation Army (PLA) "violated" the previous consensus arrived at during military and diplomatic engagements on the ongoing standoff in eastern Ladakh and carried out provocative military movements to change the status quo on the night of August 29/30. Reacting to the development, BJP MP Subramanian Swamy said it was sad that the government does not realise that the Chinese have made a decision about India. India should get tough, he said. "It (is) sad that the government does not realise the Chinese have made a decision about India. We must make a decision about China. Get tough, I repeat, get tough and not sit at a table. After sitting with Xi Jinping 18 times in five years Chinese could not care less for Indian leaders," he said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-kept-indias-sovereignty-secure-why-is-congress-crying-bjp-880514.html
31-08-2020||National||Will PM Modi give a befitting response to China, asks Congress||Congress on Monday hit out at the Modi government demanding when it would give a befitting reply to China as the Army reported fresh attempts of transgression by Chinese troops in Ladakh. “The sovereignty of India is being attacked. Our land is being captured. But where is the Modi government,” Congress chief spokesman Randeep Singh Surjewala said soon after the Indian Army reported fresh Chinese transgression near the southern bank of Pangong lake in Ladakh. Congress also hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi for being hesitant in admitting China’s misadventures along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh. “Aatmanirbhar, Toys and Love for Indian Dogs can divert attention but should not be confused with strategy and scheme to evict China,” Congress spokesman Jaiveer Shergill said. Surjewala termed the Indian Army statement on the attempted transgressions near Pangong Tso as “shocking” and also sought to highlight the increased presence of Chinese troops near Lipulekh in Uttarakhand. Chinese missiles have been installed in Doka La and Naku La pass. It is a threat to India. Forces are protecting the border. But where is the Prime Minister,” Surjewala said. He sought to know when the Prime Minister’s ‘red eyes’ against China would make an appearance. “When will he give a befitting reply to China? Where is the Defence Minister? We demand that the Prime Minister and Defence Minister should come forward and inform us about the situation. When will they remove Chinese transgression from our territory,” the Congress leader asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-pm-modi-give-a-befitting-response-to-china-asks-congress-880517.html
31-08-2020||National||Former President Pranab Mukherjee passes away at 84||Pranab Mukherjee, former President and one of India’s most admired politicians, breathed his last at the Army Hospital on Monday. He was 84. Mukherjee had suffered an accident at his residence late evening on August 9 and was admitted to the Army Hospital (Research & Referral) the following day when he underwent a “life-saving” brain surgery for removal of a large clot. He had also tested positive for Covid-19. “With a Heavy Heart, this is to inform you that my father Shri Pranab Mukherjee has just passed away in spite of the best efforts of Doctors of RR Hospital & prayers, duas & prarthanas from people throughout India !” his son Abhijit said on Twitter. “As a mark of respect to the departed dignitary, seven days State Mourning will be observed throughout India from August 31 to September 6, both days inclusive,” the government said in a statement here. It said that during the period of state mourning, the National Flag will fly at half-mast on all buildings throughout India, where it is flown regularly and there will be no official entertainment. The mortal remains of the former President are expected to be brought at his official 10, Rajaji Marg residence on Tuesday morning and a state funeral has been planned at the Lodhi Road crematorium. Tributes poured in from across the country for Mukherjee, who touched many lives throughout his five-decade of public life. “In his five decade long illustrious public life, he remained rooted to the ground irrespective of the exalted offices he held. He endeared himself to people across the political spectrum,” President Ram Nath Kovind said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi hailed Mukherjee as a scholar par excellence, a towering statesman who was admired across the political spectrum and by all sections of the society. “I was new to Delhi in 2014. From Day 1, I was blessed to have the guidance, support and blessings of Shri Pranab Mukherjee. I will always cherish my interactions with him,” Modi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-president-pranab-mukherjee-passes-away-at-84-880522.html
31-08-2020||National||Pranab Mukherjee: A man of many misses||Pranab Mukherjee rose to occupy the highest seat of power in Indian democracy but his extraordinary political life is also a story of many misses. Not  just the chair of the Prime Minister eluded him in 1984, 1990 and 2004, he could not become the Home Minister in 2004 and 2008, the Congress president in 1996 and the Finance Minister in 1991. Congress’ main trouble-shooter for decades, Mukherjee was feared by rivals within as they felt his ascent to the top positions in party and government could end up in their political oblivion. A trusted hand of Indira Gandhi, he had a troubled relationship with Rajiv Gandhi while Sonia Gandhi accommodated Mukherjee for his political acumen and experience. However, her choice of Manmohan Singh, whom Mukherjee had appointed as RBI Governor in the 1980s, as Prime Minister in 2004 displayed that she wanted to keep the latter at a distance. In 2012, however, Mukherjee had an inkling that he may finally become the Prime Minister, following a subtle hint from Sonia during a meeting on 2 June, 2012. Intense discussions on Presidential elections were on and Sonia told him that he was "eminently suited" for the top post. But she told him that Mukherjee "should not forget the crucial role" he plays in the then UPA government. In 2007 too, Sonia had told him that they could not spare him from the government when the Presidential polls came. "The meeting ended, and I returned with a vague impression that she might wish to consider (Prime Minister) Manmohan Singh as the UPA presidential nominee. I thought that if she selected Singh for the presidential office, she may choose me as the prime minister," Mukherjee recalled in the third volume of his autobiography 'The Coalition Years: 1996-2012'. However, the culmination of the episode was that he was elected as the President. However, it was not the same 38 years ago. Retold several times, the political folklore is that a chatter with Rajiv on a flight to Delhi on the day of Indira Gandhi's assassination had sealed his political fate, at least for some years. He is rumoured to have suggested to Rajiv that as the senior-most minister, he should head the interim government. Within a day, Rajiv took over as Prime Minister. Mukherjee too was in his Cabinet but was ousted soon, prompting him to form his own party, only to return in a couple of years. Mukherjee defended himself in the second volume of his autobiography 'The Turbulent Years: 1980-96' saying that he never aspired for the post and described this as "false and spiteful" stories that created "misgivings" in Rajiv's mind. Mukherjee’s name also cropped as a potential Prime Minister in 1990 when the VP Singh government fell. It did not come from Congress but the then President R Venkitaraman suggested it to senior Congress leader ML Fotedar, who called on the former. He wanted Venkitaraman to invite Rajiv to form the government. Instead, Fotedar recalled in 'The Chinar Leaves: A Political Memoir', Venkitaraman told him that if Congress nominated Mukherjee, he would administer the oath that day itself. "It seems that among the various alternatives, Rajiv Gandhi considered Chandra Shekhar a better and safe option than Pranab Mukherjee," writes former Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh and researcher Ravi Dutt Bajpai in 'Chandra Shekhar: The Last Icon of Ideological Politics'. In 2004, Mukherjee wrote, there was a “prevalent expectation” that he would be the “next choice for Prime Minister” after Sonia famously declined to take over the top post, saying it was possibly based on the fact that he had extensive experience in the government but Singh, who was eventually chosen, was known for his bureaucratic expertise. He was "reluctant to join" Singh's cabinet and when there was pressure on him to take over Ministry of Defence, he told Sonia that "I would prefer Home over External Affairs -- I had worked as the chairman of the Standing Committee on Home Affairs for over six years and was conversant with the ministry -- and that I had no experience in Defence". Another shock for Mukherjee was in 1991 when Rao chose his Finance Minister. Everyone was sure that Mukherjee is most likely to heading to the Finance Ministry and that he sided with Rao in the power struggle following Rajiv’s assassination. But the mantle fell on Manmohan Singh. Vinay Sitapati narrates the back story in 'Half Lion: How P V Narasimha Rao Transformed India' on how Rao “spurned” the Congress leaders who wanted the Finance Ministry for themselves. Mukherjee, who was Finance Minister between 1982-84 that was a period “referred to as the one that saw the origins of crony capitalism in India”, was confident that he would land in the North Block. Within hours of Rao being elected as Congress Parliamentary Party leader on 20 June, 1991, Mukherjee told Congress leader Jairam Ramesh, "you will be either with me in North Block or South Block with Pee Vee (Rao)." The day before he was to take oath as Prime Minister on 21 June, 1991, Rao called the Intelligence Bureau and within hours, an official handed Rao a "secret file" on Mukherjee. "There is no evidence of anything incriminating in the file or if Rao even used it against Pranab. But one thing is certain. By that evening (20 June, 1991), Pranab was no longer in the running," Sitapati writes. Mukherjee also could not make it to the post of Congress president post in 1996 after Rao stepped down as party chief with Sonia preferring Sitaram Kesri. He also could have become the Home Minister after the 2008 Mumbai attacks. Sonia suggested it but Manmohan Singh put his foot down, saying he could not afford that change. Manmohan Singh himself conveyed this to Mukherjee. Senior Congress leader Margaret Alva remembers another episode of 1996 when Rao quit as Congress party president. The race for Presidentship started and the main contenders were Mukherjee and Kesri, "still the seasoned and wily Treasurer of the party". Alva, who attended a "couple of meetings of the Mukherjee camp", felt the undercurrent of support for Kesri was growing, "clearly with the blessings of 10-Janpath (Sonia's residence)" and reported back to Mukherjee. "The argument put forth was that Kesri was an old Nehru-Gandhi family loyalist and so would be the ideal stop-gap arrangement till such time as Sonia decided to accept the top position," Alva wrote in her memoirs 'Courage and Commitment'. Alva had "strongly pleaded" Mukherjee's case with Rao, who responded, "I do not want to upset the lady (Sonia)!" It is another story that Kesri was removed as Congress president unceremoniously to bring Sonia as party chief and Mukherjee had a prominent role to play.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pranab-mukherjee-a-man-of-many-misses-880530.html
31-08-2020||National||Why Vajpayee once complained against Pranab Mukherjee?||Vajpayee had felt the appointment was not proper as Mukherjee was a Rajya Sabha MP and not elected to the Lok Sabha. He immediately wrote to the then Lok Sabha Speaker Balram Jhakkar "complaining about the appointment". Vajpayee's biographer Kinghsuk Nag, a journalist, says the former prime minister had an uncanny ability to raise issues that would "never occur" to anybody else. The BJP leader's argument was that there was a "patent anomaly arising from the appointment that the member who pilots the finance bills and appropriation bills will not be entitled to vote for it. As a natural corollary, the finance minister has always been a member from the Lok Sabha. This is so axiomatic that there is no dispute about this," Vajpayee is quoted as saying in Nag's 'Atal Bihari Vajpayee: A Man for All Seasons'. Interestingly, 30 years down the line, Vajpayee as prime minister appointed a Rajya Sabha MP Jaswant Singh as his finance minister on April 10, 2002. With a huge friend circle, Vajpayee never badmouthed or criticised people. When his nephew Anup Mishra, then an MP, and others met him to complain against the then Madhya Pradesh chief minister Digvijaya Singh and asked why he was referring to him as a good man when Singh was troubling them, Vajpayee said: "I still say that he is a good man."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-vajpayee-once-complained-against-pranab-mukherjee-880532.html
31-08-2020||National||Why was Vajpayee against Pranab Mukherjee as Finance Minister in 1982?||A B Vajpayee and Pranab Mukherjee shared a "great equation" and used to go for walks together at times but when Indira Gandhi chose the latter as Finance Minister in January 1982, the late BJP patriarch found it improper. Vajpayee shot off a complaint to the then Lok Sabha Speaker complaining about the appointment. His contention was that Mukherjee was not a Lok Sabha MP and hence would not be able to vote on the Finance Bills which he would be piloting. The BJP veteran's argument was about the  “patent anomaly arising from the appointment that the member who pilots the finance bills and appropriation bills will not be entitled to vote for it”. “As a natural corollary, the Finance Minister has always been a member of the Lok Sabha. This is so axiomatic that there is no dispute about this,” Vajpayee is quoted as saying. Mukherjee’s job was saved because Jhakkar “struck down the argument”. Journalist-biographer Kingshuk Nag wrote in ‘Atal Bihari Vajpayee: A Man of All Seasons’ that the former Prime Minister had a knack of raising issues that would “never occur” to anybody else. Both Vajpayee and Mukherjee shared mutual respect and the BJP leader had high regard for his friend from Congress. In one incident, Mukherjee had entered into an argument in Parliament about the practices of Hindu Gods. Joshi challenged him but Mukherjee quoted Sanskrit hymns with their English translations. “Atal told Pranab, I warned Joshi not to take ‘pangas’ with you on religious matters. He does not know that you have deep knowledge of the scriptures,” the book recalled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-was-vajpayee-against-pranab-mukherjee-as-finance-minister-in-1982-880534.html
31-08-2020||National||Pranab Mukherjee | Hearing a mouthful from Indira and the tale of missing chair in swearing-in ceremony||On 14 January, 1980, Pranab Mukherjee walked into Rashtrapati Bhavan's Ashoka Hall to take oath as a Cabinet Minister but there was no seat for him in the row of ministers to be sworn in. Only 90 min before, Indira Gandhi's all powerful aide R K Dhawan telephoned him to be in Rashtrapati Bhavan for the swearing in. Two days before, he had met Indira but she had not indicated that he would be in her Cabinet. A puzzled Mukherjee looked at Indira, who had returned to power after her post-Emergency debacle in 1977 elections, and she realised there was something wrong and nodded at Dhawan, who rushed to Mukherjee and told him to wait. Indira's office had sent Mukherjee's name too but everyone was puzzled why no seat was earmarked for him. Dhawan immediately reached out to the then Cabinet Secretary and then consulted the President's Secretary. Soon, the mystery was unravelled. Except for Mukherjee, the letter recommending the names of all ministers were typed while his was handwritten, which led to the President's Secretariat inadvertently missing it and no seat assigned to him as a consequence. Mukherjee recalled that Indira herself then wrote another letter in hand sitting at the Rashtrapati Bhavan and got it delivered to the President's Secretary. Mukherjee sat between P V Narasimha Rao, who became Prime Minister in 1991, and R Venkitaraman, who became President in 1987. The swearing-in ceremony was not devoid of drama as Bhagwat Jha Azad, cricketer-turned-politician Kirti Azad's father, had walked out in a huff as he was upset that he did not get a Cabinet berth. A media report had then suggested that Mukherjee was accommodated at the last minute after Azad's walkout, as Indira wanted a 22-member team, an "astronomically auspicious number". Mukherjee rubbished it as "rumours stemming from fertile imaginations". However, the run up to the ministry formation had its twists and turns. Mukherjee had got a tongue lashing from Indira herself for contesting the election from Bolpur in West Bengal against her advice. He had lost and Indira summoned him on the result day itself. Sanjay Gandhi warned him that Indira was upset at his defeat and he met her at her residence at 9 PM. Indira, who was suffering from a bad cold and soaking her feet in a tub of warm water in her dining, was fuming at Mukherjee for going against her advice not to contest. She told her that he nullified all his hard work. Soon, there was speculation that Mukherjee would not be in her Cabinet with Bengali newspapers projecting Barkat from the state. Some of his supporters and admirers from Assam, Odisha, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and the north-east offered to lobby for him, which he declined. Two days before the swearing-in, Mukherjee wrote in 'The Dramatic Decade: The Indira Gandhi Years', the first of his three-part autobiography, Kamal Nath drove to his residence and told him about some likely inclusions in the Cabinet. Mukherjee thought there could be some truth in the information as Kamal Nath was close to Sanjay Gandhi. Kamal Nath told him that he was trying to get Barkat a seat in Indira's team and then asked him whether he had spoken to the Gandhis about his inclusion. Mukherjee had a hunch that Kamal Nath was trying to read his mind and answered in the negative. Same evening, Mukherjee went to Indira's residence where he first met Sanjay who told him that he was aware that the former was upset about the possibility of non-inclusion in the cabinet. Mukherjee told him that he was incorrectly informed and he felt embarrassed to approach Indira for a Cabinet berth after his defeat. Sanjay told him that it was already decided that he would be Commerce Minister but was not sure whether he would be sworn in the first lot. Only Indira knew. He met Indira too that evening but she did not mention anything about his induction in the Cabinet. Instead, she asked him about certain individuals without citing any specific reason for her interest. She had also asked him to work out a scheme for the merger of Sikkim Chief Minister Nar Bahadur Bhandari.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pranab-mukherjee-hearing-a-mouthful-from-indira-and-the-tale-of-missing-chair-in-swearing-in-ceremony-880538.html
31-08-2020||National||Prashant Bhushan to file review plea against SC order; agrees to pay one rupee fine||Activist-advocate Prashant Bhushan on Monday said he would pay Re one fine imposed by the Supreme Court in the contempt case for his tweets, but also indicated he would file a review plea against the order.  Bhushan said he has the greatest respect for the Supreme Court and judiciary, and his tweets were not intended to disrespect the apex court.  "While I reserve the right to seek a review of the conviction and sentencing, by way of an appropriate legal remedy, I propose to submit myself to this order, just as I would have submitted to any other lawful punishment," he said in a statement. Hours after the court's order, he said, "I have always believed the SC to be the last bastion of hope, particularly for the weak and the oppressed who knock at its door for the protection of their rights, often against a powerful executive." At a press conference by CJAR (Campaign for Judicial Accountability & Reforms) and Swaraj Abhiyan, he said the tweets were merely meant to express his anguish with the Supreme Court for "a deviation from its sterling past record".   The issue was never about "me versus the judges, much less about me versus the Supreme Court", he said.  Bhushan further said: "When the Supreme Court of India wins, every Indian wins. Every Indian wants a strong and independent judiciary. Obviously, if the courts get weakened, it weakens the republic and harms every citizen." Bhushan, who refused to tender an apology or express regret for tweets, said, "What is very heartening is that this case has become a watershed moment for freedom of speech and seems to have encouraged many people to stand up and speak out against the injustices in our society."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prashant-bhushan-to-file-review-plea-against-sc-order-agrees-to-pay-one-rupee-fine-880541.html
31-08-2020||National||2G scam: CBI, ED moves HC for early hearing on appeals challenging acquittal of A Raja, others||The CBI and ED Monday approached the Delhi High Court seeking early hearing on their appeals challenging the acquittal of former Union telecom minister A Raja and others in the 2G spectrum allocation scam cases. The early hearing pleas came up before Justice Brijesh Sethi who asked the probe agencies to serve all the respondents -- individuals and firms -- with the copy of their applications. The high court listed the early hearing applications for September 10, when it will also hear a plea by a firm, which was acquitted in the 2G scam related money laundering case, seeking to release its properties worth Rs 22 crore attached by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). The two agencies have sought early hearing of the appeals which are otherwise listed for hearing on October 12. CBI has also sought advancing the hearing of the appeal challenging the acquittal of Essar Group promoters Ravi Kant Ruia and Anshuman Ruia and six others in a separate case arising out of the 2G scam probe. A special court had on December 21, 2017 acquitted Raja, DMK MP Kanimozhi and others in CBI and ED cases related to the scam. It had acquitted 17 others, including DMK supremo M Karunanidhi's wife Dayalu Ammal, Vinod Goenka, Asif Balwa, film producer Karim Morani, P Amirtham and Sharad Kumar, Director of Kalaignar TV in the ED case. On the same day, the trial court had also acquitted former telecom secretary Siddharth Behura, Raja's erstwhile private secretary R K Chandolia, Unitech Ltd MD Sanjay Chandra and three top executives of Reliance Anil Dhirubhai Ambani Group (RADAG) -- Gautam Doshi, Surendra Pipara and Hari Nair, in the CBI's 2G case. Swan Telecom promoters Shahid Usman Balwa and Vinod Goenka and directors of Kusegaon Fruits and Vegetables Pvt Ltd Asif Balwa and Rajiv Agarwal were also acquitted in the CBI case. On March 19 2018, the ED had approached the high court challenging the special court's order acquitting all the accused. A day later, the CBI too had challenged in the high court the acquittal of the accused in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2g-scam-cbi-ed-moves-hc-for-early-hearing-on-appeals-challenging-acquittal-of-a-raja-others-880543.html
31-08-2020||National||Here's how Pranab Mukherjee's last day at Parliament House was||Former President Pranab Mukherjee, a stalwart of Indian politics, breathed his last on Monday at the Army Hospital in New Delhi. He was 84. Pranab Mukherjee had turned nostalgic in his last speech in Parliament on July 23, 2017, which he made exactly 48 years and one day after he first attended a session in "this living institution". In his farewell speech to Parliamentarians in the Central Hall, he had remembered that he was only 34 years when he first entered the portals of this "hallowed institution" as a member of Rajya Sabha from West Bengal. "My election to Rajya Sabha took place on 4 July and the first session I attended began on 22 July, 1969," he had said in the House as he travelled back in time. However, he also had said, "as I retire from the Office of the President of the Republic, my association with the Parliament also comes to an end. I will no longer be a part of the Parliament of India. It will be with a tinge of sadness and a rainbow of memories that I will be leaving this magnificent building today." The late former president remembered that when he entered Parliament at a time when Rajya Sabha was full of experienced parliamentarians and leaders of the freedom movement, many of whom were brilliant speakers. He referred to MC Chagla, Ajit Prasad Jain, Jairamdas Daulatram, Bhupesh Gupta, Joachim Alva, Mahavir Tyagi, Raj Narain, Bhai Mahavir, Loknath Misra and Chitta Basu and many more. "In fact, Bhupesh Gupta was truly a legend in the Rajya Sabha. Dahyabhai Patel and Maniben Patel, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel’s son and daughter, represented Swatantra Party in the Parliament," he had said in his address. He had said in the speech he was further enriched by the wisdom of P V Narasimha Rao, who brought back him into prominence after political wilderness for some time. He also acknowledged the oratory skills of BJP stalwart A B Vajpayee, cryptic one-liners of socialists Madhu Limaye and Dr Nath Pai, wit and humour of Piloo Modi, poetic discourses of Left leader Hiren Mukherjee, razor-sharp repartee of CPI's Indrajit Gupta, calming presence of former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, mature advice of BJP stalwart LK Advani and passionate support of Congress chief Sonia Gandhi on social legislations. Though his Parliament membership ended in July 2012 after he took over as President, he said, he still continued to have a "tenacious link" with this institution and became an integral part of it as the President of Republic, as per the Constitution. "In these five years, my principal responsibility was to function as the guardian of the Constitution. As I had said on oath, I strived to preserve, protect and defend our Constitution, not just in word but also in spirit," he had said. As he took leave of the MPs, he had said, "I leave with a sense of fulfilment and happiness of having served the people of this great country through this institution- as their humble servant."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/heres-how-pranab-mukherjees-last-day-at-parliament-house-was-880561.html
31-08-2020||National||Rahul Gandhi condoles Pranab Mukherjee's death||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday condoled the death of former president Pranab Mukherjee and paid homage to him. "With great sadness, the nation receives the news of the unfortunate demise of our former President Shri Pranab Mukherjee," Gandhi said on Twitter.   "I join the country in paying homage to him. My deepest condolences to the bereaved family and friends," he said. With great sadness, the nation receives the news of the unfortunate demise of our former President Shri Pranab Mukherjee. I join the country in paying homage to him. Mukherjee, 84, died on Monday in the Army's Research and Referral Hospital here, his son Abhijit Mukherjee said. He was admitted to the hospital on August 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-condoles-pranab-mukherjees-death-880563.html
31-08-2020||National||Defeating Congress in 1967 West Bengal polls: Pranab Mukherjee had an idea, it worked!||He wriggled Congress out of many a crises in the past over four decades but the execution of an idea mooted by him for 'Bangla Congress' through which he entered the world of politics actually spelt doom for the Grand Old Party in the 1967 Assembly elections, ending its uninterrupted rule in West Bengal since Independence. Mukherjee was a late entrant into politics in the mid-1960s and from the 1950s, the Bengal unit of Congress was a divided house with veterans Atulya Ghosh and Prafulla Chandra Sen on one side and Arun Kumar Guha, Surendra Mohan Ghosh and Prafulla Chandra Ghosh on the other. In 1966, the party split again with Ajoy Mukherjee forming the Bangla Congress and Mukherjee joined him, his first active stint in a party. Though not a Congress regular, Mukherjee attended the first meeting of Ghosh group in February 1966 prior to the split and forming of the new party on 1 May, 1966. A month later on June 8 when Mukherjee was accompanying Ghosh on a tour of the state when he suggested the idea -- a United Front to take on the Congress. "Ajoy-da, if we want to defeat the Congress, we have to unite all parties...If we fight the elections on a common platform, we could defeat the Congress," he told his leader, who initiated talks on this front. Rest was history, the UF dethroned the Congress government in West Bengal, which had won the three Assembly polls in independent India. Mukherjee had identified the split in Bengal Congress and the growing anti-Congress sentiment in the state, which he believed could be in advantage of the opponents. Though all non-Congress parties did not join and three fronts fought polls with Ghosh managing to bring CPI and RSP on his platform while CPI(M) led a second group. The polls saw a fractured mandate and the front led by Bangla Congress and the CPI(M)-led group joined hands on an 18-point programme to keep the Congress away with Ghosh becoming Chief Minister and Jyoti Basu his deputy. As a close confidante of Ghosh, Mukherjee had worked behind the scenes to stitch the alliance and formulate the common programme though it was not an easy sailing for the front, whose government was dismissed by the then Governor following a split in Bangla Congress. It was Mukherjee's first tryst with coalition politics and he would be doing the same for Congress in the later years. It was this association with the CPI(M) in his early political carrier that was used by his rivals in Congress accuse him of playing second fiddle to the Left in Bengal. Mukherjee's entry to Congress was courtesy to the second speech he made in Rajya Sabha in 1969, the year he entered the Upper House on a Bangla Congress ticket, which the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi took notice of. After his speech on bank nationalisation was over, Indira turned to Congress Chief Whip Om Mehra asking who this last bencher was. Mehra did not have an immediate answer but as Mukherjee walked out of the House, he bumped into Indira. Then the veteran Parliamentarian Bhupesh Gupta introduced him and she told Mukherjee, "you spoke well." In her reply to the debate, Mukherjee wrote in 2011, Indira mentioned his speech and occasionally used to call him. Just before the 1971 Lok Sabha elections, there were attempts to merge Bangla Congress with Congress but it did not work. Mukherjee even arranged a meeting of Ghosh with Indira during the campaign but it was too late then. However, later in 1971 Indira once again asked them "why don't you join the Congress? Merge." Though some Congressmen opposed the idea but she overruled them and the parties merged. In 1973, Mukherjee was inducted in Indira's Council of Ministers as a Deputy Minister of Industries and moved to Finance a year later. He stood like a rock with Indira during and after Emergency and he was inducted into the Congress Working Committee in 1978, where he remained till he was nominated to contest the Presidential election in 2012.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/defeating-congress-in-1967-west-bengal-polls-pranab-mukherjee-had-an-idea-it-worked-880567.html
31-08-2020||National||Amit Shah condoles Pranab Mukherjee's death, says he left behind huge void in Indian polity||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday expressed deep anguish over the passing away of former President Pranab Mukherjee, saying his demise has left a huge void in the Indian polity. Mukherjee, 84, died in an army hospital here on Monday, his son Abhijit said. The home minister said Mukherjee's life will always be cherished for his impeccable service and indelible contribution to the motherland. "Deeply anguished on the passing away of former President of India, Bharat Ratna Shri Pranab Mukherjee ji. He was a vastly experienced leader who served the nation with utmost devotion. Pranab da's distinguished career is a matter of great pride for the entire country," Shah tweeted. Deeply anguished on the passing away of former President of India, Bharat Ratna Shri Pranab Mukherjee ji. He was a vastly experienced leader who served the nation with utmost devotion. Pranab da’s distinguished career is a matter of great pride for the entire country. "His demise has left a huge void in Indian polity. My sincerest condolences are with his family and followers on this irreparable loss. Om Shanti Shanti Shanti," the minister said. Pranab Da's life will always be cherished for his impeccable service and indelible contribution to our motherland. His demise has left a huge void in Indian polity. My sincerest condolences are with his family and followers on this irreparable loss. Om Shanti Shanti Shanti Mukherjee was admitted to the hospital on August 10 and was operated for removal of a clot in his brain. He later developed a lung infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-condoles-pranab-mukherjees-death-says-he-left-behind-huge-void-in-indian-polity-880569.html
31-08-2020||National||Nation mourns losing one of its worthiest sons: President Ram Nath Kovind on Mukherjee’s demise||President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday condoled the death of his predecessor Pranab Mukherjee saying his demise is the passing of an era and the nation mourns losing one of its worthiest sons. “Sad to hear that former President Shri Pranab Mukherjee is no more. His demise is passing of an era. A colossus in public life, he served Mother India with the spirit of a sage. The nation mourns losing one of its worthiest sons. Condolences to his family, friends & all citizens,” Kovind said on Twitter. Sad to hear that former President Shri Pranab Mukherjee is no more. His demise is passing of an era. A colossus in public life, he served Mother India with the spirit of a sage. The nation mourns losing one of its worthiest sons. Condolences to his family, friends & all citizens. Mukherjee, 84, died on Monday in an army hospital here, his son Abhijit said. He was admitted to the hospital on August 10. Mukherjee was the 13th President of India from 2012 to 2017. Endowed with perspicacity and wisdom, Bharat Ratna Mukherjee combined tradition and modernity, Kovind said. “In his 5 decade long illustrious public life, he remained rooted to the ground irrespective of the exalted offices he held. He endeared himself to people across political spectrum,” the President said in another tweet. Kovind said as the First Citizen, Mukherjee continued to connect with everyone, bringing Rashtrapati Bhavan closer to the people. "He opened its gates for public visit. His decision to discontinue the use of the honorific 'His Excellency' was historic,” the President tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nation-mourns-losing-one-of-its-worthiest-sons-president-ram-nath-kovind-on-mukherjee-s-demise-880574.html
31-08-2020||National||Pranab Mukherjee believed no right is permanent||In July 2019, while addressing a gathering of Delhi University (DU) professors and students after releasing the book 'Discourse on Rights in India: Debate and Dilemmas', Mukherjee had said that the architect of the Constitution, B R Ambedkar, had advised during the discussion on the statute that it will be the people of India who will decide the nature of the Constitution because it will depend on the representatives they elect to the legislatures. "They (people) will be the final player. The nature of the Constitution will depend as and when the situation arises," Mukherjee had said, referring to the powers of Parliament to amend the Constitution. Mukherjee had then cited the example of environmental issues like climate change and how they are impacting the lives of people. "To my mind, no right is permanent but changes with the concept of socio-economic conditions. Sixty-nine years ago when the Constitution was finalised by the constituent assembly, was environment a major issue then? It is no longer a subject to be decided by the policy makers and rulers because it is affecting the life of the people. If it affects the monsoon, raises sea levels, it affects the life of the people," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pranab-mukherjee-believed-no-right-is-permanent-880575.html
31-08-2020||National||DH Radio | From the Newsroom: Former President Pranab Mukherjee passes away||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Former President Pranab Mukherjee passes away at 84; Supreme Court imposes fine of one rupee on advocate Prashant Bhushan in contempt case; The Chinese PLA carries out "provocative military movements" to "unilaterally" change the status quo on the southern bank of Pangong Tso lake and Supreme Court dismisses a review petition filed by Vijay Mallya against his conviction in a contempt case in 2017.  That was former President Pranab Mukherjee’s address to the Nation on the Eve of Independence Day on August 14, 2015 Former President Pranab Mukherjee died on Monday in an army hospital here, his son Abhijit said. He was 84. Mukherjee was admitted to hospital on August 10 and a health bulletin this morning said he was in a deep coma and on ventilator support. "With a Heavy Heart, this is to inform you that my father Shri Pranab Mukherjee has just passed away in spite of the best efforts of Doctors of RR Hospital and prayers duas and prarthanas from people throughout India! I thank all of You Folded hands," his son Abhijit Mukherjee tweeted. The former President was admitted to the hospital in Delhi Cantonment on August 10 and was operated the same day for removal of a clot in his brain. He later developed a lung infection. Mukherjee was the 13th President of India from 2012 to 2017.Here are the top news of today, Monday: August 31, 2020: The Supreme Court on Monday imposed a token fine of Re one on advocate Prashant Bhushan in a contempt case for his tweets, failing which he will be sentenced to three months in jail and suspension of his practice for three years. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari pulled up Bhushan for trying to influence the court proceedings through media. Pronouncing the sentence, the bench said court's decisions can't be influenced by publications or opinions in the media. "Bhushan's statements to press even before they were considered by this court was to influence the proceedings," the bench said. The court said judges are not supposed to go to press, it is not  permissible to rely on what is said by them outside the court. In the instant matter, the bench said we have not only have given Bhushan an opportunity but also directly and indirectly persuaded him to express regret, which was not heeded to by him. "We have considered the sane advise given by the Attorney General, and have concluded that the conduct of present contemnor also needs to be taken into consideration," the bench said. The court gave him time till September 15 to deposit the fine, otherwise he would have to serve three months in jail and he would be debarred from practice for three years. Bhushan is expected to address a press conference at 4 pm on Monday. The top court had on August 14 held Bhushan guilty of contempt for "false, malicious and scurrilous" tweets made on June 27 and 29 on "distorted facts", to scandalise the entire institution of judiciary. The court had offered him to tender unconditional apology but Bhushan remained adamant saying an apology for expression of bona fide beliefs would be insincere and would amount to the contempt of his conscience and of an institution. Attorney General K K Venugopal asked the court to let off Bhushan without any punishment due to his work in public interest. The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed a review petition filed by fugitive industrialist Vijay Mallya against his conviction in a contempt case in 2017. A bench of Justices U U Lalit and Ashok Bhushan found no merit in the plea by the promoter of defunct Kingfisher Airlines. On May 9, 2017, the court had held beleagured promoter of Kingfisher Airlines guilty of contempt of court for transferring 40 million USD to his children's accounts despite an order against it. The court, however, had not imposed any sentence on him as he remained elusive. The court has on August 27 wrapped up its hearing in the review petition filed by him. The court has earlier also noted "lapses" on the part of its registry for not listing the review petition for three years. In June, this year, the court has sought an explanation from its registry as to why a review petition filed by Mallya against his conviction in a contempt case in 2017, was not listed before it for consideration in last three years. It has directed the officials to furnish all the details including names of the people who had dealt with the file concerning the review petition for last three years. In a fresh incident in eastern Ladakh, the Chinese PLA carried out "provocative military movements" to "unilaterally" change the status quo on the southern bank of Pangong Tso lake but the attempt was thwarted by the Indian troops, the Army said on Monday. Army Spokesperson Col Aman Anand said troops from China's People's Liberation Army(PLA) "violated" the previous consensus arrived at during military and diplomatic engagements on the ongoing standoff in eastern Ladakh, and carried out provocative military movements to change the status quo on the night of August 29/30. A brigade commander level flag meeting is currently in progress at Chushul to resolve the issues, he said. "On the night of 29/30 August 2020, PLA troops violated the previous consensus arrived at during military and diplomatic engagements during the ongoing standoff in Eastern Ladakh and carried out provocative military movements to change the status quo," Col Anand said in a statement. "Indian troops pre-empted this PLA activity on the Southern Bank of Pangong Tso Lake, undertook measures to strengthen our positions and thwart Chinese intentions to unilaterally change facts on ground," the Army spokesperson said. He said the Indian Army is committed to maintaining peace and tranquility through dialogue, but is also equally determined to protect India's territorial integrity. It is the first major incident involving the troops of the two countries after the Galwan Valley clashes on June 15 in which 20 Indian Army personnel were killed. China also suffered casualties but it is yet to make the details public but according to an American intelligence report it was 35. India and China have held several rounds of military and diplomatic talks in the last two-and-half months but no significant headway has been made for a resolution to the border row in eastern Ladakh.Snapping its six-session winning run, the BSE benchmark Sensex plummeted 839 points on Monday as fresh India-China border tensions triggered a broad-based selloff in domestic equities. Profit-booking at higher levels and weak macroeconomic data also fuelled the crash, traders said. After rallying 543 points in the morning session and touching the 40,000-mark, the BSE Sensex surrendered all gains to close at 38,628.29, showing a loss of 839.02 points or 2.13 per cent. Similarly, the NSE Nifty tanked 260.10 points or 2.23 per cent to end at 11,387.50. A section of Congress leaders belonging to the Dalit (Left) communities on Monday mounted pressure on the B S Yediyurappa-led BJP government to implement internal reservation for scheduled castes as recommended by the A J Sadasahiva Commission The government should take it up in the upcoming legislature session, former union minister K H Muniyappa told a news conference. Hailing the recent Supreme Court rules that states can provide internal reservation, Muniyappa said doing so would ensure social justice to oppressed groups within such communities. "There are 101 sub-castes in the SC community. The A J Sadashiva Commission submitted a scientific report recommending reservation to these communities based on population," he said. In 2012, the A J Sadashiva Commission submitted its report recommending that the 15% SC quota be divided into 6% for SC (Left), 5% for SC (Right), 3% for 'touchables' and 1% for other SCs. Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-radio-from-the-newsroom-former-president-pranab-mukherjee-passes-away-880577.html
31-08-2020||National||VP Venkaiah Naidu condoles Mukherjee's death||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Monday condoled the death of former president Pranab Mukherjee, saying the country has lost a statesman. Mukherjee, 84, died on Monday in an army hospital here, his son Abhijit said. He was admitted to hospital on August 10 and a health bulletin this morning said he was in a deep coma and on ventilator support. "The country has lost an elder statesman in his death. He rose from humble beginnings to occupy the country's highest constitutional position through hard work, discipline and dedication," the Vice President Secretariat tweeted quoting Naidu. Mukherjee brought dignity and decorum to every post held by him during his long and distinguished public service, the vice president observed. "My deepest condolences to the bereaved family members. Om Shanti," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vp-venkaiah-naidu-condoles-mukherjees-death-880579.html
31-08-2020||National||Defence Ministry inks Rs 2,580 crore deal to procure Pinaka rocket launchers||The Defence Ministry on Monday sealed a deal with two leading domestic defence majors to procure Pinaka rocket launchers for six Army regiments at a cost of Rs 2,580 crore, officials said. They said the Pinaka regiments will be deployed along India's border with China and Pakistan to further enhance operational preparedness of the armed forces. The contract has been signed with Tata Power Company Ltd (TPCL) and engineering major Larsen & Toubro (L&T) while defence public sector undertaking Bharat Earth Movers Ltd (BEML) will also be part of the project. The BEML will supply the vehicles on which the rocket launchers will be mounted. In a statement, the Defence Ministry said the six Pinaka regiments comprise 114 launchers with Automated Gun Aiming and Positioning System (AGAPS) and 45 command posts. It said the missile regiments are planned to be operationalised by 2024. It said the weapons systems will have 70 per cent indigenous content and that the project has been approved by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. The Pinaka Multiple Launch Rocket System (MLRS) has been indigenously designed and developed by DRDO. "This is a flagship project showcasing public-private partnership under the aegis of government of India (DRDO & MoD) enabling 'Aatmanirbharta' in cutting edge defence technologies," the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/defence-ministry-inks-rs-2580-crore-deal-to-procure-pinaka-rocket-launchers-880580.html
31-08-2020||National||Scholar par excellence, towering statesman who always blessed me: PM Modi's tribute to Pranab Mukherjee||Expressing grief over former president Pranab Mukherjee's demise, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday described him as a scholar par excellence and a towering statesman who was admired across the political spectrum. Modi said Mukherjee has left an indelible mark on the nation's development trajectory. Mukherjee, 84, died on Monday in an army hospital here, his son Abhijit Mukherjee said. He was admitted to the hospital on August 10. In a series of tweets, the prime minister said Mukherjee in his decades-long political journey made long-lasting contributions in key economic and strategic ministries and that he was an outstanding parliamentarian, always well-prepared, extremely articulate as well as witty. The prime minister recalled that Mukherjee, as the then President when he became prime minister for the first time, always supported and guided him. "I was new to Delhi in 2014. From Day 1, I was blessed to have the guidance, support and blessings of Shri Pranab Mukherjee. I will always cherish my interactions with him. Condolences to his family, friends, admirers and supporters across India. Om Shanti," Modi said. In his tweets, Modi also posted his pictures with Mukherjee, including one in which he is seen touching the then president's feet. As India's President, Mukherjee made Rashtrapati Bhavan even more accessible to common citizens, Modi noted, adding that he made the President's House "a centre of learning, innovation, culture, science and literature".  His wise counsel on key policy matters will never be forgotten by him, the prime minister said. "India grieves the passing away of Bharat Ratna Shri Pranab Mukherjee. He has left an indelible mark on the development trajectory of our nation. A scholar par excellence, a towering statesman, he was admired across the political spectrum and by all sections of society," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/scholar-par-excellence-towering-statesman-who-always-blessed-me-pm-modis-tribute-to-pranab-mukherjee-880583.html
31-08-2020||National||Pranab Mukherjee had tough time with issues of Sri Lankan Tamils, Telangana||The last phase of the civil war in Sri Lanka, the demand for a separate Telangana state and the crisis in the then united Andhra Pradesh spawned due to the death of Y S Rajasekhara Reddy are some of the major issues concerning Southern India during the UPA-I and II regimes. And it was Pranab Mukherjee, the chief trouble-shooter of the Congress-led coalition, who handled the sensitive issues from the front. The Sri Lankan Tamils issue was always an emotive one in Tamil Nadu and the DMK, which was the prime mover in the UPA-I regime, even threatened to quit the coalition. On the Telangana issue, TRS chief K Chandrashekar Rao, who aligned with Congress in 2004, kept raking up the issue every now and then and had even quit the coalition when the promise was not kept. Mukherjee also headed the cabinet sub-committee on reorganisation of states. And when Reddy died in a helicopter crash in September 2009 and Andhra Pradesh plunged into a political crisis, Mukherjee was again on the centerstage meeting leaders supporting the current Chief Minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy and those opposing his ascension to the top chair of the Congress regime in the state. Whenever the Congress wanted to send across a message to its own men, be it Jagan or MPs from Telangana, it did rely on Mukherjee to convey it. And when the Congress was upset with Jagan and the Gandhis did not want to meet the then rebel themselves, the job was again given to Mukherjee. That Jagan Reddy rebelled against the Gandhis and succeeded in capturing the CM’s chair denied to him in 2009, at least a decade later, is a different story altogether. “He was a legendary figure and when we entered Parliament for the first time, Mukherjee saab was the leader of the Lok Sabha. He supported the Telangana cause, but would never shy away from scolding us if we disrupted Parliament proceedings. He would sometimes be harsh, but none would take it the wrong way because of his experience and his stature,” Ponnam Prabhakar, former Congress MP from Karimnagar, told DH. Every time, the alliance partners created trouble for the coalition, then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and Congress President Sonia Gandhi turned to Mukherjee to solve the crisis. As the three-decade-old civil war in Sri Lanka entered its last phase in late 2008, the DMK mounted intense pressure on the UPA to “save innocent Tamils in the shelling” by Sri Lankan forces, Mukherjee was the cynosure of all eyes as he was not just the peacemaker of the coalition but the country’s foreign minister as well. “He was certainly the crisis manager for the Congress. Since he was External Affairs Minister during the Eelam war, I had met him several times to save civilians in northern Sri Lankan from the army’s shelling. He was a good listener and would be prepared to answer all the questions. He did travel to Sri Lanka on the request of my leader late M Karunanidhi,” former Union Minister and Mukherjee’s colleague T R Baalu told DH. In October 2008, when DMK MPs threatened to resign en masse, Mukherjee held several consultations with Karunanidhi over the phone and even flew down on the eve of Deepavali that year to get a commitment that he “will not precipitate any crisis” for the UPA regime. Mukherjee also maintained good relations with Karunanidhi that he broke the protocol after being elected as President and met the late DMK patriarch at his residence during his visit to Chennai in 2012. “It was my leader Kalaignar (Karunanidhi) who proposed Mukherjee’s name for the Presidency. They had known each other for several decades and cherished their friendship,” Baalu added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pranab-mukherjee-had-tough-time-with-issues-of-sri-lankan-tamils-telangana-880586.html
31-08-2020||National||Indian Army strengthens military presence in all strategic points: Report||The Indian Army has significantly enhanced deployment of troops and weapons in all "strategic points" around the Pangong lake in eastern Ladakh following an unsuccessful attempt by the Chinese PLA to unilaterally change the status quo in the area, authoritative sources said on Monday. The Army has also further bolstered overall surveillance mechanisms in all areas along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh after foiling China's fresh attempt to occupy an area on the southern bank of Pangong lake, they said. Earlier in the day, Army Spokesperson Col Aman Anand said the Chinese military carried out "provocative military movements" to "unilaterally" change the status quo on the southern bank of Pangong Lake on the intervening night of August 29 and 30 but the attempt was thwarted by the Indian troops. Top military and security brass has already reviewed the entire situation in eastern Ladakh. Separately, Chief of Army Staff Gen MM Naravane held a meeting with top military officials over the fresh confrontation, the sources said. "The Army has strengthened deployment of troops and weapons in all strategic points in the Pangong lake area," said a source. The sources said a sizeable number of Chinese troops were moving towards the southern bank of Pangong lake in an attempt to occupy the area but the Indian Army quickly made a significant deployment to foil the attempt They said the Indian Air Force (IAF) has also been told to enhance its surveillance on increasing Chinese air activities along the LAC in eastern Ladakh. There have been reports that China has deployed J-20 long-range fighter jets and several other key assets in strategically located Hotan airbase which is around 310 kms from eastern Ladakh. In the last three months, the IAF deployed almost all its frontline fighter jets like Sukhoi 30 MKI, Jaguar and Mirage 2000 aircraft in the key frontier air bases in eastern Ladakh and elsewhere along the LAC. The IAF carried out night time combat air patrols over the eastern Ladakh region in an apparent message to China that it was ready to deal with any eventualities in the mountainous region. The IAF has also deployed Apache attack choppers as well as Chinook heavy-lift helicopters to transport troops to various forward locations in eastern Ladakh. The fresh attempt by China to change the status quo in the Pangong lake area is the first major incident in the area after the Galwan Valley clashes on June 15 in which 20 Indian Army personnel were killed. China also suffered casualties but is yet to make the details public. According to an American intelligence report it was 35. India and China have held several rounds of military and diplomatic talks in the last two-and-half months but no significant headway has been made for a resolution to the border row in eastern Ladakh. The two sides began a process of disengagement on July 6, a day after a telephonic conversation between National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on ways to bring down tensions in eastern Ladakh. However, the process has not moved forward since mid-July. The PLA has pulled back from Galwan Valley and certain other friction points but the withdrawal of troops has not moved forward in Pangong Tso, Depsang and a couple of other areas. At the five rounds of Corps commander-level talks, the Indian side has been insisting on complete disengagement of Chinese troops at the earliest, and immediate restoration of status quo ante in all areas of eastern Ladakh prior to April. The face-off began on May 5 following violent clashes between the two armies in the Pangong lake area. The incident in Pangong Tso was followed by a similar incident in North Sikkim on May 9. The India-China border dispute covers the 3,488-km-long Line of Actual Control). Prior to the clashes, both sides have been asserting that pending the final resolution of the boundary issue, it is necessary to maintain peace and tranquility in the border areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-army-strengthens-military-presence-in-all-strategic-points-report-880587.html
31-08-2020||National||Pranab Mukherjee walks out of life before his 'Presidential Years' hit stands||Former President Pranab Mukherjee was all set to publish the fourth volume of his autobiography on his Presidential years this December and was giving final touches to the book when he fell ill earlier this month and breathed his last on Monday. The 'Presidential Years' is to hit stands this December and the publishers Rupa Publications said they are likely to launch the book on his birthday in December. Sources said the book was complete and Mukherjee was giving a final reading before sending it to printing. The plans were to release it around December 11, as the three previous volumes were launched. The publisher promises that the fourth volume, like the earlier ones, will give readers a bird’s eye view of the functioning of Rashtrapati Bhavan. It will also give the "inside story" of the issues that hit the headlines between 2012 and 2017 when Mukherjee was the President. Mukherjee's views on the controversial imposition of President's Rule in Arunachal Pradesh, demonetisation and surgical strikes and his relationship with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The fourth volume is also likely to see the former President delving on the functioning of legislature, executive and judiciary. The first volume of his autobiography -- The Dramatic Years: The Indira Gandhi Years -- focussed on his relationship with the former Prime President, the Emergency years and Congress losing power. The Turbulent Years: 1980-1996 -- the second volume -- recorded the events, including the return of Congress to power, Indira's assassination, his falling out with Rajiv Gandhi, return to Congress after forming own party and the Narasimha Rao years.  In the third volume -- The Coalition Years: 1996-2012, Mukherjee dealt with the United Front days, the ousting of Sitaram Kesri as Congress president, Sonia Gandhi's leadership and UPA years till 2012 July when he was chosen as the President.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pranab-mukherjee-walks-out-of-life-before-his-presidential-years-hit-stands-880595.html
31-08-2020||National||Film personalities mourn Pranab Mukherjee’s death||“A thorough gentleman” and “a great statesman” is how film personalities, including melody queen Lata Mangeshkar, actors Ajay Devgn and Taapsee Pannu remembered former president Pranab Mukherjee, who passed away on Monday at the age of 84. Mukherjee was admitted to the Army Research and Referral hospital in New Delhi on August 10. He was operated the same day for removal of a clot in his brain. He later developed a lung infection. A health bulletin this morning said Mukherjee was in a deep coma and on ventilator support. Mukherjee's son, Abhijit, broke the news of his father’s passing away in the evening. Mourning the former president's demise, Mangeshkar said Mukherjee was a "thorough gentleman". Deeply saddened to hear Pranab da Mukherjee passed away. Our former President, a Bharat Ratna and a thorough gentleman. We shared a very warm and cordial relationship. Heartfelt condolences to the family. "Our former president, a Bharat Ratna and a thorough gentleman… We shared a very warm and cordial relationship. Heartfelt condolences to the family," she tweeted. Extending his condolences to the family, Devgn tweeted, "India loses a great statesman and respected leader." Recalling her meeting with Mukherjee for the screening of 2016 drama "Pink", Pannu said the former president was extremely kind. "Had the honour of meeting him, watching #Pink in his presence, followed by a very warmly hosted dinner for the entire team. Can never forget the experience, his kind words and gesture that day. You will be missed sir," Pannu said. Actor Varun Dhawan shared a picture of Mukherjee and wrote that the year has been "extremely hard" for everyone. "We have lost a great leader today. Prayers and strength to the family," the 33-year-old actor wrote. Actor Randeep Hooda said Mukherjee was "respected across ideological and political lines" and called him a "true statesman." "Bharat Ratna and former President of India... A great loss to the Nation #PranabMukherjee Om Shanti," the actor tweeted. Actor Riteish Deshmukh took to Twitter and hailed Mukherjee's contribution towards the development of the country. "Deeply saddened! A big loss for India. Former President of India Hon Shri #PranabMukherjee sir will be forever remembered for his work and contribution for the development of India,” he wrote on Twitter. Mukherjee was the 13th president of India from 2012 to 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/film-personalities-mourn-pranab-mukherjee-s-death-880599.html
31-08-2020||National||Sports fraternity condoles Pranab Mukherjee's death||The Indian sporting fraternity, led by cricket team captain Virat Kohli, on Monday, condoled the death of former President Pranab Mukherjee, saying the nation has lost a great leader who was loved by all. Mukherjee, who served as the 13th president of India from 2012 to 2017, died on Monday in an army hospital here, following a 21-day battle with multiple ailments. He was 84 and is survived by two sons and a daughter. "The nation has lost a brilliant leader. Saddened to hear about the passing of Shri Pranab Mukherjee. My sincere condolences to his family," Kohli tweeted. Former India opener-turned BJP Member of Parliament Gautam Gambhir said Mukherjee was a stalwart of Indian politics who was loved by all and sundry. "Deeply saddened to hear about the demise of former President Shri Pranab Mukherjee. He belonged to the league of leaders respected & loved across the spectrum. May God give strength to his family & loves ones. The nation will remember his immense contributions forever!" Gambhir said. India spin legend Anil Kumble and current Test team vice-captain Ajinkya Rahane also paid their respects to the departed soul. "Heartfelt condolences on the passing of Shri. Pranab Mukherjee. May his soul rest in peace," Kumble tweeted. Rahane added: "Deeply saddened to learn about the passing away of Former President Shri Pranab Mukherjee. My heartfelt condolences to his family. May his soul rest in peace." Former India opener Virender Sehwag and current national team pacer Ishant Sharma also followed their colleagues. "My heartfelt condolences on the passing away of Shri #PranabMukherjee. Om Shanti," Sehwag tweeted. Ishant added: "Deeply saddened by the demise of our former President, Shri #PranabMukherjee! He was a great leader and served our country in many ways! Condolences to friends and family! Rest in Peace." Not just cricketers, Olympic medallist shuttler Saina Nehwal and wrestler Sushil Kumar also took to social media to pay homage to the departed leader. "Extremely saddened to hear about the demise of Former President & Bharat Ratna Shri Pranab Mukherjee," Saina wrote. "Deeply saddened at the demise of Former President of India, Bharat Ratna Shri. Pranab Mukherjee My deepest condolences to his family. India has lost a great leader today," Sushil added. Woman wrestler Geeta Phogat wrote: "Deeply saddened by the demise of our Former President Shri Pranab Mukherjee. Heartfelt deepest condolences to the friends & a family. May his soul rest in peace."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sports-fraternity-condoles-pranab-mukherjees-death-880601.html
31-08-2020||National||Mamata Banerjee mourns the death of Pranab Mukherjee||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee Monday expressed deep sorrow over the death of former president Pranab Mukherjee and said with his demise "an era has come to an end". She recollected her long association with Mukherjee and extended her condolence to his son and daughter. It is with deep sorrow I write this. Bharat Ratna Pranab Mukherjee has left us. An era has ended. For decades he was a father figure. From my first win as MP, to being my senior Cabinet colleague, to his becoming President while I was CM...(1/2) "It is with deep sorrow I write this. Bharat Ratna Pranab Mukherjee has left us. An era has ended. For decades he was a father figure. From my first win as MP, to being my senior Cabinet colleague, to his becoming President while I was CM," Banerjee said in a statement released from the state secretariat. "So many memories. A visit to Delhi without Pranabda is unimaginable. He is a legend in all subjects from politics to economics. Will be forever grateful. Shall miss him immensely. My condolences to Abhijit & Sharmistha," she added. 84-year-old Mukherjee passed away at the Army RR Hospital in Delhi this evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-banerjee-mourns-the-death-of-pranab-mukherjee-880602.html
31-08-2020||National||Govt announces 7-day state mourning on Pranab Mukherjee's death||The government on Monday announced a seven-day state mourning following the death of former president Pranab Mukherjee. In a statement, the Home Ministry said that as a mark of respect to the departed dignitary, state mourning will be observed for seven days throughout India from August 31 to September 6, both days inclusive. "During the period of state mourning, the national flag will fly at half-mast on all buildings throughout India, where it is flown regularly, and there will be no official entertainment," the statement said. The date, time and venue of the state funeral will be intimated later, it said. Mukherjee passed away at Army Research and Referral Hospital here on Monday at the age of 84.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-announces-7-day-state-mourning-on-pranab-mukherjees-death-880605.html
31-08-2020||National||SC asks Vijay Mallya to appear before it on Oct 5 in contempt case, dismisses his review plea||The Supreme Court Monday directed fugitive businessman Vijay Mallya to appear before it on October 5 while dismissing his plea seeking review of the 2017 verdict which held him guilty of contempt for transferring $40 million to his children in violations of court orders. The top court also directed the Ministry of Home Affairs to facilitate and ensure the presence of Mallya before it in October. Mallya, an accused in bank loan default case of over Rs 9,000 crore involving his defunct Kingfisher Airlines, is in the United Kingdom. A bench of Justices U U Lalit and Ashok Bhushan, while dismissing his review petitions against the May 9, 2017 verdict said: “In our considered view, the attempt on part of the respondent No.3 (Mallya) to have re- hearing in the matter cannot be permitted nor do the submissions make out any 'error apparent on record' to justify interference in review jurisdiction”. The bench said, “Now that the Review Petitions are dismissed, we direct respondent No.3 to appear before this Court on October 5, 2020 at 2:00 pm and also direct the Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India, New Delhi to facilitate and ensure the presence of respondent No.3 before this Court on that day”. The top court had asked Mallya to appear on October 5 for hearing him with regard to the proposed punishment in the contemp case. The top court directed that of this judgement be sent to the Home Ministry for facility and compliance. The bench recorded in its order that $40 million, part of a $75 million payment, was received in the account of Mallya on February 25, 2016 and within few days, on February 26 and February 29, 2016, it was transferred out of that account by Mallya.   “Despite repeated orders passed by this Court, no clear disclosure of his assets was made by respondent No. 3, nor any details of in-flow and out-flow of said amount of $40 million were disclosed by him. As a matter of fact, the existence of the concerned Bank account itself was not disclosed,” the top court said. Mallya had contended that in terms of the directions issued by the top court, he was required to disclose the assets as on March 31, 2016 and as such no direction issued by the Court was violated. He had said that the violation, if any, was of the orders passed by the Karnataka High Court and, therefore, the top court ought not to proceed in contempt jurisdiction. The bench said its order of January 11, 2017 had given liberty to Mallya to file a reply to the banks' response in the case and it appears from the record that a reply was filed by him on January 30, 2017; however, the May 9, 2017 verdict mentioned that no reply was filed. “From these facts it is clear that it was an error on part of this Court to have observed and proceeded on the premise that no reply was filed by respondent No.3 to the response filed by the banks,” the bench said. The bench said that during the hearing of the review plea it had asked Mallya's counsel whether in its January 30, 2017 reply, was there anything which contradicted or contested the banks' submission that funds were transferred despite the orders of the Debt Recovery Tribunal and Karnataka High Court.   It had asked whether any explanation was forthcoming in the reply of Mallya to support the stand that he was not guilty of violation of said orders. The bench said that his counsel was unable to refer to any such portion from the reply filed on January 30, 2017 but touched upon the questions whether the directions issued by this Court were violated and whether this court ought to have proceeded to exercise contempt jurisdiction.   The bench said the scope of review was limited and all the submissions made by his counsel have already been dealt with and rejected by the court in its May 9, 2017 verdict. The apex court had in June directed its registry to explain as to why Mallya's review petition had not been listed before the concerned court for the last three years. It had directed the registry to furnish all the details including names of officials who had dealt with the file concerning the review petition in the last three years. The apex court’s 2017 order had come on a plea by consortium of banks led by the State Bank of India (SBI), which had said that Mallya had allegedly transferred $40 million received from British firm Diageo, to his children in "flagrant violation" of various judicial orders. It was dealing with pleas of lending banks seeking contempt action and a direction to Mallya to deposit $40 million received from offshore firm Diageo respectively. The banks had then alleged that Mallya concealed the facts and diverted the money to his son Siddharth Mallya and daughters Leanna Mallya and Tanya Mallya in "flagrant violation" of the orders passed by the Karnataka High Court. Mallya had in May lost his application seeking leave to appeal his extradition to India in the UK Supreme Court, setting a 28-day clock on his removal from the UK. The UK top court's decision marks a big legal setback to the 64-year-old flamboyant businessman, who had earlier lost his high court appeal against an extradition order to India on charges of alleged fraud and money laundering related to unrecovered loans to his now-defunct Kingfisher Airlines.   Mallya has been based in the UK since March 2016 and remains on bail on an extradition warrant executed three years ago by Scotland Yard on April 18, 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-vijay-mallya-to-appear-before-it-on-oct-5-in-contempt-case-dismisses-his-review-plea-880609.html
31-08-2020||National||Pranab Mukherjee was like 'guide' for us, didn't believe in political untouchability: RSS||Condoling the demise of former President Pranab Mukherjee, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat on Monday described him as a "guide" for the Sangh and said he didn't believe in political untouchability. Mukherjee was an able administrator who kept national interest supreme, Bhagwat said in a joint statement along with RSS general secretary Suresh Bhaiyyaji Joshi. Mukherjee didn't practice political untouchability and was respected by all parties, the statement said. "He was a guide for Sangh and was affectionate towards the organisation and his passing away is irreparable loss to the RSS," it added. Mukherjee was attacked by the Congress itself in June 2018 for attending an event of Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh the ideological mentor of the ruling BJP. But later, the Congress was all appreciation after Mukherjee in his speech emphasised that the soul of India is pluralism, tolerance and inclusion. In his speech, Mukherjee had warned that any attempt to define India through "religion, hatred, dogmas and intolerance" will dilute our existence and said public discourses must be freed of all forms of violence. Mukherjee's message to hundreds of 'pracharaks' and top-brass of the RSS, which is often described as a Hindu right-wing organisation, was described as a 'mirror of truth to the RSS' by the Congress, whose several leaders had earlier been critical of his decision to attend the event here at the Sangh headquarters. Mukherjee, 84, passed away in an army hospital here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pranab-mukherjee-was-like-guide-for-us-didnt-believe-in-political-untouchability-rss-880615.html
31-08-2020||National||Pranab Mukherjee’s book ‘The Presidential Years’ to be released on birth anniversary||Former President Pranab Mukherjee was writing a book that chronicles his journey as India's head of state in exhaustive detail and its release is planned on his birth anniversary later this year, publisher Rupa Publications said on Monday. 'The Presidential Years' would be the fourth to be authored by Mukherjee, who passed away this afternoon at a hospital here at the age of 84. “This unique autobiographical account promises to give readers a bird's eye view of the functioning of Rashtrapati Bhavan, the inside story of the issues that made headlines–from the imposition of President's rule in Arunachal Pradesh to demonetisation,” the publisher said in a statement. “The book also talks about surgical strikes, his relationship with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the NDA government and the functioning of the legislature, executive and the judiciary,” it added. The publisher told PTI they are planning to release the book on his birth anniversary, December 11, this year. Mukherjee had previously penned three books “The Coalition Years” (2017), “The Turbulent Years” (2016 ) and “The Dramatic Decade” (2014) – all parts of a trilogy throwing light on his extensive political journey and experiences.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pranab-mukherjee-s-book-the-presidential-years-to-be-released-on-birth-anniversary-880621.html
31-08-2020||National||Left parties condole Pranab Mukherjee's death||The Left parties have expressed grief over the passing away of former President Pranab Mukherjee, recalling that he maintained cordial relations with leaders from across party lines and often played the role of “interlocutor” for the governments he represented. Mukherjee, 84, died in an army hospital here on Monday, his son Abhijit said. The CPI(M) in a statement said Mukherjee was one of India’s leading political figures who contributed in various capacities as an elected member of parliament and served as senior minister in many governments for decades, before being finally elected as the President of India “He maintained cordial relations with political parties across the board and often played the role of the main interlocutor for the governments he represented. The Politburo of the CPI(M) conveys its deepest condolences to his son Abhijeet and daughter Sharmistha and other family members,” the statement said. CPI general secretary D Raja offered his condolences to the family and said Mujhkerjee will be remembered for serving the people of the country in every post that he held. “The CPI offers its solemn homage to an outstanding politician and statesman of this country. He held different positions during his long and illustrious career, but in each, he served the people of this country," Raja said. "He (Mukherjee) was known for his political knowledge and kept good relations with leaders across parties. He had a phenomenal memory and his death is a huge loss for the country,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/left-parties-condole-pranab-mukherjees-death-880622.html
31-08-2020||National||When supporters celebrated Pranab Mukherjee’s first LS win at 3.45 am||The year was 2004, the month May and the time 3.45 am. Pranab Mukherjee returned to his Kolkata home after winning his first Lok Sabha election from Murshidabad in West Bengal to find jubilant supporters waiting to greet him, oblivious of the late hour. Mukherjee had lost the Lok Sabha elections twice earlier and it was third time lucky for him, much to the delight of the Congress leader’s supporters. The veteran leader, who went on to become India’s 13th president, recounted the anecdote in Rupa Publications’ “The Coalition Years”, which released in 2017 and throws light on his extensive political journey and experiences. Narrating the events preceding his first Lok Sabha win, Mukherjee said in the book that he was himself unsure of victory. A five-time Rajya Sabha member, he had unsuccessfully contested Lok Sabha elections twice—from Malda in 1977 and from Bolpur in 1980. He did not contest any Lok Sabha elections thereafter until 2004, the year Congress came to power. In 1981, he was elected to the Rajya Sabha from Gujarat and got re-elected to the Upper House from West Bengal in 1993 and 1999. He wrote that it was Congress colleague Adhir Chowdhury, along with other local leaders, who insisted that he contest from Jangipur, a rural constituency. “There were a number of reasons why I contested these elections. One was the fact that I wanted to follow the principle espoused by Nehru—that any Rajya Sabha member who becomes a minister should get himself elected to the Lok Sabha at the earliest opportunity. It is with this thought that I had contested earlier too,” Mukherjee wrote in the book. “Two, since 1984, I had been the chairman of every national campaign committee. This raised the pertinent question, at least in my mind—should the chairman of the campaign committee himself not face the court of the people? Third, while this question was burdening my mind, the state Congress workers became increasingly vocal in their demand that I contest the elections,” he added. Mukherjee said he was aware he “might not win” and Congress president Sonia Gandhi had assured him of re-nomination to the Rajya Sabha once his term expired. But he said he was determined to be “third time lucky” as he went campaigning village to village amid scorching heat. “Nobody, including myself, had the confidence that I would win in 2004. My opponent was Abul Hasnat Khan, a two-term CPI (M) MP with strong influence over the beedi workers of the area, who were a significant support base.” After the exhaustive campaign, Mukherjee returned to Delhi. He came back to Mushidabad for the counting of votes but was told by his party chief, “You need not wait till you are sure you’ve lost; return immediately.” The counting took place on May 13 and the results poured in quickly because of the Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs). By 1 pm, everybody, including Mukherjee, knew he was going to win. The news of his lead and certain victory spread on the media, prompting congratulatory calls from party leaders Sonia Gandhi and Ahmed Patel. Mukherjee was asked to return to Delhi soon but he told them he would reach there early the next morning as he was yet to receive his election victory certificate, according to the book. “It so happened that I won by a margin of around 36,000 votes. The larger significance of it was that I had won from all seven Assembly segments. In one Assembly segment, my margin was only 1,900 and in another just 2,100 votes. But in the remaining five segments, it was 6,000-plus votes,” he wrote. “As my Lok Sabha constituency was spread over three subdivisions, it was almost 9 pm by the time official results could be declared. As I had promised to return to Delhi immediately, I left for Kolkata the very same night after receiving the certificate. Somen Mitra was with me as he had come to Jangipur to witness the counting, he had also decided to return with me. We reached Kolkata around 3 a.m. and were at my residence at 3.45 a.m. Even at that unearthly hour, I found people waiting to greet me!” he added. Mukherjee met with the supporters, rested a little and boarded an early morning flight to Delhi. “As soon as the plane took off, I went into deep slumber and did not wake up even after landing. The air hostess had to shake me vigorously to wake me up. I smiled at her half-asleep and deplaned. At my Delhi residence, there was a huge crowd as well. Many eminent people had also come to meet me. Eventually, I managed to take some rest and received a number of congratulatory calls,” he added. Bharat Ratna and veteran politician, "Citizen Mukherjee" passed away at a hospital in New Delhi||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/when-supporters-celebrated-pranab-mukherjee-s-first-ls-win-at-345-am-880627.html
31-08-2020||National||Did Pranab Mukherjee aspire to become interim PM after Indira Gandhi's assassination?||When it comes to Pranab Mukherjee, one incident that keeps recurring is his reported chat with Rajiv Gandhi on a flight from Kolkata to Delhi after Indira Gandhi's assassination. It is widely speculated that Mukherjee told Rajiv that he should take over as interim Prime Minister as he was the senior most minister in Indira's Cabinet and created a rupture in the relationship between the two, leading to the former's ouster from Rajiv Cabinet and later from the party for a couple of years. However, in 2016, Mukherjee broke his silence to assert that he did not aspire to become the interim Prime Minister after Indira's assassination but such “false and spiteful” stories did create misgivings in Rajiv's mind that soured their relationship. He held a coterie around Rajiv, which included Arun Nehru, Arun Singh and Vijay Dhar among others, for forcing him out of the Union Cabinet and later from Congress in 1986. According to Mukherjee, the coterie spread misinformation that he staked claim and had to be persuaded otherwise. Mukherjee felt both made mistakes and the latter allowed others to influence him while he let his frustration overtake his patience. Recalling the flight back to Delhi from Kolkata, Mukherjee had said that Balram Jakhar, Ghani Khan Choudhury, Shyamlal Yadav, Uma Shankar Dikshit and Sheila Dikshit discussed the future course of action amongst themselves. Mukherjee cited precedents that Gulzari Lal Nanda, the senior-most minister, became interim Prime Minister when Jawaharlal Nehru and Lal Bahadur Shastri died but pointed out that those were natural deaths. However, he felt the 1984 situation was different as the incumbent Prime Minister was assassinated. The was a political void, with a lot of uncertainties created with it. The leaders on the flight then decided that Mukherjee should request Rajiv to take over as Prime Minister to “meet the challenge posed by this extraordinary” situation. Mukherjee took Rajiv to the rear of the aircraft and requested him to take over as the Prime Minister. Rajiv asked him whether he would be able to manage, to which Mukherjee responded he would have everyone's support. When they landed in Delhi, the then Cabinet Secretary Krishnaswamy Rao told Mukherjee that he would have to take over, as Nanda had done in the past, but he told the officer about their decision, according to Mukherjee's side of the contentious episode. Mukherjee also had objected to a demand by a section, including Arun Nehru, that Rajiv should be sworn in by Vice President R Venkitaraman even before President Gyani Zail Singh reaches Delhi, fearing that he may put obstacles to their plan. The cause of concern was that the President had a running battle with Indira. However, Mukherjee was against the idea, saying it was unconstitutional and would have sent a wrong political message. Another point of irritant in his relationship with Rajiv was one of his newspaper interviews in which he said the government would continue the economic policies of the Indira government under Rajiv. The group against him had projected it as “presumptuous and unmindful” while ratcheting up the campaign that he was ignoring Rajiv as he did not accompany him during the election campaign||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/did-pranab-mukherjee-aspire-to-become-interim-pm-after-indira-gandhis-assassination-880630.html
31-08-2020||National||SC notice to Tamil Nadu on plea by Vedanta for reopening Thoothukudi plant||The Supreme Court on Monday issued notice to Tamil Nadu government on a plea by Vedanta Ltd to reopen its Sterlite copper plant at Thoothukudi in Tamil Nadu. A bench of Justices R F Nariman, Navin Sinha and Indira Banerjee refused to provide any interim relief to the company in the matter. The court posted the matter for consideration after six weeks. It asked the state government's reply also on an interim plea for stay on the HC's order. It decided to consider on next date the plea by the company for staying  Madras High Court's order of August 18 rejecting its petition to restart the plant. The company was represented by senior advocates C A Sundaram and Shyam Divan and the state government by senior advocates C S Vaidyanathan, K V Vishwanathan and Additional Advocate General Balaji Srinivasan. The special leave petition by the company assailed the high court's judgement which upheld Tamil Nadu government's decision of May 28, 2018, to shut down the plant due to environmental concerns. In its 815-page judgement, the high court rejected writ petitions by Vedanta Ltd, saying prohibitory orders were rightly passed by Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board against the plant for violating laws related to pollution control. The order for closure of the plant was made subsequent to massive protests, resulting into killings of 13 people. Tamil Nadu government, as well as local residents, has already filed a caveat in the top court for granting them a hearing before passing any order in the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-tamil-nadu-on-plea-by-vedanta-for-reopening-thoothukudi-plant-880635.html
31-08-2020||National||Parliament's monsoon session from September 14 to October 1||Parliament's monsoon session will begin from September 14 and continue till October 1, notifications issued on Monday said. The notification issued by the Lok Sabha Secretariat said President Ram Nath Kovind has called the lower house to meet on Monday, September 14 at 9 AM. In a separate communique, the Rajya Sabha Secretariat also said the President has summoned the upper house to meet on September 14. "Subject to exigencies of business, the session is scheduled to conclude on Thursday, October 1, 2020," it added. The Cabinet Committee on Parliamentary Affairs had earlier recommended that the monsoon session be held from September 14 to October 1. There will be in total 18 consecutive sittings with no holiday or weekend break, according to officials. Hectic preparations are underway for the session with several first-time measures because of the Covid-19 pandemic such as testing of all MPs, staggered sitting of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha and use of both chambers and galleries to accommodate members while following physical distancing norms, officials said. The Budget session of Parliament was adjourned sine die on March 23 -- 12 days ahead of the schedule due to outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliaments-monsoon-session-from-september-14-to-october-1-880637.html
31-08-2020||National||When 'Royal Bengal tiger' Pranab Mukherjee met 'Maratha tiger' Bal Thackeray in his den||In July 2012, the then presidential candidate Pranab Mukherjee's visit to Bal Thackeray's home in suburban Mumbai had raised many eyebrows within the Congress. While Mukherjee later mentioned in his autobiography that his meeting with Thackeray had riled Sonia Gandhi, the late Sena patriarch said it was but natural for the "Maratha tiger to support the Royal Bengal tiger." In the third volume of his autobiography, "Coalition Years: 1996-2012", Mukherjee mentioned that Gandhi was upset with him for meeting Thackeray. Mukherjee said NCP chief Sharad Pawar, a coalition partner of the then UPA-II government, had insisted that he meet Thackeray. The Congress now shares power with the Sena and NCP in Maharashtra. Mukherjee met Thackeray, who had unilaterally extended support to his candidature in the presidential bid, and had made elaborate arrangements for welcoming the Congress veteran to Matoshree, the Thackeray family residence in Bandra. In his autobiography, Mukherjee, who died on Monday at 84, recalled that his visit to Mumbai on July 13, 2012, was significant as Thackeray, whose party was then a constituent of the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance, had, without being asked to, extended support to his candidature, which was completely unexpected. "I had asked both Sonia Gandhi and Sharad Pawar — who was instrumental, I think, in influencing Thackeray towards me — whether I should meet Thackeray during my visit to Mumbai. I had received several messages from him for interaction at his residence. Sonia Gandhi was not enthusiastic about my meeting Bal Thackeray and (wanted to) avoid it, if possible. Sonia Gandhi's reservations about Thackeray were based on her own perception of his policies," he wrote. Mukherjee said Pawar insisted that he meet Thackeray, saying the Sena founder was waiting to receive him at his residence and had made elaborate arrangements for the visit. "Pawar added that Thackeray would consider it a personal insult if I did not meet him during my visit to Mumbai. I took a decision to meet Thackeray despite Sonia Gandhi's disapproval because I felt that the man who had broken away from his traditional coalition partner to support my candidature should not feel humiliated. I requested Sharad Pawar to take me to Thackeray's residence from the airport, and he readily agreed to do so," Mukherjee wrote. He described his meeting with Thackeray as "very cordial" during which the Sena supremo jokingly said that it was "but natural for the Maratha tiger to support the Royal Bengal tiger." Mukherjee said he had known Thackeray as a politician with a sectarian approach, but could not ignore the fact that he had gone out of the way to support his candidature. The former President wrote that Shiv Sena's support to his predecessor Pratibha Patil in 2007 could still be explained because she was from Maharashtra. Mukherjee recalled Thackeray telling him that he found him "distinctly different" from other Congress politicians. He said when he returned to Delhi the next day, he was informed that Sonia Gandhi and her political secretary, Ahmed Patel, were upset about his meeting with Thackeray.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/when-royal-bengal-tiger-pranab-mukherjee-met-maratha-tiger-bal-thackeray-in-his-den-880652.html
31-08-2020||National||Xi vows to build ‘ironclad shield’ in Tibet, China’s PLA makes fresh attempt to grab India’s land||The Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) made its latest attempt to transgress into the territory of India just hours after the communist country’s President Xi Jinping vowed to build an “ironclad shield” in Tibet. Xi asked the Communist Party of China, the  Chinese government and the PLA to strengthen “border defence” and “frontier security”, while delivering a speech during the seventh Central Symposium on Tibet Work. He also signalled a renewed crackdown on “separatists” challenging China’s sovereignty in Tibet. He delivered the speech on Saturday, just a few hours before the Chinese PLA made a fresh attempt to transgress into the territory of India on the southern bank of the Pangong Tso (lake) on Ladakh-Tibet border region, but was outmanoeuvred by a pre-emptive move by the Indian Army. “More education and guidance should be provided for the public to mobilise their participation in combating separatist activities, thus forging an ironclad shield to safeguard stability,”  Xi was quoted saying in a report by the state-run Xinhua news agency of China. His call for strengthening “national security and enduring peace and stability” in Tibet came amid PLA’s expansionist moves along China’s disputed boundary with India. Beijing has been accusing Dalai Lama and the Tibetan Government in Exile based in Dharamshala in India of running a campaign to liberate Tibet from the occupation of China. Since the stand-off between the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA started in eastern Ladakh in early May, Beijing renewed focus on security of Tibet, deployed a large number of soldiers in the region and stepped up crackdown on Tibetans. Xi, who is also the chairman of the Central Military Commission of China, called for building an “impregnable fortress of stability” in Tibet.   Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi recently visited Tibet Autonomous Region and called for stepping up efforts to safeguard the national security of China. He also said that Tibet's security and stability was closely related to the overall development of China. The stand-off between the Indian Army and the China's PLA in eastern Ladakh started after the communist country’s soldiers in late April and early May stepped up attempts to alter the status quo along the disputed boundary between the two nations in Galwan Valley, northern bank of the Pangong Tso and several other locations in eastern Ladakh. The Indian Army too deployed additional troops to respond to transgressions by the Chinese PLA. The  stand-off took the relations between the two neighbours to a new low, particularly after the violent clash between soldiers of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA in Galwan Valley on June 15, with both sides suffering casualties. The two sides early last month mutually agreed on phased withdrawal of the frontline troops from the face-off scenes along the LAC. The process of “disengagement”, however, remained stalled since mid-July, as the Chinese PLA declined to withdraw troops completely from several face-off points along the LAC, including Depsang Y junction, Gogra Post and the northern bank of the Pangong Tso.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/xi-vows-to-build-ironclad-shield-in-tibet-china-s-pla-makes-fresh-attempt-to-grab-india-s-land-880656.html
31-08-2020||National||China warns of countermeasure after Indian Army foils its PLA's moves on south bank of Pangong Tso||China on Monday said that it was taking “countermeasures” after the Indian Army foiled a fresh attempt by its People’s Liberation Army to push the Line of Actual Control westwards on the south bank of the Pangong Tso (lake) and occupy more areas of India.    Beijing countered the Indian Army’s allegation that Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) soldiers had made “provocative military movements” on the southern bank of the Pangong Tso with the intention of changing the status quo along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto boundary between the two nations. Senior Colonel Zhang Suili, a spokesperson of the PLA’s Western Theatre Command, rather issued a statement, accusing the Indian Army of crossing the LAC and trespassing into the territory of China. He urged the Indian Army to “immediately withdraw its troops to avoid any escalation in the situation”. Sr Col Zhang said that the move by the Indian Army had violated “the consensus reached in previous multi-level engagements and negotiations between China and India” and “stirred tension on the border”. The Chinese PLA also asked the Indian Army to “strictly control and restrain” its front-line troops. He said that the PLA was taking “necessary countermeasures” and would closely follow the developments to resolutely safeguard territorial sovereignty of China, as well as peace and stability in the border region with India. The Chinese PLA’s latest move to transgress into India’s side of the LAC on the southern bank of the Pangong Tso came weeks after it dug in heels on the northern bank of the lake and declined to withdraw troops to restore the status quo in the area – thus stalling the process of disengagement it had agreed with the Indian Army to end the stand-off. The PLA initially did thin out troops from the “Finger 4” on the northern bank of the Pangong Tso. It, however, held on to the area between “Finger 5” and “Finger 8” – an eight-kilometre-long stretch it took over after its stand-off with the Indian Army started in early May. The PLA rather brought in more troops, built bunkers and observation posts, dug trenches, pitched tents and set up new prefabricated huts to accommodate additional soldiers, apart from deploying its navy unit with more speed-boats for patrolling on the lake. The Chinese Army not only fortified its position in the entire stretch from “Finger 5” to “Finger 8”, but also occupied the ridgeline overlooking the “fingers” – thus effectively controlling an area of nearly 30 sq. kms. denying access to the Indian Army to places it regularly patrolled before the stand-off started three months ago. The Indian Army is currently holding on to its position between “Finger 2” and “Finger 3” on the northern bank of the lake.   The spurs of the mountain range on the northern bank of the Pangong Tso jut towards the lake like the ‘fingers’ of the palm, with the “Finger 1” at the western end and the “Finger 8” at the eastern end. China claims that the LAC, after cutting through the Pangong Tso, goes through the “Finger 4”. India, on the other hand, claims that the line goes through the “Finger 8”. The Indian Army earlier regularly sent patrols from its Maj Dhan Singh Thapa post near “Finger 3” all the way up to “Finger 8”. But the soldiers of the two nations had a scuffle near “Finger 4” on May 5. The PLA later built bunkers and observation posts and deployed additional troops in the area, thus denying access to the Indian Army to its earlier patrolling limit – the “Finger 8”. The Indian Army too deployed additional troops in response to the PLA build-up and the stand-off started and spread to other areas along the LAC. That China dug in its heels in the ‘finger’ areas on the bank of the Pangong Tso was evident when its envoy to India, Sun Weidong, asserted the communist country’s claim on the entire stretch. “On the northern bank of Pangong Lake, China's traditional customary boundary line is in accordance with the LAC. There is no such (thing) as China expanded its territorial claim,” Sun said while responding to a question during a webinar hosted by Institute of Chinese Studies in New Delhi on July 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-warns-of-countermeasure-after-indian-army-foils-its-plas-moves-on-south-bank-of-pangong-tso-880657.html
31-08-2020||National||In first 7 months of 2020, Pakistan violated ceasefire 13 times a day; 8 personnel among 23 killed: RTI||Pakistani troops violated ceasefire in Jammu and Kashmir nearly 13 times a day during the first seven months of this year, resulting in the death of 23 people, including eight security personnel, and injury to over 100, an RTI query has revealed. The RTI application filed by activist Raman Sharma also found that in the past two years and seven months, 8,571 ceasefire violations have taken place with the casualty figures being 119 dead (including 56 security personnel) and 608 injured, 300 of them security personnel. As per the data, Pakistani troops have violated ceasefire 13.89 times per day in the past seven month till July. "Till July 2020 (this year), 2,952 ceasefire violations were done by Pakistan troops in which 15 civilians, 8 security force personnel were killed and 62 security force personnel and 38 civilians were injured,” Director Ministry of Home Affairs, Sulekha, said in the reply to the Right to Information query. During the last three years, people living near the International Border and the Line of Control areas of Jammu and Kashmir have witnessed on an average at least nine ceasefire violations by Pakistan daily, causing loss of lives and property. In 2018, there were 2,140 ceasefire violations (nearly six a day) in which 59 persons including 30 civilians were killed, and 259 including 143 civilians injured. The year 2019 witnessed nine ceasefire violations per day, totalling 3,479, in which 37 people including 19 security personnel were killed and 249 people including 122 security personnel injured. The MHA reply also discloses that as compared to 2010, the incidents of such aggression by Pakistan at border in Jammu and Kashmir increased around 50 times in year 2019. While there were only 70 such incidents in 2010 – killing two civilians and five force personnel – in 2019, 3,479 such incidents were reported in which 18 civilians and 19 security personnel lost their lives. The RTI reply further says that from 2010 to till date, Pakistan violated the peace pact on borders at least 11,572 times by resorting to cross-border fire in J&K, killing 240 Indians -- including 122 civilians and 118 security force personnel – and leaving 673 civilians and 594 force personnel injured. "Every year, the crossborder shelling incidents by Pakistan on border areas are increasing,” the reply said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-first-7-months-of-2020-pakistan-violated-ceasefire-13-times-a-day-8-personnel-among-23-killed-rti-880661.html
31-08-2020||National||Supreme Court to pronounce verdict on Tuesday on AGR-related issue||The Supreme Court is scheduled to pronounce its verdict on Tuesday on issues including the timeline for staggered payment of Adjusted Gross Revenue-related dues which run into about Rs 1.6 lakh crore by telecom companies. A bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra is also all set to deliver the verdict on the point as to whether spectrum can be sold by the telecom companies facing proceedings under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) and how the AGR related dues can be recovered from them. The top court had in October 2019 delivered the verdict on the AGR issue for calculating government dues of telecom companies, such as Vodafone Idea, Bharti Airtel and Tata Teleservices, as licence fee and spectrum usage charges. Later, the Department of Telecom had in March this year moved a plea seeking permission for staggered payment in a time period of nearly 20 years for the telecom companies. The bench, which also comprised justices B R Gavai and Krishna Murari, had reserved the verdict on July 20 on the aspect of granting timeline to telcos for staggered payment of AGR- related dues by saying that it will not hear "even for a second" the arguments on reassessment or re-calculation of the AGR. Prior to this, it had asked the telecom companies to file their books of accounts for last ten year and give a reasonable time frame for paying the AGR dues and later  got miffed when some senior lawyers started disputing the dues being calculated by the DoT. It had said that the period of 15-20 years sought by some of the telecom companies was not reasonable and had asked the Centre as to how it would secure the payment of dues by them. Later, the top court on August 24 was informed by the DoT that all liabilities including AGR-related dues should be cleared by telecom firms prior to spectrum trading as per the guidelines. After hearing arguments, it had then reserved the verdict on the point as to whether spectrum can be sold by the telecom companies facing proceedings under the IBC and other related issues. The DoT had further told the top court that it can seek to recover dues from sellers and buyers of spectrum, jointly or individually. The DoT had said that assessment of dues is under process and once the Supreme Court clarifies the legal position on spectrum sharing, it will move to recover the outstanding amounts from the telecom firms. The DoT had said that no demand has been raised against Reliance Jio and Airtel for part dues of Reliance Communications (RCom) and Videocon respectively. The top court will also give its finding on payment of dues, if any, on Jio and Airtel which have spectrum sharing pacts with RCom, Aircel and Videocon respectively. On August 21, the top court had directed the DoT to apprise it the basis of spectrum sharing done by telecom companies and how much is the liability of the sharers. The top court asked the DoT secretary to file a specific affidavit apprising it about who was using the spectrum from the date of grant of license and from which date the respective sharing of the spectrum has taken place.   It had asked the DoT what was the amount paid by Reliance Jio for using 23 per cent of Reliance Communication (RCom's) spectrum. On August 20, the top court had expressed concern over non-payment of the AGR related dues by the telecom companies which are under insolvency saying "without paying for the horse, telcos are taking a ride".  On August 14, the top court had sought the details of spectrum sharing pact between RCom and Reliance Jio and said as to why the company using the spectrum of the other firm cannot be asked to pay the AGR related dues to the government. The Centre had earlier told the top court there was a difference of opinion between two of its ministers (DOT and the Ministry of Corporate Affairs) on the issue of sale of the spectrum during insolvency proceedings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-to-pronounce-verdict-on-tuesday-on-agr-related-issue-880664.html
31-08-2020||National||Railways to allow private players to operate freight trains||After starting the process to allow private players to operate passengers trains, Indian Railways is now looking at engaging private firms in operating freight trains in a big way.  The railways, which is expediting the Dedicated Freight Corridors (DFC) projects, is planning to allow private freight trains on these routes. As per the plan, the railways are working to allow private players to operate double-stack containers or wagons on the DFC route on revenue sharing basis.  The cost to build 3,000 km Eastern and Western dedicated freight corridors will be around Rs 81,459 crore and much of it will come from loans, the railways want to allow private firms to run the operation through monetising the assets and recover its investment.  However, the project has been delaying due to a number of issues including delay in land acquisition, slow work by contractors, law and order issue and unfinished rail over bridges. The Prime Minister Office, which has reviewed the progress of the work, asked railways to expedite the work.   Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India Limited (DFCCIL), is implementing the two DFCs -- the Western Dedicated Freight Corridor (from Uttar Pradesh to Mumbai) and Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor (from Ludhiana in Punjab to Dankuni in West Bengal). While the original deadline for completion of these DFCs was December 2021, the Railways recently said it has extended it to June 2022 due to Covid-19 pandemic. The DFC is the exclusive corridor for transportation of goods, and once constructed will decongest the railways'' network by moving 70 % of a goods train to these two corridors. As of July, 56% of Western Dedicated Freight Corridor and 60% of Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor was completed said railways.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-to-allow-private-players-to-operate-freight-trains-880673.html
31-08-2020||National||August receives 27% more rainfall, fourth highest in 120 years||The country received 27 percent more rainfall than normal in August, the fourth highest amount in the last 120 years, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The overall rainfall recorded in India from June 1 to August 31 was 10 percent more than normal, the IMD said on Monday. "August has recorded 27 percent more rainfall than normal," R K Jenamani, scientist with IMD's national weather forecasting centre, said. "Rainfall recorded in August 2020 is the fourth highest in the last 120 years and highest in 44 years," Jenamani added. This is also one of the rainiest months of August recorded. The August of 1926 saw 33 percent more rainfall than normal, the highest precipitation recorded so far in the month; 1976 recorded 28.4 percent more rainfall than normal, while the August of 1973 recorded 27.8 percent than normal. This year saw 27 percent rainfall. Mahesh Palwat, vice president, Skymet Weather, said due to formation of five low pressure areas in Bay of Bengal in August, the month recorded excess rainfall. A low pressure area is a cyclonic circulation. It is also the first stage of a cyclone. However, it is not necessary that every low pressure develops into a cyclonic storm. "August saw unusually high formation of low pressure areas. Of the five, three even reached Gujarat and Rajasthan. One low pressure area intensified into a deep depression, while another developed into a well-marked low pressure area. This gave good rainfall over central and east India," Palawat said. Several parts of the country witnessed floods last month due to incessant rainfall. June had recorded 17 percent more rainfall than normal while July ended with a 10 percent rainfall deficiency. The IMD had predicted that July will get rainfall that is 103 percent of the Long Period Average (LPA), which falls in the "normal" category. In its Long Range Forecast for rainfall in the second half (August-September) of the 2020 Southwest Monsoon released last month, the IMD said August was likely to receive rainfall that is 97 percent of the LPA with an error margin of plus/minus nine percent. "Quantitatively, the rainfall over the country as a whole during the second half of the season is likely to be 104 percent of the LPA with an error margin of plus/minus eight percent," it had said. The LPA rainfall over the country for the 1961-2010 period is 88 centimetres. Monsoon in the range of 96-104 percent of the LPA is considered normal. The official rainfall season in the country is from June 1 to September 30. The northwest division of the IMD has a 9 percent deficiency. It comprises Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana and the Union territories of Chandigarh, Delhi, Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. The central India division received 21 percent more rainfall. The division comprises Goa, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Odisha and the Union territories of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu. The south peninsula meteorological division of the IMD has received 20 percent more rainfall than normal. The division covers Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Kerala, Karnataka and the Union territories of Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Lakshadweep and Puducherry. The east and northeast India division has also recorded 2 percent more rainfall. The division comprises West Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand and the northeastern states. PTI PR RDM AAR||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/august-receives-27-more-rainfall-fourth-highest-in-120-years-880677.html
31-08-2020||National||Bangladesh President, PM mourn Pranab Mukherjee's demise||Bangladesh President Abdul Hamid and Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina have expressed sorrow over the demise of former president Pranab Mukherjee, describing him as a "true friend" and recalling his “outstanding and unforgettable” contributions to the country's 1971 Liberation War. Mukherjee, a veteran politician, died on Monday evening following a 21-day battle with multiple ailments. He was 84. "His demise has caused an irreparable loss to the political arena of the sub-continent," Hamid said, describing Mukherjee as a "real and sincere friend" of Bangladesh. He said Mukherjee played a crucial role in mobilising international support for Bangladesh's 1971 independence which "quickened our victory". Hasina also called Mukherjee a “true friend” of Bangladesh and a guardian-like figure to her family. “The news of Mr Pranab Mukherjee’s demise deeply saddened her . . . she became emotional and nostalgic as she reminisced her many memories with him,” state-run BSS reported quoting the premier's press secretary Ihsanul Karim. Hasina, he said, also recalled Mukherjee's “outstanding and unforgettable” contributions to the country's 1971 Liberation War. “I always recall with profound respect his invaluable contributions to our Liberation War,” she said. Hasina said Mukherjee always extended her cooperation to her family while they were in exile in India after the assassination of her father and Bangladesh's founder Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman in 1975 along with most of his family members. “In such a bad time Pranab Mukherjee always enquired about my family and stood beside us in any of our necessity,” Hasina said, adding she also drew his cooperation and encouragement even after her return to Bangladesh. “He (Pranab Mukherjee) is our guardian and family friend and he always provided courage to us in any crisis,” she said. The prime minister said with Mukherjee's demise, India lost a learned and patriotic leader, while Bangladesh lost a nearest person. “He (Parnab Mukherjee) will remain alive as a glittering star in the politics of the subcontinent,” she said. Parliamentary speaker Shirin Sharmin Choudhury, main parliamentary opposition Jatiya Party chief GM Quader and senior ministers also mourned Mukherjee's death. Mukherjee, who was admitted to the Army’s Research and Referral Hospital on August 10 and was operated for a removal of a clot in the brain the same day, is survived by two sons and a daughter. The long-time Congress leader and seven-time parliamentarian had tested positive for COVID-19 at the time of his admission and was being treated for a lung infection. He had suffered a septic shock on Sunday due to it. Doctors said he died of a cardiac arrest at 4.30 pm. His son Abhijit Mukherjee was the first to break the news of the death of the veteran politician.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bangladesh-president-pm-mourn-pranab-mukherjees-demise-880680.html
31-08-2020||National||District Collectors told to maintain law and order during JEE, NEET exams: Goa CM||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Monday said that JEE and NEET examinations will be held in Goa and the state administration had been directed to maintain law and order near examination centres hosting the examinations.  Sawant told reporters that around 5,000 students were expected to appear for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Exam and the Joint Entrance Exams. While the JEE exams are scheduled to be held for a period of seven days from September 1 to 6, the NEET exams are scheduled to be held on September 13.  "Instructions have been given to Collector North Goa and South Goa districts to maintain law and order. We have ensured that the centres get uninterrupted power supply and Covid-19 norms like social distancing, sanitisation and use of masks is maintained," Sawant told reporters here.  "The exam centres will be sanitised. I assure people on behalf of the Goa government, that students will get all the support and government will ensure that exams will be held in an unhindered way," Sawant further said. The state has seen 16,553 confirmed Covid-19 cases, while the tally of active cases in the state is at 3,646.  Over 170 persons have died in the state from Covid-19.  "We have asked the Education department to sanitise classrooms. Sanitisers will also be provided. Each student should come with a mask and a water bottle," the Chief Minister also said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/district-collectors-told-to-maintain-law-and-order-during-jee-neet-exams-goa-cm-880681.html
31-08-2020||National Politics||DH Toon | 'Had nothing to talk about, but then I saw you'||In his monthly radio address, ‘Mann Ki Baat’ Modi called for increasing India’s share in the global toy market. Though Modi made no mention of it, the toy trade dominated by China and India is a key market for Chinese toys. He rued while the global toy industry is worth more than Rs 7 lakh crore, India currently has a very little share in it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-had-nothing-to-talk-about-but-then-i-saw-you-880286.html
31-08-2020||National Politics||PM Narendra Modi extends greetings on Onam||Prime Minister Narendra Modi offered his greetings to the people on the occasion of Onam on Monday, saying this is a unique festival that celebrates harmony.  The prime minister also posted a clip of his mention of the festival in his Mann Ki Baat broadcast on Sunday. "Greetings on Onam. This is a unique festival, which celebrates harmony," he tweeted. "It is also an occasion to express gratitude to our hardworking farmers. May everyone be blessed with joy and best health." In the clip, Modi had noted in the address that Onam is increasingly turning out to be an international festival, with the festival now being celebrated abroad as well. Onam is a harvest festival which is celebrated in Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-narendra-modi-extends-greetings-on-onam-880323.html
31-08-2020||National Politics||Amit Shah greets people on Onam||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday greeted people on the occasion of Onam, hoping that the festival would bring harmony, good health and prosperity. Onam is a major harvest festival for the people of Kerala. It is celebrated in the memory of legendary king Mahabali. Warm greetings on the auspicious occasion of Onam. May this festival bring joy, harmony, good health and prosperity in everyone’s lives. "Warm greetings on the auspicious occasion of Onam. May this festival bring joy, harmony, good health and prosperity in everyone's lives. Happy Onam!" Shah tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amit-shah-greets-people-on-onam-880346.html
31-08-2020||National Politics||Shiv Sena hits out at BJP over demand to reopen temples||The Shiv Sena on Monday targeted the BJP for seeking reopening of temples in Maharashtra amid the Covid-19 crisis, and asked whether the NDA constituent will take responsibility if there is an "explosion" of coronavirus cases again. The opposition BJP in Maharashtra last week staged protests outside temples in parts of the state, demanding reopening of the places of worship. Noting that Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis had said people understand how to observe social distancing when temples are reopened, the Shiv Sena countered him referring to the "flouting of the norms" during his party's protest. Therefore, the opposition leaders should first understand the situation in Maharashtra before raising the demand, it said. "Will the opposition party take responsibility if there is an explosion of Covid-19 again?" the Sena asked in an editorial of party mouthpiece Saamana. It wondered whether the BJP's protest was "religious or political", and said opposition leaders should first try to understand why temples had to be shut. "The Covid-19 has spread wherever schools and places of worship were reopened. Tirupati Balaji temple has been hit due to it," the Uddhav Thackeray-led party said. It said scores of families in the Kashmir Valley suffered as the Amarnath and Vaishnodevi yatras could not take place due to Covid-19. Lakhs of people are dependent on temples for their livelihood and the places of worship should be reopened not only for mental peace, but also to ensure they get income, the Marathi publication said. "The state's leader of opposition must first understand the meaning of 'mental peace' which he talks about. For lakhs of people, earning bread and butter is mental peace, while for some attaining power is mental peace," the Shiv Sena quipped. "Temples should be reopened, but not for the political mental peace. First ensure people are safe, rest can be seen later," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shiv-sena-hits-out-at-bjp-over-demand-to-reopen-temples-880385.html
31-08-2020||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi accuses Modi government of destroying informal economy||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday accused the Narendra Modi government of destroying the informal sector that generates 90% jobs, in a bid to gain control over it and extort money. “The informal sector has a lot of money which the government cannot touch. They want to break this sector and extort money from them,” the former Congress President said in a short video, the first of a series on the Indian economy. He had earlier released a five-part series on Chinese incursions in Ladakh. Rahul said the three decisions – “demonetisation, wrong GST and lockdown” were implemented as a plan to destroy the informal sector that had shielded India from the 2008 global financial crisis. “Don’t think the lockdown was unplanned. Don’t think it was done at the last minute. The aim of these three decisions was to destroy the informal sector,” he said in a 3-minute 38-second video. Rahul said the impact of this attack on the informal sector would be seen soon. “The results will be that India won’t be able to produce jobs. Because the informal sector produces 90% of the jobs. Once the informal sector is destroyed, India won’t be able to produce jobs,” he said. “You are being cheated and there is an attempt to turn you into slaves,” Rahul said, adding that there was a need to understand this attack and unite to fight against it. He said the 2008 global financial crisis had affected all the big economies such as the US, Japan, China and European countries, but India had remained unaffected. “India had a UPA government at that time. I went to the Prime Minister and asked him, Manmohan Singh ji, what is the reason that when the entire world has suffered an economic crisis India has remained unaffected,” the former Congress chief said. “Manmohan Singh ji replied, Rahul if you want to understand India’s economy, you will have to understand that India has two economic structures. One is the formal economy and the other is the informal economy,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-accuses-modi-government-of-destroying-informal-economy-880416.html
31-08-2020||National Politics||Remembering Pranab Mukherjee, Congress' go-to leader||Pranab Mukherjee is the quintessential politician that any party would love to have. A no-nonsense politico, he was the go-to leader that Congress always depended upon whenever the party or the UPA government of 2004-14 faced a crisis. He was arguably the longest experienced politician in the country in any party along with L K Advani; but Pranab tasted power for long, unlike Advani. But the best thing about Pranab da, as he was fondly called, was that he would never show off his importance or indispensability. Though Manmohan Singh was the prime minister, it was Pranab who was the man most sought after. He was the trouble-shooter in chief. It was as though the government or the party would not run without his invaluable knowledge or crisis-solving acumen. One of the biggest crises that the UPA government faced was the nuclear bill or the Civil Liability for Nuclear Damage Bill, 2010 for which the CPM was dead opposed to. Pranab da had to summon all his negotiation skills but the stubborn opposition to it from one Communist leader (Prakash Karat) ensured that the Left parties withdraw support to the government. But that did not deter the Bengalibabu as he continued his talks with other parties. His sustained interactions with Mulayam Singh Yadav and Amar Singh yielded the Samajwadi Party support to the government. The UPA-1 thus survived some very anxious moments. A voracious reader, Pranab Mukherjee was an ace parliamentarian. If there was any key bill or debate where the government would be put on the tenterhooks, it was invariably the “short man” (“I missed the short man”, was how then prime minister Narasimha Rao exclaimed on the floor as he forgot to introduce Pranab as a minister to Lok Sabha in the early 1990s) who would be there to defend the government and bail it out. Invariably, he was any political journalist’s favourite (like the late Arun Jaitley was). There was no dearth of stories that he would narrate if he would have time to chat – his relationship with people and politicians ranged generations. It was a joy just to listen to him. Even a 10-minute talk, one would come out with knowledge gained. But journalists would be guarded – for all those who would go to meet him knew no nonsense is allowed. Else, Pranab da would turn red in his ears and face. And one would know he is angry! Many felt that he was a man who never became the prime minister despite having all qualifications. If at all one would ask him, he would say, “ I am always the PM – take the first  letter of my name, Pranab Mukherjee!” Pranab had a liking for No. 13, though most would consider it inauspicious. Over the last many decades, till be moved to Rashtrapati Bhavan as he became the President, the modest No. 13, Talkatora Road, was his official residence in Delhi. He never vacated the house though he was entitled to bigger bungalows. His wife too had a liking for the house. After he shifted, the house was taken by his son Abhijit, who won from the Jangipur seat in West Bengal that Pranab vacated. In Parliament too, No.13 was Pranab’s ministerial room during the UPA regime. Pranab da has written several books. He was a regular at writing diaries but never thought of penning books. Pranab told a group of journalists just before he became President where this reporter was present: “One day Prime Minister Rao visited my house in the early 1990s – I was staying in a rented house in South Delhi. I was very depressed on that day. It had rained heavily and water had entered my house. The diary I had written had drowned in water. I had decided not to continue writing diary.  Rao asked me not to get disheartened and that I should bring out my diaries in book form. I resumed writing diary and began working for my books later. He inspired me.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/remembering-pranab-mukherjee-congress-go-to-leader-880553.html
31-08-2020||National Politics||Pranab Mukherjee: A stalwart who melted into masses||Pranab Mukherjee rode like a colossus over the political firmament in his five decades of public life, playing key roles when India navigated through turbulent times. The 84-year-old Mukherjee, a quintessential consensus builder at a time when coalition politics dominated the country, had friends across the political spectrum from the Left parties to the BJP—a friendship that held him in good stead as he defended the Congress-led governments in Parliament and later as the 13th President of India. The diminutive leader was a key troubleshooter for three Prime Ministers: Indira Gandhi, P V Narasimha Rao and Manmohan Singh, and a “father figure” to Narendra Modi, who honoured him with the Bharat Ratna in 2019 and thanked him for being a guide through the maze of national governance after he became the Prime Minister in 2014. Mukherjee was never a mass leader but left an indelible imprint as India went through internal strife in the troubled 80s, the economic crises in the 1990s and took giant strides in enhancing foreign relations during the UPA years. Mukherjee caught Indira Gandhi’s attention as the election agent of V K Krishna Menon, who was contesting the Lok Sabha bypoll from Midnapore in West Bengal. A master draftsman of many political documents, Mukherjee honed his administrative skills and tactics of managing party politics under Indira Gandhi, who had recognised his acumen and made him a Rajya Sabha member in 1969.  Mukherjee won Indira Gandhi’s confidence, particularly as he stood by her during her short stint out of power after the 1977 Lok Sabha elections. Indira Gandhi made him the Leader of the Rajya Sabha in 1981 and also asked him to preside over the meetings of the Cabinet Committee on Political Affairs in her absence. A misunderstanding about his aspiration to become the Prime Minister after Indira Gandhi’s assassination in 1984 threw Mukherjee into the political wilderness during the Rajiv Gandhi years. Mukherjee’s political career revived when P V Narasimha Rao became the Prime Minister and he was handed over the reins of the Planning Commission in 1991 and later the External Affairs Minister in 1995.  The post of the Prime Minister dodged him thrice—in 1984 and 1991 after the assassinations of Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi respectively and later in 2004 when Sonia Gandhi appointed Manmohan Singh as the PM. He also came close to becoming the President in 2007, but the Congress party felt his need more in managing the UPA coalition than in the Rashtrapati Bhawan. As a minister in UPA governments from 2004 to 2012, Mukherjee played a key role in critical decisions such as administrative reforms, right to information, right to employment, food security, energy security, information technology and telecommunication, setting up UIDAI and Metro rail through chairmanship of over 95 Groups of Ministers constituted for the purpose. As a troubleshooter for the UPA, his endless negotiations with the Left parties gave Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and the Congress much needed time to finalise the modalities of the Indo-US nuclear deal and rope in the Samajwadi Party to ensure that the government lasted its full term.  In 2012, Mukherjee was elected as the 13th President of India, crowning a political career of over five decades. During his tenure as President, Mukherjee opened the doors of the Rashtrapati Bhawan for the masses, writers, artists, innovators, scientists and students through an in-residence programme. “I will melt into the masses,” Mukherjee had quipped when asked about life after retirement, days before he completed his tenure as President.  Born in a small village of Mirati in Birbhum District of West Bengal on December 11, 1935, Mukherjee pursued history, political science and law from Kolkata University and embarked on his professional life as a college teacher and journalist before entering politics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pranab-mukherjee-a-stalwart-who-melted-into-masses-880564.html
31-08-2020||National Politics||Stalwart with deep grasp of Indian polity: Paswan on Pranab Mukherjee||Union Minister and Lok Janshakti Party patron Ram Vilas Paswan paid fond tributes to former president Pranab Mukherjee on Monday, remembering him as a stalwart with deep grasp of Indian polity who guided politicians across the ideological spectrum. Paswan, whose association with Mukherjee goes back by over five decades, said he was in a shock at his death and observed that there were few leaders as conversant with the constitutional mechanism and parliamentary rules and conventions as the former president was. "He was always willing to help people about the correct way forward whenever one approached him. Whether it was his understanding of economy, our parliamentary system or political affairs, his knowledge and wisdom were unparalleled," Paswan said. Mukherjee, 84, died on Monday in an army hospital here, his son Abhijit said. He was admitted to hospital on August 10 and a health bulletin this morning said he was in a deep coma and on ventilator support.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/stalwart-with-deep-grasp-of-indian-polity-paswan-on-pranab-mukherjee-880588.html
31-08-2020||National Politics||Pranab Mukherjee brought back Indira Gandhi after Emergency: Tarun Gogoi||Former Assam Chief Minister and one of the contemporaries of Pranab Mukherjee, Tarun Gogoi said it was Mukherjee who brought back former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi to power after the Emergency. Gogoi, 86, who is now admitted in Gauhati Medical College and Hospital with Covid-19 described Mukherjee as a great statesman, social, political and economic reformer of India.  "I am shocked at the demise of former President Pranab Mukherjee, a great statesman, a social, political and economic reformer of India. He brought back Indira Gandhi after the emergency. It is an irreparable loss for our country. I had a long association with him," Gogoi tweeted on Monday evening, soon after Mukherjee's demise.  Gogoi's loyalists in Assam said Mukherjee often consulted the former Assam CM on many issues related to Congress party. Mukherjee visited the state several times and even campaigned for Congress before elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pranab-mukherjee-brought-back-indira-gandhi-after-emergency-tarun-gogoi-880604.html
31-08-2020||National Politics||Pranab's life mirrored the history of India: Sonia Gandhi||Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Monday offered glowing tributes to former President Pranab Mukherjee saying his 50 years of public life mirrored 50 years of the history of India. “His life over the past 50 years mirrored 50 years of the history of India, for he played a crucial role both in shaping the course of events as well as actively participating in them, whether as a cabinet minister, parliamentarian or President of India,” Gandhi said in a letter to Mukherjee’s daughter Sharmistha. She said Pranab da had been such an integral and prominent part of national life, the Congress party and the Central government for over five decades and it was hard to imagine what the party could do without his sage advice. “I personally have so many warm memories of working with him, and I learnt so much from him,” Gandhi said. Congress announced that the party flag at the AICC headquarters would fly at half-mast for seven days as a mark of respect to the departed leader.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pranabs-life-mirrored-the-history-of-india-sonia-gandhi-880612.html
31-08-2020||National Politics||Congress behind 98% dislikes on Mann Ki Baat video: BJP IT cell chief Amit Malviya||The BJP said on Monday that over 98 per cent of the 'dislikes' for the YouTube video posted by the party of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's 'Mann Ki Baat' programme came from abroad and alleged involvement of the Congress in this. BJP IT department head Amit Malviya said, "Over the last 24hrs, there has been a concerted effort to dislike Mann Ki Baat video on YouTube... So low is the Congress on confidence that it has been celebrating it as some sort of conquest! However, data from YouTube suggests that only 2 per cent of those dislikes are from India." He added in another tweet, "The rest 98%, like always, came from outside India! Bots and Twitter accounts from overseas have been consistent feature of the Congress’s anti JEE-NEET campaign. There is huge spike in activity by Rahul Gandhi’s favourite Turkish bots! What is this Turkish obsession, Rahul?" Over the last 24hrs, there has been a concerted effort to dislike Mann Ki Baat video on YouTube... So low is the Congress on confidence that it has been celebrating it as some sort of conquest! However, data from YouTube suggests that only 2% of those dislikes are from India... Several Congress handles, representing its state units and other departments, had run a campaign on social media to "dislike" the 'Mann ki Baat' video.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-behind-98-dislikes-on-mann-ki-baat-video-bjp-it-cell-chief-amit-malviya-880617.html
31-08-2020||National Politics||We warned government, but it ignored: Congress on sharp GDP fall||The Congress Monday attacked the government over a sharp decline in the GDP numbers and alleged the NDA dispensation ignored the party's warnings and took no preventive steps to cushion the fall. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said the government ignored his warnings in this regard six months ago, while his party colleague and former finance minister P Chidambaram stated it will take many months before the economy turns the corner and registers positive growth. "GDP reduces by 24 percent. The worst in Independent India's history. Unfortunately, the Government ignored the warnings," Gandhi said on Twitter. The country’s economy suffered its worst slump on record in April-June, with the gross domestic product (GDP) contracting by 23.9 percent as the coronavirus-related lockdowns weighed on the already-declining consumer demand and investment. Chidambaram said all this had been anticipated and the Congress had warned the government and urged it to take preventive and preemptive measures. "Our pleas fell on deaf ears. The country, as a whole, is paying a heavy price, the poor and the vulnerable are in despair. It is only the Modi government that was nonchalant and uncaring. The government peddled a fake narrative, but that narrative has been exploded today by the CSO estimates," Chidambaram said. "Let me say with regret--it will take many months before the economy turns the corner and registers positive growth. The inaction and ineptitude of the government gives us no hope that we will see light at the end of the tunnel at any time soon," the former finance minister said. He said the GDP in the first quarter has declined by a whopping 23.9 percent, which means about one quarter of the gross domestic output as on June 30, 2019 has been wiped out in the last 12 months or the gross domestic output has fallen by about 20 per cent since the end of 2019-20. The Congress leader said the only sectors that has grown is Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing at 3.4 percent, and the Finance Minister, who blamed an 'Act of God' for the economic decline, should be grateful to the farmers and the gods who blessed the farmers. He said every other sector of the economy has declined sharply, some precipitously, and this does not “come as a surprise to us”. "They should be a matter of surprise to the government that was seeing 'green shoots' on several days during the first quarter. They should also be a matter of shame to the government that did nothing -- literally nothing -- to cushion the fall by taking suitable fiscal and welfare measures, but we know that the Modi government has no shame and will not acknowledge its mistakes," he alleged. Chidambaram said the economic tragedy was foretold by many close observers of the Indian economy, most recently by the RBI in its Annual Report released a few days ago. “Of the world's major and advanced economies, India's economy declined more than any other country's except the economy of the United States. What does that tell us? That Mr Modi stands second only to Mr Trump in terms of incompetent economic mismanagement," Chidambaram said in a tweet. The GDP contraction of India, the world's fifth-largest economy, compared with 3.1 percent growth in the preceding January-March quarter and 5.2 percent expansion in the corresponding period a year back, according to official data released on Monday. This is the sharpest contraction since quarterly figures started being published in 1996 and worse than what was expected by most analysts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/we-warned-government-but-it-ignored-congress-on-sharp-gdp-fall-880689.html
31-08-2020||North and Central||Union Home Minister Amit Shah discharged from AIIMS in Delhi||Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who was admitted to AIIMS here for post Covid-19 care 14 days ago, was dichcharged from the hospital on Monday morning.  "Amit Shah was admitted to AIIMS for post Covid-19 care. He was discharged today (Monday) at 7 AM. He has fully recovered and is fully fit to resume his routine activities," an AIIMS statement said.  On Saturday, AIIMS had issued a  statement that Shah has recovered and will be discharged in  "short time". Officials said he was discharged from hospital. He has been working from hospital, they added.  The AIIMS statement came after there has been speculation about Shah's health. The AIIMS had not released any health bulletin on Shah, who is diabetic, after it issued a statement on August 18, which announced his admission in the hospital. Shah had missed the Ram Temple 'bhoomi pujan' function in Ayodhya on August 5 and the Independence Day celebrations at Red Fort where Prime Minister Narendra Modi unfurled the national flag and addressed the nation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/union-home-minister-amit-shah-discharged-from-aiims-in-delhi-880329.html
31-08-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: Micro PCR machines installed in 10 Mizoram districts||The Mizoram government has installed micro PCR machines in 10 districts for testing of 16 diseases, including Covid-19, according to state Health Minister Dr R Lalthangliana. The newly installed Truelab Quattro Real-Time Quantitative micro PCR machines would be operational from this week, the minister said on Sunday. The machines would benefit the people especially those living in remote areas, Lalthangliana said, adding that 100- 200 samples could be tested in a day with the help of a micro PCR machine. The micro PCR machines have been installed in 10 out of the 11 districts of the state. He said that efforts are on to resolve the shortage of Covid Care Centres (CCC) and Dedicated Covid Health Centres (DCHC) to treat people, who are infected by Covid-19. Currently, Mizoram has two Covid-19 testing laboratories - one at Zoram Medical College (ZMC), which is equipped with RT-PCR machines and another at Lunglei civil hospital where TrueNat machine is used. Mizoram till Sunday has reported 1,008 Covid-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-micro-pcr-machines-installed-in-10-mizoram-districts-880345.html
31-08-2020||North and Central||Pranab Mukherjee's health condition declines, still in deep coma, says hospital||Former President Pranab Mukherjee's medical condition declined on Monday, the hospital said in the latest bulletin.  The 84-year-old is in septic shock due to his lung infection. He continues to be in deep coma and on ventilator support.  "There is a decline in the medical condition of Hon’ble Shri Pranab Mukherjee since yesterday. He is in septic shock due to his lung infection and is being managed by a team of specialists. He continues to be in deep coma and on ventilator support," the hospital said in a statement.  Mukherjee was admitted to the Army's Research and Referral Hospital in Delhi on August 10 and was operated upon the same day for removal of a clot in the brain. He had also tested positive for Covid-19 during his admission. He later developed a lung infection and had a renal dysfunction. Mukherjee was the 13th President of India from 2012-2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pranab-mukherjees-health-condition-declines-still-in-deep-coma-says-hospital-880353.html
31-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi metro services may not resume from September 7: Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot||Only a few days back, The Ministry of Home Affairs issued guidelines for the Unlock 4.0, as part of the reopening process amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Among the services to open up under Unlock 4.0 is the metro rail, which will be available from September 7 on a graded basis. He further added that metro tokens might not be issued as well and only passengers with smartcards would be allowed to travel by the metro. The Home guards will be deployed outside the metro stations, by the Delhi government in order to maintain social distancing and ensure that all measures to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease are being followed. Thermal screening of passengers will also be done at the entry. “We have discussed the opening of Delhi Metro and based on that, it has been decided that no tokens will be issued in Delhi Metro from September 7 until further orders. Also, not all Metro stations will open at once. Those in containment zones and a few others will not be opened immediately from the first day. The DMRC is currently preparing a list of stations, which will be opened based on footfall and other parameters. A list of stations where travel services are being restored will be made public soon,” Gahlot told Hindustan Times. Even though the DMRC and CISF have already prepared a draft SoP of the Unlock 4.0 metro restarting guidelines, yet, the final list of the SoP will be issued by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs (Mohua) soon. “All MDs have been asked to look into SOPs prepared by Mohua earlier in view of the current realities. All suggestions will be considered in the meeting and accordingly, SOPs will be finalised,” Rajiv Jain, the spokesperson of Mohua told Hindustan Times on Saturday. He explained that other than containment zones, “only a few other metro stations will not operate”. “In our discussions with DMRC, it was found that ensuring social distancing and managing crowd will need a lot of manpower, which is not possible if each and every station is opened at once,” he said. There are 264 Metro stations in Delhi and as on Sunday, there were 820 containment zones. “Inside the Metro stations, CISF and Metro security staff will ensure social distancing and face masks. Outside the stations, the Delhi government will deploy civil defence volunteers. Anyone found without a mask will be fined. Inside the Metro, a distance of 1 metre will have to be maintained between people and seats will be marked accordingly,” Kailash Gahlot said. Although the DMRC did not comment on their deliberations with the Delhi government, DMRC officials said that the focus of the SOPs will be to regulate footfall and ensure that only 50% of a station’s commuter footfall capacity is allowed at a time. Anuj Dayal, executive director, DMRC, told Hindustan Times, “In the coming days, we shall focus on the preparations for the eventual resumption of services. Aspects such as the implementation of hygiene-related protocols, sensitisation of staff and other functional requirements, etc., will be looked into as per the detailed SOPs that will be issued in consultation with the ministry. We shall try to provide the best possible services to our valued commuters.” With inputs from DHNS||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-metro-services-may-not-resume-from-september-7-delhi-transport-minister-kailash-gahlot-880355.html
31-08-2020||North and Central||Naxal killed in encounter by police in Chhattisgarh's Dhamtari district||A Naxal was killed in an encounter with police in Chhattisgarh's Dhamtari district, a senior official said on Monday. The skirmish took place on Sunday night in a forest in Ghoragaon village under Nagri police station area, located around 80 km from here, when a team of the District Reserve Guard (DRG) was out on a search operation, the official said. When the patrolling team was advancing through the forest, an exchange of fire broke out between the two sides, he said. After guns fell silent, the body of a male Naxal and a weapon were recovered from the spot, he said. The deceased was identified as Ravi, who was active as a member of the Gobra LOS (local organisation squad) of Maoists, he said. Search operation was still underway in the area, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/naxal-killed-in-encounter-by-police-in-chhattisgarhs-dhamtari-district-880371.html
31-08-2020||North and Central||Cloud cover to keep Delhi weather pleasant||A cloud cover and patchy rains are expected to keep the temperatures within comfortable levels in the national capital on Monday, the weather forecast said. The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to settle at 33 degrees Celsius and 25 degrees Celsius, respectively.  On and off light rains will continue in the city over the next six days, the Met department said, adding moderate rainfall is likely on Thursday. Delhi recorded 237 mm rainfall in August this year, the highest for the month in seven years, according to an India Meteorological Department data.  During this month, the precipitation on August 13 (68.2 mm) and August 20 (54.8 mm) accounted for more than 50 percent of the rains. The capital had gauged 119.6 mm precipitation in August last year, and 206.5 mm in 2018. It recorded 152.2 mm and 122.1 mm rainfall in August 2017 and 2016, respectively. The August rainfall in 2015 and 2014 stood at 195.4 mm and 139.1 mm. The rainfall in August 2013 was 321.4 mm. Overall this year, the city has gauged 555 mm precipitation against the normal of 521.8 mm since June 1, when the monsoon season starts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cloud-cover-to-keep-delhi-weather-pleasant-880372.html
31-08-2020||North and Central||5 labourers dead as utility vehicle rams into truck in Uttar Pradesh||Five labourers died and 11 were injured when a passenger vehicle carrying them rammed into a truck in Uttar Pradesh's Bahraich district on Monday morning, police said. All the labourers had returned their home due to the coronavirus lockdown and were going back to work, police said. They were travelling in a Force Cruiser from Bihar to Ambala in Haryana when the MUV rammed into a stationary truck parked alongside a road near Sukai Purwa crossing in Payagpur around 5.30 am, an officer said. Two labourers died on the spot and 14 injured were rushed to a hospital, where three more succumbed to injuries, Superintendent of Police Vipin Mishra said. The deceased are between the age group of 18-40. They have been identified as Jitendra Giri, Kanchan Ram, Sanjay Prasad and Basant Prasad -- all from Bihar -- and Pawan, who is from Gonda in Uttar Pradesh, the SP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/5-labourers-dead-as-utility-vehicle-rams-into-truck-in-uttar-pradesh-880373.html
31-08-2020||North and Central||Safety norms not followed by many people contributing to rise in Covid-19 cases in Delhi: Experts||Medical experts have flagged that many people not wearing masks and violating social distancing norms have contributed to the sudden spurt in novel coronavirus cases in Delhi in the past few days, cautioning that the situation should still be treated as a "health emergency". From doctors at leading hospitals to officials of nationwide testing labs, all concurred that a "sudden degree of complacency" has crept in the psyche of the masses, especially the youth, who feel that "all is back to normal" since lockdown has eased. "We are seeing the younger population mostly starting to go out, posting pictures on social media about sitting at a cafe or a restaurant, which is quite a dangerous trend," Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH) Director B L Sherwal told PTI. "This sends out a wrong message to other people that things are okay now as economy is also slowly reopening," Sherwal said. The RGSSH is one of the major dedicated Covid-19 facilities run by the Delhi government. "A large number of people going out of their homes, either not wearing a mask or wearing it only on their chin. That can immediately spread infection and that is one of the reasons we seeing a spike in cases in the last several days," Sherwal said, adding that they "should not lower their guard". Delhi recorded 2,024 new coronavirus cases on Sunday, the highest single-day spike in cases in August, taking the tally to over 1.73 lakh, while the death toll rose to 4,426 with 22 more fatalities. On Saturday, there were 1,954 new cases. On preceding two days, the number of infections were in the excess of 1,800. Suranjit Chatterjee, senior consultant of internal medicine at Apollo Hospitals said opening of the economy had led to increase in contact among people and that has also contributed to the rise in the number of infections. "Cases had begun to come down in Delhi in July and economy is being slowly opened up since June, because one cannot keep economy locked indefinitely. "However, that does not mean, people should not treat the situation anymore as a health emergency. A degree of complacency has set in among a section of people that 'all is fine now'," Chatterjee said. He warned that the second wave during the Spanish Flu of 1918 had come after a gap of a few months, adding that people should, therefore, listen to experts and adhere to all safety norms to contain the virus. Mahesh Verma, a doctor and head of a Delhi government panel set up earlier to strengthen the preparedness of hospitals to battle Covid-19, said multiple factors could be responsible for this spike. "Laid-back attitude of many people in adhering to safety and social distancing norms is one factor," he told PTI. "Also, there is another school of thought and there have been some evidence that a less virulent strain of the virus could be in circulation, which leads to less deaths but more cases." Opening up of the economy, too, has led to people interacting more and a greater chance of spreading infection, Verma said. Various sectors are slowly getting permit to resume operations while strictly adhering to coronavirus-safety protocols. After being closed since March 22, the Delhi Metro has received the nod from authorities to resume services from September 7 in a "calibrated manner" as per the new guidelines for Unlock 4.0 issued by the Centre, officials had said on Saturday. Dr Meenu Bajpai of the plasma bank set up in July at state-run Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, said people would have to learn to be "socially responsible" too. "We are literate, but we, as a society, sometimes don't behave responsibly, as it is seen in not observing civic sense and many educated people throwing garbage in the open," Bajpai said. This is the time that we have to show the true value of our education and listen to experts and behave responsibly, according to Bajpai. She cautioned that "eating and drinking socially" in the time of pandemic had to be a "strict no-no", saying that to consume something, one would have to pull the mask down and that is "not advisable". Max Healthcare group medical director Sandeep Budhiraja cautioned the youth to not get swayed in by the lure of the social media, as many of those are putting out pictures of going out and socialising in cafes and restaurants, with or without wearing masks. "Yes, social media does affect the psyche of people and behaviour of people," he said, and cautioned that "a young person may get infected and recover from Covid-19, but if they unnecessarily go out and socialise, they run the risk of spreading it to older people around them, including their parents and grandparents". Medical experts in Delhi also flagged the spread of Covid-19 cases to semi-urban areas and villages on the outskirts of Delhi. "A pandemic that has originated from outside generally follows this trajectory, from foreign countries to another country, then to bigger cities, and from urban areas to rural areas," Sherwal said. Dr Lal Path Labs executive chairman Arvind Lal cautioned that people should not go out unless extremely necessary, as "they may catch infection from asymptomatic ones". "We are still living in a health emergency, we should not forget that," Lal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/safety-norms-not-followed-by-many-people-contributing-to-rise-in-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-experts-880436.html
31-08-2020||North and Central||Man arrested for hoisting Pakistan's flag at home in Madhya Pradesh||A man was arrested after Pakistans national flag was allegedly hoisted at his home in Madhya Pradesh's Dewas district, police said on Monday. A purported video, showing the neighbouring country's flag unfurled on the roof of the man's house in Shipra village, went viral on social media following which the action was taken, they said. The village resident, Farukh Khan, was arrested on Sunday evening under IPC Section 153A (promoting enmity between groups on ground of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony), Superintendent of Police Kiran Sharma said. The flag was also seized from Khan's residence, the official said. Revenue inspector Lakhan Singh said after the purported video went viral on social media, he was instructed by the tehsildar to investigate the matter. According to the official, when they contacted house owner Farukh Khan, he said his 12-year-old son unfurled Pakistan's flag out of ignorance. Khan also said when he came to know about it, he removed the flag from the roof. But, he could not reply as to from where he got the flag, Singh said. The revenue inspector later lodged a complaint with the police about this.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-arrested-for-hoisting-pakistans-flag-at-home-in-madhya-pradesh-880444.html
31-08-2020||North and Central||Treat PIL on preventing waterlogging in Delhi during rains as representation: Delhi HC to AAP govt||The Delhi High Court Monday asked the AAP government to treat as representation a PIL seeking a lasting solution to waterlogging problem which plagues the national capital during the monsoon. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said the plea, by a trust, "is seeking a permanent solution to the problem of waterlogging in the city". The court directed the Delhi government to treat the petition as a representation and take a decision in accordance with law, rules, regulations and government policy applicable to the facts of the case. With the direction, the bench disposed of the plea by Anti Corruption Council of India Trust. The trust's lawyers, during the hearing held via video conference, told the court that during the rains, the roads in the city turn into "mini rivers" and sought that the authorities be directed to take steps to prevent waterlogging in the national capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/treat-pil-on-preventing-waterlogging-in-delhi-during-rains-as-representation-delhi-hc-to-aap-govt-880447.html
31-08-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: Delhi government testing aggressively, aims to trace all cases, says Satyendar Jain||Amid the sudden spike in novel coronavirus infections in Delhi, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Monday that the Kejriwal government was doing "aggressive testing" and the aim was to ensure no case was left untraced. Jain said the government had sufficient stock of Covid-19 testing kits for 10-15 days, but it was procuring more from the market to meet the target of 40,000 tests per day. The government has already increased the duration of testing hours at hospitals and dispensaries to five hours (9 am-2 am) from the earlier three-hour duration, he told reporters. Jain flagged that many people were going out without wearing masks and asserted that teams had been deployed penalise such violators of public safety norms, adding that the police had also been authoritised to impose fines. He underscored that the doubling rate of coronavirus cases in Delhi was 85 days and, therefore, it was at "comfort level" so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-delhi-government-testing-aggressively-aims-to-trace-all-cases-says-satyendar-jain-880457.html
31-08-2020||North and Central||20 arrested in Uttar Pradesh for taking part in Muharram processions against govt order on gatherings||Twenty people, including three women, have been arrested for not complying with government order on religious gatherings and taking out processions on Muharram, and getting into confrontations with the police while been prevented from doing so, police said on Monday. Three persons were arrested in Sadarpur Bahadurpur village when they took out a procession on Sunday evening, they said. "Tension prevailed in Narainpur village and Nahar Pulia crossing in Rupaideha on Sunday evening when people gathered there and tried to take out a procession. When police stopped them, they confronted it. After this, an FIR was registered against 12 people and they were arrested a number of charges including lockdown violation," ASP (Rural) Ashok Kumar said. He said, "In Madhwapur Parsipurwa village in Murtiha area, people tried to take out 'Tazia' and gathered in large number. When police reached there, women were put in front to confront the force. Later, five people, including three women, were arrested." The ASP said that due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Uttar Pradesh government has denied permission for religious gatherings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/20-arrested-in-uttar-pradesh-for-taking-part-in-muharram-processions-against-govt-order-on-gatherings-880468.html
31-08-2020||North and Central||Landslides block Jammu and Kashmir highway, 300 vehicles stranded||Landslides and mudslides triggered by heavy rains blocked the 270-km-long Srinagar-Jammu national highway at several places in Ramban district on Monday, officials said. Over 300 vehicles were stranded at several places on the highway, the only all-weather road connecting Kashmir valley with the rest of the country. The men and machines of the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) and Border Roads Organisation (BRO) have started clearance of the landslides to restore the traffic on the highway, they said. However, the Srinagar-Kargil-Leh road, which connects UTs of Jammus and Kashmir and Ladakh, is open for traffic. The Mughal road, connecting Shopian district of Kashmir valley with Poonch district of Jammu region, is through for vehicles carrying essentials, mostly trucks and oil tankers, they said. The traffic on inter-district Kishtwar-Paddar road has been restored on Monday after clearance of landslides, which blocked the road 3 days ago, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/landslides-block-jammu-and-kashmir-highway-300-vehicles-stranded-880478.html
31-08-2020||North and Central||Delhi High Court seeks Satyendar Jain's reply on plea by BJP leader challenging his election||The Delhi High Court Monday sought Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain's reply on a plea by BJP leader S C Vats challenging the AAP leader's election to the Legislative Assembly for allegedly indulging in “corrupt practices.” Vats lost to Jain in the 2020 Delhi Assembly elections from Shakur Basti constituency here. Justice Mukta Gupta issued notices to Jain, Returning Officer, Chief Election Officer and three other candidates who had contested for the same constituency and asked them to file their responses within four weeks. The judge listed the matter for completion of service of notice and pleading before the Joint Registrar on October 1 and for hearing before the court on December 15. Advocate Manoj Goel, appearing for the BJP leader, sought that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader's election be declared as null and void and a re-election be done on the seat. The petition, filed through Sahil Ahuja, alleged that Jain "bribed" voters of his constituency with "gifts", like cameras, benches, air-conditioners and computers, to some societies there and therefore, prevented them from exercising their right to vote in a free and fair manner. “The facts set out would clearly demonstrate that the respondent no.1 (Jain) has violated the purity of the election process and democracy which are both basic features of the Constitution. Consequently, the respondent no.1 is also liable to be disqualified from contesting the elections for such period as specified in the Representation of People Act,” the plea said. It sought to declare Vats to be a successful candidate in the elections held on February 8, 2020 in Shakur Basti assembly constituency being the runner up candidate. On the plea to preserve records of election, the high court refused to pass an order for maintaining status quo at this stage, saying the petitioner has already approached the court so late. The plea has also claimed that Jain did not disclose his actual expenses incurred during the election campaign and exceeded the cap on poll expenditures. The petition further sought that during pendency of the matter, Jain be prevented from attending the legislative assembly and drawing emoluments or any other payments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-high-court-seeks-satyendar-jains-reply-on-plea-by-bjp-leader-challenging-his-election-880485.html
31-08-2020||North and Central||How a Rs 1,000 device helping Delhi fight coronavirus||Twice a day, New Delhi health worker Kamal Kumari receives a flurry of WhatsApp messages from coronavirus patients, containing either a two-digit reading from a tiny medical device or a photo of its glowing display. She scans the numbers from the Rs 1,000 ($13) oxygen monitor, known as pulse oximeter, checking to ensure they are all above the prescribed 95 mark and then notes them down in her logbook. "When we didn't have this, we wouldn't know about their oxygen levels," said Kumari, explaining how her team would worry about patients' conditions rapidly worsening when India's capital was badly short of hospital beds. "Now we can find out in time and safely refer patients to the hospital." Delhi's government has so far distributed pulse oximeters to more than 32,000 people for free, putting them at the heart of a plan to isolate most asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic coronavirus patients in their homes. The programme was devised in May, when coronavirus cases started surging in the densely populated city of 20 million, sending panicked residents rushing to hospitals. "If we hadn't done this, there would've been no room to even stand in our hospitals," Delhi's health minister, Satyendar Jain, told Reuters. With more than 3.5 million infections, India has reported the world's third-highest number of coronavirus cases, and states across the country have deployed a variety of measures to fight the pandemic. In Delhi, health authorities started noticing "happy hypoxemia" - low blood oxygen levels without any breathlessness - that was leading to complications in coronavirus patients isolated at home, Jain said. For regular monitoring, doctors told Jain that patients would either have to visit hospitals or use the inexpensive oxygen monitors, many of which are made in China. Delhi has recorded around 173,000 infections with a little over 4,400 deaths. Only 14,700 cases remain active and many hospital beds are now empty. Proactive Monitoring Other cities across the world have also deployed the device. In May, at the height of its outbreak, Singapore distributed several thousand oximeters to migrant workers isolated in cramped dormitories, which had become an epicentre for the virus's spread. Singapore's health ministry said oximeters allowed workers "to proactively monitor their own health status and reach out for medical assistance if needed". In India, too, other places have picked up on Delhi's model. Since late July, the northeastern state of Assam has provided nearly 4,000 oximeters to patients in home isolation. Some doctors are concerned that patients may not always know how to use the device. "It's very important to train patients properly on how to use pulse oximeters," said Dr Hemant Kalra, a pulmonologist in New Delhi, adding that cheap, sub-standard oximeters flooding the market were also a problem. Jain, however, said the government's programme had worked effectively, with not a single fatality among the thousands of patients in home isolation the last month and a half. Oximeters have also helped cut down on expensive hospitalisation for mild cases, Jain said, saving more than 10 times the device's price for each day in hospital. On a warm, humid day last week, health worker Kumari pulled on a protective suit, a mask and goggles, before walking down the narrow lanes of the Chirag Delhi neighbourhood. Together with a similarly dressed colleague, she stopped at Satish Kumar Soni's home to check on him and three family members who were ending their 10-day isolation period, and to collect two government-issued pulse oximeters. Soni, a 59-year-old jeweller, said the device helped the family ease their fears and anxiety as they slowly recovered. "It's not that big a disease," he said. "If the oxygen level is fine, then there isn't much danger."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/how-a-rs-1000-device-helping-delhi-fight-coronavirus-880488.html
31-08-2020||North and Central||Body of newborn girl found on Noida road||The body of a newborn girl was found along a road in Uttar Pradesh's Noida on Monday, police said. The infant's body was spotted by some locals at Chhijarsi in Sector 63 who alerted the Phase 3 police station officials, they said. "It appears that the baby was abandoned at the spot by someone fearing public shame," a local policeman said. It was not clear whether the baby was already dead when abandoned or she died after being left there, the official said, adding an investigation is underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/body-of-newborn-girl-found-on-noida-road-880498.html
31-08-2020||North and Central||Six civilians injured in J&K's Baramulla grenade attack||At least six civilians were injured when a grenade lobbed by the militants at an army convoy missed the target in north Kashmir’s Baramulla district on Monday. Defence spokesperson Col Rajesh Kalia said that terrorists hurled a hand-grenade on an Army convoy moving from Baramulla towards Srinagar, which missed the last vehicle and resulted in injuries to six civilians.   “The injured have been shifted to hospital. The area has been cordoned off and search op is in progress,” he added. There has been a spurt in grenade attack cases in Kashmir in recent times and what is worrisome for the security forces is that these attacks are coming up at a time when they are already on a high alert. A senior police officer involved in counter-insurgency operations said militants may have received a fresh consignment of grenades and they are targeting forces just to create an impression that they were present and militancy alive in the Valley. “After facing heat across Kashmir due to relentless operations by the security forces, militants are trying to revive the strategy of lobbing grenades at security forces and on busy roads. Throwing grenades at busy places is either aimed to provoke the security forces to fire indiscriminately or create a fear among them that they are vulnerable to such attacks,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/six-civilians-injured-in-jks-baramulla-grenade-attack-880508.html
31-08-2020||North and Central||'Will join army and fight to end terror in Kashmir': 15-year-old son of ASI killed in anti-terror opps||At a tender age of 15, Manik lost his father, Assistant Sub-Inspector Babu Ram, to militants' bullets. He now wants to join the Army and stamp out terrorism in the Kashmir Valley. The officer laid down his life fighting three holed-up Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) militants at Pantha chowk in Srinagar on Sunday. All the three militants were also killed in the encounter. According to officials, Babu Ram had remained at the forefront in various counter-insurgency operations during his 18-year service in the Special Operations Group (SOG) of the Jammu and Kashmir police. Proud of his father's martyrdom, Manik said, "I am too young to join the forces. But I wish to join it now and avenge his killing. I salute my father for his service in eliminating terrorists in Kashmir. I am proud of him. He was a brave officer." "I will join the Army and follow the footprints of my father. I will fight to wipe out terrorism in Kashmir. I want terrorism to be brought to an end in Kashmir with force so that more lives are not lost," the grieving teenager said. Ram, a resident of the border town of Mendhar in Poonch district, had joined the force on July 30, 1999, as a constable and voluntarily opted for the SOG after completing his basic induction training, a police official said, adding he and was subsequently posted in SOG Srinagar in 2002. He said the officer got injured in an encounter with militants while evacuating civilians at Lal Chowk some time back but returned to the action after recovery. "Ram got two out-of-turn promotions because of his exceptional performance in various anti-militancy operations in Srinagar. He was a thorough professional and has given the best services in the SOG," he said, terming his achievements marvellous. Babu Ram's brother Gulshan Sharma, a policeman himself, is extremely proud of his brother. "My brother had once said that he will lay down his life fighting terrorists. I am also in the police and want to be a martyr like my brother," he said. Born on May 15, 1972, at Dharana village in Mendhar, Ram always wanted to join the armed forces. "He was a role model and guide for the newcomers in the police force in general and the SOG in particular. His courage and determination were exceptional," the official said, adding he was also very disciplined and humane in approach and had remained committed to zero collateral damage while executing deadliest anti-militancy operations and thwarting militant attacks in Srinagar. The police would always remain indebted to his contributions and supreme sacrifice for the cause of the nation, he said. The mortal remains of the assistant sub-inspector were consigned to flames with full honours at his home town in Mendhar in the border district of Poonch on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-join-army-and-fight-to-end-terror-in-kashmir-15-year-old-son-of-asi-killed-in-anti-terror-opps-880523.html
31-08-2020||North and Central||Kanhaiya Kumar and Tejashwi Yadav to share dais during Bihar poll campaign||In what could be a major boost for the Opposition-led Grand Alliance, former JNU students’ union president and CPI leader Kanhaiya Kumar is likely to share dais with RJD chief ministerial candidate Tejashwi Yadav while campaigning for the Mahagatbandhan candidates in the ensuing Bihar Assembly polls. At least two authoritative sources in the Grand Alliance confirmed it to Deccan Herald that “now that the Left will part of the Mahagatbandhan, chances are likely that Kanhaiya and Tejashwi will address public meetings together. It will be a treat to watch the two young leaders taking NDA head-on.” The Left comprising the CPI, CPM and the CPI-ML have agreed in principle to be part of the Opposition-led Grand Alliance so that there is no division of non-NDA votes. “When we are forging pact with the RJD-led alliance, it is quite likely that Kanhaiya and Tejashwi will share the dais. After all, our purpose is to give the NDA a crushing defeat,” said State CPI secretary and former MLA Ram Naresh Pandey. This will be major shift in the stand since 2019 Lok Sabha polls, when the RJD had refused to withdraw its candidate from Begusarai parliamentary constituency from where CPI’s Kanhaiya Kumar was pitted against BJP’s Union Minister Giriraj Singh. With the split in non-BJP votes, Kanhaiya lost his debut parliamentary poll. “This time Tejashwi Yadav has authorised RJD State president Jagdanand Singh to rope in all like-minded parties, including the Left. The seat-sharing pact will also be a smooth affair,” said RJD spokesperson Mrityunjay Tiwary. The JD (U), however, took potshots at the possibility of coming together of Kanhaiya and Tejashwi. “It will be interesting to watch how a doctorate and a non-matriculate will jointly address the gathering,” said JD (U) Minister Neeraj Kumar in an oblique reference to qualifications of Kanhaiya and Tejashwi respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kanhaiya-kumar-and-tejashwi-yadav-to-share-dais-during-bihar-poll-campaign-880525.html
31-08-2020||North and Central||SP student wing members lathicharged during protest against holding NEET, JEE Main||Police on Monday lathicharged and detained Samajwadi Party student wing members protesting near the Raj Bhavan here against conducting the NEET and JEE Main amid the Covid-19 pandemic, police said. Carrying placards with messages such as ‘India united to postpone JEE and NEET’, ‘Satyagrah against exams during Covid-19’ and ‘Stop atrocities against students’, the party workers were marching towards the Raj Bhavan when they were stopped by police. As they insisted to move ahead, police used lathicharge to disperse them, and later detained them, a senior police officer said. Samajwadi Party national spokesman Rajendra Chowdhury said, “Police lathicharged peaceful protestors.” Other party leaders said holding medical entrance exam NEET and engineering entrance exam JEE Main amid a raging pandemic is not in the interest of students. “It should be postponed till situation improves,” said one of them. While engineering entrance exam JEE Main has been planned from September 1 to September 6, the NEET is scheduled to be held on September 13. Earlier, on August 27, Samajwadi Party workers were lathicharged by police when they were marching towards the Raj Bhavan in protest against the Centre's decision to hold these exams. Party president Akhilesh Yadav had last week written an open letter against holding the two exams as coronavirus cases in the country are rising. He had said the BJP-led government at the Centre is unnecessarily putting the students' health at risk. "Funny and illogical things are being spread by the BJP which says when people can come out for other work, why can't they take exams? It has forgotten that people are moving out in compulsion and even those who want to stay at home to save themselves are now being forced to come out of their homes in the name of examination," Yadav had said in the letter. The SP chief had asked who will be responsible if students contract the infection. He claimed the saffron party is only concerned about people who vote for it. "It appears that the BJP has come to know that youths facing unemployment would no longer vote for them and so, it is acting in a revengeful manner against them and their guardians," Yadav had alleged. Supporting the demand for postponement of NEET and JEE examinations, seven non-BJP chief ministers had decided to jointly move the Supreme Court on the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sp-student-wing-members-lathicharged-during-protest-against-holding-neet-jee-main-880542.html
31-08-2020||North and Central||Plan to revive LeT network in J-K's Reasi busted; government teacher, 2 others arrested: Police||Security forces have busted a plan of the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) based in Pakistan to revive its network in Jammu and Kashmir's Reasi district and have arrested its three "overground workers", police said on Monday. These "overground workers" were in contact with their Pakistani handler (LeT) Mohd Qasim of Mahore who had exfiltrated to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir in 2002, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), Reasi, Rashmi Wazir said here. The police and the Army have busted a major LeT revival plan in the Mahore area of Reasi district, and the three arrested "overground workers" include a government teacher, she said. The SSP said information was received through reliable sources at Police Station Mahore that some unknown persons in the area were in touch with LeT terrorists based in Pakistan to revive the LeT in Mahore with the intention to wage war against the country and disturb the sovereignty and integrity of India. Based on this information, a case was registered on August 5, and a Special Investigation Team (SIT) constituted to investigate it, she said. During the course of the investigation, with the help of technical data analysis support from the Army and intelligence units working in Mahore area and interrogation of suspects by the SIT, it emerged that Mohd Qasim, who is working for the LeT across the border, is the mastermind behind the module, the SSP said. She said Qasim was trying to establish a network of "overground workers" so that the LeT could utilise it to recruit from Mahore and adjoining areas, provide logistics support and establish an LeT base to facilitate the crossing of terrorists via various routes, including but not limited to Rajouri belt-Mahore-Nikin Gali to Kashmir via Kulgam area. The three people arrested were identified as Ghulam Hussain of Kulwa Mulas, Abdul Aziz of Sildhar and Ashfaq Ahmed of Malan Bathoie, the SSP said. One of them is a government teacher, one is a shopkeeper and the other is a labourer, she said. "Some 'benami' transactions in different accounts of these suspects have also been detected, and some families of slain militants who have received financial aid from the ISI have also been identified," Wazir said. The investigation in this regard is in progress, the SSP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/plan-to-revive-let-network-in-j-ks-reasi-busted-government-teacher-2-others-arrested-police-880555.html
31-08-2020||North and Central||BJP protests against increased electricity tariff across Rajasthan||The BJP in Rajasthan on Monday held demonstrations at all grid substations in the state in support of various demands, including waiver of electricity bills for four months. "Demonstrations were held at around 1,600 places in the state where the party MPs, MLAs and office bearers led the protest and handed over representations to officials," a party spokesperson said. The demonstrators demanded electricity bill waiver for four months, withdrawal of increased tariff and resumption of grant of Rs 833 on agriculture connections among others. BJP state president Satish Poonia led the protest at Manpur Machedi in Amber, Leader of Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria was at Hiranmagri in Udaipur and deputy Leader of Opposition Rajendra Rathore led the protest in Churu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-protests-against-increased-electricity-tariff-across-rajasthan-880610.html
31-08-2020||North and Central||1,358 fresh Covid-19 cases take Delhi's tally to over 1.74 lakh; death toll rises to 4,444||Delhi recorded 1,358 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the tally to over 1.74 lakh, while the death toll mounted to 4,444, authorities said. Eighteen fatalities have been recorded in the last 24 hours, according to the latest bulletin issued by the Delhi Health department. However, the number of tests conducted on Monday was 14,389, much lower than the average 20,000 done per day. On Sunday, Delhi had recorded 2,024 fresh cases, the highest single-day spike in the city in August. On Saturday, the city reported 1,954 cases and on preceding two days, the city had recorded in excess of 1,800 cases. The tally of active cases on Monday marginally dropped to 14,626 from 14,793 the previous day.  On June 23, the national capital had reported the highest single-day spike of 3,947 till date. The death toll from Covid-19 in Delhi stood at 4,426 on Sunday. The bulletin on Monday said the death toll from coronavirus infection has risen to 4,444 and the total number of cases has climbed to 1,74,748.  The positivity rate on Monday stood at 9.4 per cent while the recovery rate was over 89 per cent, as per the bulletin. The number of containment zones jumped to 833 from 803 the previous day, according to the bulletin. Meanwhile, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Monday said the city government has "sufficient stock" of diagnostic kits for 10-15 days, but more units are being procured to meet the target of conducting 40,000 tests daily. He underscored that the doubling rate of coronavirus cases in Delhi was 85 days and, therefore, it was at a "comfort level" as of today. On Monday, Delhi's principal secretary (home) along with principal secretary of health and divisional commissioner held a meeting of all deputy commissioners, Chief District Medical Officer and district surveillance officers to review the status of Covid-19 situation in the city, the bulletin said. Fresh cases and active cases have shown an increase in the last several days. Delhi has seen a fluctuation in the number of coronavirus cases since the beginning of this month. On August 1, the city recorded 1,118 fresh cases while for the next three days, the number of infections reported in a single-day stayed below the 1,000-mark. From August 5 to August 9, the number of fresh Covid-19 cases again stayed above the 1,000-mark only to come down to 707 on August 10. Three days between August 11 and August 22, the city saw less than 1,000 fresh cases -- August 13 (956), August 16 (652), and August 17 (787).  Since August 18, cases again have been coming in four-figure count. According to the bulletin, out of the total number of beds in Covid-hospitals, 9,999 are vacant. Also, 3,752 beds in Covid care centres are occupied by persons under quarantine, including travellers who have returned by Vande Bharat Mission and bubble flights, it said. According to the bulletin, 1,55,678 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated so far. The number of people in home isolation stands at 7,876. The number of Rapid Antigen Tests conducted on Monday stood at 8,714 while the RT-PCR, CBNAAT and True NAAT tests figures were 5,675, in all adding to 14,389, according to the bulletin. The total number of tests done till date in Delhi stands at 15,83,485. The number of tests done per million, as on Monday, was 83,341, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/1358-fresh-covid-19-cases-take-delhis-tally-to-over-174-lakh-death-toll-rises-to-4444-880670.html
31-08-2020||Panorama||Fight Covid-19, but not at the cost of other diseases||Coronavirus is important but it is more important to put the pandemic in the right perspective, certainly not at the cost of non-Corona diseases. We have a corona pandemic on the one hand and non-Corona diseases on the other. First, we have been either casual or in panic in terms of our response to the spread of the virus. Maybe the news about fatalities and uncertain future has contributed to this panic. Maybe the different ways the virus is affecting people in terms of intensity and fatality could be the reason. For many, it is no more than the common flu or even milder, but for some, it has proved fatal. Covid-19 is under control in many countries and so will it be here. We now know a lot more about how to manage this disease. There will be a treatment and there will be a vaccine in the near future. One needs to see the pandemic in the right perspective, then the numbers will not panic you: the number of corona cases in India - 2.84 million; Recoveries among Covid-19 patients surged to 21 lakh pushing recovery rate; Only 0.28% people of 6,86,395 active cases are on ventilator support; Only 1.92% are in ICU; 2.62% are on oxygen support; Covid mortality rate has declined to 1.89%. The ‘cardiac capital’ and the ‘diabetes capital’ of the world, India was considered a fertile breeding ground for the pandemic. Our population was seemingly more susceptible to the impact of the Novel Coronavirus, due to a high number of people suffering from lung diseases, heart diseases, diabetes, malnutrition-related conditions, among many other ailments. The practice of physical distancing was almost impossible feat considering that on an average every, every sixth Indian lives in slums with high population densities, poor environmental sanitation and overcrowded, poor medical infrastructure. In totality, when the pandemic began, predictions were a recipe for disaster. While India reported its first Coronavirus case within a seven-day window of Italy, the UK, Germany or Spain finding theirs, its case and fatality trajectory has been much slower that its counterparts. Though India is now the third most infected country in the world, with a 12% contribution to global cases, the contribution to the global deaths at 7% remains relatively low—a figure which was unexpected for the second most populated country with a rather weak health infrastructure. Non-coronavirus diseases and burden of disease in India: In 2017, almost 27,000 people died every day, amounting to more than 9.7 million fatalities that year. Almost 26% of these were caused by communicable, perinatal, maternal and nutritional diseases. A disease such as TB which has been plaguing India for decades, alone contributes to 43 deaths per hour, amounting to a total of 3,75,000 deaths in 2017. Diarrhoea, one of the most prevalent communicable diseases, causes 1,422 deaths every day. More than 7,000 people die every day because of cardiovascular diseases Chronic respiratory diseases, such as asthma, together cause a shocking 6,540 deaths on a daily basis. More than 2,000 cancer patients die every day The daily deaths caused by the novel Coronavirus in India in the past five months has been 319 - as of August 14, and a daily average of 617 in July. This fatality is in spite of a no specific treatment. Remember, diseases such as diarrhoea, TB and malaria, for which treatment processes are available, cause more deaths on a daily basis. The level of panic observed during this pandemic has not been seen while countering diseases such as Ischemic heart disease, diarrhoea or TB which have caused many more fatalities and have been burdening the health system of India for decades now. A disturbing possibility, which is buried under the cacophony around “Covid-19 issues” and seldom discussed during this pandemic, is the possibility of a sharp rise in non-Covid-19 deaths in the country, due to the current disruptions in healthcare and essential services. Neglected emergencies The list of neglected medical and surgical emergencies is endless. These time-critical emergencies if not treated on time could be life-threatening. For instance: acute heart attacks are best treated with good reversibility of cardiac function if treated on time and the golden hour being one hour from onset of pain. Delay in treatment can cause complications like irreversible heart muscle damage leading to pumping failure which can lead to sudden death if not treated on time. More than two lakh new patients of end-stage renal disease are added every year which incrementally adds to more than three crore dialysis episodes per year. Patients on dialysis, if not attended regularly, will go into irreversible kidney damage and death. India, like other countries, must tread carefully due to the unpredictable nature of the virus. While containing the novel Coronavirus is necessary, it is imperative to ensure that the pandemic does not undo the gains the country has made against fighting other diseases in the last decade. While we fight the novel Coronavirus, we must ensure that the price to be paid is not with the lives of non-Covid patients. That fight would be immoral. All lives are precious. The list of diseases killing and disabling people is very long and we cannot ignore them. India’s health indicators continue to be some of the worst in the world and yet its investment in public health is one of the lowest. Excessive use of vertical health programmes and unregulated reliance on market forces to provide healthcare has only further weakened its health system. While the health system is hunkered down to fight the new Coronavirus, the threat of more people dying of other health conditions looms large. It’s time we realise that Covid-19 containment is critical but healthcare for others can no longer be ignored. (The writer is former Director, Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiology, former V-C, Bangalore University and former Chairman, Karnataka State Health Commission)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/fight-covid-19-but-not-at-the-cost-of-other-diseases-880271.html
31-08-2020||Panorama||The brain implants that could change humanity||Jack Gallant never set out to create a mind-reading machine. His focus was more prosaic. A computational neuroscientist at the University of California, Berkeley, Dr. Gallant worked for years to improve our understanding of how brains encode information — what regions become active, for example, when a person sees a plane or an apple or a dog — and how that activity represents the object being viewed. By the late 2000s, scientists could determine what kind of thing a person might be looking at from the way the brain lit up — a human face, say, or a cat. But Dr. Gallant and his colleagues went further. They figured out how to use machine learning to decipher not just the class of thing, but which exact image a subject was viewing. (Which photo of a cat, out of three options, for instance.) One day, Dr. Gallant and his postdocs got to talking. In the same way that you can turn a speaker into a microphone by hooking it up backward, they wondered if they could reverse engineer the algorithm they’d developed so they could visualize, solely from brain activity, what a person was seeing. The first phase of the project was to train the AI. For hours, Dr. Gallant and his colleagues showed volunteers in fMRI machines movie clips. By matching patterns of brain activation prompted by the moving images, the AI built a model of how the volunteers’ visual cortex, which parses information from the eyes, worked. Then came the next phase: translation. As they showed the volunteers movie clips, they asked the model what, given everything it now knew about their brains, it thought they might be looking at. The experiment focused just on a subsection of the visual cortex. It didn’t capture what was happening elsewhere in the brain — how a person might feel about what she was seeing, for example, or what she might be fantasizing about as she watched. The endeavor was, in Dr. Gallant’s words, a primitive proof of concept. And yet the results, published in 2011, are remarkable. The reconstructed images move with a dreamlike fluidity. In their imperfection, they evoke expressionist art. (And a few reconstructed images seem downright wrong.) But where they succeed, they represent an astonishing achievement: a machine translating patterns of brain activity into a moving image understandable by other people — a machine that can read the brain. Dr. Gallant was thrilled. Imagine the possibilities when better brain-reading technology became available? Imagine the people suffering from locked-in syndrome, Lou Gehrig’s disease, the people incapacitated by strokes, who could benefit from a machine that could help them interact with the world? For decades, we’ve communicated with computers mostly by using our fingers and our eyes, by interfacing via keyboards and screens. These tools and the bony digits we prod them with provide a natural limit to the speed of communication between human brain and machine. We can convey information only as quickly (and accurately) as we can type or click. What technologies will power the brain-computer interface of the future is still unclear. And if it’s unclear how we’ll “read” the brain, it’s even less clear how we’ll “write” to it. This is the other holy grail of brain-machine research: technology that can transmit information to the brain directly. We’re probably nowhere near the moment when you can silently ask, “Alexa, what’s the capital of Peru?” and have “Lima” materialize in your mind. Rafael Yuste, a neurobiologist at Columbia University, counts two great advances in computing that have transformed society: the transition from room-size mainframe computers to personal computers that fit on a desk (and then in your lap), and the advent of mobile computing with smartphones in the 2000s. Noninvasive brain-reading tech would be a third great leap, he says. Not many people will volunteer to be the first to undergo a novel kind of brain surgery, even if it holds the promise of restoring mobility to those who’ve been paralyzed. So when Robert Kirsch, the chairman of biomedical engineering at Case Western Reserve University, put out such a call nearly 10 years ago, and one person both met the criteria and was willing, he knew he had a pioneer on his hands. The man’s name was Bill Kochevar. He’d been paralyzed from the neck down in a biking accident years earlier. His motto, as he later explained it, was “somebody has to do the research.” At that point, scientists had already invented gizmos that helped paralyzed patients leverage what mobility remained — lips, an eyelid — to control computers or move robotic arms. But Dr. Kirsch was after something different. He wanted to help Mr. Kochevar move his own limbs. The first step was implanting two arrays of sensors over the part of the brain that would normally control Mr. Kochevar’s right arm. Electrodes that could receive signals from those arrays via a computer were implanted into his arm muscles. The implants, and the computer connected to them, would function as a kind of electronic spinal cord, bypassing his injury. Once his arm muscles had been strengthened — achieved with a regimen of mild electrical stimulation while he slept — Mr. Kochevar, who at that point had been paralyzed for over a decade, was able to feed himself and drink water. He could even scratch his nose. About two dozen people around the world who have lost the use of limbs from accidents or neurological disease have had sensors implanted on their brains. Many, Mr. Kochevar included, participated in a United States government-funded program called BrainGate. The sensor arrays used in this research, smaller than a button, allow patients to move robotic arms or cursors on a screen just by thinking. But as far as Dr. Kirsch knows, Mr. Kochevar, who died in 2017 for reasons unrelated to the research, was the first paralyzed person to regain use of his limbs by way of this technology. This fall, Dr. Kirsch and his colleagues will begin version 2.0 of the experiment. This time, they’ll implant six smaller arrays — more sensors will improve the quality of the signal. And instead of implanting electrodes directly in the volunteers’ muscles, they’ll insert them upstream, circling the nerves that move the muscles. In theory, Dr. Kirsch says, that will enable movement of the entire arm and hand. The next major goal is to restore sensation so that people can know if they’re holding a rock, say, or an orange — or if their hand has wandered too close to a flame. “Sensation has been the longest ignored part of paralysis,” Dr. Kirsch told me. A few years ago, scientists at the University of Pittsburgh began groundbreaking experiments on that front with a man named Nathan Copeland who was paralyzed from the upper chest down. They routed sensory information from a robotic arm into the part of his cortex that dealt with his right hand’s sense of touch. Every brain is a living, undulating organ that changes over time. That’s why, before each of Mr. Copeland’s sessions, the AI has to recalibrate — to construct a new brain decoder. “The signals in your brain shift,” Mr. Copeland told me. “They’re not exactly the same every day.” And the results weren’t perfect. Mr. Copeland described them to me as “weird,” “electrical tingly” but also “amazing.” The sensory feedback was immensely important, though, in knowing that he’d actually grasped what he thought he’d grasped. And more generally, it demonstrated that a person could “feel” a robotic hand as his or her own, and that information coming from electronic sensors could be fed into the human brain. Preliminary as these experiments are, they suggest that the pieces of a brain-machine interface that can both “read” and “write” already exist. People cannot only move robotic arms just by thinking; machines can also, however imperfectly, convey information to the brain about what that arm encounters. Edward Chang, a neurosurgeon at the University of California, San Francisco, who works on brain-based speech recognition, said that maintaining the ability to communicate can mean the difference between life or death. “For some people, if they have a means to continue to communicate, that may be the reason they decide to stay alive,” he told me. “That motivates us a lot in our work.” In a recent study, Dr. Chang and his colleagues predicted with up to 97% accuracy — the best rate yet achieved, they say — what words a volunteer had said (from about 250 words used in a predetermined set of 50 sentences) by using implanted sensors that monitored activity in the part of the brain that moves the muscles involved in speaking.  Dr. Chang used sensor arrays similar to those Dr. Kirsch used, but a noninvasive method may not be too far away.  This progress isn’t solely driven by advances in brain-sensing technology — by the physical meeting point of flesh and machine. The AI matters as much, if not more. Trying to understand the brain from outside the skull is like trying to make sense of a conversation taking place two rooms away. The signal is often messy, hard to decipher. So it’s the same types of algorithms that now allow speech-recognition software to do a decent job of understanding spoken speech — including individual idiosyncrasies of pronunciation and regional accents — that may now enable brain-reading technology.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-brain-implants-that-could-change-humanity-880272.html
31-08-2020||Panorama||Off The Record-30 August||On edge As the Kerala Assembly convened on August 24 to pass the finance bill, the House was thick with protests from the Opposition MLAs over the government’s alleged nexus with gold smuggling case accused. Owing to the Covid-19 scenario, the session was held after proper distance between the seats of the MLAs had been arranged. However, the House witnessed Opposition MLAs raising slogans in protest. Usually, the Speaker would handle such situations either by requesting opposition members to return to their seats or warning of repercussions. However, this time the Speaker repeatedly reminded Opposition members not to flout social distancing norms. The Speaker’s caution assumed much significance as the majority of the members of the House is above 60 years of age. Arjun Raghunath, Thiruvananthapuram ‘Sunny’ surprise Authorities and students of two colleges in West Bengal, were surprised when they saw the merit list for admission to undergraduate courses. Someone rather unlikely and famous appeared on the merit list. It was none other than Sunny Leone! Amused students saw her name at the top of a list. Soon it dawned on the authorities that someone pulled a prank on them by submitting a fake application online. Later in the day, Leone also appeared on the merit list of another college. Leone reacted to this on social media and the amused filmstar tweeted, “See you all in college next semester! Hope you're in my class!" Soumya Das, Kolkata Woman Jesus? Heard about women Jesus? That too from China? Nagaland Baptist Church Council recently issued a warning to all Baptist churches across Nagaland and Assam about a “threat” posed from a cult that claimed that Jesus has returned in the form of women, that too in China. “The cult teaches that Jesus or God has come back to Earth as a woman, named Yang Xiangbin also called Lightning Deng, and the New Testament has been replaced by their new bible, called ‘The Word Appears in the Flesh,” said a letter issued by NBCC to the churches. “Jesus said in his word that he would return to Earth, not as the Almighty who speaks through a woman from China, but as he was, is and ever shall be. Let us beware of this dangerous cult,” it added. It said the cult was desperately trying to make inroads into the Christian majority states like Nagaland. Sumir Karmakar, Guwahati No committee The ‘dissenters’ in the Congress were assured a small committee to assist the party chief in day-to-day functioning of the party. A week after the stormy meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), there is no sign of the constitution of the ‘small committee’. The buzz in the Congress circles is that the committee may never see the light of the day. While resolving the political crisis in Rajasthan, Congress had said a three-member panel to address the grievances of the ginger group led by Sachin Pilot. However, the Committee is yet to hold its first meeting giving some anxious moments to Pilot, who has sent at least two reminders to the party. Sagar Kulkarni, New Delhi Uddhav’s aide adopts two Last week when a five-storey building, Tarique Garden, collapsed at Mahad in Raigad district, a four-year-old boy was rescued after 19 hours. The child, Mohammed Nabi, lost all members of his family. NDRF director-general Satya Narayan Pradhan said that Nabi was a “miracle child”. Like Nabi, another boy, just five-year-old was orphaned. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s close aide and State Urban Development Minister Eknath Shinde announced that he would take care of the two boys. Rs 10 lakh would be kept aside in a fixed deposit in the names of both the children. The responsibility of the education of both children was undertaken by Shrikant Shinde Foundation. Mrityunjay Bose, Mumbai||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/off-the-record-30-august-880273.html
31-08-2020||Panorama||‘Stock valuations will evolve with how Covid-19 situation changes’||After witnessing a bloodbath in the month of May, stock markets have been rallying, with huge buyer interest. However, the rally is not supported by fundamentals and macros. Nilesh Shah, Managing Director, Kotak Mahindra Asset Management and Member, Prime Minister's Economic Advisory Council, talks to DH’s Furquan Moharkan about the prospects for equity investors as the current volatile scenario unfolds. Excerpts:   Q. To start with, why are macros and markets moving in opposite directions? A. If you look at the broader market, Sensex is now about 5-6% below the all-time high. And GDP is seeing de-growth for the first time since the 1980s. But if you go in detail, there are multiple trends that are visible. A bulk of the Sensex and Nifty movement happened with 15 or 20 stocks. These are the companies that were able to raise capital, which have strong balance sheets and where every investor wants to move in during the turmoil. So, these stocks took the lead to move Nifty up. On July 31, the Nifty level was about 11,300, and these 15 stocks were trading at 4,500 Nifty and the bottom 35 stocks were trading at 8,000 Nifty. So, there was a very wide polarisation between companies and the pain of the economy is reflected in the bottom 35 stocks of Nifty, whereas the index is lifted by the top 15 stocks. Q. Will this polarisation of gains lead to some kind of consolidation, especially given that many small-caps have stress on their debt side? A. Undoubtedly, this is the law of nature: the fittest and adaptive will survive. Dinosaurs were the strongest, yet they died. On the other hand, cockroaches were adaptive, and they survived. The same is applicable in the corporate world: more adaptive, more innovative companies, and the companies that can digitally transform themselves will continue to grow and survive. In our portfolio today, we are evaluating companies on three parameters: the strength of the balance sheet in terms of leveraging, how brutal is the company in cost-cutting, and innovation. There will be pre- and post-Covid-19 businesses. As my boss tells me, “You are a mutual fund, but you better become a tech company, else tech company will launch a mutual fund and give you competition.”  Q. Given that stocks have rallied heavily since May, without fundamentals improving much, do you think they are overvalued? A. I think that in many penny stocks, the stocks are overvalued. It is the buyers buying them that is pulling the share prices up. Eventually, they will all crash, and we saw this in post-Harshad Mehta, post-Ketan Parikh time, and 2008. We have seen historically that companies without the fundamentals and proper governance will not create sustainable value. At the same time, there are certain FMCG companies and certain private banks that are trading at a significant premium to their historical average. Now, these companies' businesses are real, but the price which one is paying is historically at the highest level. One can debate whether these companies can deliver shareholder returns or not. My feeling is that if the medical situation (of Covid-19) deteriorates, and we have to go back to shutting down, then these stocks will do well and will be more expensive. But in case, we have a medical solution, and normalcy returns in the economy, then the stocks which have not performed and are cheaper will do well. Q. Which are the sectors you think are going to provide high returns over the next year? A. Essentially, one, you have to choose the right management. In the financial sector, the right management will create an HDFC Bank or a Kotak Bank, while bad management may end up creating a YES Bank or a DHFL. It is extremely important that you focus on management and governance. Subject to that, we think that the companies that have lower debt on the balance sheet, companies which are cutting costs, the companies which are innovative -- in any sector -- will do better. With those caveats, I think, sectorally, there are some trends that are visible: Chemicals, contract manufacturing, cement, general insurance, asset management, well-managed NBFCs will outperform the markets. In some other sectors, like pharma and technology, one will have to become stock-specific after a major sectoral rally. The stocks that can be avoided for the time being are real estate, construction and infrastructure. Q. Do you think mid-caps and small-caps will do better from here on? A. Last month, after a very long time of volatility, small and mid-caps outperformed large-caps. From the valuation point of view, if a medical solution emerges quickly, then small and mid-caps will outperform large-caps. In the unlikely scenario of the medical solution not emerging, the large-caps will continue to outperform. So, it is a play on valuation as well as future medical scenarios.  Q. Stocks of many banks are way below their all-time highs. With the loan moratorium over, do you think it’s wise to buy such stocks? A. Once the moratorium is over, we will see one-time restructuring coming through. So, the market will remain blind about actual NPAs till about the first half of 2021. My take is, in the case of financial services, stay with those banks which have a more diversified portfolio and whose credit culture is conservative.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/stock-valuations-will-evolve-with-how-covid-19-situation-changes-880710.html
31-08-2020||Panorama||Big oil is in trouble. Its plan: Flood Africa with plastic||Confronting a climate crisis that threatens the fossil fuel industry, oil companies are racing to make more plastic. But they face two problems: Many markets are already awash with plastic, and few countries are willing to be dumping grounds for the world’s plastic waste. The industry thinks it has found a solution to both problems in Africa. According to documents reviewed by The New York Times, an industry group representing the world’s largest chemical-makers and fossil fuel companies is lobbying to influence U.S. trade negotiations with Kenya, one of Africa’s biggest economies, to reverse its strict limits on plastics — including a tough plastic-bag ban. It is also pressing for Kenya to continue importing foreign plastic garbage, a practice it has pledged to limit. Plastics-makers are looking well beyond Kenya’s borders. “We anticipate that Kenya could serve in the future as a hub for supplying U.S.-made chemicals and plastics to other markets in Africa through this trade agreement,” Ed Brzytwa, director of international trade for the American Chemistry Council, wrote in an April 28 letter to the Office of the United States Trade Representative. The United States and Kenya are in the midst of trade negotiations, and the Kenyan president, Uhuru Kenyatta, has made clear he is eager to strike a deal. But the behind-the-scenes lobbying by the petroleum companies has spread concern among environmental groups in Kenya and beyond that have been working to reduce both plastic use and waste. Kenya, like many countries, has wrestled with the proliferation of plastic. It passed a stringent law against plastic bags in 2017, and last year it was one of many nations around the world that signed on to a global agreement to stop importing plastic waste — a pact strongly opposed by the chemical industry. The chemistry council’s plastics proposals would “inevitably mean more plastic and chemicals in the environment,” said Griffins Ochieng, executive director for the Centre for Environmental Justice and Development, a nonprofit group based in Nairobi that works on the problem of plastic waste in Kenya. “It’s shocking.” The plastics proposal reflects an oil industry contemplating its inevitable decline as the world fights climate change. Profits are plunging amid the coronavirus pandemic, and the industry is fearful that climate change will force the world to retreat from burning fossil fuels. Producers are scrambling to find new uses for an oversupply of oil and gas. Wind and solar power are becoming increasingly affordable, and governments are weighing new policies to fight climate change by reducing the burning of fossil fuels. Pivoting to plastics, the industry has spent more than $200 billion on chemical and manufacturing plants in the United States over the last decade. But the United States already consumes as much as 16 times more plastic than many poor nations, and a backlash against single-use plastics has made it tougher to sell more at home. In 2019, U.S. exporters shipped more than 1 billion pounds of plastic waste to 96 countries including Kenya, ostensibly to be recycled, according to trade statistics. But much of the waste, often containing the hardest-to-recycle plastics, instead ends up in rivers and oceans. And after China closed its ports to most plastic trash in 2018, exporters have been looking for new dumping grounds. Exports to Africa more than quadrupled in 2019 from a year earlier. Ryan Baldwin, a spokesman for the American Chemistry Council, said the group’s proposals tackle the global importance of dealing with waste. The letter says that there is “a global need to support infrastructure development to collect, sort, recycle and process used plastics, particularly in developing countries such as Kenya.” The Chemistry Council includes the petrochemical operations of Exxon Mobil, Chevron and Shell, as well as major chemical companies including Dow. The talks are in early stages, and it is not yet clear if trade negotiators have adopted the industry’s proposals. But industries typically have a strong voice in shaping trade policy, and business lobbyists have won similar concessions before. In talks with Mexico and Canada in 2018, for instance, chemicals- and pesticides-makers lobbied for, and won, terms making it tougher for those countries to regulate the industries. At the same talks, trade negotiators, urged on by U.S. food companies, also tried to restrict Mexico and Canada from warning people about the dangers of junk food on labeling but dropped the plan after a public outcry. The Kenya proposal “really sets off alarm bells,” said Sharon Treat, a senior lawyer at the nonpartisan Institute for Agriculture and Trade Policy who has worked for more than a decade advising trade talks in both the Trump and Obama administrations. Corporate lobbyists “frequently offer up very specific proposals, which the government then takes up,” she said. The plastics industry’s proposals could also make it tougher to regulate plastics in the United States, since a trade deal would apply to both sides. The Office of the United States Trade Representative did not respond to interview requests or to detailed lists of written questions, nor did officials at Kenya’s Trade Ministry. Last year, Kenya was one of many countries around the world that signed on to a global agreement to stop importing plastic waste — a pact strongly opposed by the chemical industry. Emails reviewed by The Times showed industry representatives, many of them former trade officials, working with U.S. negotiators last year to try to stall those rules. Royal Dutch Shell’s 386-acre plastics plant outside Pittsburgh is billed as the anchor for a new petrochemical hub in Appalachia, a region reeling from the collapse of the coal industry. Plants like these have revolutionized the plastics industry by turning fracked natural gas into the manufacturing material for millions of plastic bottles, bags, clamshell containers, drinking straws and a parade of other products, tapping into a seemingly endless supply of cheap shale gas from America’s booming oil and gas fields. Among local communities, the plants have raised air pollution concerns. In Appalachia, Texas and nationwide, almost 350 new chemical plants are in the works, according to an industry tally, together representing oil companies’ life-or-death bet on plastics as the future. But now the coronavirus pandemic has caused not only oil and gas prices to plummet, but plastics prices, too. Last month, oil giants including Shell, Exxon Mobil and Chevron reported some of their worst financial results in history, leading some analysts to question whether the new plastics plants would deliver on the profits the companies expected. A Shell spokesman said that while the “short-term outlook for this business is challenging,” over the long term, “products derived from petrochemicals will continue to grow and provide attractive returns.” An Exxon Mobil spokesman said the company “shares society’s concern about plastic waste” and aims to invest more in solutions to end it. Dow referred queries to the American Chemistry Council. Chevron did not respond to requests for comment. Against that backdrop, Kenyatta visited the White House in February, eager to start trade talks. Kenya currently can send most of its exports to the United States duty-free under a regional program, but that expires in 2025. The petrochemicals industry sensed an opening. Exxon Mobil has forecast that global demand for petrochemicals could rise by nearly 45% over the next decade, significantly outpacing global economic growth and energy demand. Most of that would come from emerging markets. The American Chemistry Council’s April 28 letter to the trade representative’s office laid out the group’s vision. Kenya’s growing ports, railways and road networks “can support an expansion of chemicals trade not just between the United States and Kenya, but throughout East Africa and the continent,” Brzytwa wrote. To foster a plastics hub, he wrote, a trade deal with Kenya should prevent the country from measures that would curb plastic manufacture or use, and ensure Kenya continues to allow trade in plastic waste, demands that experts said were unusual and intrusive. Those terms could “literally encapsulate every kind of bag ban, bottle ban,” said Jane Patton, a plastics expert at the Center for International Environmental Law. She called it an industry-led effort “to erode these democratically enacted policies” in foreign countries. Daniel Maina, founder of the Kisiwani Conservation Network in Mombasa, Kenya, said the trade talks were coming at a particularly vulnerable time, as Kenya was starting to feel the economic effects of the pandemic. “If they were to force this sort of trade agreement on us, I fear we will be easy prey,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/big-oil-is-in-trouble-its-plan-flood-africa-with-plastic-880712.html
31-08-2020||Panorama||Consent in Covid-19 trials||Clinical trials of new therapies for Covid-19 have stirred heated debate about the scientific validity of research studies. But an important aspect – ethical concerns of participants – are hardly discussed. The voluntary informed consent of clinical trial participant – a vital ethical requirement – is fraught with tremendous challenges during the conduct of Covid-19 clinical trials.   Good Clinical Practice (GCP), which is the international ethical and scientific quality standard for the conduct of clinical trials, describes informed consent as a process by which a clinical trial participant voluntarily confirms his or her willingness to participate.  Valid informed consent process depends on:  Disclosure of all relevant information accurately about the nature, purpose, methods, risks, potential benefits, and alternatives available  Understanding the information provided and its relevance to the personal clinical situation of the participant  Capacity or ability of a participant to make decisions after understanding the information provided and Voluntary decision to participate in a clinical trial made without coercion. A person’s competence to consent for a clinical trial is defined by his or her ability 1) to understand relevant information 2) to assess information to make a reasoned decision 3) to decide without undue influence, and 4) to convey consent or refusal. When a patient suffering from a serious infection – Covid-19 is requested to participate in a clinical trial, his or her vulnerability is likely to cloud his ie her voluntariness.  Such patients could be in intensive critical care, receiving high flow oxygen or on a ventilator, and would be worried about complications of disease and death. Such severely ill patients are vulnerable as their decision-making capacity is impaired, affecting their comprehension of the experimental nature of clinical trials, the benefits and risks of the investigational drug, and the concept of randomization--chance of receiving drug or standard care without drug. The patient’s decision may be influenced by high expectations of benefits and/or low understanding of risks of participation in a clinical drug trial and experimental treatment.  This situation is made complex by the challenges of language of consent and literacy level, and communication by physicians wearing full personal protective equipment.  Informed consent, as per GCP, requires the signature and date of the participant, and the investigator--clinical research physician. If the patient lacks the capacity to give consent due to the severity of Covid-19, for example, acute respiratory failure or on a ventilator, then consent may be obtained from a family member or relative acting as the patient’s legally acceptable representative over a mobile phone or email. However, consent from family members may not be possible, as they could be quarantined or hospitalized. ICMR 2020 guidelines permit record and documentation of consent orally or by use of electronic methods if written consent is not possible from severe Covid-19 patients or physically isolated patients.  Compliance to GCP standard requires protection of the rights, safety, and well-being of all trial participants. The clinical research physician should educate patients about the research, benefits and risks, and alternatives, take precautions to avoid exploitation, and take informed consent without any coercion or incentive for participation. The informed consent process from the patient or patient’s legally acceptable representative should be well documented by audio-visual recording. The Ethics Committee, which has approved the clinical trial, has the prime responsibility of review and oversight of the clinical trial conduct by visiting the site and monitoring the process. As Ethics Committee would not be able to visit the site during a pandemic and therefore should review the audio-visual recording of the informed consent process. In the rush to discover treatments for a serious medical condition, all individuals, organizations, and sponsors should remember that the rights, safety, and well-being of the trial participants are the most important considerations and should prevail over interests of science and society.  (The writer is a Consultant for Clinical Research and Drug Development)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/consent-in-covid-19-trials-880713.html
31-08-2020||Right in the Middle||Grand in many ways!||I talk about my grandmother much more now than ever before. There is nothing strange about this one may wonder, considering the fact that grandparents are generally lenient and indulgent as compared to our parents. Back in the ‘80s when we were free from the shackles of electronic gadgets, spending summer vacation at my grandma’s house meant endless hours of fun with the abundance of food and ample doses of pampering thrown in. Listening to the mythological stories from my grandma was akin to watching a mega serial. Drama, emotion and suspense was added in good measure to sustain my interest level. As I continue to walk down this wonderful memory lane, I notice that the time spent with her is much more than mere recollections of good old days. The way she led her life as a wife, mother and a grandmother has left an indelible mark on my life. Be it cooking, running errands, reading her favourite magazine or just chit-chatting with neighbours-- no activity was mundane. She neither was a perfectionist nor aimed to multitask but strongly believed that prioritizing was a key to productivity. Procrastination helps at times, this is another secret I learnt from her. It was her way of buying time to think or make rational decisions and it invariably worked to the best possible effect. She had limited knowledge of Hindi but often used the words ‘chalta hain’. Today, I realise that this ‘chalta hain’ stance was well embraced. Particularly, if someone passed a cynical comment or criticized her, she would smile back and seldom retort. I often used to ask her, “Why don’t you say something?” She would simply say chalta hain. As a teenager, I failed to understand this but today as I reminisce, I fully comprehend her ‘funda’ in life. Comments, criticism and feedback keep coming to us in many forms, but it’s prudent at times to be non-reactive. She often said, “you cannot stop people from talking bout you. Listen to what is important, retain in it, the rest you can hear it from one ear and throw it out from the other.” The silly adolescent me guffawed at her logic but today when motivational speakers talk about the same thing, I silently laud my grandma’s pearls of wisdom! She may not be physically not present with us but continues to be a resolute figure, whose memories and strong values will be cherished and passed onto to the next generation as a precious heirloom.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/grand-in-many-ways-880270.html
31-08-2020||Right in the Middle||My diary during quarantine||They say ‘distance makes the heart grow fonder’. Though I feel my wife and I may have been better off living on separate planets, I am willing to wave a peace flag during these endearing times of staying at home. But for the moment I’ve planted my flag in the living room, while the bedroom is her territory. Ergonomically, that’s the farthest we can be from each other and I say that with a glint in my eye. I’m kidding, of course, we love each other – despite having only one television at home. I recently learned that the word quarantine comes from 16th-century Italian quaranta giorni literally meaning ’40 days’ and refers to the period a ship suspected of carrying disease is kept in isolation.  The introverts are living it up. This is their moment. Vilified all along, they can now hold their heads high as they virtually pioneered social distancing. I tell you - the things we learn when we spend more time at home is incredible. My wife now understands that a game of football lasts 90 minutes. And importantly why men shouldn’t be interrupted between one. My daughter has figured out that a mouse can also mean a piece of computer equipment. She calls mine ‘Minnie’. Every moment is truly a miracle in itself. There is joy in every mundane occurrence. For example, growing facial hair is as natural as giving birth to a baby – though arguably they may vary in effort. While I am genetically indisposed to experiencing the latter, I can speak confidently on the former. For the uninitiated, it must be noted that growing a beard is much like having a baby, in fact like having many follicular babies – caring and nurturing each of them, allowing them to grow and shape their future.   And that brings me to Jake. He regaled us with his visits around mealtimes. Very jovial and always had a buzz about him. But then, with advancing age, he seemed to get weaker and slower – we felt that time was running out on him. He did enjoy all the attention my daughter gave him. We even started a ‘Save Jake’ movement in the apartment and created a fund for his onward care. Some days ago, despite the valiant efforts of my daughter and I, he passed away – apparently murdered in cold blood. Jake is a housefly. Was a housefly. Houseflies are carriers of disease, my wife says. We now believe she may have had a hand in Jake’s sordid end. I’m not arguing with her for the moment, and will keep my distance. May the heart grow fonder, right?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/my-diary-during-quarantine-880709.html
31-08-2020||Second Edit||India obsessed with Pakistan's terrorism||It is unfortunate that at a time when an array of issues are crying for urgent attention, and action on the domestic front and at the international level  where India could play a global leadership role, the Narendra Modi government is busy harping on terrorism emanating from Pakistan. Delivering a lecture at the prestigious The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI), Minister for External Affairs S Jaishankar dwelt on Pakistan as a hub of terror whose “primary export” is terrorism. While Pakistan and especially its Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) have for decades used terrorism as state policy and nurtured outfits to carry out terrorist attacks in India and other countries, the Narendra Modi government seems obsessed with drawing global attention to the problem. It has been going on and on about Pakistan’s support to terror groups at every forum, even if these meetings have nothing to do with counter-terrorism. For instance, TERI is engaged in research and advocacy on issues like climate change. While Jaishankar spoke about the importance of multilateralism too, his focus on terrorism underscored yet again the Modi government’s preoccupation with Pakistan and terrorism. India’s diplomacy has sunk to that of Pakistan. While Islamabad obsesses over Kashmir at every opportunity, India cannot take its eyes off Pakistan. Terrorism is an important global and Indian concern. However, India has managed to contain it by and large and major terrorist attacks by groups based in Pakistan have reduced over the years. Terrorism is not an existential threat to our country anymore and a country of India’s size and capacity cuts a sorry figure when it persists with whining and whimpering at every available forum about its woes with its troublesome neighbour. Does it not have the capacity to speak directly to Pakistan? Does it have to complain at every global meeting and to every visiting dignitary about its problems with Pakistan to get bilateral issues resolved? In recent years, India’s diplomatic energies have been dissipated by its obsession with getting Pakistan reprimanded internationally. In the process, geopolitical issues including the Chinese threat to our border, Beijing’s growing strategic ties with countries in the Indian Ocean Region and its mounting influence in the neighbourhood have taken a backseat.  Endlessly raising Pakistan and terrorism is useful to the Modi government’s Hindutva agenda; it also keeps the public’s attention diverted away from its poor governance and failures in dealing with the economic crisis, the pandemic, etc. India has the capacity to play a leadership role on global issues like climate change and environment. Under Modi, it has abdicated this role.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/india-obsessed-with-pakistans-terrorism-880267.html
31-08-2020||Second Edit||Shinzo Abe’s resignation loss for India||Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has stepped down. Ill-health — he has been suffering from a chronic disease which has reportedly worsened — appears to have forced his decision. Abe has several accomplishments to his credit. In a country where prime ministerial terms are short, Abe managed to remain at the helm for almost seven years and eight months, a record in Japan. His survival as prime minister was all the more remarkable given that in the five years between his two prime ministerial terms, Japan saw five different prime ministers come and go. Thus, Abe gave Japan much needed political stability. His signature economic policy or Abenomics, as it is dubbed, was conceived to pull the Japanese economy out of recession through aggressive monetary easing, fiscal spending and deregulation. Its results have been mixed. While it did improve business sentiment initially, the limited gains it brought in subsequent years have been eroded by the Covid-19 pandemic. A key element of his economic policies was to increase women’s participation in the workforce. He achieved little success on this front in a society in which women’s position has for long been a problem. Abe has left a large imprint on Japan’s role in the world, its foreign policy and global security. He sought to enable the Japanese military to undertake overseas combat missions but failed to revise the constitution to formally recognise the military’s changed role. Abe was a nationalist realist. His visit to the controversial Yasukuni shrine won him applause from Japanese nationalists. However, he recognized that the Japanese economy needed China. Having established his nationalist credentials at home, he swiftly acted to mend fences with China and visited Beijing. At the same time, he sought cooperation with other powers to take on the threat posed by a rising, aggressive China. Not only did he champion the concept of the Indo-Pacific as a region but also, he sought to bring together the US, Australia, India and Japan in a cooperative security grouping to contain China. Abe contributed significantly to improvement in India-Japan relations. Not only have bilateral economic relations grown over the past decade but strategic ties have expanded as well. Personal chemistry between Abe and Prime Minister Narendra Modi played a major role in strengthening the bilateral bond. Will India continue to occupy a major place in Japan’s thinking under Abe’s successor? Structural realities and the important role that India will play in the Indo-Pacific architecture could ensure continued engagement between India and Japan in the coming years. But the two countries may have to put in more effort now to keep this engagement robust.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/shinzo-abe-s-resignation-loss-for-india-880703.html
31-08-2020||South||Son abandons mother's body on footpath in Hyderabad||A 70-year-old woman's body was left abandoned by her son on a footpath in the Banjara Hills area here, police said on Sunday. The woman had died after having fever for the last four and her son claimed that he left the body wrapped in a blanket as he did not have money to perform her last rites, police said. Some local residents alerted the police after noticing the body wrapped in a blanket and a police team which reached the spot, recovered it, they said. During the investigation it was revealed that the woman used to beg in the area and later it also came to light that she lived with her son, a watchman in an apartment complex, police said. "For the past four days she was having fever and she died on Saturday night and after her death, her son abandoned her body wrapped in a blanket claiming that he did not have money to perform her last rites and also that building owner might create some trouble as she had died of fever," a police official said quoting the woman's son.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/son-abandons-mothers-body-on-footpath-in-hyderabad-880259.html
31-08-2020||South||Two DYFI workers hacked to death in Kerala||Two Democratic Youth Front of India (DYFI) workers were hacked to death during the late hours of Sunday in Thiruvananthapuram. Police suspect the the accused are Youth Congress workers. Three persons were already held. DYFI activists Haq Muhammed, 24, and Midhilaj, 30, were murdered at Thembamoodu near Venjarmoodu, about 15 kilometres from the city. The brutal twin murder on the Onam days have come as a major embarrassment for the opposition Congress in Kerala as it had been accusing the CPM and RSS of promoting political killings. Police sources said that the preliminary information was that a gang of around five came in motor cycles and attacked the gang. The incident occurred by around 11 pm near a fruit shop run by Midhil Raj. Both suffered hacks and stab injuries. Midhil Raj died on the spot while Hak died on the way to hospital. A motor cycle used by the accused was recovered from the spot, on the basis of which the accused were identified. A CCTV camera of a nearby building was found turned to another side. A political friction was prevailing between DYFI and Youth Congress activists in the locality for quite some time and the twin murder is suspected to be a sequel to it. A strong police bandobast was imposed in the locality to curb chances of retaliation by DYFI workers. Recently a DYFI worker, Faizal, was attacked by some Youth Congress activist in the locality. One of the accused in that case, Sajeev, who recently came out on bail, was suspected to be involved in this case also. CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan alleged that the murder was part of a larger conspiracy involving senior Congress leaders and hence a comprehensive probe should be conducted. A section of CPM activists alleged that the murder took place with the connivance of a Congress MP. Kerala Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala maintained that the murder could be suspected as an attempt to divert attention from the serious allegations prevailing against the government. A fair investigations should be conducted into the murder, he demanded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/two-dyfi-workers-hacked-to-death-in-kerala-880354.html
31-08-2020||South||Low-key Onam celebrations in Kerala amid Covid-19 pandemic||Big celebrations were missing this year as the people largely celebrated Thiruvonam indoors to commemorate the visit of the righteous king King Mahabali to the lands and people he previously ruled. Adhering to Covid-19 protocols, households were adorned with extremely beautiful floral carpets and splendid feasts (Onasadya) were prepared on Thiruvonam day today. However, display of traditional art forms and games was not organised in villages and towns in the state. The Atham festival, which heralds the start of the 10 -day 'Onam' festivities, was also held in the shadow of the Covid-19 pandemic. President Ramnath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu, Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan were among those who extended their greetings for the harvest festival of Onam. Extending his wishes, Vijayan had yesterday said Onam was a festival of hope and asked the people to celebrate it in line with the Covid-19 protocol. In 2018 and 2019 also, Onam celebrations were dampened by the devastating floods in parts of the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/low-key-onam-celebrations-in-kerala-amid-covid-19-pandemic-880383.html
31-08-2020||South||Telangana reports 1,873 new Covid-19 cases; 9 deaths take toll to 827||Telangana reported 1,873 new Covid-19 cases, taking the overall tally to 1,24,963 while nine more deaths pushed the toll to 827. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for the most number of cases with 360, followed by Karimnagar (180), Rangareddy (129) and Khammam (103) districts, a government bulletin said on Monday, providing data as of 8 pm on August 30. As many as 37,791 samples were tested on August 30. Cumulatively, 13,65,582 samples have been tested. The samples tested per million population was 36,782, the bulletin said.  The case fatality rate in the state was 0.66 per cent, while it was 1.78 per cent at the national level. The total number of people who have recovered from Covid-19 so far stood at 92,837 while 31,299 are under treatment. The recovery rate in Telangana was 73.3 per cent, while it was 76.55 per cent in the country. The number of individuals in home/institutional isolation was 24,216. The government requested people in the 20-50 age group, among whom there is a high incidence of coronavirus, not to go out unless absolutely necessary, like for work or to buy essential items. While doing so, they should strictly observe safety measures like wearing masks and maintaining social distancing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-reports-1873-new-covid-19-cases-9-deaths-take-toll-to-827-880404.html
31-08-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh surpasses Tamil Nadu in Covid-19 tally, becomes 2nd worst-affected state||With 4,34,771 positive cases recorded till Monday, Andhra Pradesh is now the state with the second-highest incidence of Covid-19 infections in the country. The state surpassed Tamil Nadu on Sunday and as of Monday evening has 6,730 more cases than its southern neighbor. The Jaganmohan Reddy administered state is now next only to Maharashtra which has over 7.8 lakh cases. However, in terms of fatalities related to Covid-19, Tamil Nadu is more severely affected than Andhra Pradesh. TN has 7,322 deaths while the toll in AP is 3969. Maharashtra leads the country in Covid-19 mortality too with over 24,500 deaths. Andhra Pradesh reported its first Covid-19 death on 3 April, of a 55-year-old man who acquired the virus from his Delhi Markaz-returned son. AP, conducting about 60,000 Covid-19 tests every day, has been adding new cases in alarming numbers with over 10,000 cases daily. On Sunday, it was 10,603 and on Monday – 10,004. However, unlike Tamil Nadu, AP is administering rapid antigen tests in addition to RT-PCR while also utilizing the Truenat (used for TB tests), and NACO method of detecting AIDS. Out of the 63,077 samples tested on Saturday, 29,254 are rapid antigen tests, which are stated to be less accurate than the RT-PCR, “a gold standard” in Covid-19 testing.   Tami Nadu does not use Rapid Antigen Diagnostic Tests, TN Covid-19 bulletins state. 137 days for first one lakh cases – Next three lakh added in 32 days The Andhra Pradesh government had confirmed the Covid-19 first case on 12 March from Nellore – of an Italy returned young man. The cases surpassed the 1000 point on 25 April and breached the 5000-mark on 9 June. While it took 137 days to reach the first one lakh cases (on 27 July), the second and third one lakh cases were added in 11 days each. The fourth one lakh cases took even lesser time and were put in just 10 days. The fourth one lakh case mark was breached on 28 August which means over three lakh cases were added in just over a month’s time. The positivity rate in AP is 11.7 percent, which the national average is about 8.6 percent. East Godavari, Kurnool, and Anantapuram, are the worst affected of the 13 districts in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-surpasses-tamil-nadu-in-covid-19-tally-becomes-2nd-worst-affected-state-880470.html
31-08-2020||South||Postal officials hand in glove with drug-smugglers: Minister Basavaraj Bommai||Four postal officials have been accused of involvement in a drug racket and a few foreign nationals arrested in this connection, Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said. The arrested include a Canadian and Nigerians, he told reporters in Hubballi, over 400 kms from here, on Sunday. Drugs are coming through postal service with the connivance of the postal department personnel, the Minister said. Once the consignment arrives, no receives it for a month or so and it is delivered to the person supposed to get it, he said. "We have initiated action against the four," Bommai said. The drug menace is not new, it has been on for many years and mostly the rich fall into its trap, he said. However, the apprehended consumers are arrested and they come out on bail in a week or 10 days, Bommai said. "Now, we are exposing the inter-state and international network of drug menace," he said. Speaking about the darknet, an international racket of those involved in illegal businesses, Bommai said the police have managed to bust one or two such darknets, which operate through the internet. "There are many darknets. It is not limited only to drugs but many other illegal activities such as child prostitution, arms deal at the international level. Our officers have succeeded to bust one or two such darknets," he explained. Referring to film producer and journalist Indrajit Lankesh's statement that "sandalwood" or the Kannada film industry is in the grip of the drug menace, Bommai said the police have served him notice and he has been asked to appear for interrogation. Meanwhile, Bommai convened a meeting here with the city Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime) Sandeep Patil and other officials regarding progress in the investigation into the drug menace. The action on the postal officials comes in the backdrop of the Narcotics Control Bureau of India busting a drug racket here recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/postal-officials-hand-in-glove-with-drug-smugglers-minister-basavaraj-bommai-880471.html
31-08-2020||South||Tamil Nadu woman appointed '108' ambulance driver; first in country says govt||A woman was appointed as an ambulance driver in Tamil Nadu, claimed to be the first in the country, as Chief Minister K Palaniswami flagged off 118 emergency health transport services as part of an initiative to strengthen emergency services in the state. On March 24, Palaniswami had announced in the Assembly that to further strengthen the 108 ambulance emergency services, 500 new ambulances would be dedicated to the state at a cost of about Rs 125 crore. To implement it, in the first phase, 90 ambulances and 10 blood collection vehicles at an estimated cost of Rs 20.65 crore and Rs 3.09 crore respectively were procured. Marking distribution of appointment orders to 138 recruits in the Public Health and Preventive Medicine department, Palaniswami gave away the orders to seven of them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-woman-appointed-108-ambulance-driver-first-in-country-says-govt-880533.html
31-08-2020||South||Metro trains, political meets allowed in Karnataka for Unlock 4||Metro train services here will resume in a graded manner from September 7 while political, social and religious congregations of up to 100 people will be permitted as part of Unlock-4 guidelines issued by the Karnataka government on Monday. Schools, colleges and other educational and coaching institutions will remain closed for students till September 30, while some relaxation has been given for students of classes 9 to 12, the Unlock-4 order issued by Chief Secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar in line with the Centre's guidelines said. "Metro rail will be allowed to operate with effect from September 7, 2020 in a graded manner, by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MOHUA) or Ministry of Railways (MOR), in consultation with MHA (Ministry of Home Affairs)," it said. The standard operating procedure (SOP) will be issued by MOHUA and Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL). Social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious and political functions and other congregations with a ceiling of 100 persons, will be permitted with effect from September 21, with mandatory wearing of face masks, social distancing, provision for thermal scanning and hand wash or sanitizer, the guidelines said. However, the cap of 50 people for marriage related gatherings and 20 people for funeral or last rites will continue up to September 20 after which the ceiling of 100 people will apply. Cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres and similar places will remain closed, it said, adding that however, open air theatres will be permitted to open with effect from September 21. Educational institutions will continue to remain closed for students and regular class activity upto September 20 and online or distance learning shall continue to be permitted and shall be encouraged. District administrations may permit up to 50 percent of teaching and non-teaching staff to be called to the schools at a time for online teaching/tele counselling and related work, in areas outside the containment zones with effect from September 21. Students of classes 9 to 12 may be permitted to visit their schools, in areas outside the containment zones, on a voluntary basis, for taking guidance from their teachers, the order said adding it will be subject to written consent of their parents or guardians and will be permitted from September 21. SOPs would be issued by the state health and education departments for these, it said. Unlock 4 will come into effect from September 1 and will continue till September 30, while lockdown shall remain in force in the containment zones till September 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/metro-trains-political-meets-allowed-in-karnataka-for-unlock-4-880559.html
31-08-2020||South||GST compensation: Tamil Nadu rejects Centre’s options||Rejecting both options offered by the Centre for states to make up for the shortfall in the Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation cess fund, Tamil Nadu government on Monday asked the Union Finance Ministry to raise the required funds as a loan and lend it to GST Compensation Fund against future cess receipts. In a four-page letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami emphasised that the Centre has “moral and legal obligation” to pay the compensation for the shortfall in GST collections. He also recalled that Tamil Nadu agreed to the implementation of GST on the basis of an “unequivocal commitment” that the Centre will compensate states for any revenue loss. Pointing out that no compensation has been released for the shortfalls in revenue collection since April 1, 2020, Palaniswami said a total of Rs 12,250.50 crores is due to Tamil Nadu as compensation for the shortfall in GST collections, of which Rs 11,459.37 crores has accrued from April to July 2020. The Chief Minister, whose AIADMK is an ally of the BJP, said both the options suggested by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman during last week’s meeting is “administratively difficult to implement and more expensive.” “The net impact of the Government of India’s proposed two options is to reduce the overall resources available to States in 2020-21 quite substantially to the extent of about 1 percent of GDP amounting to nearly Rs 2 lakh Crore. This will really hurt spending by States on many crucial COVID 19 and non-COVID 19 related expenditure,” he said. Welfare programmes and infrastructure creating capital expenditure will suffer greatly, Palaniswami said, adding that this will impede early resumption of growth momentum in the economy and hurt economic revival. Explaining the rationale behind Tamil Nadu’s concerns over the two options, the Chief Minister said in the first option, only Rs 97,000 crores is assessed to be the shortfall on account of GST implementation alone which is proposed to be borrowed by the state governments with a special dispensation from GOI and RBI. “For the remainder of the shortfall, which is estimated to be Rs 1.38 lakh crores (Rs 2.35 lakh crores (-) Rs 97,000 crores), States do not get any assurance of receiving funds in 2020-21. They would have to wait for 2-3 years or more, to receive the compensation, out of the cess fund provided GST cess is extended beyond 2021-2022,” he said. He said while the entire Rs 2.35 lakh crores are to be borrowed by the states, in option 2, the terms of contracting such loans are much less attractive. “More importantly, borrowing of up to 1 per cent of the GSDP already permitted under the Atma Nirbhar Bharat Scheme is being withdrawn. This makes Option II an unattractive proposition and appears to be aimed at penalizing States for legitimately urging the Government of India to devise a scheme to compensate the States for the shortfall in the current year itself, as per the provisions of the Act,” he said. Palaniswami also said the reasons being cited for such an arrangement are not persuasive and that the argument that States borrowing for what is essentially a Government of India obligation is a seemingly better optical arrangement does not appear to be a strong or valid reason. “Hence, I reiterate the Government of Tamil Nadu’s stance that the Government of India should advance funds to the GST Compensation Cess fund if need be by borrowing in the market and service the debt by an extension of the compensation cess,” he wrote in the letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/gst-compensation-tamil-nadu-rejects-centre-s-options-880570.html
31-08-2020||South||S Anitha, the girl who became the symbol of Tamil Nadu’s NEET opposition||On this day, three years ago, 18-year-old S Anitha took her own life after it became clear that she could not get admission in a medical college to realise her childhood dream of becoming a doctor. A brilliant student who scored 1,176 out of 1,200 in her plus-two exams but could not clear NEET, Anitha went to the Supreme Court to get the entrance exam that she argued discriminates rural students like her be cancelled. A dejected Anitha ended her life after the Supreme Court rejected her plea. And three years after that tragic incident, the diminutive girl is still the symbol of Tamil Nadu’s opposition to NEET and lives in spirit inside a library that Anitha’s family built in her honour from the money they received as solatium from several political parties and philanthropists. As the debate on whether NEET should stay intensifies in Tamil Nadu, which has reported a sharp decline in the number of students applying for the exams, the Anitha Memorial Library in Kuzhumur, 270 km from here, in Ariyalur district teems with students attending online classes and youngsters preparing for competitive exams. According to data released by the National Testing Agency (NTA), only 1,17,990 students from Tamil Nadu applied to appear for the exams, originally scheduled in May but will now be held on September 13 due to Covid-19 restrictions, as against last year’s number of 1,34,714. The dip is calculated to be 12.4 per cent. The family spent the entire money they received from various sources to buy 12 cents of land and construct the library, which has now emerged as a centre of learning in the tiny village. The family, which still receives funds from philanthropists, spends the money on upgrading infrastructure in the library and help underprivileged students in pursuing their education. Rathnavelu, a B. Sc (Chemistry) graduate who is preparing for Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission (TNPSC) exams, told DH that the library provides him with the perfect environment to concentrate on his studies. “We have online classes and attending them for home is a problem as there are a lot of disturbances. The library is calm and allows us to prepare for exams in peace,” he told DH over the phone. Inaugurated on the first death anniversary of Anitha, the library now boasts of nearly 4,000 books, journals, newspapers, and desktop computers that come in handy for students who use the facility. The family will also hold a Zoom meeting on Tuesday to observe the third anniversary in which Chidambaram MP and Dalit leader Thol. Thirumavalavan will participate. “The sad story is NEET still stays. None of the people who support NEET give us a clear answer on what is the need for plus-two exams when only NEET marks are considered for admissions into medical colleges. NEET discriminates rural students and the latest figures released by NTA is a testimony to this fact,” S Maniratnam, Anitha’s elder brother, told DH. He added that four youngsters who are preparing to appear for TNPSC exams and a half-a-dozen girl students use the library every day to attend their classes. “We are happy that the library is useful for so many students from nearby villages. We keep adding books being gifted by well-wishers and friends and we are trying to get more books and journals to our library. Anitha is not with us today, but she has light up the lives of so many people. We are just a tool,” Maniratnam said. Students from government schools, especially in rural areas, who study in Tamil all through their schooling find the examination discriminatory since they have to compete with those from CBSE and other streams across the country.  The state government has passed bills in the Assembly seeking an exception for Tamil Nadu from the exams. However, they are still pending with the Centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/s-anitha-the-girl-who-became-the-symbol-of-tamil-nadu-s-neet-opposition-880592.html
31-08-2020||South||My tormentor forcibly added some popular names in my complaint: Hyderabad woman||In a major twist in the rape and other atrocities case FIR on 139 people in Hyderabad, the victim woman has revealed that she named some prominent personalities in her complaint after forced to do so by one “Dollar Bhai”. Based on the complaint of a 25-year-old woman, the Hyderabad police had, on 20 August, registered a case of rape and sexual assault against 139 persons – some of them women. The woman claimed that since 2009, she was raped, gang-raped around 5000 times by several men and was video graphed in objectionable positions to be used as porn content.   Among those she accused are leaders of a student union, doctors, jewellers, media and film industry operatives, acquaintances of relatives, and some from places like Bangalore, USA. Some of the accused were cited as “NAME NO IDEA” in the First Information Report. The FIR also stirred controversy with the inclusion of the name of a popular TV anchor and an actor. On Monday, the lady appeared before the media, accompanied by leaders of the SC/ST groups. “The agonizing ordeal I went through is true. But I had mentioned some names as “Dollar Bhai” alias Srikar Reddy tortured me, threatening to kill me, my parents,” the woman said. “I apologize to those who were wrongly named in the FIR,” she said while asking for severe punishment to those who tormented her, “so that no other woman goes through the same pain.”    The case was registered under various IPC sections like 376 (2), 509, 354 dealing with rape, sexual assault, outraging women’s modesty, and provisions of the SC ST Prevention of Atrocities Act. In her complaint, the woman stated as unemployed said that she was married off to one man from Miryalaguda in June 2009 and her ordeal began with sexual harassment and physical assault by her husband’s family members. She took divorce from him in December 2010 and joined a college for further studies. The woman also complained that several men had tortured and threatened to kill her in different ways like by pouring acid, petrol. “They run an online sex racket. Many girls are victims of their heinous acts like me.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/my-tormentor-forcibly-added-some-popular-names-in-my-complaint-hyderabad-woman-880598.html
31-08-2020||South||30-year-old Veeralakshmi breaks another glass ceiling in Tamil Nadu||When she applied for the job of an ambulance driver, 30-year-old Veeralakshmi did not know she would be the first woman to get into a profession that has long been dominated by men. A cab driver by profession, Veeralakshmi was at the wheels of an ambulance, which was inducted into government service for Covid-19 related work on Monday. She is the first woman ambulance driver in Tamil Nadu, though a few women in other states of the country have challenged men in this field too. The mother of two children, Veeralakshmi, wants her actions to speak more than her words. “I never knew that I would be the first woman ambulance driver in the state. I applied for the job since there was a vacancy and I felt I deserve it. Only after I went for the interview, I came to know I am the first woman in the field,” she told DH. Veeralakshmi, who has been driving around a cab in Chennai for the past four years, will return to her native district of Theni after completing her training to helm an ambulance in the hinterland. The government on Monday inducted 108 ambulances that are equipped with oximeters and other equipment that would be beneficial for Covid-19 patients. The woman ambulance driver is confident that she will be able to perform a challenging job without any hiccups. “Every job is challenging, and this will also be, I am sure. I do not want to say what I will achieve. I am a person who believes in action rather than words. I am confident of emerging successfully here too,” she said. Veeralakshmi had wanted to join the government service as an ambulance driver last year but missed the deadline for applying for the post. However, the Coronavirus pandemic opened up opportunities which the woman seized of successfully. Deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam took to Twitter to laud Veeralakshmi and said the woman will serve as an inspiration for many women to come and join the job.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/30-year-old-veeralakshmi-breaks-another-glass-ceiling-in-tamil-nadu-880607.html
31-08-2020||South||'Modi idlis' to be sold in Salem at Rs 10 for 4 pieces||'Modi Idlis', priced at Rs 10 for four pieces, named after the Prime Minister, are all set to be offered to the public at Salem in Tamil Nadu, courtesy a senior BJP functionary. 'Modi idli' posters have been put up in various parts of the city as part of giving wide publicity to the initiative, a brainchild of BJP propaganda cell state vice president Mahesh. The posters have the picture of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the left side, "four idlis for Rs 10" written on the centre and a photograph of Mahesh. "Lotus hero Mahesh presents Modi idly. Four idlis for Rs 10 with sambar, to be introduced soon in Salem. Made with modern kitchen equipment, tasty and healthy," the posters read. Salem is the native district of Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami. 'Bharath' R Balasubramanian, BJP Tamil Nadu secretary, Media, said the plan was to open 22 shops initially to sell the idlis and depending on its success, the number of outlets would be increased. Machinery for the project, to make 40,000 idlis per day has already arrived and is expected to start next week, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/modi-idlis-to-be-sold-in-salem-at-rs-10-for-4-pieces-880618.html
31-08-2020||South||Protests intensify against Kerala PSC for action against candidates who criticise the commission||The protests are mounting against the Kerala Public Service Commission over its recent decision to take action against candidates for criticising the commission in the open as well the suicide of a candidate allegedly over delay in recruitment. While eminent personalities had also flayed PSC's decision to launch a probe and debar candidates for raising serious allegations and criticisms against the commission, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan even backed the PSC's stand. Any actions that affect the credibility of PSC could not be tolerated, Vijayan said. On Monday the commission witnessed violent protests, which senior Congress leaders including opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala, Kerala PSC president Mullappally Ramachandran and former chief minister and AICC general secretary Oommen Chandy fasted protesting against the PSC. The commission last week issued a statement that a section of candidates was accusing the commission through the media alleging of delay in recruitment form the rank list for staff nurses in Kasargod district even as they were aware that the delay was due to a court directive. Hence the candidates would be debarred from PSC selection procedures and a probe by the internal vigilance would be launched. An order debarring two other candidates for similar charges also surfaced. While PSC chairman M K Sakeer maintained that the commission took steps only as per the norms after the action against candidates triggered strong resentment the commission softened its stand by clarifying that action against candidates would be on the basis of inquiry only. Among the eminent personalities who criticised the PSC decision included noted writer N S Madhavan who tweeted that the Constitution didn't allow the commission to shut doors on anyone. If they have any grievance, they should file an FIR or defamation case and not this, he said. Former chairman of PSC K S Radhakrishnan also flayed that taking action against candidates criticising the commission would only lower the credibility of the commission. Instead, the commission should look into the facts of the criticism, he said. The fresh criticisms against the commission got ignited mainly with the backdoor appointment to government organisations that came to focus as gold smuggling accused Swapna Suresh who lacked basic qualifications also got placement to a key post-Kerala State IT Infrastructure Limited, an organisation under the IT department, which is a portfolio of the Chief Minister. The protests against the commission got fueled further as a youth ended life in Thiruvananthapuram on Sunday alleging delay in recruitment despite securing rank 77 in the selection list for job in state excise department. The protests turned violent on Monday after Youth Congress workers and DYFI activist clashed in front of the commission on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/protests-intensify-against-kerala-psc-for-action-against-candidates-who-criticise-the-commission-880624.html
31-08-2020||South||Tamil Nadu cops donate Rs 86.50 lakh to family of constable killed by history-sheeter||More than Rs 86 lakh has been mobilised by way of voluntary contribution by police personnel as a relief to the family of a constable killed in a bomb attack by a history-sheeter here recently. A cheque for Rs 86.50 lakh was on Monday handed over to the family of P Subramanian, killed on August 18 when a special team of police personnel, including him, went to arrest Duraimuthu, who hurled two-country bombs at them at Manakkarai here. Police officers and personnel in ten districts in the South Zone had voluntarily contributed the amount, officials said. The cheque was given to Subramanian's wife and his father by Inspector-General of Police (South Zone) S Murugan, Deputy Inspector-General Praveen Kumar, and Superintendent of Police Jeyakumar, they said. Duraimuthu, who faced two murder cases among others, had hurled country bombs at the police team when it reached the area following a tip-off. The second bomb had exploded fatally injuring the constable in the head and also the history-sheeter, who also died. Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami had already announced a solatium of Rs 50 lakh to the deceased policeman's family besides ordering a government job to a kin based on qualification.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-cops-donate-rs-8650-lakh-to-family-of-constable-killed-by-history-sheeter-880628.html
31-08-2020||South||AP government to conduct a massive, 32-month survey of lands in the state||Andhra Pradesh government is taking up a comprehensive land survey in the state from 1 January 2021. This would be the first land assessment in the state since 1930, the officials said adding that the exercise would purify the land records and help resolve many long-pending land-related matters especially that of the farmers. The survey, to begin simultaneously in all the mandals including the urban areas, is expected to be completed by August 2023, taking over two and half years’ time. During a review meeting on the subject on Monday, Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy has directed the officials to enhance the number of survey teams from the present 4500 and also procure drones, rovers, marking stones with special designs and base stations to enable a methodical land survey. All the survey equipment should be made available at the village secretariats, with the surveyors trained in the latest technology. Reddy also asked officials to provide the land registration services in all village secretariats for quick redressal and updating of the records. Mobile tribunals should be utilized for quick disposal of disputes on the spot, he said Public awareness on the land survey should be created through gram sabhas and village secretariats, with hoardings etc., material. Officials said that Andhra Pradesh will be the first state in the country to take up a comprehensive land survey employing latest technology. A pilot of the survey conducted at Takkellapadu in Jaggayapeta Mandal of Krishna district revealed variations in the count of survey numbers and the landholdings. While the landholdings have gone up from earlier 182 to 631, the survey numbers are 829, the officials said. Officials explained measures initiated to solve the pending land disputes. While 52,866 disputes are in the revenue courts, a special drive is on to rectify 79,405 issues pertaining to the AP’s webland portal – an online database of the state’s lands.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ap-government-to-conduct-a-massive-32-month-survey-of-lands-in-the-state-880633.html
31-08-2020||South||I-T department begins process to attach Rs 300 crore properties held by Sasikala||The Benami Prohibition Unit of the Income Tax Department has begun the process of attaching properties worth Rs 300 crores belonging to jailed AIADMK leader V K Sasikala. A notice in this regard has been served to Sasikala at the Parapana Agrahara prison where she is currently serving her four-year jail term in a disproportionate assets (DA) case. The properties that will be sealed include a land just opposite to her friend late J Jayalalithaa’s Poes Garden residence. Sasikala’s family has begun constructing a bungalow on the land, leading to speculation whether it is being built for her to stay once she comes out of the prison. Sources said the Benami Prohibition Unit has initiated the process of attaching 65 properties owned by Sasikala through her benamis. The combined worth of the aforesaid properties is Rs 300 crore. They said the properties that are to be attached were purchased in the year 2003-2005 in the name of Harichandani estates and they are located in and around Chennai. The action by the I-T department comes amid speculation that Sasikala might walk free from the jail by the end of this year. The jail term of the long-time aide of Jayalalithaa will end in February 2021 but she will be eligible for an early release, according to some, as she has not used regular leaves. Last year, the I-T sleuths had attached assets worth Rs 1,500 crore allegedly purchased by Sasikala after demonetisation of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 currency notes was announced by the Centre in November 2016. The properties, including a mall in Chennai and a resort in neighbouring Puducherry, were attached under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act as it was suspected that Sasikala bought these and controlled through others. Sasikala is serving four-year imprisonment in the disproportionate assets (DA) case in which Jayalalithaa is also an accused. But she was not convicted as she had died when the final verdict was delivered by the Supreme Court in 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/i-t-department-begins-process-to-attach-rs-300-crore-properties-held-by-sasikala-880650.html
31-08-2020||South||Kerala: Amidst govt's opposition, mass support gaining for airport privatisation||Even as the ruling CPM-led left front and the main opposition party Congress-led United Democratic Front in Kerala are vehemently opposing leasing out of Thiruvananthapuram International Airport to a private party justifying that they were not against privatisation but only acting as per the people's will, a major section of society seems to be favouring the decision to privatise the airport management and development activities. Many trade and industry bodies and forums of local residents came out in the open backing the centre's decision to lease out the airport to the Adani group that won the 50-year lease bid. Online campaigns backing the privatisation was also receiving much support. Those backing the privatisation were expressing hopes that the private management would initiate proactive measures for improving domestic and international connectivity of the airport and would spruce up the amenities of the airport. Presently the airport's direct connectivity was limited only to Gulf countries, Singapore, Maldives and Colombo, while there is considerable demand for connectivity to European and American countries. Similarly, direct domestic connectivity of the airport was also limited to major cities only. According to an online petition already signed by nearly 6,000 people, no political parties or employees union protested when almost five airlines have stopped their services from Thiruvananthapuram airport. Nobody raised their voice when the airport was charging exorbitant user fee from passengers. Nobody even bothered to raise their voice for better infrastructure, especially for our domestic terminal. Elected representatives should work towards the development of our city by understanding the voice of the people and not for their vested political interests. Kerala government was also accused of maintaining a double stand on privatisation as the Kochi international airport, as well as the Kannur international airport in Kerala, are run by PPP model companies with state government participation. Congress leader and Thiruvananthapuram MP Shashi Tharoor was among those who backed the airport privatisation, while the Congress joined hands with the ruling CPM in passing a resolution against handing over airport to a private party. The major concern of the Kerala government was not over airport privatisation, but about the 625-acre land that was acquired by the erstwhile Travancore Royal Family and state government over the years and handed over to the centre. Hence the government mooted handing over the airport management to a PPP model special purpose vehicle with state government equity participation by evaluating the land's value. Though the SPV participated in the bidding it quoted a fee of only Rs. 135 per passenger, while the Adani Group quoted Rs. 162. However, the centre had clarified that the airport's ownership was not being handed over to the private party, but only its development and management was being leased out for 50 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-amidst-govts-opposition-mass-support-gaining-for-airport-privatisation-880667.html
31-08-2020||South||Kerala witnesses two political murders in one day||Two Democratic Youth Front of India (DYFI) workers were murdered during the late hours of Sunday in Thiruvananthapuram. Police suspect the accused are Youth Congress workers. Six persons have already been held. DYFI activists Haq Muhammed, 24, and Midhilaj, 30, were murdered at Thembamoodu near Venjarmoodu, about 15 kilometres from the city. The brutal twin murder on the Onam days has come as a major embarrassment for the opposition Congress in Kerala as it had been accusing the CPM and RSS of promoting political killings. Thiruvananthapuram rural district police chief B Asokan said that prima facia political rivalry was the provocation for the murder. Police sources said that the preliminary information was that a gang of around five came in motorcycles and attacked the two. The incident occurred by around 11 pm near a fruit shop run by Midhilaj. The two were returning home after shutting the shop. Both suffered hacks and stab injuries. Midhilaj died on the spot while Haq died after being rushed to a private hospital. A motorcycle used by the accused was recovered from the spot, on the basis of which the accused were identified. A CCTV camera of a nearby building was found turned to another side. Political friction was prevailing between DYFI and Youth Congress activists in the locality for quite some time and the twin murder is suspected to be a sequel to it. A strong police bandobast was imposed in the locality to curb chances of retaliation by DYFI workers. Recently a DYFI worker, Faizal, was attacked by some Youth Congress activist in the locality. One of the accused, in that case, Sajeev, who recently came out on bail, was suspected to be involved in this case also. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that a comprehensive probe would be launched to find all involved in the murder as well as the conspiracy. CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan alleged that the murder was part of a larger conspiracy involving senior Congress leaders and hence a comprehensive probe should be conducted. A section of CPM activists alleged that the murder took place with the connivance of a Congress MP. Kerala Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala maintained that the Congress had no role in the killings. The murder could be suspected as an attempt to divert attention from the serious allegations prevailing against the government. A fair investigation should be conducted into the murder, he demanded. Both the victims were married. Midhilaj was the father of two and Haq got one child.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-witnesses-two-political-murders-in-one-day-880697.html
31-08-2020||South||BJP irked over selective leaking of Kerala's gold smuggling case details||Amidst BJP's allegations of selective leakage of information regarding gold smuggling probe, a customs official involved in the Kerala gold smuggling investigation was allegedly shifted from a direct charge for investigation. Assistant commissioner N S Dev, who was playing key role in the gold smuggling investigation, was allegedly shifted to the legal cell of the customs preventive wing in Kochi. However, a senior customs official said that the officer was still handling his charge and there was no question of removing him. BJP Kerala state president K Surendran had also openly criticised selective leakage of information regarding the investigation. He even alleged that attempts were being made to mislead the investigation. BJP leaders in Kerala also alleged that CPM-sympathisers in the customs were leaking out information selectively. Earlier, a joint commissioner of customs at CGST and Central Excise in Thiruvananthapuram, Aniesh P Rajan, was transferred to Nagpur earlier. There were allegations that the officer was transferred for denying allegations that Kerala Chief Minister's office intervened to help the accused in the gold smuggling case. Dev was leading the team that quizzed coordinating editor of Janam TV, Anil Nambiar. Janam TV is said to be a BJP supported channel.  Gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh had stated to the customs that Anil Nambiar had sought UAE Consulate's help for BJP. Portions of her statement to BJP in this regard were leaked out. This had caused much embarrassment to the BJP. The CPM and Congress even raised allegations against Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-irked-over-selective-leaking-of-keralas-gold-smuggling-case-details-880702.html
31-08-2020||State||Darshan calls on MLA Shamanur||Popular Kannada actor Darshan called on MLA Shamanur Shivashankarappa on Sunday and watched cows, sheep and horses reared by Shamanur's family near Kalleshwara rice mill. Darshan is popularly known as Challenging star also visited the farm of Shamanur's family at Duggavathi village in Harapanahalli taluk Ballari district. He also collected information on the rearing of those animals from caretakers. He is slated to meet some farmers on Monday. The actor was accompanied by former MLA and Shamanur's son SS Mallikarjun.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/darshan-calls-on-mla-shamanur-880281.html
31-08-2020||State||Pranab Mukherjee had taken part in CUK's 2nd convocation||Former President of India Pranab Mukherjee had taken part in the second convocation of Central University of Karnataka (CUK) held at the ESIC Hospital's auditorium here on December 22, 2015. The convocation was scheduled on July 28, 2015, but had to postpone following the demise of former President of India APJ Abdul Kalam on July 27, 2015. Central University of Karnataka Vice-Chancellor H M Maheshwaraiah said he arrived till Bidar base to take part in the convocation but flew back following the demise of the former president of India APJ Abdul Kalam as about 40 delegates from other nations took part. "One fine day, the secretary of President's Office gave a call and asked me whether I am still interested in President Mukherjee ji for the convocation". He is such a simple man, the VC explained. The former president was always advocating that we can't import education to all by constructing buildings. Hence, we should make the best of use of technology to impart education to the youths and children of the country. He had dreams for imparting digital education, he told. Calling Mukherjee as one of the best chancellors of the universities the country ever has seen, Maheshwaraiah said, the ex-president, being the economist himself has a vast knowledge of global education. He discussed getting higher education to the poor at a low cost. He used to discuss with the vice-chancellors of the 700 varsities once in a year till 10 pm. The ex-president dreamt of taking the research studies to the highest level so that the varsities of the country stand equal to the varsities of western countries, the VC told.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/pranab-mukherjee-had-taken-part-in-cuks-2nd-convocation-880700.html
31-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's Covid-19 survey may not yield true picture||A sentinel survey to gauge the prevalence of Covid-19 infection among people and take measures to prevent its spread is set to begin in Karnataka. But the exercise has been designed in such a way that its findings may be too broad and diluted. The survey was approved by the government on August 20 but has been delayed due to a change in the nodal officer for the programme and a hold-up in the completion of a new mobile application by the National Informatics Centre (NIC). While cities like Pune and Mumbai covered several heavily infected wards, Karnataka’s survey, set to start this week, will test high-risk zones across the state, including eight zones of the BBMP. Initially, it was only limited to Bengaluru Urban and Udupi. In Mumbai’s sentinel survey, for example, 6,936 people living in slums and non-slums, across just three wards, were tested. This yielded 57% of those in slums and 16% of those in non-slums showing that they had antibodies. Officials declined to say how many tests would be done, although a source said the aim is to test a sample size of 432 people per 38 units per round. These “units” include all 30 districts of Karnataka and 8 zones of the BBMP. There are three rounds in total. That means, in Bengaluru, as many as 3,465 tests per round could be done. There are 20 categories of high-risk people, mainly bus conductors, auto drivers, vegetable market vendors, healthcare workers, Asha workers, containment zone residents and pourakarmikas. Another focus is people who visit approximately 400 statewide hospitals for other medical issues, such as pregnant women. Nevertheless, according to a source, transport workers, medical staff will be the focus because there are not enough staff to conduct a dense street-by-street survey of the type conducted at Mumbai. Officials told DH that the point of the survey was to try to gauge the level of immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies within a sample population, which would indicate how many people had recovered from Covid-19 in the past, while revealing how many potential Covid-19 cases had been missed. Noted virologist Dr T Jacob John, who designed Pune’s sentinel survey, which focused on several highly-infected areas, said that the central point of such a survey is to be able to project the findings on the larger population. “For example, by surveying transport workers, we can only make a projection and see how many missed cases there might be among the transport worker community,” he said. He added that the scale of the exercise could potentially limit how much of the findings can be projected. Dr Aurnab Ghose of Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), who was involved in the Pune survey told DH: “A study of high-risk professionals may be a good way to assess disease prevalence using these individuals as sentinels.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-covid-19-survey-may-not-yield-true-picture-880248.html
31-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Bars can serve liquor from Sept 1 with 50% capacity: Karnataka Govt||Bars, pubs, clubs and restaurants in Karnataka will be allowed to serve liquor from Sept 1  with 50% of their seating capacity, said Excise Minister H Nagesh, a day after the Centre released its Unlock 4.0 guidelines. “They can fill only half their capacity. They have to maintain social distance and take other standard precautionary measures for Covid-19,” he said, adding that a detailed set of guidelines would be issued on Monday. After a complete shutdown of liquor sales in March following the first lockdown, the state government had allowed sale of liquor in May through MRP outlets. This was followed by permission for clubs, bars and restaurants to clear their stock, while later that month, pubs with RVB (Retail Vend of Beer) were also allowed to clear their stock. With restricted sales, the state has incurred an estimated loss of Rs 1,435 crore till date, Nagesh said. “The losses would have crossed over Rs 3,000 crore if not for the state’s decision to allow takeaway of liquor,” said the minister. The state government’s excise revenue target for the financial year 2020-21 is Rs 22,700 crore, as per the budget announcement this year. Lokesh, President, Wine Merchants Association, Bengaluru district, said even with the government permitting takeaway, there has been only a marginal improvement in sales.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bars-can-serve-liquor-from-sept-1-with-50-capacity-karnataka-govt-880249.html
31-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Dalit leaders mount pressure on B S Yediyurappa for internal quota||A section of Congress leaders belonging to the Dalit (Left) communities on Monday mounted pressure on the B S Yediyurappa-led BJP government to implement internal reservation for scheduled castes as recommended by the A J Sadasahiva Commission. The government should take it up in the upcoming legislature session, former union minister K H Muniyappa told a news conference. Hailing the recent Supreme Court rules that states can provide internal reservation, Muniyappa said doing so would ensure social justice to oppressed groups within such communities. "There are 101 sub-castes in the SC community. The A J Sadashiva Commission submitted a scientific report recommending reservation to these communities based on population," he said. In 2012, the A J Sadashiva Commission submitted its report recommending that the 15% SC quota be divided into 6% for SC (Left), 5% for SC (Right), 3% for 'touchables' and 1% for other SCs. “Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol should take up the issue and ensure internal reservation. They should clear it in the Assembly or the Cabinet and send it to the central government for approval,” Muniyappa said. Dalits in Karnataka are divided into two groups: left-hand and right-hand castes. The left hand is said to be angry because most of the benefits are going to the right-hand castes. Muniyappa, however, dismissed talk of differences among the Dalit left and right communities regarding internal reservation. "All leaders from the SC Right in the Congress are for the reservation," he said. Former MP M Chandrappa recalled that BJP leaders had promised to implement the A J Sadashiva Commission report within 24 hours of ascending to power. "They should come true to their promise," he said. Karjol, the social welfare minister who belongs to the Dalit Left, told DH last week that the government would explore providing internal reservation after the Supreme Court allowed states to make sub-categories among these social groups.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dalit-leaders-mount-pressure-on-b-s-yediyurappa-for-internal-quota-880445.html
31-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka records 6,495 new Covid-19 cases, 113 dead||Karnataka reported 6,495 fresh Covid-19 cases and 113 deaths on Monday. This took the active case count to 87,235. The death toll is now 5,702 excluding 19 deaths due to non-Covid causes.  With 7,238 discharges on Monday, the state recorded more than 2.49 lakh recoveries. The total positive cases are more than 3.42 lakh in the state. Bengaluru Urban reported 1,862 cases followed by Ballari (365), Mysuru (405) Tumakuru (316) and Chitradurga (286).  A total of 43,132 samples were tested on Monday, one of the lowest in the past few days. This includes 13,056 rapid antigen tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-records-6495-new-covid-19-cases-113-dead-880619.html
31-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka announces 7-day mourning on Pranab Mukherjee's death||Karnataka will observe a seven-day mourning period till September 6 as a mark of respect to former president Pranab Mukherjee, who died Monday. During the mourning period, the national flag will fly half-mast on all government buildings and there will be no official or public entertainment, the state protocol wing of the Department of Personnel & Administrative Reforms said in an order. Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa said he was “deeply saddened” at Mukherjee’s death. “Pranab da will be remembered for his vast knowledge of politics, statecraft & policymaking. My respectful tributes to the departed soul, deep condolences to his family & followers. Om Shanti,” he said in a tweet. Former prime minister HD Devegowda of the JD(S) remembered his long association with Mukherjee. “We had a long association spanning decades. I had always admired the way he combined his sharp intellect with hard work. May his soul rest in peace,” he said. Former union minister SM Krishna remembered Mukherjee as “a great visionary, an efficient administrator, a guiding force.” Krishna said Mukherjee was widely respected cutting across party lines for his no-nonsense and uncompromising attitude when it came to the national interest. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president DK Shivakumar, BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel were among those who condoled Mukherjee’s passing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-announces-7-day-mourning-on-pranab-mukherjees-death-880634.html
31-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Pranab Mukherjee visited Mysuru in 2013, 2015 as President||Pranab Mukherjee visited Mysuru twice, in 2013 and 2015, as President. In 2013, he was in Mysuru on September 23, to inaugurate the new building of JSS Hospital of JSS Mahavidyapeetha, Suttur Mutt. The 1,800-bed teaching hospital of JSS Mahavidyapeetha was built at a cost of Rs 450 crore. Seer Shivaratri Deshikendra Swami recalled the association of Pranab Mukherjee with the mutt and its institutions. In 2015, Pranab Mukherjee was in the city, on July 28, to inaugurate the centenary celebrations of the University of Mysore. He released the book ‘An Era of Enlightenment of Mysuru University’ on the occasion. He also visited Chamundeshwari Temple, atop the Chamundi Hill during the visit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pranab-mukherjee-visited-mysuru-in-2013-2015-as-president-880642.html
31-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Cops asked to destroy cannabis crops, says Basavaraj Bommai||Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday directed the police to destroy cannabis (ganja) crops being grown in different parts of the state as he announced steps to up the ante in the government’s fight against drugs and narcotics.  “Ganja is being grown in some parts of the state and we’ve identified them. Police superintendents in districts and inspector-generals have been directed to destroy the crops,” Bommai told reporters after meeting senior officials on the drug menace.  “Normally, ganja grows inside forests and in inaccessible hilly regions and kharab lands. It’s one thing to seize them when they come packed, but we want to destroy them wherever they’re grown,” he said.  Weed, commonly known as ganja, also comes into the state from Goa, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, Bommai said, adding that steps have been taken to tighten regulation at the borders.  “From January to July this year, we have booked 1,438 cases and arrested 1,792 persons including 25 foreign nationals. This is in Bengaluru alone,” Bommai said.  To ensure better coordination, the minister said a committee has been formed comprising the Bengaluru police commissioner, Bengaluru Rural inspector-general and officers from the CID to tackle the drug menace in and around the state capital.  “We have also decided to crack down on foreign nationals involved in the peddling of drugs. Some of them are overstaying their visas and they will be deported,” Bommai said.  Asked about the ongoing investigation into a drug racket allegedly involving celebrities, Bommai said the government is ready to cooperate with the Narcotics Control Bureau. “There’s no question of hushing up anything,” he said. “Regardless of who is involved from any field, we want to take strict action against drugs.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cops-asked-to-destroy-cannabis-crops-says-basavaraj-bommai-880655.html
31-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Lockdown: Out of work, teachers are now farm labourers in Karnataka||Guest lecturers and some private school teachers, who were imparting education to the children, are in financial distress and eking out a living by engaging in odd jobs. Several guest teachers working on contractual basis in schools and colleges and paid a daily basis have been forced to find alternative livelihoods to make ends meet after being rendered out of work as schools remain closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The government school teachers are engaged in online classes and other Covid-19-related works. However, guest teachers and lecturers are hoping for the reopening of schools and colleges to earn a living. Some private school teachers have also lost their employment after the management decided to cut the staff to manage the show. A few teachers are engaged in construction activities to make ends meet. Some have even worked as farm labourers and several women teachers who lost their jobs are engaged in rolling beedi. “I used to work in farmland as a labourer from June. Now, all the farming activities have been completed and I have no work. I am worried about my future. I do not know how to maintain my family. From where should I arrange for the food? Several teachers are engaged as mason labourers,” said a private school teacher, Ashok Kumar. The private schools are conducting online classes. However, management is paying a meagre salary. Many have been removed from work. A few are paid Rs 4,000 to Rs 5,000 per month for conducting online classes, said a teacher. Some teachers are even engaged in selling fruits and vegetables. “I was working as a lecturer in a private college. I have received a salary until March. Later, I was removed from the job. I have two children. I do not know how to manage my household,” said a guest lecturer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/lockdown-out-of-work-teachers-are-now-farm-labourers-in-karnataka-880674.html
31-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Pranab Mukherjee had graced many an occasion in Karnataka||Karnataka had the good fortune of getting the Suvarna Vidhana Soudha (SVS), the state’s second secretariat in Belagavi, inaugurated by Pranab Mukherjee, while he was President on October 11, 2012. The then chief minister Jagadish Shettar had invited Mukherjee to inaugurate the SVS constructed at a cost of Rs 400 crore. He was impressed by the design of the structure and had agreed to inaugurate it.  Litterateur Dr Chandrashekhara Kambara was presented with the 46th Jnanpith award on the same day. Mukherjee had also launched the restoration work of the Swami Vivekananda memorial, undertaken by the Ramakrishna Mission, in Belagavi. As union finance minister, Mukherjee had graced the 11th annual convocation of the Visvesvaraya Technological University in the city as the chief guest and had delivered the convocation address.  Mukherjee was in Mysuru twice — in 2013 and 2015 — as President. In 2013, he came to the city on September 23, to inaugurate the new building of the JSS Hospital of the JSS Mahavidyapeetha. Mukherjee dedicated the 1,800-bed teaching hospital, built at a cost of Rs 450 crore. In 2015, Mukherjee was in the city on July 28, to inaugurate the centenary celebrations of the University of Mysore. In Kalaburagi, Mukherjee attended the second convocation of the Central University of Karnataka (CUK) on December 22, 2015. CUK vice chancellor H M Maheshwaraiah recalled that the former president felt that the country cannot impart education to all, by simply constructing buildings. So, it should make best use of technology to impart education, Mukherjee used to to say, the VC recollected. The former president dreamt big on digital education, the VC added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pranab-mukherjee-had-graced-many-an-occasion-in-karnataka-880679.html
31-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka guest teachers demand Covid-19 relief package||Guest teachers who were working in government primary and high schools in Dakshina Kannada staged a protest demanding a Covid-19 relief package. The protest was organised by Dakshina Kannada unit of Rajya Sarkari Prathamika mathu Praudashale Athithi Shikshakara Sangha under the aegis of Akhila Bharatha Shikshana Ulisi Samithi, in front of the Mini Vidhana Soudha in Mangaluru, on Monday. The protesters said that the guest teachers should be given priority while recruiting the teachers. Special weightage should be given for guest teachers during the recruitment. The guest teachers should not be removed from work when the school reopens and job security should be given to them, they demanded. The honorarium paid for guest teachers should be increased. It should be paid for 12 months in a year instead of paying only during school hours. The government should also issue service certificate to the guest teachers and introduce PF and ESI facility for them, the protesters said. Chandrika, president of the association, said, “We have been working for a meagre salary for the last several years. The closure of the schools following the Covid-19 induced lockdown has inconvenienced the teachers without any honorarium. Without a salary, we are finding it difficult to eke out a living. Many have been pushed to depression.” She said the government should slowly regularise the services of guest teachers. The model followed in regularising the services of guest teachers serving in Morarji Desai/Kittur Rani Chennamma Residential Schools should be followed by the state government. By regularising the services of guest teachers, their Constitutional rights should be upheld by the government, thereby help in maintaining the quality in education, she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-guest-teachers-demand-covid-19-relief-package-880683.html
31-08-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Minister Shashikala Jolle tests positive for Covid- 19||Karnataka Women and Child Development Minister Shashikala Jolle on Monday said she has tested positive for Covid-19 and is under home quarantine. "I have been confirmed Covid-19 positive. On the advice of the doctors, I'm under 14 days home quarantine. I request all those who had come in my contact to get tested and quarantine themselves," Jolle tweeted. She said her health condition was currently normal and with love and wishes from everyone, would soon get back to serve the people. Jolle is the newest addition to the list of Ministers in the Yediyurappa government who had tested positive for the coronavirus infection. Earlier this month, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, Health Minister B Sriramulu, Tourism Minister C T Ravi, Agriculture Minister B C Patil, Forest Minister Anand Singh were among those who had tested positive and have now recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-minister-shashikala-jolle-tests-positive-for-covid-19-880715.html
31-08-2020||West||Rise in Covid-19 cases rattles Maharashtra's hinterland||The sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra – particularly in the hinterland – has rattled the government, municipal corporation and health agencies. In a week's time, the rise in cases is close to one lakh. The increase has been attributed to the unlocking process and increasing in testing facilities. While the Mumbai and Pune metropolitan regions continue to be worst-affected with the bulk of 7.8 lakh plus cases, there are over 10,000 cases in eight districts of the total 36 of the state. The Mumbai metropolitan region comprising Mumbai and neighbourhood of Thane, Palghar and Raigad and Pune district – accounts for nearly 60 per cent of the cases in the state. The affected districts are  Satara, Sangli, Solapur, Kolhapur and Ahmednagar in Western Maharashtra, Nashik and Jalgaon  in North Maharashtra, Aurangabad in Marathwada and Nagpur in Vidarbha region. There has been a spurt in semi-urban areas of the state – and this is becoming a worry. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray in his meetings and briefings, has asked officials to ensure that the state is not hit by a second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. State Health Minister Rajesh Tope said: “The spike in cases in August is because of the aggressive approach of implementing 4 Ts – tracing, tracking, testing and treating. The number of tests has also gone up significantly because of the network of laboratories.” As on Sunday night the total cases stood at 7,80,689 – and the spike in last week was a matter of concern. “In a week’s time, 98,682 cases have increased in the state. While there is an increase in rural areas, there is also an increase in MMR and Pune,” officials said. A total of 5,62,401 Covid-19 patients discharged after full recovery and the recovery rate off the state is 72.04 per cent. Currently 13,09,676 people are in home quarantine and 35,373 people are in institutional quarantine. In Maharashtra, more than 40 lakh tests have been conducted – which include RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rise-in-covid-19-cases-rattles-maharashtras-hinterland-880341.html
31-08-2020||West||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Rhea Chakraborty appears before CBI for fourth day||Actor-model Rhea Chakraborty appeared before the Central Bureau of Investigation on Monday, the fourth day of grilling session on connection with the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Rhea and her brother Showik drove to the DRDO & Air Force office/transit facility at Kalina. While this is the fourth day for Rhea, her brother Showik appeared for the fifth time. The Chakraborty family and their aides have been blamed for death of Sushant. On the other hand, Goa-based hotelier Gaurav Arya appeared before Enforcement Directorate. Gaurav's name has appeared in WhatsApp chats vis-a-vis drugs. However, Gaurav has said that he did not knew Sushant personally and his last contact with Rhea was in 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sushant-singh-rajput-case-rhea-chakraborty-appears-before-cbi-for-fourth-day-880382.html
31-08-2020||West||Three policemen sacked in Palghar mob lynching case||The Maharashtra government has sacked three policemen in connection with the mob lynching incident in Palghar district in which two sadhus and their driver were killed. The three cops are assistant police inspector Anandrao Kale has been served with dismissal orders while his colleagues, assistant police sub inspector Ravi Salunkhe and constable Naresh Dhodi. While Kale is dismissed from service, Salunke and Dhodi would compulsorily retire. All of them were under suspension – and were sacked after a departmental inquiry. Kale was in-charge of the Kasa police station where the incident took place. The dismissal and retirement orders were issued late on Saturday by Konkan Range’s special inspector general of police Niket Kaushik. Two sadhus, Kalpavriksha Giri Maharaj (70 years), Sushil Giri Maharaj (35) and their driver Nilesh Telgade (30), were brutally lynched to death on the night of 16 April in the Gadchinchale village in Dahanu tehsil of Palghar district, nearly 120 km from downtown Mumbai. For four days before the incident, there were rumours that robbers had come to the village to steal kidneys particularly of children and sell them in the black market. This led to the villagers mounting a round-the-clock vigil. The sadhus and their driver were attacked by a group of nearly 500 villagers suspected them to be kidnappers. The two Nashik-based sadhus belonged to the Varanasi-headquartered Shri Panch Dashnam Juna Akhara, the biggest order of sadhus in India. The Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government came under fierce attack from the BJP after the incident. The Maharashtra government transferred the investigations from the Palghar police to the Pune-headquartered State-CID. In a major reshuffle after the incident, in April-May, two policemen Sudhir Katare and Santosh Mukne were suspended by the then Palghar superintendent of police Gaurav Singh while another 35 police personnel of Kasa Police Station were transferred to other parts of the district. Later, during his visit to the Gadchinchale village in Kasa – where the lynchings took place – home minister Anil Deshmukh had sent Singh compulsory leave and he awaits a posting till now. The State-CID has resulted in three chargesheets filed against a total of 126 accused before the Dahanu magistrate court, besides 11 juveniles and 28 others against whom the investigations are still underway. The accused have been booked under various sections of Indian Penal Code, Disaster Management Act, Epidemic Diseases Act, Maharashtra Police Act, Maharashtra Damage to Public Property (Amendment) Act with charges pertaining to murder, attempt to murder, armed rioting, using criminal force to prevent a public servant from discharging his duties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/three-policemen-sacked-in-palghar-mob-lynching-case-880400.html
31-08-2020||West||Over 3,000 people evacuated from flood-hit Bhandara, Chandrapur||More than 3,000 people, including 500 from one village, have been evacuated from Bhandara and Chandrapur districts of Maharashtra's Vidarbha region where several areas got flooded after heavy rains in neighbouring parts of Madhya Pradesh, officials said on Monday. Bhandara city has been one of the worst affected in east Vidarbha and teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and local administration are shifting flood-hit people to safer places, district disaster management officer Abhishek Namdas told PTI. "In the last two days, 2,830 people have been rescued from Bhandara city," he said. Flood water is now receding, but rescue operations are still underway, he added. In Chandrapur, 500 people have been evacuated in the last one day from the flooded Ladaj village, which is surrounded by a river on two sides, district disaster management officer Jitesh Survade said. Rescue operations are continuously on in six villages of Bramhapuri taluka, with main focus on Ladaj village which is the worst affected, he said. Four local teams and a team of NDRF are engaged in the rescue operation in Ladaj, he said, adding that one SDRF team will also be coming from Nagpur to help in the rescue work. Survade said the flooding took place after heavy rains in neighbouring areas of Madhya Pradesh and release of water fromthe Sanjay Sarovar dam there into the Wainganga river. Besides, water discharged from the Gosikhurd dam also entered these villages, he said. Water levels of these two dams are now coming down and this would also improve the situation in the flood-affected areas of Chandrapur, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-3000-people-evacuated-from-flood-hit-bhandara-chandrapur-880420.html
31-08-2020||West||Heavy rains continue in Gujarat; 5,000 shifted to safer places||Nearly 5,000 people were shifted to safer places in Gujarat's Bharuch and Vadodara districts after flooding in several villages there due to rise in level of the Narmada river as heavy rains continued in various parts of the state, officials said on Monday. Due to continuous inflow of water from upstream in the Sardar Sarovar Dam over the Narmada near Kevadia village, 9.86 lakh cusec (cubic foot per second) water is being released in the river by opening 23 out of its 30 radial gates, an official release said. The water level of the dam has reached 132.63 metres as against its full reservoir level of 138.68 metres, it said. As a result, the level of the Narmada river has risen significantly in the last few days and water has now started entering the low-lying villages situated on its banks in Vadodara and Bharuch, relief commissioner Harshad Patel told reporters in Gandhinagar. "Nearly 5,000 people living in these villages and in low-lying areas of Bharuch town have been shifted to safer places. We urge people not to go near any river. District authorities and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been alerted across the state," Patel said. A road leading to Chandod village near the Narmada in Vadodara's Dabhoi taluka has been shut for traffic to stop people from going near the river, local police said. People from across the state visit the river bank in Chandod for 'asthi visarjan' (ashes immersion). Heavy to very heavy rains lashed most parts of Gujarat on Sunday, raising the water level of various rivers and causing flooding of causeways, residential areas, farms and internal roads of different districts, said officials. Ahmedabad Collector K K Nirala on Monday issued an order to shut the Dhandhuka-Ahmedabad and Dhandhuka-Limbdi highways after the Sukhbhadar dam in neighbouring Botad district overflowed and inundated these roads. Rains continued to lash several parts of Gujarat on Monday also. As many as 37 talukas of the state recieved over 100 mm (heavy) showers in the 24 hours ending at 8 am on Monday, a government release said. Five of these talukas recieved over 200 mm rainfall. The Jamjodhpur taluka in Jamnagar recorded 237 mm rain, followed by Khambhalia in Devbhumi Dwarka-215 mm, Morbi and Jamnagar talukas-204 each, and Gadhda taluka in Botad district-203 mm, the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/heavy-rains-continue-in-gujarat-5000-shifted-to-safer-places-880469.html
31-08-2020||West||Covid-19: Maharashtra relaxes curbs on travel, govt office attendance||The Maharashtra government on Monday lifted the restriction on inter-district movement of persons and goods and raised attendance in its offices as it announced a slew of relaxations while extending the general Covid-19-enforced lockdown in the state till September 30. It said hotels and lodges will be allowed to operate at 100 per cent capacity from September 2, but schools, colleges, cinema halls and swimming pools will continue to remain closed till September 30. Easing of restrictions came even as Maharashtra continues to register a record number of new coronavirus cases with no flattening of the curve in sight in the state. The government announced that there shall be no restriction on inter-district movement of persons and goods, including those for cross-land border trade under treaties with neighbouring countries from September 2. No separate permission/approval/e-permit will be required for the vehicles and persons travelling therein for such movements, the government said in its Mission Begin Again order that encapsulated "Unlock" norms. The government also allowed passenger movement by private bus/minibus and other operators. The states Transport Commissioner will issue the standard operating procedure (SOP) for the same, the order said. The government said that outdoor physical activities with no restrictions will be allowed, but made no mention of reopening of gyms and temples. The Maharashtra governments Group A and Group B officers can attend offices to 100 per cent of their strength across the state from September 2. Other government staffers can attend offices with 30 per cent of their strength or minimum 30 employees, whichever is more, in areas under municipal corporations in Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad and others — all Covid-19 hotspots. In the rest of Maharashtra, the non-Group A and Group B staffers can attend office to the extent of their 50 per cent strength or minimum 50 employees whichever is more, the order said. The government said private offices may operate up to 30 per cent of their strength as per requirement. The government also called for appointing a vigilance officer in every office to ensure social distancing norms are observed to contain the spread of Covid-19. All essential shops which were allowed to remain open till the latest order will continue to do so, the government said. All non-essential shops will be allowed to continue as per relaxations issued from time to time and liquor shops will continue to operate, it added. The Uddhav Thackeray government made it clear that the schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutions will continue to remain closed till September 30 and reiterated online/distance learning shall continue to be permitted and shall be encouraged. Cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres (including those in malls and market complexes), bars, auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places will continue to remain closed, it said. International travel of passengers, except as permitted by the Ministry of Home Affairs, and metro rail services will be disallowed, it said. Social/political/sports/entertainment/academic/cultural/religious functions and other large congregations will continue to be prohibited in the state, the government said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-maharashtra-relaxes-curbs-on-travel-govt-office-attendance-880613.html
31-08-2020||West||CBI visits Sushant Singh Rajput’s flat again||Amid hectic investigations into the mysterious death of Sushant Singh Rajput, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has on Monday visited Bandra home of the late actor, to gather evidence, based on last 10 days of grilling sessions including that of prime suspect Rhea Chakraborty. A CBI team drove into the Mount Blanc building at Carter Road in Bandra and visited the duplex flat. The team was there for a couple of hours even as Rhea and her brother Showik were being grilled at the DRDO & Air Force office/transit facility at Kalina. At the Ballard Estate area, where the Enforcement Directorate (ED) regional office is located, Goa-based hotelier Gaurav Arya made an appearance. He was interrogated based on WhatsApp chats that he had with Rhea and is being questioned on the drug angle. In a related development, senior IRS officer Sameer Wankhede, the joint director of Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI), was attached to the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) for six months. He had worked in the NCB earlier and is being brought in to crack the Bollywood-drug mafia nexus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cbi-visits-sushant-singh-rajput-s-flat-again-880614.html
31-08-2020||West||Well prepared to hold JEE, NEET exams in Gujarat: Government||The Gujarat government will take all necessary precautions in view of Covid-19 pandemic to hold JEE and NEET examinations next month, state Education Minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama said on Monday. A total of 38,167 students are expected to appear for the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) for admission in engineering and pharmacy courses. The test will be conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA) at 32 centres in 13 districts between September 1 and 6, Chudasama said in a statement. He said the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (Undergraduate) or NEET (UG) will be held on September 13 at 214 centres in 10 districts, for which 80,290 candidates are expected to appear. Chudasama and junior education minister Vibhavariben Dave on Monday held a virtual meeting with collectors, police, revenue and education officials from various districts regarding the exams. "The state administration is ready to host JEE and NEET in a hassle-free manner amid coronavirus pandemic scare. All collectors concerned have been asked to follow Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) laid down by the Centre about conducting such exams," Chudasama stated. He said district authorities were also instructed to avoid crowding at test centres and to implement social distancing during the test. Each student will be checked using a thermal gun at the time of entry to the examination centre, the minister said, adding that each exam centre will be completely sanitised before and after the test.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/well-prepared-to-hold-jee-neet-exams-in-gujarat-government-880616.html
31-08-2020||West||Maharashtra's Covid-19 tally reaches 7.92 lakh with 11,852 new cases||Maharashtra's Covid-19 tally rose to 7,92,541 with the state reporting 11,852 new cases on Monday, the Health Department said. With 184 new deaths, the state's fatality count rose to 24,583, it said. The department said of the 184 deaths reported on Monday, 143 were from the past 48 hours, while 32 from last week. Nine of the deaths were from the period before the last week. In the process of updating figures as per the portal, all these deaths have been reported today, the department said in its media bulletin. A total of 11,158 patients were discharged from hospitals on Monday, which took the number of recovered persons to 5,73,559 so far, the department said. There are 1,94,056 active cases in the state at present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-covid-19-tally-reaches-792-lakh-with-11852-new-cases-880659.html
31-08-2020||West||Nearly 48,000 evacuated from 4 flood-hit districts in Maharashtra||About 48,000 people have been evacuated from Nagpur, Bhandara, Chandrapur and Gadchiroli districts in Maharashtra's Vidarbha region where several areas got flooded due to opening of gates of dams following heavy rains in neighbouring parts of Madhya Pradesh, officials said on Monday. Teams of the Army, National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) are engaged in relief and rescue operations in these districts. "Till 3 pm today, 47,971 people have been evacuated from 146 affected villages in the Nagpur division," the divisional commissionerate said in a report. A total of 90,000 people have been affected in four districts, it said. While 27,901 people have been evacuated in Nagpur district, 14,813 others were shifted to safer places in Bhandara district. The number of evacuees stood at 3,159 and 2,098 in Chandrapur and Gadchiroli districts, respectively, it said. While 57 villages remained affected in Nagpur district, 58 villages were affected in Bhandara. The number of such villages stood at 21 in Chandrapur and 10 in Gadchiroli. It said nine teams, including personnel of the NDRF, SDRF and Army, are engaged in rescue works in the four districts. Defence PRO Basantkumar Pande said in Nagpur that two columns of the Army from Kamptee-based Guards Regimental Centre, Engineers Task Force from Pune and a medical ream from the Military Hospital in Kamptee have joined the relief and rescue operations. Around 80 troops along with three Army boats are deployed in Dhamni, Pavni, Gongpimpri villages in Kuhi Taluka of Nagpur, he said. A total of 90 stranded persons were evacuated in the day by troops involved in the operations. "Army columns are now relocating to a village in Brahmapuri area of Chandrapur district, approximately 80 km South-East of the present location," Pande added. Divisional Commissioner Sanjiv Kumar told PTI on Monday night that the situation was under control now. "There are no rains in Madhya Pradesh and other places. The water will recede by tonight, and by tomorrow people will start returning to their villages and households," he said. Earlier in the day, 23 workers staying in a temporary shelter in a village in Gadchiroli district were rescued from rising water in the morning. District guardian minister Eknath Shinde said the flood-like situation has arisen in some parts of the district. "Some villages remained cut off (from district headquarter) while some people have been shifted to safer places. I will inspect the situation and visit relief camps. I have already given necessary directions," he told reporters at Nagpur airport before leaving for Gadchiroli in the afternoon. He said directions have also been given to conduct panchanamas (assessment) of damaged crops immediately. Responding to a query on the bad condition of roads in the state due to rains, the PWD minister said repairing was underway on a war footing. Gadchiroli district information office said Desaiganj and Armori talukas are most affected by floods, and rescue operation to shift people to safer places is underway. "23 workers, who were engaged in barrage construction work in Kotgal village and staying in a temporary shelter, were rescued in a joint operation by various departments with the help of fishermen," the information office said. 12 roads remained cut off from the Gadchiroli district headquarter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nearly-48000-evacuated-from-4-flood-hit-districts-in-maharashtra-880678.html
31-08-2020||West||Railways allows special suburban services for NEET, JEE students in Mumbai on exam days||The Railways will permit students appearing for NEET and JEE exams and their guardians to travel by special suburban services in Mumbai on exam days, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal announced on Monday. “Supporting students appearing for NEET & JEE exams, Railways has permitted them, and their guardians to travel by special suburban services in Mumbai on exam days. General passengers are requested not to commute,” he said in a tweet. While the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) is scheduled to be held on September 13, engineering entrance exam JEE-Main has been planned from September 1-6. Around 8.58 lakh candidates have registered for the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE)–Main and 15.97 lakh students for NEET. These exams were deferred twice in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/railways-allows-special-suburban-services-for-neet-jee-students-in-mumbai-on-exam-days-880686.html
