01-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the Editor: Why we need to thank Draupadi for our 'phuchka'||Sir — I did not know that phuchka, a favourite of Indians across class, caste and regions, was allegedly first prepared by Draupadi for her husbands as per the instructions of her mother-in-law (“Oh please, give me a mouthful now”, July 25). There is a popular myth that these mouth-watering treats are especially a hit with the ladies. In fact, a phuchka vendor surrounded by ladies is a common sight in films. But I have always accompanied my wife and daughter to relish this delicious dish. I can never enjoy it without them. Outside shopping malls, theatres and schools, phuchka vendors are always busy selling the round puffs filled with mashed potato and tamarind water no matter what the season. Truly tasty, one can forego a lot of other treats but not phuchkas. But from next time, whenever we put that delicious snack in our mouth, we should be thanking Draupadi. The phuchka is a point of pride for us Indians, wherever we are and by whatever name we call it. This delicacy must get a place in the pages of history and be included in retellings of the Mahabharata. Alok Ganguly,Kalyani Sir — While much was made of panta bhaat being served on MasterChef Australia, few batted an eye-lid when phuchka made it to the judges’ table. This is because in spite of its humble origins on the street, phuchka is undoubtedly the star of the Indian culinary world. Michelin-starred restaurants across the world have some or the other version of phuchka on their menu. In spite of occasional skirmishes over whether the phuchka came first or the golgappa and which is better, this king of chaat is approved by all and unsullied by gastronomic politics. Irrespective of whether it is phuchka, pani puri, batasha or golgappa we are eating, our eyes and noses are equally watery with all the spice; we each have a gulp of the sour water at the end, followed by a sookha — a dry phuchka — to conclude. The rituals are the same. Indeed, the one thing people across India have most missed during the lockdown — besides social contact — may have been the phuchka. This is perhaps why a food company has invented the golgappa ATM to dispense contactless phuchkas. If these machines are installed in the country, the queues outside these ATMs would not move for none can ever have too many. Yashodhara Sen,Calcutta Sir — The organizers of one of the planet’s largest gatherings to celebrate the human body, ironically, get very stressed out about one of the human body’s most basic needs: sex. At a time when the world is living through a pandemic, the International Olympic Committee has imposed strict rules regarding physical contact among everyone that is part of the bubble. Yet, condoms are being used to mend kayaks and an exclusive dating app for Olympic participants is doing brisk business in Tokyo. No virus is potent enough to stop nature from taking its course. Suman Padhi, Calcutta Sir — For many, the rise of commercial space tourism is a vulgar display of wealth and power. Amid several global crises, including climate change and a pandemic, billionaires are spending their cash on launching themselves into space for fun. But critics will not deter the super-rich. Space tourism is now a reality for those who can afford it. But it will have repercussions for everyone, especially those who cannot ever dream of making such a trip. The carbon footprint of launching oneself into space in one of these specially-engineered rockets is incredibly high, close to about 100 times higher than if one takes a long-haul flight. A 2010 study found that the soot released by 1,000 space tourism flights could warm Antarctica by nearly one degree Celsius. This would play havoc with the Paris agreement goal of reducing global temperatures. As ever, the pointless enjoyment of a handful of spoilt billionaires will cost the majority of earth’s residents dearly. Space tourism must be strictly regulated, if not completely banned. Rima Roy, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-58
01-08-2021||Opinion||How many IAS, IPS officers send their children to govt schools, asks Patna High Court ||The Assam Pradesh Congress Committee recently got its new president in Bhupen Kumar Borah, who has previously been the secretary of the All India Congress Committee. The appointment ended months of speculation, especially after the outgoing chief, Ripun Bora, put in his papers soon after the party’s second straight loss in the state assembly polls in May. Borah’s appointment, along with that of three working presidents, seemed to have the Rahul Gandhi stamp. Like the recently-appointed Punjab PCC chief, Navjot Singh Sidhu, and Kerala PCC chief, K Sudhakaran, Borah is also close to former party chief, Rahul Gandhi. Borah made it to the coveted post in spite of not being a sitting member of the legislative assembly or member of parliament. He has lost three successive polls — one Lok Sabha and two state assembly elections. This appointment thus reflects the confidence Rahul Gandhi has in him. Borah came up through the ranks, has impressive oratorial skills and is politically astute. But he is taking over at a time when the state unit is riven with factionalism and desertions, and has been in a free fall since 2014. Congress insiders said the party high command will need to provide him all the support, at least until the 2024 Lok Sabha elections, if it wants to revive the party in the state. Jyotiraditya Scindia appears to have settled well in the saffron family, more than a year after he quit the Congress and embraced the Bharatiya Janata Party. He has been rewarded handsomely, having been appointed the minister for civil aviation and he looks more than happy. This week he was in the Lok Sabha to introduce a bill. In front of him, his former colleagues from the Congress were waving placards and shouting slogans against the government. Battling the din, Scindia remained focused and kept hailing the prime minister, Narendra Modi. He said that Modi was fulfilling the vision of Mahatma Gandhi with his commitment to ensure that the poor who wear “hawai chappal” get to fly in the “hawai jahaz”. Scindia seemed to have understood very well that in order to remain in the good books of the BJP leadership, it was essential to keep on hailing the prime minister. He slammed his former colleagues for resorting to raising slogans and trying to block Parliament proceedings, thereby hindering the process of the country’s development. Scindia clearly chose to forget that not long ago, during the first Modi government, he was on the other side, protesting. A simple query by the Patna High Court on how many Indian Administrative Service, Indian Police Service, Class I and II officers send their children to study in the government schools of Bihar has left the entire gargantuan governance and administration machinery in a bind. The implication of the question raised in a case discussing the quality of education in government-run schools is so enormous that everybody is looking for an escape route, especially in the light of the fact that it would be difficult to find a senior administrative officer sending his or her children to study in such educational institutions. “If we tell the high court that no such officer, or just a negligible few, send their children to government schools, it will mean that the quality of education in them is very low. It will also mean that the Bihar government and its ministers had been brazenly making unsubstantiated tall claims about the expansion and development of school education in the state,” a senior IAS officer said. “It will also make it clear that just construction of school buildings and inducting below average teachers is not the same as providing quality education.” In recent years, the education provided by many schoolteachers in Bihar has come to be questioned. The Rashtriya Janata Dal leader, Lalu Prasad, has been talking about his return to Patna for the last couple of months. His wife, Rabri Devi, and his sons and daughters, have also reportedly been saying that he is coming back soon. The imminent return of the charismatic leader adept in forging new political equations, especially at a time when his son, Tejashwi Yadav, is leading the Opposition’s Grand Alliance and the Nitish Kumar-led National Democratic Alliance government in Bihar is clinging to power by a thin majority, is striking terror among the parties in the ruling coalition. “Ab aur bardaasht nahi hota (I can’t take it any more). I have lost my sleep and am worrying about the future of our government in the state. This suspense and fear is taking a toll on my mental and physical health. I also now want him to return as soon as possible. I will be very relieved,” a first-time minister in the NDA government said. Lalu Prasad has been away from Bihar for over three-and-a-half years following his conviction in various fodder scam cases. He got bail in April and is currently in Delhi after being released from treatment under incarceration at All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi. Karnataka’s leader of the Opposition, PC Siddaramaiah, never minces words, especially when it comes to Opposition parties. The latest to get a taste of his sharp choice of anecdotes is the newly-picked chief minister, Basavaraj Bommai. When asked to rate Bommai, the son of the former chief minister, SR Bommai, of the Janata Party, Siddaramaiah commented that children need not inherit the virtues of their fathers. But senior Congress leaders have stayed away from the remark since they did not want to trigger a war of words with political rivals waiting to pounce on one another. Now that BS Yediyurappa is out of the Chief Minister’s Office, his admirers have just one question to ask. The BJP forced him out citing his age among other reasons, when, at 78, Yediyurappa is no less active than some of his juniors in the ministry. But when the BJP campaigned heavily in the Kerala state polls in April, the party pitched for ‘metro man’, E Sreedharan, who was already 88. So why the double standards, many ask. But obviously the party is not ready to answer such queries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-58
01-08-2021||Opinion||Changing stripes||The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh has moved from the margins to the mainstream of the Indian polity in recent decades. This has forced critics like me to think of a difficult question: how to deal with it? I believe this can be done in two ways: through sangharsh (struggle) as well as samvaad (dialogue). We must oppose it for fomenting Hindu communalism. Specifically, we must counter it for providing ideological and organizational heft to the government of Narendra Modi and Amit Shah whose politics of polarization and contempt for constitutional values spell disaster for democratic and secular India. However, I differ with those critics of the RSS who see it as nothing but evil. Few things in this world are binary. The sangh, despite its majoritarianism, is a patriotic organization, even though its patriotism is selective. Dialogue with it, even cooperation (sahyog), is necessary for three reasons. First, it has grown into the largest, most organized, and most ideologically influential Hindu body, commanding the support of millions across India. Denying this reality is futile and foolhardy. Second, the RSS has not been monolithic and unchanging in the way it looks at India and the world. Some recent shifts in its thinking, especially towards Indian Muslims, are welcome, albeit inadequate. These shifts are being driven by none other than the RSS chief, Mohan Bhagwat, and its newly-appointed general-secretary, Dattatreya Hosabale, who is likely to succeed him. Third, India’s way of settling differences cannot emulate that of China (which witnessed a civil war), Russia (where opponents were killed and jailed in large numbers) or several Muslim countries (bloodied by sectarian violence). We must follow a non-violent and democratic path in which both struggle and dialogue must ultimately lead to reconciliation (samanvay). This task requires us to recognize two contradictory features of the RSS. On the positive side, it seeks, through its various parivar entities, to organize, unite and revitalize Hindu society. There is nothing objectionable about this mission. Who can say that Hindu society is not in need of revitalization through internal social reforms? The RSS campaigned against untouchability and has been striving to rid Hindu society of caste discrimination in a slow but steady way. (A minor but significant point: even before the Supreme Court verdict in 2018, Hosabale had declared in 2016: ‘Homosexuality should not be criminalized, but not glorified either.’) It would be equally legitimate for a Muslim or a Christian counterpart of the RSS to want to organize, unite and reform its own society. India’s national revitalization is a sum total of the reform and egalitarian development of its myriad communities, castes and other social entities. The sangh has another positive trait: it trains its volunteers and inspires its supporters to run a large number of social service projects, which help the needy regardless of their caste or creed. Rahul Gandhi would do well to know that its seva activities far outnumber those of the moribund Congress Seva Dal. On the negative side, India needs to guard against the sangh’s agenda to turn it into a Hindu rashtra. Its propagation of Hindutva being synonymous with Indian nationalism is flawed, divisive and dangerous. Although it calls itself the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, it is essentially a Hindu Swayamsevak Sangh. It does not represent Muslims and Christians, who are an integral and equal part of our nation. It does not represent all Hindus either. A large number of pious and patriotic Hindus reject both the sangh’s narrow conception of the Indian nation and its political agenda based on that conception. Nevertheless, the sangh’s critics should ponder: why and how did it succeed in influencing a vocal section of the majority community? The answer lies in its sustained campaign over a set of issues that appeal to many Hindus — Ram Mandir in Ayodhya, the abrogation of Article 370, uniform civil code, cow protection, campaign against conversions through unethical means and so on. The ill-treatment of non-Muslims in Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan and the acts of terrorism, extremism, and bigotry by Islamist organizations in many parts of the world have played no small part in expanding its mass appeal. Undeniably, and condemnably, some of its supporters have indulged in bigotry and violence in raising these issues. But equally undeniable is this fact: one of the reasons for the concomitant decline in the influence of the Congress has been its inability — also hesitation and unwillingness — to respond to the legitimate Hindu angst over these issues. It has paid the price for summarily opposing everything the RSS says and does. This does not mean the sangh and its affiliated organizations now have a free-run to implement their majoritarian agenda. After moving to the centre stage of the Indian polity, the RSS is facing peculiar constraints imposed by India’s unchangeable diversity, democracy and its civilizational allegiance to secularism. The greatest of these constraints is that it is in no position to change the Indian Constitution, much as many in the sangh parivar want to. Neither the Bharatiya Janata Party’s political strength (which has now peaked) nor the sangh’s own capacity to build the requisite social support is sufficient to achieve this purpose. Cognizant of this reality, the RSS is no longer attempting to challenge and replace the Constitution but, rather, to co-opt it. When Bhagwat delivered a three-part lecture series on ‘Future of Bharat — An RSS Perspective’ in Delhi in September 2018, he affirmed his organization’s faith in the Constitution, including in its preambular principles of ‘secularism’ and ‘socialism’. Ram Madhav, a prominent RSS-BJP insider, went so far as to describe it as a moment of glasnost (openness) and perestroika (restructuring) in the sangh. Bhagwat gave another hint of glasnost in the sangh’s thinking in a widely discussed speech in early July. While releasing a book, The Meeting of Minds: A Bridging Initiative, by Khwaja Iftikhar Ahmed, he unequivocally endorsed the author’s call for Hindu-Muslim harmony through RSS-Muslim dialogue. He acknowledged mistrust and alienation in the Muslim community and called for joint efforts to remove them. “How can we consider Muslims as foreigners when they are our brothers, when their blood and DNA are the same as ours?” he asked. “People may have different faiths, but India has never disrespected the diversity of faiths,” he averred. “Confrontation harms both”, he remarked. He also asserted emphatically that the RSS envisions an India in which there is neither “Hindu domination” nor “Muslim domination” — rather, domination of only “Rashtra heet” (national interest). He implicitly acknowledged that the BJP also practises divisive politics when he said, “Politics cannot bring about unity in society. Politics divides people, it does not unite them.” Muslim organizations and secular parties should respond positively to this change in the sangh’s thinking and seek ways of common action to strengthen communal harmony, national unity and the well-being of all Indians. India’s multi-party democracy has placed another constraint before the RSS. Its exclusive association with a single political party has exposed it to the danger of becoming a ‘BJP Swayamsevak Sangh’ and, now, a ‘Modi Swayamsevak Sangh’. People’s resentment against the Narendra Modi government is growing rapidly. The prime minister’s own popularity is waning. This has prompted many voices within the sangh, including at leadership levels, to wonder if the time has come to look beyond Modi. They are acutely aware that the BJP as a party has changed for the worse under Modi and Shah because of their arrogant style of functioning. The sangh is known for long-term thinking and planning, which is not personality-centric. Hence, it is likely that the RSS itself may seek dialogue and cooperation with patriotic non-BJP entities in the coming, uncertain years. Such possibilities should be seized, not shunned, because India’s future is at stake. Sudheendra Kulkarni served as an aide to the former prime minister, Atal Bihari Vajpayee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-58
01-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Far from progress||A law being formulated does not guarantee that it will be implemented or that it will change attitudes. The Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 followed India’s ratification of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, but the conditions of the target group show little noticeable change. Further, certain state governments appear to be untouched by the sensitization sought for by the UNCRPD and, supposedly, by the 2016 law. Population control measures demonstrate this most clearly. It would seem that the Uttar Pradesh draft population control bill aims to achieve the national target of reducing or stabilizing the population by 2045. Along with coercive and constitutionally questionable provisions intended to enforce a two-child norm, the bill makes a concession in the case of ‘death or disability of child’. A third child will not be in contravention of the law when one or both children of a couple have died or are disabled. From a state perfectly in tune with the Centre, this ‘placing’ of the divyang — the prime minister’s label for the disabled — is deeply disturbing. Disability is equated, by implication, with death, exposing a regressive and dangerously discriminatory mindset. It is as if the equality and inclusiveness enshrined in the 2016 law and its enumeration of the responsibilities of governments and of society to ensure these did not exist. Rajasthan, too, has a law for population control with a similar provision. These provisions devalue the person with disabilities, singling him or her out as ‘inferior’, a burden, and outside the social mainstream. The Rajasthan law predates the 2016 one, but the UP draft bill has no such excuse. It not only institutionalizes the dominant attitude of Indians towards the disabled, but it also evades expectations of entitled government support by passing full responsibility on to the parents by ‘conceding’ a third child. The 2016 law is far from perfect, but it could have evolved had there been an effort to implement its provisions by the Centre and the states. But it is obviously little more than a polite nod to the UNCRPD. The disappointment of the heads of government departments and agencies created for the aid of disabled people and of activists in the low budget allocation for this segment, especially in a pandemic year, indicates the Centre’s casualness. States are little better. How much has been done for access in public spaces for the disabled, for special teacher training, for providing support to and information for underprivileged people with disabled children or, simply, for the understanding of problems, physical and otherwise? Perhaps the criticism that the UP draft bill has attracted will make other states planning population control laws — whether these are needed is another question — think twice. No law that discriminates against anyone on the basis of ability, community or any other principle, directly or indirectly, is acceptable. And without political will and sensitiveness, the best laws, too, will fail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-58
01-08-2021||Opinion||The book of never before records||We shall talk about it later, all this fuss being made about poppulashun. When you lot are going to do so much coppulashun, there is bound to be so much poppulashun. Seedhi Baat. We will have to do something about the rate of coppulashun. Get the numbers, set up a kamishan, let’s talk about this think frankly and directly. Munn ki Baat. Do it. No sorry, I meant to say don’t do it, not so often. Take time off, watch some or the other tamasha, there’s enough of that happening all around you. And all the time. When did you last see the length of the, you know what I mean, the length of the only thing that has shown signs of growth lately? And what was the last count of strands in that growth, chalo not growth, overgrowth? Chalo not even overgrowth, undergrowth. It is growing under you see, reaching down. To the lowliest, to those unable to reach higher; it’s towards them that it is growing and growing and one day will soon come when it shall reach them. And then, one by one they will be able to climb on and make their way higher and higher until they would want to go higher no more because they will have hit something, something that discourages climbing higher than itself. But you get the idea, don’t you? This scheme, this growth, the undergrowth. It’s all meant for the greatest public good, a ledge and a ladder for folks to rise along. So back to the question we go. How many strands? How many that are reaching down so people can clamber up? Get the numbers. Do a count. We are losing the art of counting and putting numbers together. We seem to have counts for nothing these days. People are asking all the time, give us this number and give us that number. And we do not have numbers so we say, like always, the truth and nothing but the truth and we tell them we do not have the numbers. No numbers so we have no records, although we have made nothing but record upon record. We have recorded what has never happened, we have put an end to the era of Nothing Happened and that in itself is a big record. Is it not? But keeping numbers? That’s a problem. And why will it not be? There is so much poppulashun we cannot keep up, and that is because there is so much coppulashun. How are we to keep count? Or how much coppulashun? Can you? You do it then. Meantime: Here is this fat volume For you to consume There’s in it not a wee bit So your reading will be swift.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-58
01-08-2021||Opinion||A medal for your dreams||Mary Kom’s loss in Tokyo last week was heart-rending for many in India, and perhaps for good reason. But not all losses are defeating. Hend Zaza of Syria lost in the table tennis preliminaries to the Chinese born Austrian Liu Jia. Zaza is 12 to Jia’s 39. But the bigger challenge that Zaza faced and overcame was training and qualifying for the Olympics, belonging as she does to a war-ravaged country. Hama city, where she is from, is known for the Islamic uprising of the 1980s and the massacres that followed. There was also the siege of Hama in 2011 that led to the deaths of a number of civilians at the hands of security forces. Unfit training conditions, rag-tag infrastructure, inability to participate in international competitions for visa issues, postponed funding were some of the other things Zaza faced. She said after she lost, “Fight for your dreams, try hard…” Not many would be able to find Benin on a map, but there it is, a fist-shaped republic in West Africa. Privel Hinkati became the first rower to represent Benin in the Olympic Games at Tokyo. Hinkati lost last week, but remained a winner. In Benin football and basketball are popular sports, but it was through Hinkati’s efforts that the country got itself a rowing federation in 2012. Crowdfunding paid for his training and equipment, still he failed to qualify for the Rio Olympics in 2016. This is what he said about the time he qualified for the 2020 Olympics, “I kept rowing past the finish line. I kept rowing towards the second and third rings. I didn’t want to take any chances. I just wanted to be sure. It wasn’t until the announcer said, ‘Everyone must stop now’ that I stopped." Cyclist Masomah Ali Zada finished 25th out of 25 athletes in the women’s individual time trial at the Olympics, but you wouldn’t know that from her demeanour. Ali Zada, who is part of the Refugee Olympic contingent, and her sister met with serious disapproval and even death threats in their home country of Afghanistan when they took up cycling. In 2017, the family found asylum in France, where the sisters continued to train. After her loss, she said, "I'm already a winner against people who think that women don't have the right to ride a bike.” Coming back to India, it seems Mary Kom hasn’t ruled out participating in the 2024 Paris Olympics, if the rules permit. But no matter if the rules don’t, as Rajya Sabha member too she can play some power packed bouts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-58
