02-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Labour pangs||The latest Periodic Labour Force Survey data for July 2019 to June 2020 released by the Central government shows a rise in the labour force participation rate and a fall in the unemployment rate even when the economy registered a sharp deceleration in the rate of growth. This is surprising because what the result suggests is that there are more workers coming into the labour force looking for work and that many more are actually obtaining employment. This looks awkward in a year when growth was abysmally low. The claim is made more problematic by the fact that other surveys, including the one carried out by the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy, have yielded exactly the opposite results. The reason may be because of a difference in the methodology used in the surveys to measure unemployment. The international norm and the one followed by the CMIE focus on the current weekly status where workers are asked about their employment position during the past seven days. The other method, adopted by the government, looks at the usual status, which checks for the employment record 365 days prior to the survey. The responses of workers could differ legitimately. For instance, a worker employed during the past year but recently unemployed might be recorded as employed in the US method but unemployed in the CWS method. India, typically, has a very low LFPR, indicating not many people come into the labour force looking for work. A high unemployment rate reinforces the fact that even out of the relatively few who join the labour force a large number are unable to get jobs. This trend is consistent with the macroeconomics of the country. The deviation in the results of the US method can be explained by the fact that the pandemic led many small traders and businessmen to lose their incomes and they were forced to enter the labour force under distressed circumstances. The participation rate would then increase. Now, even with an unchanged absolute number of people unemployed, the rate of unemployment would decrease because the denominator of the ratio has increased. The differences are significant. The UER by the US method declined from 5.8 per cent to 4.8 per cent between 2018-19 and 2019-20. The UER arrived at by the CWS method remained constant at 8.8 per cent for the two consecutive years. Most experts believe that the CWS is a more accurate method of measuring UER simply because it helps focus on the present situation rather than the past. Trying to make the results look artificially attractive by the government may only be an attempt at self-deception.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-57
02-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: P.V. Sindhu wins bronze at Tokyo Olympics, football and Bengalis||Fall short Sir — It was heartening that P.V. Sindhu managed to bag a bronze at the Tokyo Olympics. But it was sad to see her slip during the semi-final. She seemed a bit sluggish on the court after her win in the quarter-finals; it did not look like she had the determination to fight, to go for gold. Encouragingly, the hat-trick of goals by Vandana Kataria enabled the Indian women’s hockey team to qualify for the quarter-finals of the Olympics after four decades. Now that the men’s hockey team has won the quarter-final against Great Britain, fans are hoping the women’s team, too, will play with aggression and confidence while taking on Australia in the upcoming game. We wish them all the very best. Indians are desperate for more medals. N. Mahadevan,Chennai Sir — Every four years, forecasts are made on how many medals India will win at the Olympics, a practice that leads to widely polarized opinions. A leading data and technology company, Gracenote, had foretold that India would finish the Tokyo Olympics with 19 medals, four of them being gold. Such hopes seem to have little chance of being fulfilled. Be it because of a faulty rifle, poor judging or loss of focus, the majority of Indian athletes have not been able to gain a toehold as far as the Olympics are concerned. This is no different from any other year at the Olympics. But it is pointless to blame athletes for this. India does not encourage sports, and those who take it up have to brave insurmountable odds. One can hardly play well when one bears the burden of having to perform just to live a decent life. Players must be given the assurance that irrespective of how they perform, they will have livelihood options that enable them to take care of themselves and their families. More important, sports must be made integral to education. At the school level, ‘physical training’ classes that pass for sport education prepare students for next to nothing. In most schools there is one measly PT period a week, which is taken lightly since its grades do not have an impact on the student’s promotion at the end of the year. If India wishes to win more medals, sports must be taken seriously early on in life and be taught on a par with the curriculum. Riya Ghosh,Calcutta  Not fun and games Sir — Cricket may be India’s most popular sport, but nothing matches the ability of football to tug at a Bengali’s heartstrings. A huge part of the emotionally high-strung club games at the Maidan tents and the Salt Lake stadium were the snacks and sweets that were ferried around for the supporters. While football fans are now missing the snacks as much as the games, few are thinking of the fate of the vendors whose livelihoods have been disrupted drastically. Fans should come together to help them out. Kallol Pramanik,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-57
02-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Gain and loss||New Delhi may have reasons to feel that the outcome of the recent visit of the secretary of state of the United States of America was a bit of a mixed bag. The convergence of views between India and the US on the unfolding situation in restive Afghanistan is reassuring. Antony J. Blinken made it unambiguously clear that the atrocities being inflicted by the Taliban on opponents and civilians are deeply troubling. Mr Blinken’s view was echoed by the Union external affairs minister who said that the fate of that embattled country should not be decided by a show of force. The meeting of minds between the US and India could be an important diplomatic morale booster for the latter. New Delhi, unlike Islamabad, Beijing or even Moscow, finds itself on the sidelines in the goings-on in Kabul; a common view on matters with the US could hand India much-needed leverage. This is critical because developments in Afghanistan have a direct influence on New Delhi’s strategic and security map. Mr Blinken’s deliberations, however, also unveiled an important point of divergence between the two democracies. There has been a general consensus in the international fraternity about the partnership between India and the US being predicated on such shared values as freedom, democracy, pluralism and so on. Yet, what is apparent today is a strange contradiction. Even though the US and India are cooperating closely on geo-strategic issues — their views on Afghanistan are one manifestation — gaps seem to be opening up when it comes to their commitment to uphold the architecture of democracy. The US under its new president has made noises about human rights violations around the world. That does not mean that the Joe Biden administration is blind to America’s own challenges. Indeed, Mr Blinken’s description of American and Indian democracies as ‘works in progress’ is an honest, welcome appraisal. The US continues to battle entrenched discrimination and racism. India, especially in recent years, has been accused of distancing itself from its constitutional legacy. Indeed, the US has led the world in voicing such concern: the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom, a federal entity constituted by the US Congress, has expressed its unhappiness with the state of minorities in India. The common strategic vision notwithstanding, New Delhi must not be smug in its belief that Mr Biden’s administration would desist from the occasional rap on the knuckles. This could further dent India’s international credibility as a bulwark against ‘autocratic democracy’, the rash that is spreading globally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-57
02-08-2021||Opinion||Bolt from the blue||Thirty-two people died in West Bengal on account of lightning strikes in June. Alarmingly, 27 deaths had been recorded on a single day — June 7. Should these deaths serve as a warning for Bengal? Bengal has recorded the highest number of lightning strikes from cloud to ground per square kilometre in India in 2020 as per the 2020 South Asia Lightning Report. The state ranks eighth in terms of annual accidental deaths due to lightning with a total of 1,641 mishaps during the period, 2010-2019, say data from the National Crime Records Bureau. However, the yearly accidental death in Bengal is still under 200; the highest number of deaths — 186 — took place in 2012. This was followed by death tolls of 180 and 179 in 2014 and 2018, respectively. Newspaper reports also suggest that an estimated 10-12 people had died in lightning strikes on one day between 2010-2019; the highest death toll was 12 in 2018. If this estimate is correct, then the average number of days of lightning events annually would be around 15-18. The average number of lightning events, the daily death toll and an increasing number of ‘cloud-to-ground’ lightning strikes mean that the total casualty figure at the end of 2021 could exceed previous estimates, making Bengal the state with the highest number of annual accidental deaths due to lightning in India. What are the causes behind the phenomenon? Is it the lack of public awareness combined with government apathy? Lightning deaths are not new. This rules out the first possibility. Moreover, these days, people receive text alerts about thunderstorms on their mobile phones. The reason then must lie somewhere else. Climate change, meteorologists say, lies at the heart of all extreme weather events. According to the West Bengal State Action Plan on Climate Change, temperature and rainfall regimes are highly varied across the six agro-climatic zones. A spatial analysis based on 116 years (1901-2016) of India Meteorological Department data demonstrates that the three anomalies of temperature regimes — mean, maximum, and minimum temperatures — are spiking at various rates. Furthermore, rainfall from the southwest monsoon had declined over the Indo-Gangetic Plains of Bengal between 1901 and 2012. The twin effects of rising temperature and declining rainfall exacerbate weather conditions in the state, resulting in extreme weather events like heat waves, thunderstorms and lightning. Among the 27 people who died on June 7, 11 were from Hooghly district. What do Hooghly’s residents think of this phenomenon? Mohanlal Bag, a resident of East Beraberi village in Hooghly, said that people used to die from lightning strikes earlier as well but the death rate used to be much lower. People, he said, do not get sufficient time to seek shelter because thunderstorms are instantaneous. Although they receive text messages from electricity companies, these notify recipients only about the dates of occurrence of storms. People who have to go out for chores become victims of lightning. The frequency of strikes and the discharge of electricity, Bag believes, are higher these days, adding to the death toll. Interestingly, Bag’s views have been echoed by meteorological departments and agencies. According to a report by the IMD and the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, the number of lightning strikes in Bengal has doubled between April 2020 and March 2021 compared to the same period the year before. The key to saving lives would be to discover technology to accurately predict the time span of thunderstorms and put in place a system of disseminating information by local governments. The government and other institutions must incentivize research in these aspects.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-57
02-08-2021||Opinion||Pegasus: Inside the panopticon||The allegations of governments spying on their citizens with Pegasus, a spyware developed by an Israeli firm, is an unwitting revelation of the bigotry of some of these nations. India’s prime minister has claimed that democracy is an ancient tradition in this country. However, the charges of snooping, if they are true, would force India to share space with autocratic countries. That some Islamic nation states are keeping tabs on Muslim citizens with an Israeli product shows that traditional enmity can be swept aside for the sake of power. Unsurprisingly, countries suspected of using the spyware are at the bottom of the 2021 World Press Freedom Index. The NSO Group, Pegasus’s manufacturer, claims that it only works with governments and that the clients have to be approved by the Israeli State. This may not give the Indian government much room to extricate itself from the charge of using what is described as a weapon against its citizens. Significantly, the government has not used the bogey of China or Pakistan as a fig leaf. The statement released by India does not rebut the allegations but expounds on its commitment to free speech as a fundamental right while also explaining the checks and balances to prevent the misuse of phone-tapping. Spokespersons of the Bharatiya Janata Party and its government have been casting doubts on the report by the media collective and the timing of its release — the eve of the monsoon session of Parliament — while also aggressively suggesting that it is a conspiracy to discredit the nation. In 2019, a lawsuit filed by WhatsApp in the United States of America had revealed the use of Pegasus against Indian citizens. In a written response to Parliament, the then minister of state for home affairs, G. Kishan Reddy, had explained the laws that govern interception and monitoring of communication. Even then, the government had not provided clarity on its role in the matter. The BJP government has observed that the disclosures of Pegasus usage do not specifically mention the party. Even then, does it not behove the government to be concerned about the well-being of citizens? Should it not announce a commission to determine the identities of those targeting Indians and the reasons for the use of surveillance? This is a major breach in security and the Indian government should reassess the measures that failed to prevent senior officials from becoming potential targets. Instead, the BJP is suggesting that the aggrieved parties should file police complaints. Moreover, what can one deduce from the government’s claim that there has been no ‘unauthorized interceptions’? That the use of Pegasus has been sanctioned by the Indian State? Autocratic countries like China do not need to use foreign spyware to keep a tab on their citizens. Not only have they developed similar technology but the idea of Big Brother watching is integral to the notion of statecraft. The Hong Kong police has a hotline open for neighbours and families to snitch on each other. Such a system, the government claims, apprehends criminals. What happens instead is that the voicing of opinion becomes a potential crime, intimidating people into consuming and regurgitating official lines. Information and its conversion into knowledge have always been a source of power and control. However, when governments target citizens, it creates a state of fear and people begin to self-regulate. Governments spying on their populace serves two purposes. The first is active coercion — finding critics and punishing them. The second is passive coercion — the chilling effect on citizens stemming from the knowledge that the government is watching them. The BJP has a brute electoral majority in India. With the near absence of a counter-narrative and the alleged subversion of democracy’s sentinels in this country, does the BJP government have any need for intrusive technology? But then Shakespeare’s Henry IV had bemoaned, “Uneasy lies the head that wears a crown.” This is true not only for individuals but also for political parties. Complete political domination can only be predicated upon the distrust of critics and citizens alike.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-57
02-08-2021||Opinion||Rousing text||It feels strangely disquieting to celebrate Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav amidst the untold suffering caused by the pandemic. Perhaps the anxiety about an uncertain present and an even more unpredictable future compels us to turn to the past and deliberate on the unexplored aspects of the Indian national movement in the hope that the return will rejuvenate the present and the future. This path is guided by T.S. Eliot’s concept of the three imbricating phases of time: “Time present and time past/ Are both perhaps present in time future,/ And time future contained in time past.” In contrast to nationalism in the modern West that disinherited the past and the pre-modern, nationalism in India recalled the past, thus connecting the present with its history. The range of the past that is remembered is rather wide — from Bankim Chandra Chattopadhyay recalling Sankhya to Swami Vivekananda the Vedanta, to Babasaheb Ambedkar’s recalling of Kapila and Buddha. The Bhagavad Gita, a part of the epic, the Mahabharata, is yet another interesting work recalled for the freedom movement. In his well-known commentary, Shrimad Bhagavad Gita Rahasya, Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak outlined similarities between the war of the Pandavas and the Kauravas and the Indian struggle for freedom against the British. He also found justification for the use of violence against the British in Lord Krishna’s advice to Arjuna. The intention behind refurbishing the ancient text with a new commentary was to energize Indians and rouse them to participate in the freedom struggle. Tilak, like Getafix in the Asterix series, brewed the magic potion from this ancient text.  Nations in the West were based on modern political ideals, cemented by path-breaking discoveries in science and innovations in technology that kick-started industrialization. The developments in their present thus contributed to their future. However, British imperialism used these modern resources, political ideas, science, technology and industry to colonize and exploit India, robbing Indians of the opportunity to build their future with the resources from the present. The ingenuity of Tilak lay in quickly grasping which options were closed and the ones that could be explored as alternatives. In the next phase, Mahatma Gandhi continued the legacy of Tilak, his guru, by continuing to rally around the Gita but he interpreted it differently. There are two parts to Tilak’s rendering of the Gita. One, he only used the Gita, not the larger epic. Two, he interpreted the Gita as justifying violence. Like Tilak, many have used the Gita to support their ideas of the national movement. However, in my limited reading, at least at the national level, the Mahabharata has been used by only a few. In addition to Gandhi’s Essays on Bhagavad Gita and Shashi Tharoor’s The Great Indian Novel, the Mahabharata and the national movement are implicit in two more works — Sri Aurobindo’s Savitri: A Legend and a Symbol and Ashis Nandy’s The Intimate Enemy. While Sri Aurobindo draws out the underlying parallels between Savitri losing her husband to Yama, the god of death, and India losing its freedom to the British, Shakuni is the underlying symbol in Nandy’s account of the loss and recovery of the self under colonialism. To make a limited use, like Shakuni, colonialism is India’s intimate enemy. Gandhi, however, uses the epic to formulate the programme of non-violence for the national movement. To return to Tilak, there is a radical difference between Tilak’s and Gandhi’s interpretations of the Gita. For Tilak and many others, the Gita promotes violence, as Lord Krishna advises, nay, incites a reluctant Arjuna to fight the war. However, going against the entire tradition of interpretations of the Gita, Gandhi found a justification for non-violence and a denouncement of violence in this text. He accomplished this by making two important moves: one, from the part to the whole, that is, from the Gita to the epic, the Mahabharata and, two, from the content to the context. From ancient times, the Gita has been discussed as an independent text. Gandhi, in contrast, saw a close relationship between the Gita and the Mahabharata. He then moves to the context — Vyasa, Gandhi said, narrated the Mahabharata “to depict the futility of war”. The epic was recounted by the sage, Vaisampayana, a disciple of Veda Vyasa, to Janamejaya, the son of Parikshit, at the Sarpa Sastra yajna to dissuade Janamejaya from killing all living snakes merely to wreak vengeance on a serpent that had disturbed the penance of Parikshit. On a close reading of Gandhi’s work on the Gita, tweaking it a bit here and there while remaining within the purview of the text, we can discern a dichotomy between the content of the epic that essentially promotes and justifies violence and the context of the narration, which was to dissuade from committing violence. This relationship between the context and the content, part and whole, is a unique distinguishing feature of this epic with reference to world literature. Gandhi was the first to recognize this. His interpretation is a rare academic adventure in hermeneutics by a politician at a global level. More importantly, this intellectual feat was deployed as an instrument in support of the national movement. To return to Eliot, while he does propose the imbricated relationship within the three phases of time, the latter part of the poem is a reaction to the fractured relationship between the present and the past in the West. Thus, Eliot is not as useful to understand the different relationships between the past and the present in India. For Eliot, the possibilities from the past are mere abstractions and in the realm of speculation. However, Tilak successfully demonstrated that the texts from the past are solid actualities. Unlike in Eliot, where the passage was not taken, and the door never opened, Tilak did take the passage, which opened up new horizons for the Indian national movement. It is the divergent relationship between the present and the past that makes the Indian model different. Recognizing this is not tantamount to endorsing it. In fact, on the occasion of Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav, we can resolve to explore new avenues in finding out creative solutions to both actual and possible problems in Indian society, taking inspiration from our national leaders from our immediate past.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-58
