03-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Hush hour||Indians are an argumentative lot. An argument need not be a squabble. In a democracy, it may well be synonymous with animated, public deliberation. It is thus strange that the argumentative Indian has chosen to elect a dispensation that is markedly disinterested in engagements — heated or not. The Narendra Modi government’s love for the furtive has, in the course of the last few years, had numerous manifestations. The prime minister refuses to pay heed to the persistent demands by the Opposition to come clean on the allegations of snooping by the regime with the help of sophisticated technology. Neither has he responded to the allegations of China encroaching upon Indian territory in spite of grim developments on the border. The ‘gains’ of radical interventions — demonetization is an example — have remained mysterious, as mysterious as the Centre’s assurance of the Indian economy being in robust health in a world ravaged by the pandemic. The evidence of Mr Modi’s evasive self is thus substantial. Yet, he has managed to get away with it because key institutions — they include the media — have not done enough to demand accountability from this government. So the Central Information Commission’s directive to the Centre to reveal within a stipulated time frame the details of its preparations for and management of the Covid-19 disaster, especially the oxygen crisis, must be welcomed. Responding to a plea to make such information public, the CIC also dismissed the government’s argument that such revelations could impair national interest. And herein lies the crux of a dilemma common to democracies. Elected — seemingly authoritarian — governments are increasingly willing to exploit the rhetoric of national interest or security to deny access to information pertaining to public, indeed national, welfare. The constriction cannot go uncontested. This is because the foundations of democracy are rooted in the pledge of welcoming and strengthening the culture of transparency. The latter’s absence can tempt democratically-elected governments to prey on democracy itself. The responsibility of keeping governments accountable to the people is not the Opposition’s alone. It must be shared with institutions that like to imagine themselves as the sentinels of democracy. The CIC’s rap on the knuckles of the Centre should be seen as a reminder to these slumbering agencies that they, too, have a responsibility to keep the government on its toes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-56
03-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Comprehensive database of migrant workers, Covid-induced hair loss||Act now Sir — It is a relief that the Centre has promised to create a comprehensive database of migrant workers in the coming months (“Watch them”, July 29). Hopefully, the database will help build a safety net for millions of migrant workers whose precarious living conditions were brought to light only after the Covid-19-induced lockdown last year led to untold misery. Although there are laws to ensure fair working conditions for migrant workers — the Inter-State Migrant Workmen (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, 1979 and the Building and Other Construction Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, 1996 — these have not been implemented properly by successive Central and state governments. These acts have provisions for registration of migrants and fair wages. The government must refer to them to ensure the welfare of migrant workers. Jahar Saha,Calcutta Sir — India has a large number of unorganized workers who move away from their homes to work in far-flung places. The two waves of the pandemic which led to nationwide lockdowns have hurt this section of the population the most. In June, the Supreme Court rightly rebuked the labour ministry for its failure to complete the National Database for Unorganised Workers. It must be remembered that while migrant labourers contribute immensely to developmental activities in India, they are mostly deprived of the benefits of various welfare schemes. The government must complete the database and properly implement the One Nation One Ration Card scheme so that migrant workers can access subsidized food grains. With the third wave of the pandemic looming on the horizon, it is crucial that safety nets are put in place. S.S. Paul,Nadia  Hair raising tale Sir — Governments around the world are tearing their hair out to tame the coronavirus. The aam aadmi — those who are lucky enough to survive Covid-19 — are losing their hair too: the hair loss, apparently, is a fallout of the viral infection. This only goes to show that the discovery of the vaccines notwithstanding, the nature and some of the after-effects of Covid remain mysterious as ever. Shilpi Agrawal,Siliguri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-57
03-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Law in place||There is no ‘unequal pedestal’ before the law. The Supreme Court reasserted this principle while sitting on the Kerala government’s plea for the withdrawal of criminal cases filed against six members of the legislative assembly from the Left Democratic Front for turbulent conduct during a session in 2015. The LDF MLAs, then in Opposition, had damaged in a protest equipment and furniture to the tune of Rs 2.20 lakh in the Kerala assembly. But the privileges and immunities that legislators enjoy do not give them a separate status under the law of the land. The Supreme Court, while dismissing the Kerala government’s plea, reportedly said that the privileges accorded to the members of the House of Commons in the United Kingdom did not exempt them from the law, but allowed them to discharge their duties freely. Similarly, the privileges and immunities enjoyed by elected representatives in India were intended to create conditions for them to do their job effectively, without fear or favour, not to remove them from the purview of the law. The Supreme Court’s ruling is a message to all elected representatives who engage in violent protest in Parliament and the assemblies. Legislators are constitutionally permitted to protest, as the court pointed out with reference to the pertinent provisions. But this freedom of expression does not include smashing up public property. The law violated in such cases is the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, 1984, by which the Supreme Court has traditionally laid great store. The court’s ruling underlined two ironies. The Kerala government itself had enacted a law against the destruction of public property, it reportedly said. Besides, claiming exemption for a breach of criminal law would betray the trust imposed in elected representatives as enactors of laws. This suggested that legislators’ conduct should be in tune with the laws they make for the people — again a message that should be noted. When will it be followed? The plea itself indicated how law is sought to be politicized by today’s leaders: the LDF is now in power in Kerala. Trying to extricate colleagues from criminal cases when in power is a tendency most political parties share; Yogi Adityanath’s efforts in this direction are spectacular. The Supreme Court ruling — and elucidation — must be welcomed in this context as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-57
03-08-2021||Opinion||The dangers of silence||Could the 12 lives lost in the flooded subway in Zhengzhou on July 20 have been saved had the decision been taken to shut down the metro line early enough? The train was stuck between two stations. Why wasn’t it stopped from leaving the station when it was clear that there were chances of the track flooding ahead? Everyone could have safely been evacuated then. An anonymous subway worker has posted these questions in a blog post, pointing to the fatal flaw in China’s decision-making systems: no one down the line is willing to take responsibility; the order must come from the top. An Indian plant director working in China finds his senior managers asking for guidance on problems that in India would routinely be handled by executives at their level. This diffidence, he feels, is a hangover from Mao’s time, when all decisions were left to Party-led committees. When the Covid pandemic broke out in 2019, nobody dared to inform Wuhan’s residents that the new virus raging through the city was infectious till Beijing thought fit to do so. Hostile territory That Zhengzhou could be so badly affected is ironic, because this former capital of China and now a major centre for scientific research was one of the 16 cities prone to flooding that were chosen to become “sponge cities” in 2015. Since then, about 50 billion yuan has been spent on measures meant to equip Zhengzhou to absorb heavy rains. One netizen wrote: “Those corrupt officials absorb Moutai like a sponge every day. If they hadn’t drunk tens of billions, wouldn’t the ‘sponge city’ be built by now?” To be fair, these were the heaviest rains in recorded history which devastated the province’s smaller cities and villages. One villager blamed a leading cement company for this, pointing to its relentless destruction of hillsides. The internet is the only place where citizens can say all this, because instructions have already been sent out to the official media to focus on post-disaster recovery, not to carry pictures of dead bodies or “take an exaggeratedly sorrowful” tone. People have been warned not to give interviews to foreign media. More alarming, however, is the hostility displayed by some ordinary Chinese towards foreign reporters, especially the BBC’s China correspondent. A foreign ministry spokesman typically dismissed complaints from the Foreign Correspondents’ Club of China, called the BBC a “rumor broadcasting company” that put “ideology above the truth”, and said “fabricated news reports” had triggered the “public’s dissatisfaction and fury”. In memoriam As in India, the first to respond to the victims were locals, some of whom risked their lives to save strangers. Among those moved to help were three Uighurs who drove from Xinjiang for two days to deliver naans to Zhengzhou’s survivors, belying the myth that Uighurs hate the majority Hans. As Zhengzhou’s residents started placing flowers and lighting candles outside the subway where the 12 people had died, barricades were put up at the entrance to stop the steady stream of mourners. That didn’t work though: the mourners removed the barricades. The authorities also could not stop the man who’s been coming everyday to sit outside the subway wearing a blue raincoat and dark glasses, with a placard saying: “Niuniu, Dad still wants to take you home.” He was trolled on social media for “hyping” and “giving a handle to foreign forces”, till a reporter found out that ‘Raincoat Dad’s’ only daughter, herself a mother, was one of the 12 who’d died in the flooded subway. For him, time has since stood still.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-57
03-08-2021||Opinion||Trading dreams for debt||When the ministry of education released the All India Survey on Higher Education 2019-20 report, the only detail that caught the fancy of media commentators was the marginal surpassing of men’s enrolment ratio by women. The fact that professional streams of education still remained hugely over-populated by men at all levels went unnoticed. And, therefore, despite the fractional increase in overall access, a professional career — one of the declared aims of tertiary/post-tertiary training — was to remain as unlikely an opportunity for women as before. Another damning aspect borne out by the report is that the average enrolments in every private unaided college dropped by nearly 4 per cent in 2019-20. Every government college continued to enrol more than double the number of students than its private counterpart — a figure that even registered a moderate increase in the latest survey period. Against such a backdrop, the decision by Bengal’s Trinamul Congress government to make good its electoral promise of starting a higher education loan scheme for students belonging to the state might seem to come as a policy-antidote. Claiming to address inequities of reach within advanced stages of formal training, the ‘student credit card’ — officially notified on June 30 — would allow a higher education aspirant to draw a security-free loan of up to Rs 10 lakh on an annual simple interest rate of 4 per cent, to be repaid within 15 years from the conclusion of study. With the state government standing as guarantor to the debt, the amount may be used for funding any course of study — from private coaching centre fees to admission into private colleges or institutes of national importance to study-abroad programmes. Although self-appraisal bulletins have hailed this scheme as a first of its kind in India, it portends a regime of structural policy reform that is neither new nor innocent. The shift towards a loan-assistance model of educational provisioning implies that affordable quality education is not the right of all, but an entitlement of a ‘deserving’ few who must keep proving their credit-worthiness on the basis of means or merit. Ranged against a subsidy-model of social spending (in non-profit goods like education or health), State support is no longer made to apply to public institutions but to private individuals. This, in effect, is an insidious form of privatization of public resources. A corollary of the West Bengal government’s policy-imagination has already been seen in the Centre’s push towards institutional loans (as opposed to ‘grants’) from the Higher Education Financing Agency set up in 2017. Just as institutional debt is to be serviced through internal fee-revenue, the Mamata Banerjee government’s student credit-policy will also bring in its wake a hike in student fees across public and private institutions — with the caveat that whoever cannot afford these higher costs may avail the benefit of the loan scheme. The American higher education system has brought itself to the edge of a ‘financial catastrophe’ — with an overall student debt default of nearly 1.6 trillion dollars and more than half of college-goers still labouring under unpayable debt burdens — through identical measures. So what are the assumptions that underlie the ushering of a loan-economy in the educational sector, and how exactly do they fare with regard to contemporary trends in the field? First, to insist that a student completing a course of higher study will necessarily land a job proportionate to his/her skills and guaranteeing a dignified wage is not only an outrageous fantasy but also an obstinate denial of historical fact. The latest AISHE data, when pitted against the government’s periodic labour force survey for the quarter of April-June 2020, reveal that if 27 adults of college-going age indeed enrol in higher education, nearly 35 of a similar age group have remained unemployed — even informally. The number is even higher for women. Given the lack of data on how many of the enrolled 27 per cent actually complete their courses of study before seeking a job, this is already an index of alarming levels of near-zero-to-negative employment within the college-educated sector of student-populations. It comes as no surprise that even the National Education Policy 2020 makes a veiled reference to this ‘gig economy’ of informal labour-contracts insofar as it aims to prepare students not just “for one’s first job, but also for one’s second job, third job, and beyond.” Second, the AISHE report pegs the yearly expansion of private universities at 46 per cent and of private unaided colleges at a staggering 76 per cent of the total institutional growth in higher education. Contrast this with the revelation that the former accounts for only 25 per cent of student enrolments, and the latter claims around 45 per cent student admissions despite its fourfold spread. Furthermore, enrolment and completion rates for undergraduate courses in engineering and technology, which are largely the preserve of private institutions, have seen a steep annual decline. A student-loan scheme of the kind envisioned by the Bengal government will only serve as a bail-out provision for steadily dwindling enrolments within the private sector. Third, the scourge of online teaching in the shadow of the pandemic and the University Grants Commission’s mandate for compulsorily digitizing curriculum (in the name of ‘blended learning’) have made way for unprecedented incursions of private ed-tech capital into public-funded colleges/universities. The student credit-card will become an excuse for these public institutions to now levy user-charges for technological solutions/ infrastructures at market rates as integral to course fees. Finally, the loan application does not require any security-mortgage but implicates a “co-borrower” — typically, the debtor’s parent or legal guardian — as bound by the obligatory terms of the debt. Not only does this re-erect an inter-generational economy of debt-peonage but it also activates a whole new continuum of structural violence. The presence of the State (as the final guarantor) in every loan contract automatically makes an appeal to the manifold violences of its punitive machinery in any event of defaulting. At a time when the brick-and-mortar university is being carefully scripted into a theatre of disappearance, to pawn off the futures of students-to-be into debt-slavery is to prescribe the disease for its cure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-57
03-08-2021||Opinion||Complex games||In the year 2009, the present prime minister of Pakistan, Imran Khan, who was a vociferous critic of the Afghanistan policy of the then government of Pakistan, went to the United States of America to counter the growing perception that he was a sympathizer of the Taliban. Among his many appearances, he addressed a gathering of Pakistani Americans in Brooklyn’s Midwood area, which is called New York’s Little Pakistan neighbourhood. That dialogue with the Taliban was the only way to bring peace to Afghanistan was the substantive part of his speech. Khan, who is from Pakistan’s Punjab but has Pashtun ancestral roots, appealed to Pakistani Americans to explain to fellow Americans the rationale behind his statements. Around 12 years later, as US troops near complete extrication from Afghanistan, the old and new contextual realities of the neighbourhood are determining the regional engagement with Afghanistan. First, Pakistan’s foundational insecurities about Pashtun nationalism seem to be influencing its Afghanistan policy. Abdul Wali Khan, the son of Abdul Ghaffar Khan, had once said that he had been a Pakistani for 30 years, a Muslim for 1,400 years and a Pathan (Pashtun) for 5,000 years. In Pakistan’s Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and the Federally Administered Tribal Areas, Pashtuns make up 78 per cent and 99 per cent of the population respectively. More importantly, Pashtun nationalism has an appeal on both sides of the 2,670-kilometre-long Durand Line, a boundary between Afghanistan and Pakistan. Moreover, many Pashtuns on both sides refuse to consider the Durand Line as a legitimate boundary. In this context, it is quite remarkable that even in the midst of the US-funded jihad against the Soviet Union in the 1980s, which is considered one of the factors behind the rise of the Taliban, organizations espousing Pashtun nationalism such as the Awami National Party continued their work undeterred. Now led de facto by the young Aimal Wali Khan, the great grandson of Abdul Ghaffar Khan, the ANP has consistently faced persecution by the Pakistani State and presumed attacks by the Taliban for voicing religious moderation. In its opposition to the Taliban and their ideology, the ANP supported the Soviet Union action in Afghanistan in the 1980s and the 2001 US invasion. In the last few years, another Pashtun-centric organization, the Pashtun Tahafuz Movement, has come into existence in Pakistan. In 2019, the Afghanistan president, Ashraf Ghani, condemned “the violence perpetrated against peaceful protesters and civil activists [of the PTM] in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Balochistan”, which the Pakistani State called interference in its internal affairs. In the current context, Ghani has alleged that there is Pakistani State support to the Taliban offensive against his forces. Second, with the exit of the US military, the myriad regional, geographical, linguistic and ethnic realities are asserting themselves. Dari, colloquially known as the Afghan dialect of Persian, is the de facto lingua franca of Afghanistan for the majority, as it is spoken and understood by more than 70 per cent of its population. The Hazaras, the third largest ethnic group after the Pashtuns and the Tajiks, have an affiliation with neighbouring Iran in terms of their Shiite Muslim identity and cultural roots. In the same vein, neighbouring Central Asian countries such as Uzbekistan and Tajikistan are directly influenced by Afghanistan as Uzbeks and Tajiks populate both sides of the border. These countries are highly controlled secular societies. In fact, even the use of social media was restricted till recently. The governing elite in the region is worried about the possible import of radical Sunni extremist ideology. In the last decade, Central Asian countries witnessed a large outflow of their nationals to fight in Iraq and Syria; they are commonly called foreign fighters of the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria. In the multilateral arena, the US and Russia have proactively cooperated in building regional counter-terrorism capacities, a rare geopolitical convergence between the two countries. In June, the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, had reportedly offered the US the use of Russian military bases in Central Asia for information gathering from Afghanistan. Third, the Taliban’s political vision is the extreme and rigid interpretation of Deobandi Islam. Historically, Deobandi Islam has had an appeal among Pashtuns on both sides. The Deoband school of Islam started during 1866 in Deoband, which is close to Delhi. However, Pakistani scholars such as Akbar Zaidi have argued that Deobandi Islam in Pakistan has become different from its roots. This is on account of many factors, including the influence of the strict Wahhabism of Saudi Arabia. In the last 20 years, devastating attacks within Pakistan, such as the 2011 naval attack in Karachi or the Pakistan army general headquarters attack in 2009, were carried out by the Pakistani affiliate of the Taliban, the Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan, which draws the core of its cadre from the Pashtun belt of Pakistan. However, in the post-2000 phase, several extremist organizations that claim to adhere to Deobandi Islam also sprung up. A notable example is the Jaish-e-Mohammad, which was founded by Masood Azhar, born in south Punjab’s Bahawalpur. Azhar, a Deobandi cleric and a declared international terrorist by the United Nations security council, was one of the three terrorists apart from the national of the United Kingdom, Omar Sheikh, and the Srinagar resident, Mushtaq Latram, who were released on December 31, 1999 and taken to Afghanistan as part of the Indian Airlines Flight 814 hostage deal. The JeM took responsibility for the Pulwama attacks of February 14, 2019 and was allegedly responsible for the attacks on the Jammu and Kashmir legislative assembly on October 1, 2001 and the Indian Parliament on December 13, 2001. Within Pakistan there had been several attacks by the JeM. On December 26, 2003, nearly a year after the JeM was banned, it made an unsuccessful bid to assassinate the then president, Pervez Musharraf. In 2002, Daniel Pearl, an American journalist, was kidnapped and later allegedly beheaded by Omar Sheikh. The Taliban’s growing strength in Afghanistan may enhance fund-raising and cadre recruitment of Deobandi extremist organizations across Pakistan. These groups are in competition with outfits such as the Lashkar-e-Toiba, which draws its inspiration from another regional conservative movement, that of Ahl-i Hadith. In view of all this, the withdrawal of the US from Afghanistan and the ongoing ascendancy of the Taliban in the country are set to bring about greater regional volatility. The reality is proving to be a lot more complex than what was articulated by Imran Khan in 2009 as an Opposition leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-57
