04-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Dual challenge||India’s health crises are multipronged, even though the focus of policy interventions and public attention remains trained on the Covid-19 pandemic. Household surveys conducted by the Union government have shown that more than 50 per cent of children below the age of five, adolescent girls between 15 and 19 years, and women of reproductive age have anaemia or haemoglobin levels below 12 grams per decilitre. The National Family Health Survey 2019-20 found little change in India’s anaemia figures since the NFHS 2015-16. There is worrying news on another front. Data published by Ashoka University show that stunting is much more likely among Dalit children in areas where caste-based untouchability is prevalent. This finding is consistent with NFHS data that have shown that India has 40.6 million stunted children; this figure makes up a third of the total number of stunted children under the age of five globally. India’s struggle to meet the health challenges of anaemia and stunting points to a common problem: the persistent crisis in nutrition. A vast section of Indian citizens remains out of the ambit of food and nutrition in a nation with one of the world’s most extensive food security programmes. A part of the problem lies in institutional leakages and lethargy. But other kinds of challenges are emerging. For instance, there have been shortcomings in the implementation of the Common Application Software, conceptualized in 2017 under the Poshan Abhiyaan with the objective of monitoring the nutrition of pregnant or lactating women and children in real time. The reliance on digitization initiatives that are yet to acquire a mass profile has also undermined public welfare. In Jharkhand, hunger deaths have been attributed to problems in linkages between ration cards and Aadhaar profiles, restricting access to food especially for those on the margins. At other times, there is policy shorn of imagination. The Centre’s solution for anaemia — it has proposed the mandatory fortification of rice with iron — has been criticized by health experts. Not only are there flaws in the government’s data-gathering modules but mandatory fortification, the experts say, could lead to health complications. Tackling such multifaceted problems surrounding health would require enhanced public awareness, targeted and informed policy interventions and the roping in of experts with a better understanding of realities on the ground.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-56
04-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Babul Supriyo quits politics, Bezwada Wilson calls out govt on manual scavenging||Fickle minds Sir — It seems that there is no end to drama in politics. Only a few days back, the Bharatiya Janata Party leader, Babul Supriyo, had proclaimed on social media that he would quit politics. In spite of editing his post — he removed the point where he had said that he would not be joining any other party for which he later gave a dubious explanation — he stuck to his decision of quitting. Now, within two days, Supriyo has changed his mind again. After a meeting with the party president, J.P. Nadda, Supriyo has decided to stay on in the BJP, and serve as a member of parliament. One would think that welfare of the masses requires people who are determined by nature to be at the helm. Clearly, that is not the case. But can one blame leaders lower in the party’s ladder? If the prime minister sets the norm of taking sudden measures at will — demonetization and the national lockdown included — other members of the party can do little but follow suit. Pratiksha Biswas,Calcutta Sir — Babul Supriyo recently declared that he was quitting politics and rescinded his claim soon after. People often leave and join political parties but this announcement was different. Supriyo made no bones about stating that he was upset at having been dropped from the Union cabinet. Supriyo has had it rough with the BJP’s state unit as well. He has not been on good terms with state chief, Dilip Ghosh, or, indeed, much of the unit itself. Known for his short temper, he has courted controversy several times. He was once caught on camera allegedly slapping his own party worker and, on another occasion,threatening a man to break his leg at a function for the differently abled. His resignation was dramatic too. If Supriyo wanted to resign as an MP, he should have followed protocol. Instead, he took to social media to stir up a storm in a teacup. In any case, as expected, Supriyo has found a way to retain his position. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai in the open Sir — The activist, Bezwada Wilson, called out the Union government on its claim that no one died on account of manual scavenging in the last five years by asserting that at least 472 manual scavengers lost their lives while cleaning human excreta during this period and adding that it was a conservative figure. The government was too clever by half when it used the term, ‘manual scavenging’, in the narrow sense of cleaning dry latrines to deny the deaths. Cleaning septic tanks and sewers, too, is manual scavenging. This denial on the part of the Centre has inevitably drawn comparison with its recent denial of deaths of critically ill Covid-19 patients owing to oxygen shortage. The government has clearly developed the habit of denying unpalatable truths to save its image. The practice of manual scavenging should end not just because it involves the risk of death but also because it is a remnant of the caste system built on outdated notions. The regressive view that manual scavenging is an ‘internal spiritual activity’ no less than the prime minister made this claim — must change. Its prevalence as an inherited occupation in spite of its ban invalidates India’s claim to modernity. Provided it gets its priorities right and has the political will, the government can put in place systems for human waste disposal and take steps to empower manual scavengers. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-56
04-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: More to come||Speculation that the Narendra Modi-led government may decide on a delimitation exercise before the 2024 general elections is cause for concern among Opposition-ruled states. Recently, Shashi Tharoor, the Congress member of parliament, referred to this possibility, describing the reapportioning of seats in Parliament as a serious threat, because the southern states would then no longer form an ‘effective bloc’ there. Manish Tewari, the Congress leader, too, mentioned a ‘proposal’ for delimitation he had heard of. He said that the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government planned to increase Lok Sabha seats from 543 to 1,000; the Lok Sabha chamber in the new Parliament building in the Central Vista would have space for 1,000 seats. Delimitation, the redrawing of the boundaries of assembly and Lok Sabha constituencies, becomes necessary with changes in population, since some equivalence is sought in the number of electors that each legislator represents. It is meant to take place, therefore, after each census, although the practice was frozen by constitutional mandate till 2026 some years ago. One reason for this was to view the results of population control measures before readjusting constituencies for proportional representation. The Opposition has apprehensions that the BJP might push through a constitutional amendment to conduct delimitation before 2024 by force of its majority in Parliament. That, according to the Opposition’s perceptions, would be advantageous to the BJP. Since delimitation depends on population figures, those states which have successfully controlled population growth would lose out on parliamentary seats. In the federal union envisaged by the Constitution-makers, this would not have mattered, but things are different now. The southern states, with better results in population control, fear losing some seats, or gaining less than states in the north — Uttar Pradesh would gain considerably, for example — because they have been less successful in controlling their populations. In an India afflicted with the BJP’s divisive attitude, the political, cultural and linguistic opposition of the South may then lose some of its impact in Parliament. The possibility of a pre-2024 delimitation may have been strengthened by the fact that Mr Modi’s government has been rattled by BJP defeats in a couple of states and by criticism of its handling of the pandemic, farmers’ protests and the suspected use of spyware on Indian citizens. A Lok Sabha further loaded in its favour would be useful.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-56
04-08-2021||Opinion||Towards a deeper partnership||After a gap of eight years, India and the European Union agreed to resume negotiations on the Bilateral Trade and Investment Agreement at the India-EU leaders’ meeting in May. Despite being described as ‘natural partners’ owing to their vibrant democracies, India and the EU have found it difficult to reach an agreement on issues such as market access, climate change and multilateralism in the past, and India-EU trade talks lost steam around 2009. Both India and the EU have articulated the need for a rules-based global order, and the Covid-19 crisis provides a common ground to forge a meaningful partnership. At a time when most economies are keen to diversify supply chain linkages, the India-EU trade dialogue assumes new significance. While China continues to be a major trading partner for the EU, the latter wants other partners. Trade and investment flows between India and the EU have been growing even without a free trade agreement. In the past decade, goods trade between India and the EU increased by 72 per cent and foreign investment inflows to India from the EU more than doubled. As of 2020, the EU is India’s third-largest trading partner and the second-largest destination for Indian exports. But India accounted for only 1.8 per cent of the EU’s total trade, suggesting room for growth. India’s sizeable middle class, in turn, offers a large market for the EU. Will the India-EU FTA negotiations be successful this time? Countries enter into trade agreements not only for economic gains but also to pursue foreign policy goals. The success of trade negotiations between nations often depends on the convergence of strategic considerations of the parties involved. In the past, misplaced perceptions and differing strategic contexts have caused bottlenecks in India-EU relations. India is sensitive about its sovereign decision-making space and calls for strategic autonomy in foreign policy-making. It is mindful of advancing and defending its core interests through multilateral engagement, especially while negotiating on issues such as trade, investments and climate change. Disagreements on trade-related issues, such as tariff reductions, the extent of market access in various sectors and services liberalization, intellectual property rights and public procurement policies, have been conspicuous. From the EU’s point of view, India has been unwilling to provide market access in the dairy and automotive sector. India, on the other hand, perceives the EU to be reluctant in providing access to the services market. Moreover, the EU’s insistence on the inclusion of labour and environment standards in its trade agreements appeared to be a non-tariff barrier for India. The disconnect between India and the EU on the issues of climate change was evident on many occasions. In the 2009 Copenhagen climate-change negotiations, India’s stance — to focus on per capita emissions rather than on emissions in absolute terms — was against the EU’s standpoint of fixing binding emission reduction targets. This followed from India’s perception that consenting to the EU’s standards of climate change action would thwart India’s industrialization. The discordance between India and the EU became more stark in the subsequent negotiations of the Copenhagen Accord as India chose to join hands with Brazil, South Africa, China and the United States of America instead of the EU. The EU has, however, shown interest in adaptation strategies of late, and India has expressed its commitment to climate change mitigation. Both sides have now begun focusing on deliverables, with India-EU spearheading cooperation on clean energy, climate change, clean technology and sustainable infrastructure since the EU-India summit in 2016. The larger geopolitical developments against the backdrop of the pandemic are likely to pave the way for strengthening the partnership. Covid-19 exposed vulnerabilities arising out of the interconnectedness of global supply chains, risks of protectionism, contested global leadership and dwindling faith in multilateral institutions. India and the EU can leverage their strategic autonomy and coordinate in addressing the crisis of multilateralism and revamping multilateral systems, managing pandemic-induced shocks, and addressing export restrictions and other TRIPS-related issues. China’s expanding global footprint in the Indo-pacific region provides yet another context for New Delhi and Brussels to collaborate. Although the EU-China economic ties remain strong, the EU needs like-minded partners to balance China’s strategic ambitions. Ever since it pulled out of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership, India has been keen to sign FTAs with the West. In doing so, India wants to signal that it is open to FTAs and the free movement of trade and investment flows. Nevertheless, challenges remain. First, India’s tariff rates have increased since the last negotiation of BITA, 2007. Second, India’s exports in the European market face stiff competition from the Asean economies, specifically from Vietnam as the EU-Vietnam FTA has already been concluded. Third, despite an increase in services trade between India and the EU, India is likely to face difficulty in negotiating cross-border trade of services and the easy movement of professionals. This is aggravated by non-synchronization of rules pertaining to work permits, visa, professional qualifications and so on across the EU nations. As a way forward, India should learn from the mistakes made during RCEP negotiations. A thorough analysis of sectoral competitiveness in the EU market and ways to channelize imports in export-production is imperative before going to the negotiating table. Most importantly, unlike in the RCEP negotiation, industry representatives should be made active participants in the India-EU trade negotiations, thus ensuring better utilization of FTA. Finally, the EU-India FTA, being comprehensive in nature, may be a long-drawn process. Therefore, a sustained dialogue and cooperation between India-EU is paramount in the pursuit of a meaningful FTA. Devasmita Jena is Assistant Professor at Madras School of Economics; Manasi Singh is Assistant Professor at Centre for Security Studies, Central University of Gujarat||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-56
04-08-2021||Opinion||Different pace||On June 25, 2021, China operationalized the 435-kilometre-long Lhasa-Nyingchi railway line in the southwest of the Tibet Autonomous Region. At 10.30 am, a green bullet train carrying a large number of passengers left Lhasa railway station for Nyingchi, leading to much celebration in Tibet and in China. In India, this event was noted for the fact that it brought the Chinese railway closer to the Indian border in Arunachal Pradesh. But for us, it was a one-day wonder; soon we plunged into our own worries, our own affairs, and our own petty concerns. We completely ignored the engineering and technological marvel this project represented. Here are some facts: i. The railway is situated in the valley between the Gangdise mountains and the Himalayas on the Qinghai-Tibet plateau, and over 90 per cent of the track is at an altitude of 3,000 metres above the sea level. ii. As noted already, it is a 435-km-long railway line. iii. It has a designed speed of 160 kms-360 kms per hour. It is a bullet train of the Fuxing type that operates in Tibet. iv. It is a single-track line but is fully electrified. v. It can handle both passenger and goods traffic. vi. It covers the distance between the two stations in three and a half hours, reducing travel time from 5 hours to 3.5 hours. vii. It provides southeast Tibet with a railway service for the first time. viii. The railway line passes through 47 tunnels and 121 bridges and crosses the Yarlung river 16 times. These tunnels and bridges account for 75 per cent of the total length of the line. ix. More than 130,000 workers were employed to construct this line and they worked at an altitude of 3,000 metres above the sea level most of the time because 90 per cent of the railway line is at that altitude and higher. x. The line’s annual freight capacity is 10 million tonnes. xi. It brings the Chinese railway close to the Indian border and gives it unmatched capacity to move military personnel and equipment speedily in case of an emergency, thereby providing it with strategic advantage against India. xii. The construction of the line began in March 2015 and was completed in June 2021, in a little over six years. My attention was drawn to this engineering feat by China because I was making enquiries about the completion of my favourite railway line between Koderma and Ranchi via Hazaribagh in Jharkhand. It is my favourite railway line because ever since I started my political career in Hazaribagh, I was told that anyone who fulfilled this long- cherished dream of getting Hazaribagh connected by rail would be remembered by the people of Hazaribagh for a long time. So I took up the challenge. I soon realized that this dream could be turned into reality in three ways: first, there could be such a mass uprising for this line that the Government of India would be left with no option but to give in to the popular demand. Second, the line was necessitated by urgent and unavoidable economic reasons and, third, by an interested person who had enough influence in the GoI to get it done. I tried the first option first. I announced that we would sit on a dharna on the national highway connecting Patna to Ranchi via Hazaribagh. I expected massive crowds to turn up for the dharna as the rasta roko was being organized for their benefit. But only a few of us turned up at the appointed time. Undaunted, we still sat on dharna on the road. We were soon rounded up by the police and sent to jail. The people of Hazaribagh were not stirred. They wanted the railway line but wanted someone else to carry the can. The second option was a non-starter as there was no overwhelming economic reason yet for the construction of this railway line. Ultimately, it was the third reason that worked. I became the finance minister of India in March 1998 by chance and Nitish Kumar the railway minister. In those days, the finance minister used to examine and approve the railway budget before the prime minister accorded his final approval. So when Nitish Kumar met me with the draft railway budget, I pleaded with him to get the construction of Koderma-Hazaribagh-Ranchi railway line included in the budget. He obliged and that is how this project saw the light of day. Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee travelled to Koderma to lay the foundation stone of the railway line in March 1999. I kept monitoring the progress of the line as long as I was MP of Hazaribagh. It was with a lot of effort and continuous monitoring that the line up to Hazaribagh was completed by the end of 2014, a distance of 80 kms. I invited Prime Minister Narendra Modi to inaugurate the line; he kindly agreed and the Koderma-Hazaribagh section of the line was inaugurated by him on February 20, 2015 much to the delight of the people of Hazaribagh and those en route. The work of construction up to Ranchi is still going on. The total distance between Koderma to Ranchi via Hazaribagh is 196 kms. The proposed date for completion of the line up to Ranchi is December 2021. Even if the Indian railways kept that date, it would have taken us 22 years to complete a railway line covering a distance of 211 kms. I am mentioning the example of the two railway lines, one in India and the other in China, to underscore the vast difference in approach of the two countries as far as project formulation and execution are concerned. I am not going into the reasons for the rampant time and cost overruns involved in the execution of projects in India and, surprisingly, even material over-runs in many projects. India cannot be a great country with such lethargy in project execution. Yashwant Sinha is a former Union finance minister of India||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-56
