05-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Lost interest||Children have been victims of the pandemic in a particular sense. As cases began to rise and schools were forced to shut down, students were left with no choice but to accustom themselves to the ‘new normal’ of online schooling. This magnified the challenges to learning outcomes that are often the result of entrenched socio-economic differences. Recent reports show that these gaps have manifested themselves not just in access to education and participation rates as is often discussed, but also in interest and quality of learning outcomes. Virtual classes have thrown up significant challenges for learners and teachers. Online schooling has often been reduced to drudgery, robbing young minds of the joy of participatory, collaborative education integral to the experience of learning in the physical classroom. Teachers are not being able to assess whether learners have understood a concept during online sessions — a further drop in learning abilities would be a matter of concern in a country where only 28.1 per cent of students of Class III were able to perform basic subtraction. The loss is not limited to knowledge gathering. Online education — the government has been an enthusiastic endorser of the medium — seems to extract a significant social price. According to a Unicef report, prolonged confinement at home has deprived children of such skills as social bonding that is made possible by real time interactions with peers in school. The impact of these truncated experiences synonymous with growing up is likely to be quite severe on the mental health of children. There is thus an urgent need to assess the impact of online education on learning abilities. But the government seems to be in no hurry. Ironically, the Centre has cited the pandemic as an excuse to postpone by a year the routine, three-yearly National Achievement Survey conducted to assess the learning standards of students of Classes III, V, VIII and X. Reliable data about the limitations thrown up by these surveys would have been of critical importance to address the gaps in online education. But if the government’s mindless push towards online and vocational education in the National Education Policy at the cost of the overall learning experience is any indication, policymakers are increasingly viewing education and learning from a narrow, utilitarian perspective. This instrumental attitude could prove to be disastrous to India’s pursuit of transforming itself into a knowledge economy in the future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-55
05-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Assam-Mizoram border clash, Gianmarco Tamberi and Mutaz Essa Barshim share Olympic gold||On fire Sir — The clash between the police forces of Assam and Mizoram last month that led to the death of six police officers and a civilian is shameful (“Fault lines”, July 29). The incident calls for a thorough investigation by the Centre. The failure of the state governments to diffuse the conflict is a matter of great concern given the sensitive situation in the region. It is in the best interest of both the states to maintain peace and harmony in the disputed area and prevent further escalation of violence. It has been difficult to establish peace in the Northeast. After decades of insurgencies and political instability, the region has now slowly begun to bury the ghosts of the past and move towards development. Assam must strive towards resolving the boundary disputes through consensus, compromise and confidence-building. Other states, too, must work towards finding an amicable solution. Himangka Kaushik,Guwahati Sir — It is alarming that seven people lost their lives and over 60 were injured in an armed conflict between the police personnel of Assam and Mizoram. Interstate border disputes have been festering in the Northeast since colonial times, but an escalation to this extent betrays a complete failure of the law-and-order mechanism. The incapability of the successive chief ministers of the two states to resolve the border issue indicates that there is a lack of effort from both sides. Both Assam and Mizoram have accused the other of encroaching upon their territories. It is unfortunate that the bloody clash took place between the police forces of a state ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party and another where the saffron party is part of the ruling alliance. This clearly shows that there are fissures between the BJP and its allies. The Central government must try to resolve this at the earliest. With the Indo-China and Indo-Pakistan border disputes dominating the public discourse, problems in the northeastern states are often overlooked by policymakers. The Union government must find solutions acceptable to all stakeholders before such clashes take place elsewhere in the region. It is not enough for the home minister, Amit Shah, to ask both chief ministers to ensure peace at the border. The Centre must take an active role in settling the matter. S.K. Choudhury,Bangalore Shared glory Sir — In a rare display of sportsmanship, Italy’s Gianmarco Tamberi and Qatar’s Mutaz Essa Barshim decided to share the gold medal in men’s high jump at the Tokyo Olympics instead of going for a jump-off after a tie. The athletes executed the first six jumps up to 2.37 metres; but even after three additional attempts, neither succeeded in matching the Olympic record of 2.39 metres for the sole ownership of the title. Both athletes were exhausted and opted to share the victory. This development has delighted spectators around the world and will certainly be remembered as one of the most heart-warming moments of the Tokyo Olympics. The ultimate goal of the Olympic Games is to cultivate friendship and cooperation among countries through sports. Moments like these enrich the Games. Venu G.S.,Kollam, Kerala Sir — The decision of Gianmarco Tamberi and Mutaz Essa Barshim to share the gold medal at the Tokyo Olympics in the high jump event has endeared them to all. The athletes have shown that the true spirit of sportsmanship lies in cooperation and mutual respect. Amit Kundu,Calcutta  Modelling change Sir — Recently, Mattel unveiled a Barbie modelled after Sarah Gilbert, the co-creator of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, in an effort to inspire young girls to work in STEM subjects. Over the years, Mattel has attempted to launch inclusive toys, but research has shown that playing with Barbie — its portrayal of the female body is problematic — can reinforce cultural stereotypes about women. While the toys may not have the desired impact, financial donations by Mattel to organizations dedicated to the education of women can go a long way in contributing to their welfare. Aishi Sengupta,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-56
05-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Stalemate||Swallowing a bitter pill is seldom a pleasant experience. The prime minister, Narendra Modi, has lashed out at the Opposition for stalling proceedings in Parliament. It is possible that the Opposition — it is protesting against the Centre’s refusal to address its concerns on a range of issues, including allegations of surveillance against the government as well as its refusal to roll back the controversial farm laws — may have simply taken a leaf out of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s book of parliamentary conduct. After all, the BJP had paralysed the 15th Lok Sabha — its productivity was the worst in five decades — with its leaders claiming that the stifling of the august House was a form of democratic protest. Mr Modi is crying foul, with the proverbial boot now on the other foot. Of course, the Indian Parliament has had a sorry history of being unproductive as an institution. Unfortunately, the monsoon session is not proving to be an exception. Data suggest that repeated disruptions have led to over 80 per cent of Parliament’s time being wasted, with the two Houses clocking an abysmal 17 per cent productivity. The consequences can be ominous for public welfare and democracy. For instance, several bills have been rushed through by the government amidst the din without adequate scrutiny and discussion. This absence of deliberation goes against the democratic ethos and is likely to strengthen public endorsement of a presidential, as opposed to parliamentary, form of governance. There is certainly a case for raising the number of working days for Parliament: this was one of the suggestions that was put forward in the course of a historic conference in 2001 that was attended by luminaries cutting across party lines. A higher number of working days for parliamentarians would give the Opposition more time to put forward its views or contest those presented by the government. At the moment, the government’s business is given precedence. But the greater impediment is the erosion in the compact of cooperation between government and Opposition. Mr Modi leads an obtuse, arrogant dispensation that seems to believe that debate is entirely dispensable. An enlivened Opposition would have none of it. The deadlock, a recurrent feature in recent times, is inimical to the health of parliamentary democracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-56
05-08-2021||Opinion||The value of learning about death||In recent times our lives have been relentlessly punctuated by news of death. During this bewildering period, we have lived intimately with loss and grief and learned afresh about last rites and closure. Most of us wish to believe in the immortality of the soul, its liberation from the body and its new life beyond worldly cares — indeed, in some subcultures, death is a cause for joyous celebrations. Yet, it is hard for most of us to accept this inescapable feature of life. Immersed in loss and sadness, I have begun to think about the incompleteness of our education. Children are taught about the life cycles of living creatures, their reproductive systems and about their birth, growth and development, but we keep them ignorant about the process of ageing and death. The widespread deaths and untold losses generated by the ongoing pandemic have left almost every family profoundly affected. In the wake of these tragedies, we have come to realize, with a deep sense of inadequacy, that adults are generally ill-equipped to help children deal with bereavement. Yet we are content to leave our children vulnerable because we flinch at the very thought of discussing with them the taboo topic of death. No wonder there are so many euphemisms for ‘death’. So, when a person dies, the preferred terms are ‘demise’, ‘passing on’ (or ‘away’), ‘going to her heavenly abode’, ‘attaining liberation’ and so on. Adults deal with death in different ways. While alive, we pretend that it does not exist. Some of us even refrain from pronouncing the dreaded word lest its utterance cause death to make a sudden and unwelcome call. Another coping mechanism is to joke about death to make it less fearsome. Grandma exclaims, “Do you know what Rana said when I told him that he would get my coin collection when I die? He asked, when will you die, Granny?” This exchange causes much laughter and there the matter ends. Children believe that death happens to very old people. Perhaps they don’t think too much about it till it actually happens to someone they love. Eventually, Grandma becomes a bright star in the sky and Granddad looks down from a picture on the wall. The other day a colleague sent me a cinquain written by a young student: “Small feet/ Her crooked smile/ Picture frame on the wall/ Looking down, a garland around/ Alone.” I realized with shock that we adults don’t know what children’s minds make of death and disappearance. When we are relatively young and death seems far away and unreal, some of us grandly declare how we wish to die, what kind of funeral or memorial service we want and how we would like to be remembered. As we get older, a few of us begin to prepare for death in a practical way. Döstädning or ‘death cleaning’ is a Swedish practice which prompts ageing people to set their affairs in order, so as not to leave behind a thankless mess for one’s family to disentangle. Perhaps we should emulate this practice. All these thoughts have made me feel the need to teach children about death in the same way that we try to teach them about life. Perhaps we should let them grow up knowing that death is as real as life and all living creatures will die when their time comes. There should be nothing morbid or frightening about these lessons but just a dispassionate learning of the truth. What happens after death is, of course, related to individual beliefs or the belief systems of different cultures and religions. Most creeds promote the belief that a person moves into a new phase after death, but some individuals may not believe in life after death. A child may reflect on death on her own but is likely to ask adults questions. It is up to adults to make the child accept reality, make her feel loved and secure and at the same time abstain from filling her mind up with falsities. While talking to children about death, some people refer to heaven as the place where all good people eventually go. However, unwittingly, they portray heaven as a singularly unattractive place. As a child, I remember being completely put off by the supposedly wonderful paradise populated by harp-carrying angels and chubby cherubs atop billowy clouds. I certainly did not wish to be perpetually good in order to be ultimately transferred there. Instead of being in constant ‘death denial’ mode, we should talk freely, openly and naturally about death. This will help children in the long run. I believe that if children are brought up to understand that life is just a span of time on earth, it would be less traumatic for them to face the death of a family member or a pet. When adults try to shield their children from death, they don’t realize that children witness it all the time. Wilting flowers, a dead insect, the end of a day (signified by nightfall) — all signify death. However, there is a big difference. There will be a new day, different insects and fresh flowers, but their dead pet or grandparent (in some tragic cases a dead parent or sibling) will not come back. We rush to comfort children who have faced sudden bereavement but fail to do so at a deeper level. It is a serious shortcoming on our part that we deny our young an appropriate death education. Instead of keeping things associated with death shrouded in darkness and mystery, some countries have woven death education into the school curriculum and older children are also informed about euthanasia, the writing of wills and the disposal of bodies. Having expressed these brave words, I now need to confess that, deep inside, I feel like the person who famously declared: “I’m not afraid of death; I just don’t want to be there when it happens.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-56
05-08-2021||Opinion||Democracy’s temple||There are many scholars and others with a nodding acquaintance of scholarship who love prefacing the contemporary experience of countries such as India with the term, ‘post-colonial’. As a chronological expression, this is unexceptionable. However, post-colonial comes with a great deal of excess baggage, some necessary, some imaginatively contrived, and most well beyond the comprehension of those outside an academic bubble. Post-colonial also comes with its own set of values, mostly the creation of talented individuals whose greatest regret in life is that they have been kept at a distance from political power. Judged by this value system, parliamentary democracy is a system of government that was implanted in the colonies by rulers who either knew nothing better or were too intellectually lazy to consider other possibilities. Echoing Mahatma Gandhi and some others who felt that robust decision-making in a country such as India ought to have been based on village councils — the panchayats — and other indigenous institutions, the conviction is that the whole business of Constitution-making that accompanied the unravelling of the British Empire (or, for that matter, its French counterpart) was inherently flawed. It was thought to be a culturally disruptive exercise because the post-colonial elites were created in the mirror image of their erstwhile colonial masters. In the evocative language of Nirad C. Chaudhuri, Indians always aspired to be an integral part of the British Empire but felt short-changed because subjecthood was not accompanied by citizenship. At the same time, “all that was good and living within us was made, shaped, and quickened by... British rule.” By this logic, the emulation of the pure ideals of the Westminster form of democratic government — what Dadabhai Naoroji deemed the removal of the “un-British” facets of British rule — was a compelling purpose behind the restoration of sovereignty to Indians. Chaudhuri was no admirer of Jawaharlal Nehru, a man who distanced his anti-colonialism from his association with the civic culture of Britain. But their ideas did have a convergence. Consequently, a mischievous thought arises: what did India’s first prime minister have in mind in his speech to the Constituent Assembly on August 14-15, 1947, when he spoke of giving expression to the “soul of a nation, long suppressed”? Dissecting the mind of Nehru is a fashionable pastime, not least in today’s context when the consensus he crafted is being challenged. However, it is undeniable that apart from the old Dominions that internalized the political culture of the ‘mother country’, India is perhaps the only former colony that has broadly adhered to democracy and the parliamentary form of government for over seven decades. Most of the other territories that were coloured red in the pre-1939 map of the world have deviated in one way or another since regaining national sovereignty — although, as in the case of Sri Lanka, this may not have resulted in the abdication of democracy. The deification of parliamentary democracy is now deep-rooted in India. During the Emergency, Indira Gandhi may have set up a committee headed by Sardar Swaran Singh — otherwise known for his redoubtable skills in prevarication — to report on the feasibility of a presidential form of government. Her resounding defeat in 1977 put paid to all such plans and they were never revived when she returned to power in 1980. True, there are those who still argue for a presidential system (or at least a variant of the French system, as in Sri Lanka). But apart from drawing-room conversations, a departure from the present parliamentary system has not found acceptance. On the contrary, references to Parliament as the ‘temple of democracy’ are recurrent. In 2014, on entering the circular building designed by Sir Herbert Baker for the first time as both prime minister and member of Parliament, Narendra Modi knelt and touched his forehead on the steps of this ‘temple’ of modern India. Indeed, so strong is the attraction of MPs, both past and present, to the present Parliament building — admittedly lacking in many modern facilities and good housekeeping — that there is some resistance to moving to a new building in 2022. The acknowledgement of Parliament as a pillar of Indian democracy runs quite deep. The five thick volumes of the proceedings of the Constituent Assembly enjoy an iconic status in India, almost equivalent to that of the Federalist Papers in the United States of America. The speeches of the founding fathers are routinely cited in political debates and even in the judgments of the high courts and the Supreme Court. Elements in the Constitution enjoy an elevated, scriptural status of being the ‘basic structure’ that is inviolable by subsequent Parliaments. Although — and unlike Westminster — parliamentary sovereignty is circumscribed by the principle of judicial review, the belief that its decisions are special runs through the political discourse. While fiercely guarding their own status, even judicial pronouncements seek constant parliamentary endorsement — as happened with modifications in personal laws. In the mythology of Indian politics, parliamentarians also enjoy a special status. Despite his occasional bouts of bad temper, Nehru is held up as a leader who accorded exceptional importance to Parliament and who participated in the crucial debates of the day. Atal Bihari Vajpayee made his mark as an old-style orator and his interventions were appreciated across party lines. The respectability enjoyed by the communists among opinion-makers owed greatly to the performances of MPs such as Hiren Mukherjee, Indrajit Gupta, Bhupesh Gupta and Jyotirmoy Basu. And, of course, there were special characters such as the noisy Raj Narain, the clinical Minoo Masani, and the Falstaffian wit, Piloo Mody. Together, these individuals contributed to the establishment of Parliament as India’s most exclusive political club whose membership was sought after by good people. Of course, Parliament also held out a strong attraction for the disreputable. The sanctity and exclusivity of Parliament as an institution owed substantially to the fact that over the decades it developed a robust culture and traditions of its own. Once upon a time, it was Erskine May’s collation of parliamentary procedures in Westminster that was the guide. Today, it has been replaced by Kaul and Shakdher’s and, lately, by Subhash Kashyap’s work on the subject — pointers to the fact that Parliament, like cricket, has ceased to be regarded as an inappropriate foreign import. The two principles that made Parliament work effectively are incredibly simple. First, the decision of the Chair was deemed to be final. By implication, the Chair was expected to be non-partisan and a stickler for the rule book. Secondly, Parliament provided for a member to be heard — even if he/she was talking rot — with at least the pretence of courtesy. Regrettably, these assumptions have been both challenged and brazenly disregarded in recent days. The disruption of proceedings by a boisterous Opposition isn’t unique — it has been happening on a routine basis since the mid-1990s — and no party can be absolved of responsibility. Yet, two features stand out. First, the disrespect of the Chair by MPs shouting slogans from the Well of the House has crossed all boundaries. Today, the flaunting of placards has also become the new norm. Secondly, in a new twist to the protests, errant MPs have begun moving across benches to drown out fellow members who have dared to make their interventions above the slogan-shouting. This was the treatment meted out to members of the Biju Janata Dal, the Telugu Desam Party and the YSR Congress in the Rajya Sabha last Tuesday. West Bengal’s role in the derailment of parliamentary conventions has been seminal. A few more similar incidents and the demand for a presidential form of government will become unstoppable. Parliament is making itself dysfunctional.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-56
