06-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Fight over 'papri chaat' and fish||Food fight Sir — It seems that political leaders of the day would rather eat than eat their words. The Trinamul Congress leader, Derek O’Brien, was recently seen tucking into plates of papri chaat to prove the innocuousness of his comment comparing the passing of bills in Parliament with making papri chaat. This remark has apparently offended the government so much that the Union minister, Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, hit back by asking O’Brien to have fish curry — the dish is a Bengali staple — if he so preferred. At least O’Brien seems to be making amends; one wonders how Naqvi will get out of this soup. Debdeep Kar,Calcutta Bold words Sir — The chief minister of Bihar, Nitish Kumar, has asserted that investigation into the Pegasus snooping scandal “should definitely be done” (“Nitish backs Pegasus probe”, Aug 3). He heads the state government with the Bharatiya Janata Party, which has made its reluctance towards such a probe adequately clear. Kumar must be aware that his take on the matter is likely to have an adverse impact on the functioning of his government. But, as behoves a person of his stature, he has prioritized propriety over diplomacy. The attitude of the Union government in dealing with the Pegasus imbroglio is intriguing. In the recent past, when Western media were vocal against the Indian government for allowing election rallies and gatherings — the Kumbh Mela is an example — thereby causing further spread of Covid-19 in the country, the ruling party had dubbed it an anti-India propaganda led by the foreigners. However, its response to the Pegasus case is strikingly different. Pegasus is a spyware of foreign origin. If it has indeed been used to infringe on the privacy of Indian citizens, why should the government turn down demands for an investigation and take it upon itself to protect some nefarious foreign country Sanjit Ghatak,South 24 Parganas Sir — Nitish Kumar’s support for the Pegasus investigation is bound to have caused a lot of consternation in the BJP camp. Kumar is surely aware that he is still chief minister owing to the BJP’s support — the Janata Dal (United) had won fewer seats than its ally in the last assembly elections. This makes his decision an act of dare that is rather intriguing. Perhaps Kumar is on a good wicket as most of the major allies that the BJP had have now left and it cannot afford to lose any more friends, especially as elections are due in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh. It would be interesting to see how the other allies react to this provocation and take their own stands on the issue. Anthony Henriques,Mumbai Sir — Many have read Nitish Kumar’s decision to back the Opposition’s claim for an investigation into the Pegasus spyware controversy as a sign of the BJP’s eventual fallout with yet another ally. But perhaps Kumar has other things in mind. With the return of his rival, Lalu Prasad, in public view — the Rashtriya Janata Dal supremo made a speech after around four years at the silver jubilee celebration of his party — Kumar must have gathered that he needs to put his own house in order as soon as possible. What better way is there for him to begin than by strengthening his already-clean image — he is known as ‘sushasan babu’ in Bihar — and appearing righteous before his people? Biswajit Chaki,Howrah Early signs Sir — The ongoing protests in Iran as a result of a water crisis are a warning; the whole world is about to face an inevitable water shortage, which could lead to conflict, disease and even war. It is a fact that the elixir of life is fast depleting in many parts of the world. Iran has witnessed unprecedented cases of strikes and now even death for water. Mismanagement of water, ignorance of its availability in various places, thoughtless construction of dams, careless maintenance of water bodies and lack of planning to save water are some factors that lead to water shortage. If these are attended to properly, water shortage can be prevented to some extent. Climate change, resulting in irregular rainfall, is another cause for this problem. Water shortage can lead to mass migration of people, causing an imbalance in population. This would give rise to more problems — societal inequalities and tension at the regional, national or international levels. According to the World Wildlife Fund, almost 350 million people living in 100 cities across the world are at immediate risk of a water crisis. Several Indian cities, too, fall in the ‘high-risk’ category. This should not be surprising. In recent years, many towns and metros have experienced severe water scarcity. The South African city of Cape Town and the Indian city, Chennai, have recently become ‘water-wise’ — they have learnt to collect, conserve, and use water prudently. Such methods should be followed everywhere. Water conservation techniques, recycling of effluents, making mandatory water-harvesting methods mandatory, proper groundwater extraction, installing desalination plants, and stopping the encroachment of water bodies can also help avoid severe water scarcity. M. Pradyu,Kannur||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-55
06-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Light dawns||Wisdom, much like the Revolution, can dawn belatedly. That, at least, seems to be the case with the wise men in Alimuddin Street. A post-mortem of the shocking debacle in the recent assembly elections in Bengal — the Communist Party of India (Marxist) failed to win a single seat in its former fief — has resulted in a note that admits that the conflation of the Trinamul Congress with the Bharatiya Janata Party resulted in sending confusing signals. The comrades, not the people, remain a confused lot. The strategic — yet another ‘historic’? — blunder of attempting to project a tacit understanding between the TMC and the BJP, the two sides of the same divisive coin according to the Marxists, only goes to show how removed the Marxists are from the reality on the ground. That the CPI(M) decided to enter into an alliance with an allegedly sectarian outfit undermined its long and cherished legacy of secularism and made the allegation of the TMC being communal ring hollow. The results show that both the charge and the party had been summarily dismissed by the people of Bengal. But then hindsight is better than ignorance. Now that the Bengal CPI(M) has managed to identify the greater adversary, it would be interesting to see the ramifications of the discovery in terms of political alignments. Already, in Tripura, where the Left had been booted out by the Right, there are whispers of the formation of an alliance that may see the CPI(M) inch towards the TMC. The latter is gearing up to challenge the BJP there. The signs of a broader consolidation of Opposition parties at the national level are emerging too. In fact, the Bengal CPI(M)’s epiphany may have been brought by a nudge from its leaders in Delhi. It must be mentioned that segments within the Left fraternity — the Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) is an example — had been opposed to the CPI(M)’s eagerness to paint the TMC and the BJP with the same brush. If a broader coalition of secular, progressive forces that includes the Left and the TMC were to take shape closer to the parliamentary elections in 2024, Bengal’s comrades would have to contend with the dilemma of being friends with Mamata Banerjee nationally and enemies in Bengal. Achieving that balancing act may demand greater wisdom.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-55
06-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Rights ruse||The Central government’s faith in fanfare is almost touching. Almost, because the fanfare is usually meant as a distraction from dark themes. Thus the Muslim Women’s Rights Day on August 1 attracted the description of ‘cynical optics’ from men, women and transpersons across religions and castes. The phrase was part of a letter written by over 600 people to the Union minority affairs minister, Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, who celebrated the self-reliance, self-confidence and self-respect of women from the minority community which, he claimed, had grown with the Centre’s enactment of the law against instant triple talaq. August 1, identified by the Narendra Modi government as the day to honour Muslim women’s rights, is the anniversary of the enactment of the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act, 2019. The law itself is highly controversial, because it criminalizes men from the minority community in a civil matter, suggesting that the government is eager for punitive measures against them. This is made even clearer by the fact that the Supreme Court had ruled in 2017 that instant triple talaq was unconstitutional — as critics point out, no law was necessary. But instant triple talaq offered the government a ruse for intervention and criminalization in the name of women’s rights. Mr Naqvi’s comments express the government’s condescension and its arrogant sense of control. The name, Muslim Women’s Rights Day, shows that the Bharatiya Janata Party cannot think without discrimination — the rights of women of one community are set apart from those of all women — while it also associates Muslim women’s empowerment with the government’s success in ramming through the law. The BJP-led government’s ceaseless efforts to put the largest minority community at a disadvantage at every level, through the nexus of citizenship laws, for example, or illicit policies against a non-existent love jihad, or by imprisoning its members for bewildering reasons or moving late when there is violence against them by cow-protection vigilantes, turn the Muslim Women’s Rights Day into a symbol of the regime’s doublespeak. That leaders right up to the prime minister refused to engage with the women sitting at Shaheen Bagh in peaceful protest against the citizenship laws even after their ardent requests indicates that the BJP may not be too anxious to face the much-celebrated rights in action.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-55
06-08-2021||Opinion||Still kept out||The recent dispute between corporates and female claimants for seats on the board has propelled the discussion on attitude towards women in business. The conflicts in the Murugappa group’s Ambadi Investments versus Valli Arunachalam and the Hinduja brothers versus Vinoo Hinduja shone a spotlight on the lack of gender parity in corporate governance. The National Stock Exchange database shows that only 2,044 of 11,416 directors and 1,235 of 5,524 independent directors of NSE-listed companies are women. Appalling as this is, 75 NSE-listed companies have no women directors on their board. Under-representation of women in boardrooms is a global phenomenon and India is no exception. With the odds already stacked against women, structural barriers and orthodoxies impede them from gaining requisite skills, knowledge and experience. Back in 2014, Amazon attempted to develop an AI recruiting tool aimed at eliminating human biases against women in leadership roles. Instead, it started penalizing résumés that mentioned terms analogous to women such as “women’s chess captain” and so on since the algorithm had been developed using the résumés of leaders in the past 15 years, all of them male. All female candidates were thus eliminated. This indicates that the issue is larger than the paternalistic nature of policies. In India, directives and judicial pronouncements have addressed the issues ailing corporate governance. Section 149(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 mandating one woman director on the board is a progressive stance, but this provision is applicable only to listed and certain public companies. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 has ensured that the one woman director mandate is implemented. As per the Kotak Committee recommendations on corporate governance, Sebi, in May 2018, mandated the appointment of at least one woman “independent” director on the board of top 500 and top 1,000 listed companies. But these directives are not enough to exhaust the patriarchal ecosystem that has pervaded the boardrooms for years. The quota system has taken the form of tokenism. It has been observed that the women members appointed are generally related to the family of the chairperson or promoters, which stations them as quota fillers. This renders the purpose of including women in the strategic decision-making process a mere box to be ticked. The issue is not limited to mindset, as can be inferred from the 2014 Amazon experiment. Industries which have traditionally been led by men have come to define leadership roles from a masculine perspective. When women in leadership adopt the same perspective and follow their instincts, they are often characterized as “unladylike” and incompetent. The registrar of companies has called out companies on several instances for failing to appoint a woman director. For instance, in ROC versus M/s Gehna Precious Metals Ltd; Re: ICOMM Tele Ltd; Re: Teamasia Semiconductors (India) Ltd; Re: MB Power (Madhya Pradesh) Ltd; and Re: GTPL Hathway Ltd. Sadly these companies are usually let off with minimal penalties that are nothing but slaps on their wrists. This indicates the frivolous attitude towards provisions of inclusion. There are numerous examples of women breaking the glass ceiling but there are even more unheard stories of women being restricted by the shackles of stereotypes and mindset. The true implementation of inclusion measures can happen only when leadership roles are redefined in a gender-neutral manner. The need of the hour is to reconsider existing provisions and include all classes of companies in the ambit. Corporate governance policies should not just offer preferential treatment but should become the basis of affirmative action. The onus lies with policymakers, key managerial persons and regulators to formulate policies that engender the spirit of gender egalitarianism in business.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-55
06-08-2021||Opinion||Remove the stain||The Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act is a blot on the nation. In no nation reputed to be civilized is there a law that allows the State to pick up literally anybody and keep the person in jail for years, without trial and without bail; and, if, at the end of the trial, whenever it occurs, the person is found innocent, then there is no question of the State being obliged to pay any compensation for the lost years in the person’s life. But this is exactly what the UAPA does. Even the British colonial government did not arrogate to itself such sweeping powers. True, it had the infamous sedition law, but the person charged under it was at least given a swift trial, not incarcerated for years awaiting it. The leaders of the freedom struggle went to jail many times and spent altogether many years in jail; but on each occasion, they never spent more than about three years in jail. Mahatma Gandhi’s longest period of incarceration was in the early 1920s: he was arrested on March 10, 1922 and sentenced to six years of imprisonment but was released on February 5, 1924, after a year and eleven months. (His jail term during the Quit India movement was even shorter). Jawaharlal Nehru’s longest period of incarceration was during the Quit India movement when he spent 1,041 days, or two years and ten months, in the Ahmednagar Fort. By contrast, some Bhima-Koregaon accused under the UAPA have already spent more than three years in jail and most others will reach the three-year mark later this month. The charges against them have not been framed, let alone their trial starting, even as the courts keep denying them bail. Meanwhile, an internationally-reputed firm, Arsenal, has conclusively established that files used as evidence against them had been planted in their computers long before their arrests. True, the revolutionaries engaged in armed struggle against colonial rule spent much longer periods in jail. But even as prominent a revolutionary as Ganesh Ghosh, who spent 14 years in the Andaman Cellular jail for participating in the Chittagong armoury raid (he joined the communist party after being released), had to spend less than two years between his arrest and the end of his trial. The practice of keeping people in jail for years without trial was uncommon even during colonial rule. We find that exactly the same holds true elsewhere in the world. Let us leave aside more recent times when the sanctity of individual freedom is widely accepted; let us go back to pre-war Germany. The accused for the Reichstag fire in 1933 which gave the Nazis the excuse to change the nature of the German State and suppress the communist party whose handiwork the fire was alleged to have been spent no more than seven months between being arrested and facing trial. Three of the four accused were released as innocent at the end of the trial; one of them, Georgi Dimitrov (later to become president of the Communist International), who acted as his own lawyer, was even allowed to call Reichsminister Hermann Goering to the witness box and cross-examine him. (Imagine one of the Bhima-Koregaon accused being allowed to cross examine the home minister, Amit Shah, in today’s India!) That was what Germany was like when Hitler became chancellor; it was to change later, of course, but then Hitler had no pretensions of being democratic and was keen to establish a fascist State which is not India’s avowed objective. The problem with the UAPA is that it completely inverts the basic principles of jurisprudence accepted in any democratic society. In most criminal cases, bail is granted as a matter of course unless there are overriding concerns relating to public interest, such as the possibility of the bailed accused tampering with evidence or putting pressure on witnesses. This is summed up in the adage, ‘bail is the rule and jail the exception’. But under the UAPA, bail is given only if there are reasonable grounds for believing that the accused is innocent. This means that even before the trial the court has to make a decision on the person’s innocence, which contradicts the basic principle that unless convicted at the end of the trial, an accused must be presumed innocent. Likewise, leaving aside the question of arrest and bail, the amendment to the UAPA enacted in July 2019 permits the State to declare not just an organization, as was the case earlier, but even an individual a terrorist. It also allows the National Investigating Agency to attach that person’s property without any reference to the police of the state government. If that individual is to escape the stigma of being labelled a terrorist, then it is incumbent on that person to prove his or her innocence; and this has to be done when all his or her property has possibly been attached by the NIA. It is not the State that has to prove the guilt of the person it has declared a terrorist, but the accused who has to prove innocence. This, again, represents an inversion of the basic principles of democratic jurisprudence. All this is in addition to the well-known fact that the definition of ‘terrorism’ under UAPA includes not just terrorist acts but even the propagation of ideas and views that supposedly have the potential to cause disaffection among the people. This can cover all views for bringing about a change in society away from the status quo. The UAPA, in short, can be used against all dissenting opinion, all critical thinking, all ideas that seek to carry India’s democratic revolution forward. It forces society into acquiescing to a status quo marked by the legacy of millennia of institutionalized inequality and oppression (or, worse still, in putting the clock back in the name of returning to some mythical glorious past); and anyone daring to speak out against this can be jailed for years without bail or trial. Some may argue that the incarceration for long periods of those held under UAPA is the fault not of the law but of our over-burdened courts. But this argument lacks validity. First, because any legislation must keep in mind its practical consequences given the constraints of the system; and, second, because official agencies find numerous ways of delaying any UAPA case from coming to trial. For instance, the chargesheet in the Bhima-Koregaon case was originally in Marathi; when several of the accused professed their ignorance of Marathi, the chargesheet had to be translated, which took considerable time. When it was finally translated, since it ran into thousands of pages, the Maharashtra police gave the accused pen drives containing the chargesheet; but the accused, with no access to computers in jail, had no means of perusing it. The trial judge therefore asked the police to give print-outs of the chargesheet but the police pleaded the lack of funds for printing and photocopying. When the judge persisted, the police said that special sanction had to be obtained from the government for the purpose. And so it goes on, while the accused, among the most sensitive and thoughtful people in contemporary India, are kept languishing in jail on dubious charges. The UAPA is a blot on the nation that must be removed at the earliest.  Prabhat Patnaik is Professor Emeritus, Centre for Economic Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-55
