07-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the Editor: Mamata govt should sponsor India's football teams||Sir — Few knew that the Odisha government has been the sponsor for Indian men’s and women’s hockey teams. In his inimitable style, the chief minister, Naveen Patnaik, maintained a low profile on the subject. This noble venture resulted in the historic achievements by the Indian teams — the men won the bronze at the Tokyo Olympics while the women missed it by just a whisker. The government of West Bengal, under Mamata Banerjee, should carry forward Patnaik’s example. It should sponsor the Indian men’s and women’s football teams. This would be a fitting recognition of the intense love that Bengalis have for football. Gautam Choudhuri,Calcutta Sir — The Central government has taken a step towards doing away with the contentious retrospective tax law of 2012, which was used to raise large tax demands on foreign investors such as Vodafone and Cairn Energy and blamed for vitiating India’s investment climate (“Centre rolls back retro tax rule”, Aug 6). The Union finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, introduced the taxation laws (amendment) bill in the Lok Sabha to nullify the retrospective tax clauses that were introduced in 2012 to bring past indirect transfer of Indian assets under the ambit of taxation. The move comes less than a month after Cairn Energy secured an order from a French court to freeze India’s assets in Paris worth $23 million. According to the proposed amendments, any tax demand made on transactions that took place before May 2012 shall be dropped, and any taxes already collected shall be repaid, albeit without interest. However, in order to be eligible, the concerned taxpayers would have to drop all pending cases against the government and promise not to make any demands for damages or costs. All things considered, the change is a step in the right direction. K. Ramani, Tiruchirappalli Sir — The Central government, like a defaulting debtor, has shown that when push comes to shove, it can be forced to change — it has introduced amendments to the regressive retrospective tax. On this occasion, the push came from two threats: a court notice from France regarding the seizure of the Indian government’s assets in Paris upon an application by Cairn Energy, and the resignation of Kumar M. Birla as the non-executive chairman of Vodafone Idea. Bureaucrats may, of course, argue that these developments gave the government the handle it needed to roll back the ‘retro tax’, a move it had not made thus far out of fear that the Opposition would object to the perceived loss of revenue. Malay K. Dasgupta, Calcutta Sir — The president of Iran must meet with the approval of the country’s supreme religious leader, Ayatollah Khamenei. But for Ebrahim Raisi, who took oath as the eighth president of Iran, a period of challenge has started. Iran is facing a serious financial crisis; the problem is bigger than what transpired at the time of the Shah’s overthrow and the Islamic Revolution in 1978. Raisi has claimed that he will improve the standard of living of ordinary Iranians, but has not mentioned how he will achieve that. Raisi has a history of being a zealot; he also has to contend with Israel and other neighbours. If he shows even a little bit of aggression, the chances of American sanctions against Iran being lifted will diminish. Raisi has a battle ahead of him. Jang Bahadur Singh, Jamshedpur Sir — Dibrugarh has been experiencing the most irregular power supply since July, thus greatly affecting the functioning of households. Students taking online classes suffer, as do owners of small businesses — studios, internet cafes — who depend upon regular power supply for running their outlets. The power cuts during the evening and night result in the absence of street lights which contributes to an uptick in crime around the city. It is high time the authorities took steps to improve the situation. The town dwellers deserve some relief. Kaustav Dehingia, Dibrugarh||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-55
07-08-2021||Opinion||Portrait honour for Cipla boss Yusuf Hamied||A portrait of Yusuf Hamied, the boss of the Indian pharma company, Cipla, has been put up in the Formal Hall of his alma mater, Christ’s College, Cambridge, where he did his undergraduate degree followed by a PhD. The oil painting by Tom Phillips, a well known British artist, will have company from such old boys as the poet, John Milton, and the author of The Origin of Species, Charles Darwin. Other than Amartya Sen, whose portrait hangs in Trinity because he was its Master, this is thought to be the first time in 800 years that an Indian has been honoured in this fashion. “The [college] governing body voted unanimously to commission this portrait to honour Yusuf as a truly global representative of humanitarianism at its best,” said Jane Stapleton, the first woman to be Master of Christ’s in 500 years. “His actions have saved probably millions of lives (of AIDs patients in Africa).” At the unveiling ceremony, I had a quick word with Professor Stephen Toope, vice-chancellor of Cambridge, who said he is determined to strengthen even further the university’s “historic” links with India. ‘You’ve got (the mathematical genius, Srinivasa) Ramanujan, you’ve got many historical figures of great importance who have Cambridge links. We now have more Indian students than ever and we will continue to welcome more and more people, I hope...” Cambridge has long recognized the brilliance of Indian students, added the VC. “There’s no question we feel Indian students are often extremely well prepared across a whole range of disciplines. Obviously, in mathematics and sciences, there’s a great tradition, but equally in the humanities and the vitality of English as a medium of expression in India plays out in the great Indian students we have in history and English.” It is the nature of British journalism that once-familiar bylines disappear only to make a farewell appearance in the obituary pages. Such is the case with Simon Dring, who has died, aged 76, during a routine surgery for hernia. In March 1971, Dring, then a 26-year-old reporter with The Daily Telegraph in London, filed an exclusive front page story from Dhaka, revealing the genocide carried out by the Pakistan army. Unlike 200 other foreign correspondents flown out by Pakistan, Dring hid and went around the city with AP photographer, Michel Laurent. Dring’s report — ‘Tanks Crush Revolt in Pakistan. 7,000 slaughtered’ — amounted to a first draft of history. Nine months later, following Pakistan’s defeat at the hands of India, Dring caught up with Major Siddiqui, a Pakistani intelligence officer who had liaised with the press. Now one of 93,000 PoWs, he told Dring that had he been caught, the Pakistani army would have killed him to prevent the story of mass killings getting out. “And it’s true, they could not have afforded to let us out,” Dring reflected later. “They could easily have found a way to have us killed, and our bodies left on the street. And they would have got away with it.” Simon Dring had moved on to the BBC by the time I joined The Daily Telegraph but Ann Morrow, who has died, aged 86, was an impossibly glamorous figure for us junior reporters. As the paper’s royal correspondent, she travelled the world with the Queen. But what impressed me most was Ann’s friendship with the former princes of India. To remember Ann, a lovely colleague, I have this week been reading her book, Highness: The Maharajahs of India. Her best contact was probably Fatehsinghrao Prataprao Gaekwad, “a wise friend and mentor”. During cricket tours by India, he did BBC Test match commentary alongside Brian Johnston, who called him ‘Prince’. But to Western friends, Ann reveals, he was known as ‘Jackie’. Arvind Singh of Mewar, the Maharajah of Jodhpur, the Nawab of Pataudi and Dr Karan Singh (“any moron can be a Maharajah but not everyone can be a doctor”) all grace her book. I recall that Ann and her friend, Trevor Turner, Air India’s PRO in London, raised money for the Mathieson Music School in Calcutta. When Kate Middleton married Prince William in 2011, the bride’s parents, Michael and Carole Middleton, invited their local Indian sub-postmaster, Hasmukh Shingadia, and his wife, Chandrika, to the wedding in Westminster. When I drove to their village — Upper Bucklebury in West Berkshire — Hasmukh said he did not know what to give as a gift. So I arranged for two outfits by Indian designers to be couriered to Hasmukh. One was a silver chain dress by Calcutta girl, Rishti Diwan, who now lives in California. “Kate’s father had picked them up,” Hasmukh had confirmed. I was shocked when Hasmukh was convicted of stealing £16,000 from the Post Office in 2011. He was spared jail but given a two-year suspended sentence — and humiliated. A few days ago, an appeals court ruled Hasmukh was innocent — it was the Post Office Horizon computer system which had been at fault. In all, 736 sub-postmasters across the country were wrongly convicted in similar fashion in what has been called “one of the biggest scandals in British legal history”. What is also a scandal is that under pressure from lawyers, Hasmukh was forced to plead guilty to a crime he hadn’t committed. Calcutta should avoid London’s mistake of allowing too many basement structures because there is nowhere for the water to escape after heavy rains. Last month, London had two flash floods which inundated large parts of the city. Climate change is here, and in a worst-case scenario, experts say the Palace of Westminster could end up 30 feet under water; they have even issued a picture to illustrate the nightmarish scenario.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-55
07-08-2021||Opinion||Up for grabs||India is up for grabs. A minister is accused of building illegally on tea garden land; the 21-acre sprawl of Calcutta’s prized Agri Horticultural Gardens may be the next target of criminal rapacity disguised as ‘development’, that much abused word that has sneaked into and corrupted all Indian languages; news reports bristle with imposters swindling the unsuspecting out of their life’s savings. Emails scream for help. A mother wails that her daughter will die unless treated at once, a father pleads he cannot afford to continue his son’s schooling. Banks warn of fraudsters. There is no concealing the threadbare social fabric of a country awaiting the 74th anniversary of Independence. What The Economist calls India’s “Billionaire Raj” sprouted 40 new billionaires during the pandemic while 230 million more workers and villagers grovelled in the dust of jobless penury. Narendra Modi accused the Opposition of “insulting” democracy as his government adopted 12 bills by voice vote without debate in less than seven minutes. A former MLA charged with arson was welcomed into the Bharatiya Janata Party; the BJP MP whose house he is charged with firing (both were then active in other parties) said she was “stunned”. Health and education remain the most neglected spheres of official responsibility, presumably because politicians cannot wring any dividend from them in the short run. Pictures of the dead and dying, of coronavirus patients gasping for breath outside hospitals too packed to admit them, jostling for oxygen cylinders, cremation fires smouldering night and day, and the Ganga heavy with bloated corpses competed with illustrations of the proposed Rs 1,000-crore Ram temple at Ayodhya and the Central Vista project estimated to cost Rs 20,000 crore. The veteran diplomat, Jagat Singh Mehta, foreign secretary from 1976 to 1979, thought Singapore was “the only former colony to make a success of independence.” Other countries also sometimes stumble in the first flush of self-government. Some, like Myanmar, squander their inheritance even more flamboyantly. But India’s progress is steadily downhill. Calcutta’s La Martinière, my old school founded in 1836, plagued by resignations, dismissals, pecuniary allegations, lawsuits and, now, even apparently by a replica school, seems to mirror the present-day plight of many hoary institutions that worked smoothly for some years after 1947. Unfashionable though he be, Winston Churchill’s prescience comes to mind each time I get less and less petrol for my 500-rupee note. “Power will go into the hands of rascals, rogues, and freebooters,” he warned. “Not a bottle of water or loaf of bread shall escape taxation; only the air will be free...” Some of his doubts were shared even by a well-wisher like Philip Mason who regretted after 19 years in the Indian Civil Service that Garhwalis imagined a motor road would solve all their problems “just as many people thought independence would solve the problems of India”. Those idealists expected selfless patriots to take over the reins of government and rule for the public good. They did not take into account the venality that exploded in the great ghee scandal of 1917 when Lord Ronaldshay, Bengal’s governor, noted the “electrifying” spectacle of nearly 5,000 Brahmins desperately cleansing themselves by the Hooghly because the pious Hindu traders who monopolized the ghee trade (and whose successors brandish the Hindutva flag today) did not scruple to adulterate ghee with tallow from forbidden meats. Nor did they anticipate the electoral numbers game throwing up a larger-than-life latter-day Ozymandias, king of kings, to dissipate public funds for posterity to “Look on my works ye Mighty, and despair!” Being an earthy politician with his ear to the ground, Churchill spotted “the crowd of rich Bombay merchants and millionaire millowners, millionaires on sweated labour” surrounding Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi. “What are they doing there, these men, and what is he [Gandhi] doing in their houses?” Churchill wondered. He answered himself. “They are making arrangements that the greatest bluff, the greatest humbug and the greatest betrayal shall be followed by the greatest ramp” in a future scarred by “[n]epotism, back-scratching, graft and corruption in every form”. Churchill’s miscalculation was to equate post-British India with China, which he stupidly dismissed as a “barbaric nation”. But ever the pragmatist, he would probably have welcomed Britain’s current dependence on Chinese investment, trade and tourists as readily as he later hailed Jawaharlal Nehru as the “Light of Asia”. He might even have acknowledged that the thin veneer of parliamentary protocol that passes for Indian democracy has no bearing on political morality, administrative competence or economic growth. A shocking non-system of public schooling, neglected medical care, and stagnant employment opportunities explain the stampede to migrate to Britain, Australia and the United States of America. This constant exodus of talent is the most damning indictment of India’s failure as a modern nation state. Ostentatious statuary and reinventing perfectly serviceable existing wheels with grandiose civic architecture are shameful distractions like counting the same heads of expenditure over and over again in so-called relief packages. Snooping, over which the 15 Opposition parties are so exercised, is also obnoxious but as ancient as Statecraft even if the Pegasus spyware is more sophisticated than any previous apparatus. At one time, the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, Spain's prime minister, Mariano Rajoy, and the Brazilian president, Dilma Rousseff, were among dozens of global leaders whose telephones and emails American intelligence agencies tapped when they were not listening in on the private conversations of their own president, Barack Obama. Nehru didn’t write a letter for posting in India for 25 years without realizing it would be read “by some secret service censor”. He knew, too, that all his telephone conversations were tapped. Ironically, a British historian later disclosed that Nehru’s own intelligence chief, B.N. Mullick, “remained remarkably close” to MI5 even after political relations between New Delhi and London became chilly. Official duplicity and secretiveness certainly deserve exposure but the lack of thrift, decency and objectivity in governance does more practical harm than breaches of notional democracy. The persecution of civil servants who may not toe the line, the favours showered on those who do, the studied avoidance of the media, and the scorn for legislative propriety evident in the refusal to answer the Opposition’s questions do not enhance respect for authority. Whether or not democracy is the worst form of government except for all the others, it is not an end in itself. It is the means of sharing authority, distributing wealth equitably, and achieving what Bhutan’s king, Jigme Singye Wangchuck, dubbed “Gross National Happiness”. It cannot coexist with the contempt for the multitude implicit in the comment by Narayan Prasad, a BJP legislator in Bihar, that since “common people mostly use buses” they are not affected by spiralling petrol prices and will “get used to it” if they are. Such episodes reveal an utter disrespect for the public, both individually and collectively. A similar disregard might explain rumours of the Life Insurance Corporation of India being privatized. Normally, private ownership means vigorous growth but dismembering the LIC would risk hundreds of crores of investment and threaten the savings of some 300 million policyholders. It would be like allowing avaricious businessmen to make money out of the garden that is the proud legacy in Calcutta of William Carey who founded India’s first degree-awarding university, translated the Ramayana into English, and the Bible into Bengali, Oriya, Assamese, Marathi, Hindi and Sanskrit. Politicians can afford to treat people with disdain by pandering to the most retrograde prejudices of the lowest denominator of majority opinion. They have the “Billionaire Raj” behind them: it shares the loot for India is up for grabs. There is little to celebrate this August 15 as the country trembles on the brink of a third wave complicated by the Delta variant and, possibly, other deadly mutations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-55
07-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Toy stories||For adults, play is a break from work. For children, play is life, and toys are the tools of early learning, often influencing their way of envisaging the future. A revealing study of more than 7,300 toys by the sociologist, Elizabeth Sweet, from the California State University discovered that gender-based toys from the 1920s onwards pushed the case for traditional labour roles: the “little homemaker” for girls and the “young man of industry” for boys. Ironically, Barbie — the original ‘influencer’ who set unrealistic standards of beauty for young girls long before Instagram filters came around — was conceived to challenge these stereotypes. An independent supermodel, Barbie was supposed to show girls that they could have a career other than home-making. Unfortunately, Barbie ended up conforming to damaging ideas of beauty, equating it with harmful body proportions and, tellingly, whiteness. But over the last few years, Mattel — the maker of Barbie — has shrewdly been giving its star doll a more inclusive, feminist makeover. From being the Malibu party girl she started her life as, Barbie is now a paleontologist, a computer engineer, a presidential candidate, an ace Japanese tennis player and, most recently, a vaccinologist. Sarah Gilbert, the scientist who designed the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid vaccine, was chosen as a model by Mattel to pay tribute to women in STEM fields. In spite of the problematic history of endorsing impossible beauty standards and sexist attitudes, Barbie may be just the doll for the job. She now comes in dizzyingly diverse and inclusive roles and avatars — wearing a hijab, with natural curly hair, in a wheelchair, and as a boxer, tractor driver and firefighter. Vaccinologist Barbie could indeed show girls everywhere that they can be whoever they want to be. But she will need help. This is because the heavy lifting in the battle against gender discrimination will also have to be done by governments and policymakers. The reasons are there for all to see. Barbie is still classified as a ‘girl toy’. A 2018 survey found that in more than half the toy stores around the world, Barbies could be found stocked on the ‘pink aisles’ meant for girls along with kitchen sets, while the ‘blue aisles’ meant for boys showcased action figures, superheroes, guns — the links with violence are unmistakable — and cars. Another study, conducted in 2017, found that while most parents thought it was a good idea for girls to play with toys “associated with the opposite gender”, few thought that this was a good idea when it came to boys. Reading between the lines would suggest that traits stereotypically associated with men — such as strength, courage and leadership — are seen as desirable and something girls should aspire to, whereas those tied to femininity — such as vulnerability, emotion and caring — are frowned upon. It is possible that Mattel brought out ‘gender-neutral’ toys in 2019 to remedy the malaise. But gender neutrality represents the absence of gender, not tolerance for a different gender expression. Emphasizing only the former devalues ‘femininity’ and those who express it. Breaking the silos that segregate gender can be a more potent lesson in inclusion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-55
