08-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: How CPM lost the plot in Bengal||Sir — During the Bengal assembly polls the Communist Party of India (Marxist) supporters and even some leaders flooded social media with the term, “BJmool”, a combination of the Bharatiya Janata Party and Trinamul Congress. What the CPI(M) wanted to convey was that the two parties were essentially the same and that both were the enemy. They even said that the TMC and the BJP were locked in a pseudo battle. After failing to win even a single seat in the assembly, the party mandarins are now saying that party workers should desist from using the term “BJmool” because it creates confusion (“Light dawns”, Aug 6). The CPI(M) has now realized that the BJP is not similar to any other political party because it is run by the fascist Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. Here, some points need to be cleared: should the TMC really not be bracketed with the BJP in so far as ‘competitive communalism’ is concerned? Is there no trace of fascism in the TMC’s style of working? Most important, can there be any better definition of the likes of Mukul Roy than “BJmool”? The CPI(M) is barking up the wrong tree. The party needs a great deal of introspection in order to find the root causes of its rout in the assembly elections. The confusion created by coining “BJmool” is not it. Ashoke Basu,Baruipur, South 24 Parganas Sir — It is clear that the CPI(M) in Bengal lost the plot in the assembly elections by going after Mamata Banerjee instead of focusing on the BJP. Both the CPI(M) and the Congress leaderships were convinced that there was reasonable political space for them to dislodge the TMC from power and relegate the BJP to a distant third position. To this end, they coined the term “BJmool” to project the idea that the BJP and the Trinamul Congress were two sides of the same coin. The CPI(M) leadership blamed the voters for the party’s failures instead of poor decision-making. This arrogance of the leadership — that it could not do anything wrong — was also exhibited in its alliance with Abbas Siddiqui, a religious preacher well-known for his illiberal and misogynistic views. Surprisingly, the CPI(M) leadership overlooked major differences between the BJP and the TMC. The CPI(M) kept projecting the two parties as the same even when a large number of TMC leaders were leaving the party to join the BJP. The adversarial nature of relations between the two parties was clear to everyone but the CPI(M). The Left in India has to retune its stance according to the aspirations of the new generation; instead it remains stuck in the 1960s and 1970s. It has learnt no lessons from China. The Left in West Bengal, because of its incapacity to reinvent itself, is becoming increasingly irrelevant. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — It is heartening to see that the CPI(M) has realized the error of its ways in not uniting against a common enemy when it was most important to do so. This mistake proved costly as the Left had to cede its position as principal Opposition to the BJP in West Bengal. Unfortunately, the inroads that the BJP has made in Bengal will affect the common people and the brotherhood in the state more than it will the CPI(M). Amends must be made now to keep the BJP away from making further progress in Bengal in the future. Indrajit Dey,Calcutta Sir — Bizarre food combinations are all the rage on the internet. People are competing to dish out the weirdest combinations — be it eggs fried with Fanta in India or liquid chocolate poured over biryani in Pakistan — that will raise a storm on the internet. While some of these fusions can be delicious, there are often dangers to mixing disparate ingredients. Street stalls that come up with such dishes might not have the wherewithal to comprehend the dangers of mixing ingredients that can cause adverse reactions once consumed. People should be careful about what they eat. Srikanta Bhattacharjee, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-54
08-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Glimmer and darkness||The value of perspective cannot be overstated, especially when the odds that have to be battled are formidable. Indian athletes, in particular, are regularly expected to perform in situations where the odds are heavily stacked against them; that they are often able to give the nation the honour of a podium finish in spite of innumerable roadblocks is a testament to their grit and excellence. India’s medal tally at the London Olympics was impressive — it had won six medals, of which two were silver and four were bronze. At the Tokyo Games, which conclude today, India has surpassed all expectations by putting up its best-ever performance at the Olympics — it has won a gold, two silver and four bronze medals. For this, the nation’s Olympians must be lauded, not least because their achievements come at a time when training for sportspersons has run into immense challenges owing to the global pandemic. There are other, equally pressing, reasons for acknowledging the athletes’ achievements. Their success seems to be falling prey to the oldest trick in the book of the political fraternity — politicians claiming credit for the achievements of sportspersons. Not only did the prime minister say that the Indian women’s hockey team embodies the ‘spirit of New India’ — a phrase synonymous with the Bharatiya Janata Party’s political ascendance — but posters praising the bronze-winning boxer, Lovlina Borgohain, featured photographs of the Assam chief minister, Himanta Biswa Sarma, and the state’s sports minister, Bimal Borah; Ms Borgohain’s image, interestingly, has gone missing from the posters. The self-congratulatory stance adopted by Indian leaders is only made worse by the irony of their actions — in an Olympic year, the Union government slashed the sports budget by Rs 230.78 crore. This would have a direct impact on resources related to training, infrastructure and sponsorship, all of which play a key role in a sportsperson’s ability to win medals. In stark contrast, China, India’s regional competitor, plans to make sports a $773 billion industry by 2025, a 70 per cent increase from 2019. An Olympic gold in a track-and-field event is inspiring, but India’s total kitty of medals remains modest, especially in view of its population and the fact that it sent its biggest-ever contingent of athletes to Tokyo. The absence of institutional support is one part of the problem; Indian sportspersons also have to contend with the lack of a thriving sporting culture that prioritizes excellence. This makes the model adopted by Odisha for bolstering hockey talent worth emulating: it has, in recent years, been the principal sponsor for the men’s and women’s hockey teams, both of which made history by reaching the semi-finals, with the men’s team clinching the bronze. The template of providing funds, building modern training facilities and hosting quality competitions along with the creation of a robust sporting network at the grass roots seems to be yielding dividends in sharp contrast to the limited success of Central programmes like ‘Khelo India’. The government and citizens must perceive sport as a potential driver of the economy that can generate employment and attract investment. What Odisha has thought today, the rest of India must do tomorrow.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-54
08-08-2021||Opinion||Changing track||A second could be an eternity in sports. But on that sultry August evening in 1984 in Los Angeles, one-hundredth of a second was enough to stand between glory and despair for more than a billion Indians. It was truly a run into history. A tall and lanky 20-year-old, with a tongue-twister name, Pilavullakandi Thekkeparambil Usha, missed her tryst with destiny to become India’s first woman Olympic medallist by the narrowest of margins in the country’s sport history. After crossing the finishing line together, a determined lunge at the photo finish helped Romania’s Cristieana Cojocaru beat Usha by 0.01 seconds to win the bronze in the 400 metres hurdles. Years later, Usha rued how she had run out of energy in the last 35 metres. The villain was her non-nutritional diet at the Olympic camp consisting of just kanji and kadumanga (rice porridge and her home-made mango pickle) for more than a week. She was forced to depend on this as no Indian food was available at the camp and she couldn’t stand the American baked potatoes and boiled chicken. She had no clue about nutrition issues and there was none to advise her either. Compare this with India’s Tokyo Olympic medallist weightlifter, Mirabai Chanu, who received such support for five years as the services of a famed conditioning coach and physio in the United States of America for which she was flown out a day before that country imposed restrictions on Indians. A daily fruit-and-fish diet comprising salmon, tuna and pork belly — all imported from Norway — was also ensured for her. The LA Olympics turned out to be the moment of her greatest disappointment; but it also made Usha India’s greatest woman athlete. For no Indian woman athlete has come nearer to her record in a track-and-field event even today although the weightlifter, Karnam Malleswari, became the country’s first woman Olympic medallist at Sydney 16 years later. India’s sprint queen reigned on Asian tracks for two decades, harvesting records and medals aplenty. The ‘Payyoli Express’s’ was much more than a personal achievement. She set a trend. Hundreds of Kerala girls from similar humble backgrounds were inspired to flock to sports to not only compete but also fight their own wretched living conditions. Consequently, India’s athletic world came to be dominated by Malayali girls from then. From Usha making Malayali women’s Olympic debut at Moscow in 1980 to that of her protégé, Jisna Mathew, at Rio 2016, as many as 19 Kerala women have worn India colours in the past 11 Games. Usha participated in three Olympics; her famous contemporary, Shiny Wilson, made it to four. Their successors, K.M. Beenamol, made it to three while the long-jumper, Anju Bobby George (the only Indian gold medallist at the IAAF World Athletics), the middle-distance runner, Chitra Soman, and Usha’s trainee, Tintu Luka, attended two each. Tokyo Olympics 2020 would go down in history for various reasons, including its being held in 2021 due to Covid-19. But for Kerala, it would be historic as the first Olympics in four decades without a single woman competitor from the state. That too when the 127-member Indian squad boasted of a record 56 women. The 18-member athletic team included nine women. In a reversal of tradition, the Indian squad this time had a record nine men, including seven athletes from Kerala, where sports has long been dominated by women with 14 of them figuring in the state’s total of 16 Arjuna award winners. Three Kerala women who were expected to make it to Tokyo failed in the trials held in Patiala, mainly on account of their injuries and the lack of sufficient preparations. While Jisna Mathew (4 x 400 m gold, Asian Athletics, 2017) finished fourth in the trials for mixed relay, V.K. Vismaya (4 x 400 m gold in the 2018 Asian Games) ended up last in the trials and the middle-distance runner, P.U. Chitra (1500 m gold winner at Asian Athletics, Doha, 2019), narrowly missed out. The Rio Olympics had four Malayali women: O.P. Jaisha (marathon), Anilda Thomas (4 x 400 m relay), Tintu Luka and Jisna Mathew. Usha’s trainees and national-record holders, Mayookha Johny (triple jump) and Tintu Luka (800 m), had also attended the London Olympics in 2012. Why? Most athletes, coaches and officials in Kerala blame it on the pandemic and the lockdown that deprived them of sufficient training, workout, competitions and travel. Tournaments were cancelled and there were restrictions on mobility. The postponement of the Tokyo Olympics by a year was welcomed by the sporting community as it was expected to provide it with more time for preparations. But the persistence of the pandemic perpetuated the restrictions. Since there were no competitions, Usha conducted meets at her school of athletics in Kozhikode from last September for her 20-odd wards. With her school and its synthetic track securely surrounded by hills, Usha’s trainees were India’s first athletes to resume training after the lockdown. Yet, it did not go as expected as the unrelenting virus caused further lockdowns. Usha says that the pandemic completely truncated her wards’ practice schedules as social distancing and the wearing of masks killed training protocols. This, however, begs a question. Why then the record rise in the number of men who made it? Surely in Kerala too, every hurdle happens to be far more challenging for women than men on account of entrenched inequities. In spite of the better performance on the conventional indicators of health and education, the high incidence of domestic violence, a high suicide rate among women, low employment rate et al expose Kerala’s patriarchal underbelly. According to a research paper on the relationship between patriarchy and sports in Kerala, “gendered practice of sports marginalizes women in multiple ways.” Besides the pandemic, many detect a falling interest among Kerala’s girls to join sports compared to the past. With economic prosperity and lower number of children in families, parents’ priority is studies over sports. The primary reason for the waning interest appears to be the rise in Kerala’s general economic status since the 1990s. For long, sports was one of the attractive professions for Kerala’s youngsters dogged by poverty and high unemployment. It offered a passport to jobs and livelihood for Kerala’s youth, much like it did for the young footballers of South America. Most of Kerala’s famed sportspersons have come from poor families who live in hilly regions; they are thus physically stronger, making them suitable for endurance sports. The routine run to and from school through rough terrain makes them potential athletes. Kerala women’s advancement in sports also has to do with the generally better indicators like sex ratio, female literacy, life expectancy, higher age of marriage and lower infant and maternal mortality rates, notwithstanding the state’s patriarchal trappings. Most women athletes happen to come from lower middle-class Christian farming families settled in the high ranges. Socially progressive than others, Christian families and churches have always encouraged girls to acquire education, take up sports or jobs like nursing to which Hindus and Muslims were indifferent due to caste and religious prejudices. Kerala’s women — mostly Christians — have traditionally excelled across the country and abroad as nurses. Kerala’s Christian community has provided the country with the largest number of nuns. Since the 1970s, with the state setting up a string of sports schools and organizing more competitions, they began to look at sports as a livelihood option. But with rising economic prosperity, physically demanding and less-paying professions are becoming unattractive in Kerala in spite of high unemployment. This and Kerala’s high wages have led to a huge inflow of migrant labourers from other states to take up manual jobs. According to a report, there has been a 40 per cent drop in the number of nuns and priests from Kerala. Ditto with the number of nurses getting registered or migrating abroad, according to a study by the World Health Organization. Once among India’s poorest states, Kerala has gone up economically since the 1990s and is now one of the five most prosperous states, thanks to the flow of remittances from the Malayali diaspora in the Gulf. Kerala’s per capita income in 2019 was 1.5 times higher than that of the national average with annual remittances crossing Rs 1 lakh crore that formed 30 per cent of the state’s GDP. Girls being encouraged to take up sports would be the least priority for most middle-class families. Pursuing sports for survival must have been affected by other factors, such as the fall in population (Kerala had the lowest decadal growth rate in the 2011 census) and the rise of the nuclear family. There is another new trend: the declining sex ratio at birth in contrast to the state’s overall picture of females outnumbering males. Kerala saw the sharpest fall among major states in the last five years, according to the latest National Family Health Survey report. It fell to 951 in 2019-20 from 1,047 in 2015-16, while Kerala had the highest overall sex ratio — 1,121 — among the major states, up from 1,049 during NFHS-4. The author, a senior journalist based in Trivandrum, has worked with various print and electronic media organizations||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-54
08-08-2021||Opinion||Naveen Patnaik strikes gold with his love for hockey||Hockey seems to have regained at least some of its lost glory in India with the spectacular performances of the men’s and women’s teams at the Tokyo Olympics. Hockey lovers across the country are singing paeans to the Odisha chief minister, Naveen Patnaik, for having given India’s national game a new lease of life by sponsoring both teams at a critical juncture in 2018 when Sahara decided to withdraw its sponsorship. Patnaik, who used to be the goalkeeper of his school hockey team, came to the rescue of the game immediately by signing a five-year deal said to be worth over Rs 100 crore. For a cash-strapped state like Odisha, this was a big sacrifice to make but Patnaik had no hesitation making the decision as the future of hockey was in jeopardy. Odisha, thus, became the first state of the country to officially sponsor the two teams. As the men’s team clinched bronze at Tokyo, ending a 41-year medal drought at the Olympics, the team was as much in focus as the CM of Odisha with social media being flooded with praises for Patnaik. Even the Opposition leaders have been forced to admit Patnaik’s contribution to the game. The CM, thus, seems to have killed two birds with one stone. While he has successfully restored hockey’s lost glory in India, he has also made himself politically unassailable with his popularity at an all-time high. The euphoria about Priyanka Gandhi Vadra transforming the Congress in Uttar Pradesh has finally disappeared and there is a strong yearning for an alliance for the upcoming assembly elections. While Congress leaders had dreamt of a dramatic revival, even talking of forming the government with Priyanka being projected as the CM candidate, their dreams have now been punctured. Many leaders privately concede that the situation is not good even though an organizational machinery has been put in place across the state. While critics and dissenters predict doom, even those supposed to be playing an important role in the Priyanka regime admit that Covid-19 derailed revival efforts and the party is not in a position to win in most constituencies in spite of having gained in strength. The Congress hopes an alliance with the Samajwadi Party will be beneficial for both and the Bharatiya Janata Party can then easily be kicked out of power. Even Priyanka does not rule out the possibility of an alliance. The SP leader, Akhilesh Yadav, has expressed willingness to tie up with smaller parties, particularly the Rashtriya Lok Dal of Jayant Chaudhary, but avoided mentioning the Congress. He has even talked of winning 400 out of the 403 seats, demonstrating confidence of a comeback. The Congress can hope the collective pressure of all Opposition parties will compel Yadav to go for an alliance. The show of unity during the ongoing parliamentary session is bound to bring all the parties under pressure to form a coalition. Floods are ravaging large swathes of Bihar this year too, but there is a difference. The state government is not sharing data related to flood-affected areas, population, and relief works. Once or twice a month some half-baked figures are released, which do not give a clear picture of the devastation brought by the deluge. Asked about this change, a senior official shared that “some vested interests don’t want to put the data in the public domain because it may lead to questions on relief works. There is another possibility that the state coffers are empty and the government has decided to downplay everything.” Incidentally, the CM, Nitish Kumar, is yet to announce elaborate relief measures and compensation for flood victims this year. But Kumar is busy handling the pandemic. He wanted to see firsthand how well the people in Patna, Vaishali and a few other districts were following Covid-19 protocols. He set out with his entourage and saw no crowds, clean streets, and a thin presence of people, many of whom were masked. He returned satisfied and lifted most of the restrictions imposed. Unnerved by this development, the intelligentsia probed into what had happened and found out that whenever Kumar wants to inspect anything, all the officers concerned are duly informed about his impending visit. They smoothen and refurbish everything to the satisfaction of the CM. It happens with all welfare and development schemes too. Ignorance is bliss? A recent function to mark the change of guard in the Assam Pradesh Congress Committee left party members with mixed emotions. While they were happy that a new team under Bhupen Kumar Borah was finally taking charge, the former state unit president and sitting Rajya Sabha MP, Ripun Bora, left most people zapped when he spoke about the intense power struggle to oust him. He wished his successor would be able to concentrate on checking the BJP effectively instead of protecting his chair like he did for most of his tenure. Most felt this was unwarranted; leaving many hurt and embarrassed. Bora’s remark was lapped up by the media, leaving most wondering whether the rise of the BJP is responsible for the Congress’s fall or if it is the latter’s self-destructive streak. The socialist moorings of the Karnataka CM, Basavaraj Bommai, has not gone down well with his hard-core Hindutvavadi party colleagues. Son of the former CM, SR Bommai, of Janata Party, Bommai Jr was part of the Janata ‘parivar’ before joining the BJP in 2008. But the “socialist” label has stuck. If the “socialist” foundation of Bommai Jr is already an issue, the BJP government is in for some turbulence in the coming months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-54
08-08-2021||Opinion||Love And Tokyo||India’s hockey players have achieved the impossible off-field with their performance in the Tokyo Olympics. They have managed to make a lot of disparate and some sparring entities happy at the same time. The feminists are happy and the chauvinists are happy. The real coaches --- Graham Reid and Sjoerd Marijne --- are happy and reel coach, Kabir Khan, is also happy. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is happy; after all he motivated them. Aditya Chak De Chopra must be happy for the Olympian replug of a nearly 15-year-old film. Akshay Kumar is also happy; he tweeted his congratulations to the men’s team for “rewriting history”. And it is perhaps safe to assume that after he is done filming Prithviraj Chauhan, Rakhsha Bandhan and Ram Setu, Akki will start rewriting Love in Tokyo into Bronze in Tokyo. Let’s see who else is happy? The cribbers are happy. It would all have been too hearty and saccharine and bhaichara but then Farhan Akhtar congratulated the women’s team for the medal haul and gave them (cribbers) something to beat someone up about. Jharkhand is happy. First, chief minister Hemant Soren had a smart TV installed at defender Salima Tete’s parents’ home in Simdega district so they could watch their daughter play. And after the win, they have one more reason to cheer — Soren has promised every team member Rs 50 lakh. Haryana is happy, in Punjab Captain has reason to smile, MP is happy, Manipur is happy, and even the presently troubled Mizoram is happy. Cash awards after the Games, backslapping after the Games, photo sessions and attention after the Games --- if one can straightaway reap an Olympian harvest without dwelling on the sowing, who will not be happy. Odisha and Naveen Patnaik, of course, have good reason to be euphoric — the state sponsored the women’s and men’s teams after Sahara backed out in 2018. What about the spirit of Dhyan Chand did you ask? Is The Wizard smiling down from the heavens at one of the most prestigious sporting awards of the country being renamed after him? Maybe, maybe not. Major Chand, who won gold in three Olympic Games wrote in his autobiography, “You are doubtless aware that I am a common man, and then a soldier. It has been my training from my very childhood to avoid limelight and publicity. I have chosen a profession where I have been taught to be a soldier, and nothing beyond that.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-54
08-08-2021||Opinion||Cover me, my darling cloud||That time. Remember? Clouds? Baadal? Remember baadal? Oh you must, what sort of a subscriber are you to essential isms? Think again. It is that time of the year too. Look up. Or look down. There must be baadal up there. Or there must be dregs of what the baadal dropped down there. Baadals drop. And not just raindrops. You fool, don’t you remember? You must. It’s your duty. And duty is why we are here, rights be damned. We shall see after rights, duty first. Bend. Salute. Remember. Rejoice in the remembrance. Then we shall see what rights you may be granted. They are there, your rights. Guaranteed. But that cannot mean they are yours to be had as and when you wish. Deserve them. Deserve me, and you will have deserved them. Where my nose begins, your right to swing your arm must cease. But my nose, mind you, not your nose. Your nose and its rights, well, as they say often and you don’t care to pay heed, CONDITIONS APPLY. Please apply them, never forget. As ever, and fatally prone to the fallacy called habit, I digress. I was on clouds, baadal. I am on one. As we speak. Can you hear me? I am speaking from the clouds. I am on my way. This is a good time to be on the way. You know, you remember, you must. Clouds. And cover. CloudCover. Things happen when there are clouds. I mean Kalidasa gets to write Meghdootam. Things like that. Or a game of cricket gets stalled, drat. Or Bambaiyya directors start going dhak-dhak, or gaapuchi-gaapuchi, or tip-tip barsa paani and consequent pyrotechnics, or aaj rapat jaayen to hamen naa bataaiyo type of things. You know. You don’t? Never mind, you don’t deserve to. When clouds happen. Things happen. Things that nobody can tell are happening or have happened. Cloud. Cover. Things happened. Nobody knew. Nobody even felt what happened. But they happened. Clouds are proof. But those clouds have shed and floated away and vapourised and they are no longer in a position to tell what they concealed in their cover and what indeed happened while they were the instruments of concealment. Things struck other things. There was lightning. And there were crackers. The clouds saw. Who cares if you did not. Ride the cloud some day, and peep out of the covers, and you’ll see what it is your duty to see. Even if you are not able to see it. Deewana hua baadal Saawan ki ghata chhaayi Yeh dekh ke dil jhooma Lo, ho hee jaaye ladaayi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-54
