09-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the Editor: pro-poor mantras of governments nothing but 'jumla'||Sir — The prime minister, Narendra Modi, recently blamed the Congress for using ‘garib diplomacy’ without doing anything substantial for the poor and the marginalized. While there may be some truth to his accusations, the fact is that no government at the Centre, whether the Bharatiya Janata Party or the Congress, has done anything remarkable over the years for the uplift of the have-nots as various economic indices will reveal. While the Congress regime was marked by rampant corruption, the Modi government with its whimsical policies like demonetization, unplanned lockdowns, corporatization and so on has shown that the pro-poor mantras chanted by different political parties are nothing but jumla to appease the electorate and win elections. Sadiq H. Laskar,Guwahati Sir — Delhi University has encouragingly decided to make planting trees part of the academic curriculum. But tree-plantation drives often ignore the fact that the restoration of grasslands, deserts, savannas, or rainforests means planting the right species in the right places. Large-scale record-breaking tree-planting makes news, not carefully planned, ecologically sound forests. Such mindless exercises cause more harm by disturbing ecological balance. Jharna Sanyal, Howrah Sir — Gender is a social and cultural construct that is used by industry to further its own agenda (“Toy stories”, Aug 7). This is reflected in the choice of colours when it comes to toys, video games and cartoons for boys and girls. These gendered identity markers are prefixed to guide individuals into the roles they are expected to play for the rest of their lives. However, these distinctions, apart from creating psychological barriers and causing emotional and intellectual disadvantages, also lead to discrimination. In the digital age, this gender segregation can also be observed in the choice of online games that are played by not only children but also adults. While digital versions of games like Ludo are tagged with labels like girls or women, violent action games like PubG and Call of Duty are largely considered to be meant for boys. This segregation is absolutely unnecessary. Both sets of games can be played by people, irrespective of gender, based on their skill sets. But this does not mean that one set of games should be seen as more complex than the other. Tejesh Vyas, Howrah||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-53
09-08-2021||Opinion||Snooping: Power thrives on mistrust||Even though instances of snooping erupt into the public consciousness occasionally, they are pervasive in the modern world. States that do not spy on other States are deemed quixotic. Snooping on citizens, if done by the State, follows the same logic. The Pegasus snoopgate, thus, has nuances that merit attention, which can help contrast snooping with dialogue. Snooping is the other half of dialogue, laden with secretive insidiousness. To snoop is to know the other. But snooping is not the only mode for this. Dialogue and debates were its predecessors. Their essence was mutuality. Both were means to know the truth. This is why grounding a student in rhetoric was considered basic to education in ancient Greece and, later, Europe. The education of a gentleman was incomplete without a schooling in rhetoric — the art of persuasion based on reason and mutual respect. Knowing the other is key to persuading him or her. Respect for mutuality underlies dialogue and debate. Reciprocity or mutuality underlies contracts of all kinds. The moment one of the parties in the contract begins to act unilaterally, the contract becomes infructuous. The State, being the product of a ‘social contract’ by the citizens, is bound by the accountability that stems from mutuality. Mutuality is the discipline of treating others as one would like to be treated. Power, which operates unilaterally, unsettles this balance. Power is nothing, if it cannot be exercised arbitrarily and unilaterally. The State has the right to use force; citizens do not. The State must be heard; but does not have the duty to listen. Power in the abstract is incorruptible. It succumbs to corruption when, in being concretized, it is infected with unilateralism. Power corrupts, and absolute power absolutely, only when it is exercised in this way. Unilateralism characterizes all unethical instincts and practices. Corruption is a unilateral action. The goal of snooping is to know the other. But it is not to know the other as a fellow human being, but as a lurking enemy. Here, the object of knowledge is pre-judged. Snooping formats ‘otherness’ in prejudice. The worrisome thing is not that snooping happens; but that a scheme of things, a political culture, exists in which snooping becomes necessary. Snooping is a symptom, not the disease. The disease is the erosion of the trust and reciprocity between the ruler and the ruled. It is simplistic to see the targets of snooping as a handful of individuals. They are snooped on because of the chunk of national reality they represent. They are dangerous, in so far as they represent and articulate the ruptured other half of reality, the invocation of which is presumed destabilizing. They are the ‘against-the-motion’ ruckus of the debate, so to speak. In a wholesome climate of opinion, the against-the-motion voice has its place, as hearing the other side is vital to seeing the given issue in truth, clearly and comprehensively. Snooping seeks to know the given reality unilaterally. It aims at a surreptitious half-dialogue with the other as a target, unknown to them and in hostility. It encapsulates the oxymoron of sniffing the truth, without any regard for truth as such. The State being an embodiment of power, the temptation to deal with citizens unilaterally is second nature to it. Hence the need to put in place effective checks and balances. Democracy is the best mode of governance, only in so far as it abides by the reciprocity between the ruler and the ruled. Accountability is a function of reciprocity. Dictatorship excludes it, because in it power is unbridled by reciprocity. Democracy is imperilled when the mutuality between the State and citizens is compromised. Consider an analogous situation to see this for what it is: the dynamics of people’s representation in a democracy. In a healthy democracy, there is meaningful reciprocity between the people and the representatives they elect. But this is not the case at present. Reciprocity exists now only between voters and candidates. It evaporates once candidates become elected representatives. This can be remedied, to an extent, by granting citizens the right to recall their representatives, if and when they betray the trust reposed in them. The unilateralism that snooping symbolizes has widely metastasized into our public life. It is inadequate, therefore, to see snooping only as an intrusion into personal privacy. What is the idea of ‘privacy’ implied in this view? Can privacy be a barriered space in which individuals act unilaterally; especially, if the consequences thereof spill into the public domain? The seminal issue in snooping is not that privacy is breached — admittedly this happens — but that unilateralism has become the character of life today. Unilateralism is an anti-life pattern. Life is a ceaseless back-and-forth flow. If a way of life is erected on unilateralism, there will be either the systole or the diastole of life; not the circulation of blood that sustains life. Unilateralism is the death-principle. Death is a one-way street. The dead go only one way: to the grave. Aside from differences in degree and nuances, all unilateral actions are death-dealing. In snooping, death kisses life; falsehood peeks through the keyhole of mistrust into the zone of unguarded vulnerability.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-53
09-08-2021||Opinion||Shadows lengthen||How safe are Europe’s democracies from the majoritarianism that nudged Myanmar into violent ethnic cleansing and China into the systematic dissolution of the Muslim Uighur? Europe is an interesting case in the contemporary history of majoritarianism. Europe is generally seen as the home of resilient democracies and Enlightenment values, so it’s useful to examine how resistant its nations are to the anti-minority politics in the ascendant in so many parts of Asia. In recent times in Myanmar and China, State discrimination and civil society bigotry have combined to create arguably fascist forms of oppression. Two member states of the European Union, Poland and Hungary, have become notorious for State-sponsored bigotry. The EU has considered sanctioning these states for their anti-Semitism, their encouragement of homophobia and their trumpeted hostility to immigration in general and Muslims in particular. Their majoritarianism is similar to Myanmar’s: the religious identity of the majority has been weaponized to distinguish ‘real’ citizens from false ones. In Myanmar, Buddhism and its sangha were mobilized in the service of majoritarian identity; in Poland, we have Catholicism and the Church. Important though they are to the politics of Europe, Hungary and Poland won’t determine its political direction. They are doubly marginal: they are part of the EU’s post-communist ‘eastern’ rim and they are latecomers; they joined the EU’s core countries twelve years after the Maastricht Treaty in 2004. The EU was the brainchild of France and Germany, the two countries central to the project of European unification, and it is the fate of France that will shape the nature of the European project. On the face of it, France is historically vaccinated against the virus of majoritarianism. The Revolution’s root-and-branch hostility towards the Catholic Church and the determined religion-blindness of laïcité, France’s take on secularism, ought to guard against State and civil society backsliding into bigotry. This assumption makes the mistake of assuming that religious majoritarianism is about religion when it is a project of ethnic consolidation against a nominated minority. The revolution in France led to the emancipation of the Jews from formal discrimination. But amongst the majority, including France’s intellectuals, emancipation was seen as a prelude to complete, unconditional assimilation. Casual anti-Semitism was common in Enlightenment France. Diderot was anti-Semitic, as was Voltaire. To note this is not to ask that we cancel our intellectual forbears for failing to be perfectly consistent or progressive. It is to observe that the intellectual pioneers of liberty, equality and fraternity were willing to caveat their principles, both explicitly and in practice, and these caveats had historical consequences. Post-revolutionary France, having deleted the Church from the public realm, imagined that it had created secularism. In fact, all it had done was to elevate the average Frenchman complete with his cultural preferences and prejudices, and minus Christianity, into the archetype of the secular citizen. His habits, his fashions, his rules about facial hair or head coverings, his definitions of overt religiosity, would now define France’s good citoyen. Laïcité became an inquisitorial rule, a way of obsessively policing (and suppressing) public difference. Government officials specifying how much skin women have to show before they can swim on a public beach doesn’t strike the French as grotesque. This is the Gaullist version of ‘we shall fight on the beaches’. In 1905, when laïcité was formally enshrined in law, the burkini wouldn’t have been an offence against French secularism because every woman who visited a beach at the turn of the century was similarly covered up. A century ago, the French woman at the beach wore a wool dress up to her knees, with bloomers underneath and the skin below her knees was covered by stockings and bathing slippers. The French don’t see the absurdity of defining secularism in terms of rising hemlines and changing fashions. A thought experiment is a useful way of appreciating the monstrousness of laïcité: if France was a nudist colony, circumcision would be disallowed as a public avowal of religious identity. Laïcité makes the historical experience and practice of a relatively homogenous Christian population in the 19th and early 20th centuries a template for regulating the behaviour of a much more diverse modern society. The French simply assume that laïcité is culturally, historically and religiously neutral, untouched by France’s imperial history, uncoloured by its experience of Christianity or its encounter with racism and anti-Semitism. Laïcité is dangerous because it makes a virtue of intolerance. Nineteenth-century French intellectuals who should have known better saw no contradiction between republican virtue and anti-Semitism: having parked their Christianity in its proper place, they were keen to purge Jews of their Jewishness so they could vanish into the Republic. But we know that assimilation didn’t help. There are poignant stories about patriotic French Jews so ideologically assimilated that they couldn’t bring themselves to reproach the republic for interning them in Vichy France. Germany’s Jews, let’s not forget, were the most thoroughly assimilated minority in Europe. This April, a thousand French soldiers, including twenty generals, some retired, others on the reserve list, signed an open letter in a right-wing magazine, warning Macron that deadly dangers threatened France. They warned that a civil war was brewing and denounced “Islamism and the hordes of the banlieu”, the mainly Muslim migrant suburbs that surround Paris. The defence minister denounced the letter and threatened sanctions, but no concrete action was taken against the signatories. Marine Le Pen, leader of the Front National and Macron’s most formidable rival for the presidency, endorsed the letter. There are around five million Muslims in France. If Marine Le Pen were to win the French presidency, the danger isn’t that France will change beyond recognition; the danger is that the Republic will accommodate the Front National’s neo-fascist majoritarianism without having to change. French liberals and socialists might object but it is the majoritarianism written into laïcité that allows Le Pen to segue from anti-Semitism to Islamophobia within the rhetoric of ‘secularism’. It’s the reason why Marianne, France’s goddess of Liberty, can look like Marine le Pen or sound like Brigitte Bardot. Europe’s anti-clerical Enlightenment thinkers admired Imperial China for a seemingly ‘secular’ State, anchored in Confucianism, a humanist ethical system, rather than in organized religion. In Xinjiang, China repaid the compliment by taking laïcité to its logical conclusion: shaving faces, razing mosques, nationalizing Islam and educating Muslims out of their beliefs. No one in France — or Europe —should say that they weren’t warned. mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-54
09-08-2021||Opinion||The Age of Agony: Public health during a pandemic||“A thoroughly unpleasant period to exist,” Guy R. Williams wrote in the context of health and living in the 18th century in The Age of Agony, an age of puerile States and embryonic public healthcare services often ravaged by epidemics. Indian citizens got the taste of some of that agony as an epidemic ravaged the country’s ill-funded, shoddy public health services. The collective pain must rouse the State and the populace to plan apt responses to preserve health during the time of pestilence. The onus of preservation of health has shifted to individuals due to the preponderance of lifestyle diseases. But during health emergencies like the current pandemic, policy response must be guided by a benevolent Central authority. Confronting epidemics is a collaboration between the health authority’s efforts to detect and contain disease outbreaks and ensure crowd behaviour to mitigate community spread. While the former must be primed with adequate investments to imbibe the latest scientific developments, the latter needs to incorporate communities’ historical experiences and social attitudes. The Indian response to the coronavirus outbreak remained somewhat diffident when it came to applying the lessons learnt from either the history or the science of epidemics. Epidemics are ‘crowd diseases’; they mostly start with germs of animals infecting a human host and then spreading through crowds when an adequate number of new victims are found. Historically, all public health services started with community-mandated measures like isolation, quarantine and the removal of contaminated objects even before germs had been discovered. Acceptance of those measures by the crowds differed according to their perception of threat and the messages they received. Isolation and quarantine measures were rigidly applied and mostly accepted in European cities after the Black Death led to riots; however unruly protests also took place during the cholera epidemics of the 19th century. People also rioted against the strict measures adopted during the 1896 plague in the Bombay Presidency. Almost the entire population of Surat tried to flee following the detection of plague cases in 1994. The perception of people is, therefore, important, as are the messages that create these perceptions. In 1911, Samuel Hopkins Adams showed how catch words and their connotations in the public mind shaped health campaigns. A leprosy patient in a gathering is a far more potent deterrent than a patient with a respiratory disease that is contagious. Instead of using terms like ‘flattening the curve’ or ‘limiting viral load’, a simple phrase like ‘crowd disease’ (bhir ki bimari) might have communicated the threat of Covid-19 far more effectively to Indians. It may have even mitigated some of the government’s own follies like permitting religious functions. If Indian crowds have failed to adopt appropriate behaviour, some of the blame ought to go to a failed public health campaign that has not been able to create adequate awareness. Even adhering to the simple mandate of mask-wearing seems to be exacting for many. There have been other follies. Worrying signals emanating from science were disregarded. Detection and containment mechanisms at the district level were not put in place on time. The prime minister’s Atmanirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana has promised to fill some of these gaps over the next few years but not spending the requisite sum to set up oxygen plants in every district mirrors dangerously lopsided public health priorities. Moreover, if speculations of Covid-19 being the result of a leak in a laboratory are, indeed, true, it would mean that the road to bio-terrorism is wide open. Ad hocism in public health can no longer be tolerated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-54
09-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Much needed||Dowry deaths have persisted in India in spite of laws. Recent revelations of the growth of this crime in Kerala have disturbed the state government and spurred it into thinking of different solutions — out of the box, as it were. It appears that high literacy, as in Kerala, cannot eradicate this evil when values tilt towards materialism and consumerism. These are the causes that the Communist Party of India (Marxist)’s chief whip in Kerala, K.K. Shailaja, mentioned when she suggested that mandatory premarital counselling be introduced to improve understanding between couples and reduce violence against women. Marriage is not a matter of sex and money but a lifelong friendship that must be nurtured. The simplicity of Ms Shailaja’s statement underscored its importance. Society has indeed reduced marriage to a matter of money and sex. This is the approach that young people imbibe from their elders; in an aspirational society thriving on foreign remittance it can have a devastating effect on the value system. The focus is on dowry. Shahida Kamal, a member of the state women’s commission, suggested that marriage certificates be given after a premarital counselling certificate has been produced. She also suggested that billboards proclaiming that dowry was illegal be put up at public marriage venues, inducing shame. Kerala’s governor said that university students should promise in writing that they would not engage in dowry transactions. But it is the idea of premarital counselling that has most potential, especially because it is not a ‘legal’ solution. Yet, can the State fill society’s lacunae? Violence against women has many causes: dowry is just one of them. Ms Kamal’s emphasis on sex education glances at a part of this truth. But this violence is also a manifestation of society’s misogyny. Therefore, Ms Shailaja’s other suggestions — that panchayats form committees to prevent dowry violence, for example, or that society ensure the punishment of perpetrators — are frankly utopic. Dowry is seldom decided by the groom alone; similarly, those who thrive on a system built on the deprivation of women’s rights, dignity and freedom will not prevent violence against them. Ms Shailaja’s recommendation for premarital counselling, however, could be developed and emulated elsewhere. It could lead to a more educated — not just literate — society.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-54
09-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Uncertain yield||The Reserve Bank of India has, quite expectedly, kept policy rates unchanged despite creeping inflation to retain its accommodative stance to support macroeconomic growth. The repo rate remains unchanged at 4 per cent as do the reverse repo rate at 3.35 per cent and the bank rate at 4.25 per cent. It has also kept unchanged its forecast for GDP growth for FY22 at 9.5 per cent. The consumer price index inflation rate has been revised from the earlier forecast of 5.1 per cent to 5.7 per cent. Although the GDP forecast remains at 9.5 per cent, the quarterly figures have been changed with the bulk of the growth coming in the first quarter of FY22 — expected to be 21.4 per cent — with the third and fourth quarter projections as low as 6.3 and 6.1 per cent, respectively. The reason for this imbalance in quarterly growth rates is not clear. Perhaps the RBI has observed that there is a surge in pent-up consumer demand after the ebbing of the second wave of Covid-19 infections. For the remaining quarters, the outlook is more complicated with uncertainties regarding the third wave, global commodity prices and financial market volatility. Given the complex, unpredictable future, the projection for growth is likely to be revised going forward. An experiment that the RBI began this year was in terms of a new scheme, G-SAP, by which the central bank would undertake planned purchases of government bonds to influence the yield curve. It would ensure that the yields on government paper would not experience spikes. Hence the government could meet its borrowing requirements at a stable, low cost. To this effect, the RBI has announced two more tranches of auctions, each worth Rs 25,000 crore, in August 2021 under G-SAP 2.0. However, this experiment, still in its early days, has not been able to anchor expectations regarding bond yields. The yield on 10-year government paper has been creeping up and is currently around 6.234 per cent. Business and consumer confidence remains virtually stagnant in the face of a challenging past and an uncertain future. Inflation could continue to creep up beyond the RBI’s tolerance limit. On top of this, if aggregate demand does not pick up, the ability to keep policy rates low will come under stress. The RBI has claimed that it has introduced more than 100 measures to combat the impact of Covid-19. Given the poor state of output, inflation and employment, the RBI’s efforts, although they are well-meaning, have remained largely ineffective.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-54
