10-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Neeraj Chopra's gold at Tokyo Olympics||Golden moment Sir — Neeraj Chopra, the 23-year-old athlete from Panipat, scripted history at the men’s javelin throw at Tokyo by clinching India’s first medal in Olympic athletics and the country’s second individual gold medal (‘‘Neeraj nails it! Long wait ends’’, Aug 8). It is a matter of great pride for our nation and a big morale booster for sportspersons in India. This win at the Tokyo Olympics ended India’s 121-year wait for a gold medal in athletics. The previous best had been achieved in British India by Norman Pritchard — it is also considered India’s maiden participation at the Games — who won two silver medals in men’s 200 metres and men’s 200 metres hurdles at Paris in 1900. I belong to the 1960s when sportspersons from Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Karnataka could not secure an Olympic medal even though they were endowed with tremendous resilience and talent as they lacked the necessary resources. They did not have proper coaching, access to a suitable diet plan or enough sponsorships. Although athletes like Milkha Singh, Gurbachan Singh Randhawa, Mahendra Singh Gill, Manjit Walia, P.T. Usha and many others won medals at the Asian Games and the Commonwealth Games, a medal at the Olympics remained elusive. Milkha Singh finished fourth in the 400 metres finals at the 1960 Rome Olympics, Gurbachan Singh Randhawa finished fifth in the 110 metres hurdles at Tokyo in 1964 and P.T. Usha lost the bronze medal at the Los Angeles Olympics by 1/100th of a second. Even today, our focus continues to be on cricket; all other athletes languish for want of resources. It is hoped that after this win at the Olympics, the sports ministry will rise from its slumber. The government as well as the corporate sector has a responsibility to support young, promising sportspersons so that they can perform to the best of their abilities at international events. The government must come up with a comprehensive policy to encourage sportspersons and provide them with the best of resources. India has the potential to win many more medals at the Olympics and other such events. Ramesh G. Jethwani,Bangalore Sir — There are few things more coveted in sports than an Olympic medal and most athletes hope to win the accolade for their nation. Neeraj Chopra performed remarkably well at the Tokyo Olympics, winning a maiden gold in athletics for India. As soon as he threw the javelin at a distance of 87.58 metres in his second attempt — six attempts are permissible — he seemed to know that he had secured a medal. The Olympic champion dedicated his win to one of India’s foremost track-and-field athletes, Milkha Singh, reminding us that this win at Tokyo comes after many a heartbreak. Several Indian athletes have tried to win an Olympic medal in athletics but failed. There were flashes of brilliance in hockey, badminton, boxing, wrestling and weight-lifting at Tokyo too. But India’s overall performance was not quite up to the mark. The total medal tally of seven fell far short of what we are capable of as a nation. No other country has as much untapped human resource. Promotion of sports needs sustained effort, including the identification and nurturing of talent. It is unfortunate that the government has recently slashed the sports budget. The situation must be remedied at the earliest. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — Winning at any sporting event is a great motivation for an athlete but winning an individual Olympic gold is a career highlight like no other. Neeraj Chopra’s win at the Tokyo Olympics early in his career is an indication of his potential and all the accolades that are yet to come. Another South Asian finalist at the men’s javelin throw was Arshad Nadeem from Pakistan who placed fifth. They must both be congratulated for their hard work and dedication. C.K. Subramaniam,Navi Mumbai Sir — As the Olympics comes to an end, it is time for the sports ministry to introspect on the gaps in the country’s sporting infrastructure. Had the government provided adequate resources to all athletes, India could have won more than seven medals at the Olympics. As it stands, Indian athletes have won despite the odds posed by the government, not because of help from it. Ketan Sharma,Bhopal  Be wise Sir — Experts insist that bees are integral to the survival of mankind as they are essential for pollination and thus food production. But bees are dying at an alarming rate owing to a variety of factors —  last year there was a 40 per cent decrease in bee populations. In a timely endeavour, Beewise, a start-up company in Israel, has created a robotic beehive that houses more colonies than an average one and constantly monitors the hive’s needs so that beekeepers can intervene when needed. But can this wise innovation bring wisdom to humans who continue to wreak havoc on the fragile ecological balance? Aparna Chakraborty,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-53
10-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Horsepower||None can accuse the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh of possessing a sterile imagination. Yogi Adityanath has described, with a touch of creativity, the social media as an ‘unbridled horse’, one that needs to be reined in by the foot soldiers that keep the Bharatiya Janata Party’s formidable IT cell ticking. The need to bridle this metaphorical stallion arises because local events in Uttar Pradesh — a state beleaguered by a brutal pandemic, inept governance, political intimidation and communal and caste conflagrations — the chief minister believes, trigger ‘social media trials’ far and wide. Mr Adityanath’s sudden concern with social media trials — a euphemism for criticism, presumably — is touching. This is because over the years, the BJP, more than any other party in India, has perfected the art of weaponizing social media to conduct trials that target opponents — be they ideological or political. For instance, the party sought to neutralize the massive public outrage against the discriminatory Citizenship (Amendment) Act by unleashing a counter-narrative on social media platforms. Worryingly, the shadow is known to fall, with a frightening regularity, between the BJP’s claims on social media and the reality on the ground. The head of the BJP’s IT cell has been accused, on numerous occasions, of disseminating false narratives through social media networks. Is there then a case for making a special bridle for the BJP’s IT cell ‘horse’? Mr Adityanath has, tellingly, made the point about the need for regulating social media units. There is concern though that in the name of regulating the media, the BJP-led national government wants to stifle the myriad platforms. Several petitions have been filed against the Centre’s Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021. These litigations could be a test of the constitutional basis of these regulations. What should not go unnoticed is Mr Adityanath’s anxiety about the murmurs on social media. Could it be that the growing hum of public disaffection on these popular networks is beginning to reach a crescendo? That cannot be reassuring before the assembly elections. His directive to the IT cell ‘to train the horse’, as it were, would not come as a source of relief either. It is possible that as UP inches closer to the polls, Mr Adityanath’s party would unsheathe its trusted weapon — the social media — to sway public opinion while bearing down upon independent sources of news to control the narrative.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-53
10-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Half lessons||Caste is, apparently, best left silent. So, little research has been conducted on school textbooks for signs of caste bias whereas identifying gender bias or the tendency to project history through a sectarian lens has been more popular. The first study of caste bias in Indian textbooks focused on 10 books of literature and social sciences from classes IV to VIII in Odia schools. Dalits are barely visible in these texts, being mentioned only in three of the 10 books, and in 5 per cent of the total pages presenting social lives. This is not unexpected in a country where violence from dominant groups towards less powerful castes is shamefully common. The Odia textbooks symbolize an institutionalized distortion of the facts of Indian social existence. The research found that invisibility, one of the seven forms of curricular bias against which American textbooks were tested, was most used in the Odia texts. The percentage of Dalit presence makes this obvious, as does the fact that there is no Dalit character in the literature texts of Classes IV, V, VI and VIII. This has nothing to do with reality. But a hierarchical approach in social interactions is thus inculcated, while a pretence of equality is maintained through an account of government programmes for Dalits in the Class IV text, with no explanation of their necessity. Class IV children may learn them by rote without understanding their significance. It is urgent that textbooks in regional languages in all states be tested for caste bias. As education expands its base, the presence of Dalit children in the class would give to such textbooks a sharp significance. They would learn nothing about their lives and history except a few stereotypes, and would yet experience the quiet force with which the establishment seems to be perpetuating the caste system. School texts in Gujarat call this system benign, and in Rajasthan they claim that it is a good system based on professional differences. These also suggest that India’s education experts are fully conscious of the man-made inequality of the system and of its regressive import, but keep it alive because of the vested interests of dominant caste groups. Equal education and caste bias cannot go together. Just as education without awareness of caste injustice is no education at all.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-53
10-08-2021||Opinion||Burning land, broken people||It was the last month of 2016. In Kabul, the weather was cold in the evening. I was having tea with some colleagues — most of them were from Europe — near Wazir Akbar Khan Chaurahi. I was conversing with an experienced colleague who had worked in Afghanistan for 11 years and had come to Kabul on a short auditing assignment. “How can peace be restored in Afghanistan?” I asked him. “The more you learn about Afghanistan, the less you will understand,” he answered. Afghanistan is in the news, once again. American forces will leave the country by the end of August. Defence experts are analyzing the impact of this move, but a rundown of the history of Afghanistan would give us some rare insights. Soviet troops entered Afghanistan in December 1979. They arrived in support of the government led by the People’s Democratic Party of Afghanistan. Opposition leaders and commanders formed an umbrella entity, the mujahideen, and fought against the Soviet army. The mujahideen received financial and arms support from the countries opposed to the USSR’s intervention. Soviet troops left Afghanistan in 1989. The mujahideen celebrated independence, while the refugees dreamt of returning home. Alas, peace wasn’t restored. Mujahideen factions began fighting amongst themselves over power-sharing mechanisms. Afghanistan fell into chaos, once again, between 1990-1995 as different mujahideen leaders fought to seize power in Kabul. Some warlords appointed themselves ‘governors’, captured parts of Afghanistan, and fought for supremacy. Then, Pashtun students from madrasas (Talibs) on the Afghanistan-Pakistan border came forward to seize power and enforce sharia law in the country. Most of them were from the Deobandi school. The Taliban made Kandahar their most important centre and within a year, they had overthrown the mujahideen leader, Burhanuddin Rabbani, and captured Kabul. By 1998, the Taliban dominated almost 90 per cent of the country. Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, and the United Arab Emirates recognized the Taliban government. Girls older than 10 years were banned from going to school and their access to cinema, television, and music restricted by the Taliban. American forces attacked the Taliban in 2001 and ousted them from Kabul. But the Taliban continued to dominate remote rural areas like Kunduz and Lagman. The US, the Afghan army and the police fought the Taliban for 20 years. Now that the US military has decided to leave the country, it is important to reflect on what has been achieved for the people of Afghanistan. The violence has not stopped. The memories of attacks on Kabul University, the American University, students of the Hazara community, Sikhs and Hindus, women and journalists have not faded away. Even in 2020, more than 6,000 civilians lost their lives in the violence even though the US army had not left. The Taliban would also have to think about what they have gained from this relentless violence. Their commanders have also lost their children and relatives in the bloodshed. Many Taliban leaders have spent their formative years in refugee camps. Young educated Afghans are migrating to other countries. Globally, the highest number of refugees are from Syria and Afghanistan. The mujahideen mobilized people in the name of religion and introduced new textbooks in the refugee camps. These textbooks aimed at raising fighters for the future. Gradually, values such as coexistence, peace, pluralism, gender equality and minority rights disappeared from the discourse. The textbooks prepared by the mujahideen were introduced in all schools once the Soviet troops left the country. The Taliban continued with these textbooks but enforced stricter codes of religious discipline and dressing. While teaching Mahatma Gandhi’s concept of non-violence to my Afghan students, I noticed that the majority of them remained silent. After many entreaties, a student replied that in Afghanistan they were not exposed to Gandhi’s way of thinking. The only way was to seek badla. Only Afghans can ensure lasting peace in their country. Change can be ensured by challenging the mindset of the young people. Modern school education — English and French schools — started only at the beginning of the 20th century while exclusive girls’ schools and nursing training for women began in the 1920s, Kabul University was established in the 1930s. This was followed by the founding of a series of institutions, including polytechnics, teacher-training colleges, medical colleges and so on. Given the existing complexities, generating trust among ethnic and political groups would be a herculean task for any other country. Perhaps the way forward in Afghanistan is through dialogue and lasting investments in education.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-53
10-08-2021||Opinion||States of siege||Walking on the roads the other day, I found myself thinking how nothing much seems to have changed from before the pandemic. Now that things have opened up again, Calcutta traffic has reverted to being Calcutta traffic, the honking is still Calcutta honking, the little ponds and puddles on the streets are our usual monsoon visitors, the deposits of wet garbage and leaf mulch still the unmistakable work of the unchanging Art Director in the sky. And, yet, something was different. When I was sitting on the verandah of the club where I’d been invited for lunch, I managed to identify at least one of the things that had changed. Whether on the street or in this privileged enclave, almost everybody was wearing a mask or had one close at hand. There were different styles, of course, with some people making the merest gesture towards masking, with an item hanging off their necks like an extra beard; many others had the protection covering only their mouths, their noses happily pumping aerosols into the air; others sported what one can only can call ‘facial negligees’, as in the flimsiest, most see-through of ‘surgical’ material shimmering across their critical orifices. And yet, compared to the hot season and the monsoon of last year, you actually noticed when someone walked past without a mask. Furthermore, many of the people going maskless had a self-conscious look about them, as if they knew they were doing something wrong, their excuses and defiance ready in their eyes as they waited to be challenged. Maybe just one more deadly wave, maybe something akin to the Uttar Pradesh Pandemocalypse clawing across our society, and even these few non-maskers would shrink in number. It’s amazing what human beings can get used to. Two days ago, I found myself in a phone conversation with someone who is about fifteen years younger. We were talking about the current travel restrictions and the subject of airport security checks came up. I asked my friend if she remembered the time we could freely carry liquids on a flight. We calculated that this had stopped after the liquid bomb attempts soon after 9/11, so about twenty years ago. “Do you remember a time when one could board a flight without any security checks?” “No, I might have been born already but I haven’t ever taken a flight without a security check.” I tried to remember and I came up, first, with a time when you could still smoke on flights and, then, way before that, when you could just walk on to a plane carrying whatever in your hand luggage. I put airport security checks starting in India just after the bombing of the Kanishka jumbo in 1985, although I could be wrong about that. Remembering the whole Khalistan mess took me back to the Delhi of the 1980s and the 1990s. Arriving from Calcutta, Delhi felt like it was a war-zone in a different country. The taxi from the airport would be stopped several times by police and paramilitary manning the yellow road-barriers. Some of the uniforms carried serious weaponry and looked twitchy enough to start using them at the drop of a hat. There was no curfew as such, but going from place to place at night involved many such stops, with high-powered torches being shoved into your face as a matter of course. Even after the Khalistan upheavals subsided, this state of siege in Delhi continued well into the 1990s. Visiting Chandigarh was even more startling, with pillboxes, barbed wire and sand-bagged machine gun nests next to important government buildings. It was grim, it was scary, but after the first few visits you started accepting this as the natural order of things. From the late 1990s, gradually at first, then rapidly, the siege lifted from the minds of the officials and was gone. However, by this time, the seeds of two new competing assaults had already been sown. First, the explosion of construction and automobiles in New Delhi combined rapidly with the pre-winter scrub-burning in nearby Punjab to create a cyclical environmental siege over most north Indian urban agglomerations. Second, the destruction of the Babri Masjid and the growth of Hindutva forces in the north and the west of the country which have eventually brought us to a point where the main threat to the integrity of the Republic now comes from inside the corridors of power in the capital. As a country and a society, we were already struggling to counter these by the time SARS-CoV-2 unloaded its millions of Trojan horses inside India. Despite the threat of hijackings and liquid-bombs having reduced somewhat, we now accept the checks and restrictions while flying as standard, and also that they are unlikely to disappear in the near future. Similarly, even as the threat from the virus diminishes, we will become used to masking, hand-washing and physical-distancing protocols; some of these will become habits, things that we do without a second thought. But perhaps one of the most important lessons we have learnt from fighting the battles against Covid-19 is about the inter-connectedness of things. Here, for instance, is one string: had China been a democracy with proper official checks and balances and a free press perhaps, the initial spread of the virus in Wuhan (whether from a lab leakage or ‘natural’ mutation) might have been better contained and countered. Here is another one: had the last three successive Indian governments (Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Manmohan Singh, Narendra Modi) concentrated on expanding much-needed public health infrastructure instead of staying addicted to health-destroying notions of ‘growth’, we would have countered the pandemic far better. Here is a third: had this current government focused its attention, just over the last twenty months, on the biggest crisis to hit Independent India instead of trying to stamp down on farmers, activists, dissenters and Opposition political parties, we would have lost far fewer than the lakhs who have died, we would have a far lower number of survivors so badly damaged by the virus, and not so many millions ruined financially. Finally, here is a fourth: not following proper masking and physical-distancing protocols, avoiding the drastic changes in our consumption and transport habits urgently required by an environment in meltdown, and not working fiercely to vote out this incompetent, ignorant and despotic Central government are all lethally dangerous to our individual and national health and well-being.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-53
