11-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Tom Daley knits at Tokyo Olympics||Set an example Sir — The Olympic gold medalist, Tom Daley, has recently made the headlines for knitting a medal pouch and an Olympics-themed cardigan at the Tokyo stadium. Daley has set a rather positive example for men. Knitting is an art form usually associated with women. Coming from a gold medallist athlete, such a gesture could go a long way toward breaking the prejudices associated with the different genders. Priyasha Sen,Calcutta Tearful goodbye Sir — The unexpected departure of Lionel Messi from FC Barcelona, a club that has been home to him since his teenage years, has left the football fraternity nonplussed and the man himself scrambling for words. But his tears at his final press conference for the Catalan giants spoke louder than words. Watching Barcelona play will never be the same again; it will be equally strange seeing Messi in a jersey other than the signature red and blue stripes that have become synonymous with his name. Football fanatics like myself will surely be pining for one last glimpse of him putting the ball past the goalkeeper at Camp Nou. Uddipta Banerjee,Calcutta Sir — It is sad news for supporters of FC Barcelona across the world that the legendary footballer, Lionel Messi, is going to end his 20-year-long career with the club. He has played 788 matches for the Spanish club, and helped it clinch 35 trophies. Barcelona fans were hoping against hope that the Argentine star would stay on with the club. They must be really disappointed. Sourish Misra,Calcutta Sir — The saying, ‘All good things must come to an end’, seems to have been meant for the day Lionel Messi bid goodbye to FC Barcelona. What Messi has done for the club, as much as the club has done for Messi’s career, will be remembered by all football lovers. Hopefully, as Barcelona and its star player part ways, both stakeholders do well. Abhijit Choudhury,Hooghly Act now Sir — In his article, “Remove the stain” (Aug 6), Prabhat Patnaik has established beyond a shadow of doubt that the citizens of free India face more torture through the invocation of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act by the authorities by way of a long period of incarceration without trial than what the freedom fighters faced at the hands of the British. Freedom fighters were treated as political prisoners. They were provided with newspapers, books and other such items. Many of them composed excellent books sitting in jail — Jawaharlal Nehru’s Discovery of India is an example. In contrast, in independent India, people arrested under the UAPA receive the most insufferable treatment, many aspects of which came to light in connection with the unfortunate case of Father Stan Swamy. Most laws are enacted by the legislature. It must, therefore, also be accountable for the torture inflicted on citizens through draconian laws. But the judiciary must not look the other way either. After all, it occupies the top echelon in all legal matters. Sanjit Ghatak,South 24 Parganas||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-52
11-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Forced to see||Coercion is never pretty. Especially within the marriage bond, which is seen as sacred. Yet Indian legislators have steadfastly refused to make intimate sexual assault or marital rape a crime — except when the wife is below 15, which is illegal anyway. This refusal is an expression of deeply ingrained patriarchal values, dangerous in more ways than one. Coercive sex by the husband undercuts all norms and laws which give a wife rights, status and dignity; it attacks a woman’s physical and mental autonomy, destroys her right to privacy and her sense of self. India is one of the 36 countries in the world that does not recognize marital rape, for in spite of apparent changes in society and social perceptions, a wife in India is still thought of as the property of her husband, to be used as he wishes. Violence, injustice and regressive notions, however, can be outdone by a wise law court. The Kerala High Court has pronounced that even if marital rape does not exist in penal law, it can yet be a seen as a form of cruelty on the basis of which a divorce can be granted. Rejecting a husband’s appeal against divorce, the high court said in effect that the wife’s body could not be treated as something that was ‘owed her husband’; using it for sex against her will was marital rape. The statement exposes and then throws overboard the patriarchal notion of possession, the root cause behind the refusal to criminalize marital rape. The high court’s reported comments regarding the need to review the divorce law referred to the freedom of choice not to suffer, raising the possibility of including marital rape among forms of cruelty in future. Now, though, the perception of marital rape as a ground for divorce rests with the court’s discretion. But without criminalizing it like all kinds of rape, India cannot claim to be civilized in its understanding of marriage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-52
11-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Wrinkles remain||Foreign investors will be partly relieved that the Narendra Modi government has finally scrapped the retrospective amendment to the tax laws made in 2012. The amendment, introduced by the then finance minister, Pranab Mukherjee, asserted the sovereign’s right to tax a transaction between two overseas entities if it meant an indirect transfer of a capital asset with an economic nexus to an entity based in the country. The amendment in the tax provision — Section 9(1)(i) of the Income Tax Act — was dated back to April 1962 and its scope widened to cover any share or interest in a company registered outside the country if it derived its value substantially from assets located in India. The sinister provision was designed to negate the impact of a Supreme Court decision which ruled that Vodafone International Holdings, a Dutch subsidiary of the telecom giant based in the United Kingdom, was not liable to pay any tax on the capital gains linked to a $11.1 billion transaction under which it acquired a 67 per cent stake in Hutchison Essar Ltd. Arun Jaitley had promised to scrap the tax proviso after the 17 cases that were enmeshed by the 2012 amendment reached a logical legal conclusion. The finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, tried to insist in all innocence that the decision to scrap the retrospective tax was taken only after the last of the cases was decided by the courts. There is some prevarication here. In December last year, the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague threw out the case against Cairn Plc —one of those sucked into the retro tax controversy — and ordered the Indian government to fork out $1.72 billion, including interest and costs. When the government demurred, Cairn launched a flurry of suits across the world, looking to seize assets of the Indian government and State-owned entities. The government finally lost its nerve when Cairn won an order from a French court permitting it to grab control of Indian assets in that country. But the government is still playing hardball over the payout to Cairn. It is prepared to pay only the principal amount of Rs 78 billion and not the tribunal’s award of roughly Rs 129 billion with the rider that Cairn withdraw all cases against the government. The talks are now underway and Cairn may eventually accept. But it does leave a bitter taste after a bruising battle. There is another problem: the retrospective element of the tax amendment has been scrapped but the principle of taxing indirect capital transfers has not. The government is free to slap a tax demand on Vodafone — such as transactions struck after May 28, 2012 — the day that the tax amendment was officially notified. Foreign investors will remain wary of this tax proviso.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-53
11-08-2021||Opinion||The future of history||Amidst the pandemic, many policies that should have generated heated debate and concerns have been pushed through with little to no murmur. Among issues that have been shadowed over are the scrapping of Article 370, the NRC-CAA, labour laws, farm laws and so on. One such concern is the proposed Learning Outcomes based Curriculum Framework for history teaching at the undergraduate level by the University Grants Commission. It is strange that the public discourse and concerns about education still remain confined to the ‘outcome’ generated upon taking evaluation as a criterion. Learning and knowing may no longer be ends in themselves but linking them linearly with their saleability in the knowledge economy or in order to get employment is too crude for an autonomous institution in pursuit of excellence. The UGC has come out with the LOCF for history, crafted by renowned historians and social scientists, who remain unnamed. The future of teaching-learning history in India is being crafted by people who cannot differentiate between the Indian nationalist, Bipin Chandra Pal (one in the troika of Lal-Bal-Pal), and the renowned historian, Bipan Chandra. This confusion coexists with language faux pas galore in the undergraduate history curriculum and syllabus proposed by the UGC. These cannot be ignored as mere typographical errors as the UGC has gone out of its mandate to guide and direct history teaching and learning across India. The same enthusiasm is missing and probably not desired or required for other disciplines. History — as a discipline and what is worth teaching as history — is a highly contested domain. History shapes our present; those who do not learn from it are doomed. The LOCF’s emphasis is on learning the ‘right’ history, for only this can introduce the learner to the ‘soul’ of the nation. The preamble to the LOCF opens with the prophecy that history is “a vital source to obtain knowledge about a nation’s soul”. Thus, to begin from the beginning, the learners are to be introduced to the ‘idea’ of ‘Bharat’ — the extent, geography and concept of which are outlined by the mythical Hindu ‘Bharatvarsha’. As its etymology reveals, it is the land of Bharat (one of the fabled ancestors of Rama) and the Vedic understanding of “Jambu dwipe Bharat khande”. The idea is not to teach a seamless history of the particular geography of Southeast Asia, but to introduce the basic tenets of ‘akhand Hindu rashtra’. The proposed curriculum never fails to reveal the hidden agenda of its makers. The German philosopher, Jörn Rüsen, outlines four categories of historical constructions — traditional history, exemplary history, critical history, and genetic history. The curriculum makers seem to believe in exemplary history, wherein the past is used to instruct contemporary actions and beliefs. The problem is that the present intent grows heavier and guides the construction of an imaginary past. Another factoid of Indo-Saraswati Civilization equates the Harappan Civilization to Rig Vedic Civilization and conforms to the narrative of Aryavart and India being the golden bird later smothered by Muslim invasion. The medieval section of Indian history is treated with contempt and derision being the era in which Muslim looters and invaders plundered India. History as a discipline is studied to comprehend continuity and change, but the curriculum either delusionally or intentionally wants its learners to study two papers — History of India (550 CE to 1200 CE) and History of India (1200 CE to 1700 CE) — simultaneously in the third semester. Similarly, in the fourth semester learners have to study two different time periods spanning three centuries — History of India (1707 CE to 1857 CE) and Indian National Movement (1857 CE to 1947 CE) — simultaneously. This flawed pedagogical structure not only confuses the learners but also reduces the rigour of the discipline. This reflects how the history curriculum has been compromised owing to a lack of historical understanding. Learning from history is an act of both investigation and imagination that seeks to explain how people have changed over time. Reading two different eras at the same time is not only pedagogically implausible but it also defeats transition, continuity and causality of the history learning objectives. Writing history is a historian’s craft and requires not only the skill to collate facts but also the ability to distinguish among fact, factoid, and fiction. Among memory, pastness, and what really happened in the past, only an objective analysis, irrespective of ideological leanings and fixated vantage points, can generate a critical history. Ideological moorings may lead to a wish to not underline or to overemphasize a historical event; but facts remain sacrosanct. For instance, the sepoy mutiny-first war of independence debate is pre-judged and hailed as a theoretical stance on the basis of a historical study undertaken by the original Hindutva ideologue. Events in modern Indian history and the making of contemporary India are tweaked and twisted with free will; the reform and revival movements are bracketed as ‘resistance’ by the Indian society to the onslaught of colonial powers. Major milestones in the making of India as a nation — be it the Queen’s Act, the Ilbert bill, the formation of INC, the Morley-Minto reforms, the Montagu-Chelmsford reforms, the Khilafat blossoming into Non-Cooperation or the three round table conferences — are brushed off as unimportant. Although students are encouraged to learn about the history and making of the Muslim League, they are deprived of learning about the origins of the Hindu Mahasabha and its growth into the RSS. Nehru, Gandhi, and Ambedkar are pushed to the margins and the Tripuri session of the INC is overemphasized to underline the Bose-Gandhi conflict. Wedges that hardly existed have been created between Nehru-Patel, Gandhi-Bose, and Gandhi-Ambedkar. They may have had different understandings of the ideas of freedom, liberty, and dignity but they also shared a common libertarian ethos and the values of secularism and equality. How history is created, works and contributes to our general understanding of knowledge and the making of the identity of the knower are what papers like Gender in Indian History, Religion and Religiosity, Inequality and Differences, Cultural Diversity in India, History of Science and Technology, and many others teach; these are not considered important enough to be included in the ‘model’ curriculum as they do not go well with the ‘perfect’ Hindu history and past. Similarly, the geographical stretch of Bharatvarsha is taken from Kandahar to Kamroop. The LOCF hardly takes any cognizance of people and their history beyond the Vindhyas. It is a cliché that we write our own history. History as a discipline is created and crafted according to its own paradigmatic constraints and the historian’s perception. But the present and future generations have the right to know and learn from history. The most prominent objective of learning history is to evolve a capability to distinguish among history, myth, and reality. Learning history may have outcomes that cannot be measured by the immediate fruition of learning and getting a job as a tourist or monument guide. The future of history appears bleak. The LOCF hardly reposes any faith in the teacher or learner or even in the objectives of learning history. The knowledge economy and political ideologies involved in making the LOCF have attempted to shove history as a discipline into myths, parables, and factoids to create a new discipline to pass for history in the future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-53
11-08-2021||Opinion||Forgetting freedom||All momentous events in history emerge in silence, and to silence they return. August 2021 compels one to think of many silences and many momentous events of a century ago — 1920-21 — which made India what it is. That juncture in Indian history was crowded with happenings, some with large contemporary significance, others that had lasting historical impact. The Mopla uprising in August 1920 cannot be forgotten even today. The country has still to fully adjust to the idea of being a diverse society. The creation of the Tata Steel Technology Institute at Jamshedpur in the same year marked the definitive beginning of India’s era of industrial urbanism. Steel has been the backbone of the culture of modernity. The ban on Kanajibhai Rathod’s film of 1921, Bhakta Vidur, produced for the Kohinoor Film Company, is as noteworthy a memory as is V. Shantaram being launched as lead actor playing Krishna in Baburao Painter’s film, Surekha Haran. The celluloid dreams relished by the collective called India have no match in representing the history of desire called the nation. The two silent movies began — in literal silence — the push and the pull of that desire, taking the country back to myth and forward to modernity at the same time. However, in the world of the 1920-21 period, terribly transformed by the long war of 1914-1918 outside India and a rapidly growing unrest within, a far more momentous event was the launch of Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar’s Mooknayak, a publication brought out with the financial help of the progressive prince of Kolhapur, Shahu, as ‘alternative media’ since major dailies were not willing to publish articles by Dalits. Although it had a short run, it marked the beginning of the rights struggle of the marginalized. Three other silent beginnings deserve mention for the scale of their combined impact, all three invoking the ancient idea of the ashram as a space for transformation. The protagonists of these three initiatives, reminiscent of some Vedic rishis, came to be recognized by the world as Gurudev, Mahatma and Maharishi. The period of 1920-21 marks moments of great transformation for all three. Of the three — Rabindranath Tagore (1861-1941), M.K. Gandhi (1869-1947) and Aurobindo Ghosh (1872-1950) — the last was the youngest. Born on August 15, 75 years before 1947, he had played a leading role in the fight against British rule during the years after the Bengal Partition, had been charged with sedition and was jailed for a year before he turned his energy towards re-casting various schools of Indian philosophy as a vast challenge to the doctrinaire and orthodox view of god. After moving to Pondicherry, he wrote, with matchless energy, essays reinterpreting tradition, questioning every established authority on the subject and produced an amazing corpus of philosophical work. The essays were first published in his journal, Arya, and later brought together as books— The Life Divine, The Synthesis of Yoga, Essays on the Gita, The Secrets of the Veda, Hymns to the Mystic Fire, The Renaissance of India, The Human Cycle and Future Poetry. It was simply breathtaking, as philosophical work goes. In 1920, Sri Aurobindo chose to cease publication of Arya, and all but stopped writing in order to concentrate on his profoundly meditative epic, Savitri. He dedicated the next three decades of his life to bringing on the earth a higher consciousness through his yogic work for the transformation of the human race. Central to the task was a collective life, the ashram at Pondicherry. Rabindranath Tagore, the earliest born of the three, by 1921 already a Nobel Laureate, world famous and respected in and outside India as a seer, inaugurated in December 1921 the Visva-Bharati, a radical place of learning and creativity, aimed at nurturing visva-manava — humans respectful of universal humanity. Like Sri Aurobindo, Gurudev Tagore had taken a plunge into experimenting for the sake of the world, not just for one set of people, for one nation. The ashrams — at Pondicherry and at Santiniketan — were laboratories in which a new thought for the world was being worked out. Even more radical was the self-transformation that Gandhi sought. If one compares his photographs of June 1921 and those of September 1921, one notices that the images look completely different. In June, he was dressed in the traditional Kathiawari style; in September, he had taken to a simple loin-cloth and had no cap on his fully shaven head. By August 1920, the era of Lal-Bal-Pal — Lala Lajpat Rai, Bal Gangadhar Tilak and Bipin Chandra Pal — had come to an end with the death of Tilak. M.K. Gandhi rose in that vacuum like a tornado, touring all parts of India and bringing together factional groups of the Congress, inspiring the youth to form the Seva Dal, involving Muslims, Hindus and Christians in the national independence struggle. He established in October 1920 the Gujarat Vidyapeeth, a university for fearless community workers; and in December 1921, he took up the reins of the Congress at its Calcutta session. The rest is history. These were the early years of Gandhi’s ashram life in India. Initially he had set up one at Kochrab, which was later moved to the Sabarmati bank, a short distance from the city of Ahmedabad. Named the Satyagraha Ashram at first, Gandhi’s ashram by the riverside came to be known as the Sabarmati Ashram (picture). The élan vital, the life-energy of the Mahatma who marched to Dandi a decade later, shaking the foundations of the British empire, had been built up in the environ, principles and the simplicity of the ashram. The story of the three ashrams is a large part of our history, whether we choose to remember it or forget it. In 2021, the Sabarmati Ashram is facing a serious threat of being turned into a ‘world-class tourist attraction’. An amount of Rs 1,200 crore has been pledged by the government to accomplish this. The architect entrusted with the controversial Central Vista has been commissioned to modernize the ashram campus. Gandhi was and will remain ‘world class’ because of his utter simplicity. The same simplicity marked the ashram when he created it. The proposed VIP guest house and auditorium can, at best, make us forget Gandhi and his simplicity. In all appearance, the Sabarmati Ashram makeover plans are aimed at inducing amnesia, not remembrance of Gandhi’s ideas and courage. Nothing else can be expected of a regime that is overly busy telling us through its information factories to forget all about our freedom struggle, the freedom of mind that Tagore celebrated and the freedom of spirit of Sri Aurobindo’s vision. G.N. Devy is a literary critic and cultural activist||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-53
