12-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Allegations of sexual misconduct against Andrew Cuomo||Look within Sir — The allegations of sexual misconduct against the former governor of New York, Andrew Cuomo, do not come as a surprise. Powerful men often get away with wrongs by threatening their victims with retribution. It is shocking, though, that even while he was passing laws against sexual harassment, Cuomo himself was guilty of inappropriate behaviour. This development must come as an eye-opener. The actions of activists and those speaking up against sexual abuse, too, need to be questioned. The movement against sexual abuse should not fall prey to the very problems it is fighting. Aparajita Saha,Calcutta Cause for concern Sir — The Chief Justice of India, N.V. Ramana, recently expressed concern about the prevalence of custodial torture in police stations at an event organized by the National Legal Services Authority, stating that the “threat to human rights and bodily integrity are the highest in police stations” (“Main threat to rights lies in police stations: CJI”, Aug 9). It is shameful that in spite of constitutional guarantees, police atrocities in custody continue to be one of the major problems plaguing the law and order machinery. Further, people who are arrested or detained often do not have access to timely legal representation, making it difficult for many to ensure that their rights are upheld. The grim reality is that most people in custody face ill-treatment at the hands of the police. There is an urgent need to check the excesses of the police and ensure that immediate legal aid is available to those arrested. The concerns raised by Ramana must be addressed. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — Any sort of violence meted out to a person in police custody is unconstitutional and must be condemned. The accused should be produced before a court of law as soon as possible and investigating officers must be held accountable for any mishaps while in custody. The observations by N.V. Ramana regarding the state of affairs in police stations are illuminating. His suggestions about rectifying the situation by keeping an eye on police excesses, dissemination of information about the constitutional right to legal aid and the availability of free legal aid services must be implemented by the government. Arun Gupta,Calcutta Sir — N.V. Ramana has rightly expressed anxiety about the persisting threat to human rights in police stations across India. It is unconstitutional to violate the bodily integrity of a person, no matter what his or her crime. Every democratic nation must ensure that the fundamental rights of all citizens, including the incarcerated, are upheld. The police force in India must be sensitized. D.V.G. Sankararao,Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh Real picture Sir — The recent spate of suicides by young women because of dowry-related violence reveals the cracks in the social and economic fabric of Kerala (“Much needed”, Aug 9). Last month, the Kerala High Court had observed that the attacks on women for dowry make matrimonial homes the most ‘dangerous’ place for them. In view of this prevailing situation, the chief whip of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) in Kerala, K.K. Shailaja, has advocated premarital counselling so that a couple entering marriage understands that the marital bond is not based on money or sex but rather it is a lifelong friendship that must be respected and nurtured. In the United States of America, family-life education programmes are part of high schools and colleges, and more recently are taught as part of community adult education. Such courses are usually structured to impart knowledge about marriage, family and relationships, and to teach ways to apply that knowledge in practical ways. It is important that people in India understand that marriage is a social bond and not a monetary transaction. Male children should be sensitized against social evils such as dowry from an early age and taught to question women’s subjugation in society at large. Political and economic empowerment of women will be crucial in remedying this situation. S.S. Paul,Nadia||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-52
12-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Blood ties||A polity tainted by blood is unacceptable. Two judgments by the Supreme Court seem to suggest that the onus of cleansing Indian politics of the scourge of crime is, unfortunately, the judiciary’s alone. In a scathing judgment, a bench of the apex court held most political parties guilty of contempt because of their refusal to honour rules that mandate the publication of the criminal antecedents of electoral candidates. Nine outfits have been fined for violating an earlier order that makes it compulsory to notify the Election Commission of relevant information about candidates. The highest court’s commitment to the principle of separation of powers is equally heartening. There is, the Supreme Court observed, ground for further intervention but for the moment the learned judges have relied on the strategy of disseminating information — the EC has been directed to create a dedicated mobile application — about pending criminal cases against public representatives so that voters can make an informed choice. The Supreme Court’s energy to cleanse politics must be contrasted with the inertia of elected governments. In a rap on their knuckles, another bench of the Supreme Court ordered state governments not to withdraw pending criminal cases against parliamentarians, members of legislatures and legislative councils without the express approval of high courts. Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttarakhand — the BJP is in power in these — and Maharashtra have already moved to dismiss such cases without the necessary judicial approval. The brazenness of state governments can be attributed to the endorsement of crime, a malaise that has gone unresisted by the people and politicians. This complicity is borne out by data — the court took cognizance of some figures — that indicate a surge in the percentage of winning candidates with tainted antecedents. Nearly half of the members of the 17th Lok Sabha, it was estimated two years ago, had declared criminal cases against them. The responsibility of punishing crime in electoral politics is collective. The court has shown the way; citizens and governments must now respond.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-52
12-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Death knell||The alarming frequency of natural calamities around the world caused in large part by global warming indicates the inevitability of climate change-induced disaster. The urgency of the threat, however, has been confirmed with the release of the latest report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which has warned that a warming of 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels is likely even before 2040. This is frightening, given that the 2015 Paris pact pledged to strive to keep the rise in global temperatures under 1.5 degrees Celsius and well below 2 degrees Celsius during this century. The projection bodes ill for India in particular — the nation and the subcontinent, according to the report, will be increasingly vulnerable to extreme weather events like heat waves, droughts, rainfall and, also, greater cyclonic activity. In a clarion call for damage control, the report has stressed upon the need for immediate cuts on global greenhouse gas emissions. That matters have come to such a pass is indicative not only of an inertia towards honouring climate commitments made in the Paris agreement but also the bottlenecks that continue to plague climate talks. These include prolonged — often fruitless — negotiations over comparative emission cut rates and the dogged unwillingness of richer nations to make greater concessions in the allocation of funds and technology to weaker economies. The next round of deliberations in Glasgow in a few months’ time must avoid these pitfalls. India, the world’s third-largest emitter, is one of the few nations that seem to be on track towards meeting the target they decided on in Paris. In spite of its lower carbon imprint and comparatively lower energy consumption, India must work on a war-footing to devise mitigatory, inclusive policy and modernize infrastructure to become climate resilient. The challenges are formidable in this respect. For one, it is one of the countries that is yet to update, or further stiffen, its nationally determined contributions, which nations were requested under the Paris pact to update by 2020. The synergy between green imperatives and industry is rare; only a handful of India’s sunrise sectors pay attention to the need to reduce carbon weightage. The scale of transforming the ecosystem of energy consumption, public transport, housing and the implementation of adaptation techniques is daunting. Climate refugees, a constituency that is likely to burgeon as erratic weather events intensify, are not recognized under most statutes, including the 1951 Refugee Convention and the 1967 Protocol relating to the Status of Refugees, thereby rendering them ineligible for protection under Indian and global legal frameworks. Equally worrying is the absence of public mobilization in favour of policy interventions to address climate change. Not everything can be left to a dedicated, but fragmented, philanthropy. The political class would be forced to act only if the environment becomes a political, economic and civic issue, as opposed to a merely ecological one. But is there any time left?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-52
12-08-2021||Opinion||Hell in heaven on earth||In June this year, protests by Sikh groups rocked Jammu and Kashmir. They alleged that two women from their community had been ‘kidnapped, converted and married’ in Srinagar. One of the women was ‘rescued’ and married off outside Kashmir, while the other woman dismissed the allegation of forced conversion and said that she had married the man out of her own free will. The issue is complicated and a sectarian comprehension is unwarranted. Without getting into the debate on the authenticity of the claims and the counterclaims of this particular incident, there is a need to examine the other intersecting issues related to women’s agency and the complications engendered by their position in conflict zones. Trafficking has heightened relevance in conflict zones because of the enhanced vulnerabilities of women in settings of turmoil, especially when it converges with the social institution of marriage. Many women are brought to Kashmir from other Indian states — mostly Bihar, Bengal and Uttar Pradesh — for ‘marriage’ without the women being aware of where they are being led. Deception, abduction and the promise of monetary gain are common methods used to get them married. Most of these women hail from disadvantageous socio-economic backgrounds, making them easier targets. Their situation is made worse by facilitators or brokers who are involved in these arrangements. According to the victims, the facilitators who either deceive or ‘buy’ them belong to their own community. Many women have lost touch with their own families; some face domestic violence; while others have found some level of acceptance and made peace with their condition. The difficulty in tracing the trajectory of trafficking as well as that of the victims increases when trafficking intersects with marriage. This problematic intersection has been highlighted by reports of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime. However, the linkages between trafficking and marriage are not obvious. The social endorsement of marriage as a dignified institution underscores the challenges in establishing a clear link between trafficking and forced marriages. Yet, such alliances are not uncommon in places like Baramulla, Kupwara and Kulgam. Enquiries revealed that such dubious marital alliances have existed for a long time, especially in the rural areas. Nisha’s story brings out how women’s vulnerabilities are exploited and how they become targets of trafficking. Now living in Kreeri tehsil of Baramulla, Nisha was brought from Bengal on a false promise of a tour to Kashmir with a group of people. Earlier, she lived as a single mother in Calcutta, working as domestic help after her husband deserted her. She had left her daughter with a relative as she thought she would return in a few days. But to her disbelief, she found herself confined in a hostel in Srinagar with many other young women who had been deceived before being forced into marriage. She also lost contact with her family and her daughter. Tahira, now a resident of Bangdara in Baramulla, was abducted from Firozpur in Saran, Bihar, when she was attending a function. Tahira did not have to convert after her marriage because she was a Muslim. Her experience of such a heavily militarized ambience as Kashmir convinced her that having a partner was a better option than facing the consequences of defiance. Tahira experienced the traumas and consequences associated with poverty, subordination, conservative and discriminatory cultural practices and systemic violence suffered by the other victims. In both instances, religious identity was not of any consequence in ameliorating their conditions within the larger matrix of transgressions. The violations rob victims of their most basic rights and their identity as a human being. These ‘servile forms of marriages’ are explained in the Supplementary Convention on the Abolition of Slavery, the Slave Trade and Institutions and Practices Similar to Slavery of 1956. Another woman brought from Bihar to Bangdara for marriage was branded mentally unsound and abandoned by her ‘husband’. Villagers confirmed that she was compelled to beg for a living and later went missing. Many such cases were also found in Kulgam’s Bhan village. The nonchalant responses to queries about complaints or cases reaffirmed the widespread prevalence and the subsequent normalization of such malpractices. However, it would be incorrect to view the multilayered challenge of trafficking through the superficial lens of religious conversion in a conflict zone like Kashmir. The intricacies of people’s realities — entrenched inequalities and the lack of accountability — are likely to get overshadowed by such a superfluous concern. Any effort to better the conditions of these women should be based on a deeper understanding of their situation. Reporting these incidents is equally complicated because of the intersections with socio-economic conditions and cultural sensibilities. There is a need to raise awareness of trafficking in the guise of marriage in restive areas where the attention of society and its institutions are directed at questions like security and sovereignty. Rarely does the focus shift to the challenges faced by women. And when it does, the real issues get overshadowed by those cherry-picked by stakeholders with vested interests. Tarushikha Sarvesh is Project Director, MHRD/ICSSR||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-52
12-08-2021||Opinion||Partially reformed||This year marks three decades of market-friendly economic reforms introduced in 1991 by the P.V. Narasimha Rao administration. Manmohan Singh was considered the mastermind behind breaking the shackles of the license-permit raj, an inefficient government, a stifled private sector, and a strictly controlled import regime. All these led to low economic growth, large incidence of poverty, an inefficient, unwieldy public sector, and pervasive corruption in public life. The foreign exchange crisis of 1991 forced a weak government to take the help of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank to open up the economy to cheaper imports, easier flows of foreign investments, liberalized domestic manufacturing and services, and a government committed to refraining from domestic economic controls as far as possible. While these measures were hailed by private businesses in India and abroad, not everyone was convinced about what these reforms would actually yield. The then Opposition — the Bharatiya Janata Party and the communist parties — was vocally opposed to the ‘selling’ off of the nation to foreign economic interests. However, during the 1990s, all major political formations in India had a chance to run the Central government. By the end of the decade, a silent consensus regarding reforms was reached in the polity. There were noises made about the details of policy-making but no one openly critiqued the idea of opening up the economy, as some had done in the earlier years. The 1990s saw a number of changes in the economy. Policy reforms did take place but growth was not spectacular. It roughly exhibited the same trend as in the 1980s. The economy was more open though. This was also the era of the coming of information technology and the discovery of the comparative advantage that India, as a low-wage economy with lots of cheap labour, possesses. There was a gradual shift of the economy towards services. This was also the time when China was making giant strides into manufacturing and India was taking gradual steps towards the making of a service economy. By the turn of the century, India’s growth rate began to increase and for the first 15 years of the twenty-first century the GDP growth rate was impressively high and certainly comparable to that of China. Not that the entire agenda of economic reforms was completed. It is incomplete even now. For instance, the kind of reforms the IMF or the World Bank would have wanted in financial markets, labour markets, agriculture, or the privatization of the public sector, are far from complete. Many of these are politically difficult; witness the resistance labour market and agricultural reforms introduced by the current government is facing. If one were to describe, in broad brushstrokes, the changes in the Indian economy during the last thirty years, one would have to mention, possibly at the very outset, the visible growth of an urban middle class that is enamoured of consumerism. New goods, new lifestyles, new malls, the seduction of shopping from home, eating out, wearing designer clothes and jewellery, watching cable television and owning a car or a two-wheeler — these have become the distinguishing features of the new middle class. This class aspires to consume even more, purchase the latest gadgets or the latest model of an existing device. These people have little concern for social causes, for political issues, or even concern for neighbours and the extended family. These people are not rich by any stretch of imagination. A reasonable estimate would be that such a family of four members could be making around Rs 40,000 to Rs 50,000 a month. However, new goods and new brands are available aplenty and have become reasonably cheap. There is always the hire purchase scheme or the EMI from a loan from the bank, or the ubiquitous credit card to defer payments. For this class, the credit market is now much more accessible compared to the twentieth century. Jobs are a little easier to get, especially with the spectacular rise of the tail-end of the IT industry: the world of IT workers in back offices and call centres. This consumerism marks a class on the go: impatient, intolerant and self-centred. It lives in the world of social media. That, however, is only a small part of the story. The majority of Indians, somewhere around 80 per cent of the population, has not had the same experience with economic reforms. The deprived and vulnerable, with poor healthcare and inadequate, low-quality education, have continued to live on the margins of the economy. Even with new investments, the prospects of new jobs, especially those that require low skills and minimum education, are rapidly vanishing. Technology has increased labour productivity almost ten-fold. According to a recent estimate, a 4 per cent growth in earlier days would result in a 2 per cent increase in employment. Now an 8 per cent growth results in only a 0.5 per cent rise in employment. Jobs disappear rapidly, new jobs get created but are few and far between, and that too only for skilled, educated people. No wonder the government has been putting a great deal of emphasis on creating entrepreneurs who, if successful, would be self-employed and not crowd the labour market. New investments for capital accumulation require new resources like land and machinery. This displaces a set of marginal people from their homes and jobs. Unlike during the early phase of industrial development, new jobs are not created to re-absorb the displaced into the main economy. They have to survive in a burgeoning informal sector. These people comprise the nascent useless class that will swell over time. Thanks to political democracy, however imperfect, this class is aided by politicians to eke out an existence, simply because it is a vote bank. These people form a society of refugees in their own land who negotiate deals with local politicians for daily living outside the ambit of the laws of the land. In many cases, as the class begins to swell, the State has begun to find ways and means of leaving as many of these people outside the electoral rolls as possible. This type of growth and development has created massive degrees of inequality in wealth and income distributions during the past three decades. Rapid growth with new technologies creates a jobless development, which accentuates inequality, and the rising inequality drives a pattern of growth that enriches the small consuming class. Despite the façade of glitter and sparkle, economic reforms have failed to transform the lives of the majority of Indians. The New India that reforms have engendered has led to systematic deterioration in the quality of life. In many parameters used to rank nations, India has slipped considerably in the past few years: from worsening environmental degradation, to greater incidence of hunger, to failing human development, to the shrinking of democratic rights and the loss of media freedom. A corporate oligarchy has grown powerful and influential and has decisive influence over the political class. Capital is on the move. India’s faltering democracy may still be able to tame some of its brutal consequences. However, this may not be possible for long as public institutions and civil liberties erode rapidly. On top of that, the unanticipated pandemic has exposed many hidden scars of the economy. When the pandemic ultimately fades away, the viral dregs will be thick. The economy is already frail and fractured, and the rulers of India’s elected autocracy may have to further tighten their grip on the political whip.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-52
