13-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Science, please||The Age of Reason is also, arguably, the Age of Irony. Consider the erosion of public trust in science. This alarming, global phenomenon should have been an anachronism in an epoch synonymous with unprecedented scientific progress. That, evidently, is not the case. The State of Science Index, developed by a corporate scientist on the basis of a global survey, has been indicative of a growing deficit between public trust and science in recent years. ‘Science scepticism’ was estimated to be 32 per cent in 2019, spiking to 35 per cent in 2020. It has taken a pandemic — yet another irony — to restore some of the confidence in science. Science scepticism is, apparently, at an all-time low of 27 per cent, with the majority of respondents saying that the wonders of science are integral to everyday living. The quick development of the vaccines against Covid-19 may have been fundamental to plugging the breach. Yet, the battle is not won yet. Be it vaccine hesitancy, the nurturing of a decidedly anti-scientific agenda by elected dispensations through the dissemination of information discrediting science — Narendra Modi’s India is an example — or, even more worryingly, the collective indifference to the imminence of climate change, the conflict between scientific ethos and public and political sentiment has had numerous manifestations in recent times. The challenge, therefore, is to rekindle the scientific spirit. One way of achieving this goal would be to turn the scientific enterprise democratic. This would entail liberating science from the proverbial ivory tower and widening public engagement with the daily applications of scientific research and technology. Greater incentives for the pursuit of science education would be one aspect of deepening society’s links with reason. Institutions that shape opinion — the media, for instance — must also play a role in fostering this collaboration. There is also the case for making science more representative: governments should encourage more women and members of socially disadvantaged groups to take up science by expanding scholarship programmes. These affirmative interventions must be accompanied by a determined public campaign that strikes at the roots of the founts — political or otherwise — of irrationality. Humanity’s future is riddled with challenges, some of which are the result of its own follies. Science can yet save the day if it is allowed to transition from being a discipline to a humane survival kit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-51
13-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Global climate change crisis||Signs of danger Sir — The latest report released by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has now revealed a grave threat for mankind. It says that global temperature may increase by 1.5 degrees Celsius by 2030 (“Climate ‘code red’”, Aug 10). This would lead to scorching heat waves, droughts, heavy rainfall, melting of glaciers and landslides. This could be devastating for India as well. All of this is happening in the name of development — carbon emission from industries is one of the major reasons for this situation. For long, mankind has been exploiting nature; now nature is paying it back. The lesson that we must learn from this is that we have to think about nature and adopt more climate-friendly ways of development. Otherwise, we will have to reap what we sow. Sandeep Rawat,Chandigarh Sir — The IPCC report has once again confronted us with the stark reality of climate change. It should galvanize us into taking remedial action. Extreme rainfall, floods, blistering heat waves and massive wildfires that currently devastate parts of the world are visible signs of climate change. We cannot afford to be indifferent at a time when this menace is upending our lives, livelihoods and habitats irreversibly. Humankind must realize that it would be impossible to adapt to temperatures beyond a certain degree and survive. The Earth is heating up rapidly; a further increase spells catastrophe, and beyond it an apocalypse. Scientific evidence shows that climate change is largely caused by human activities such as the burning of fossil fuels and deforestation. It is a mercy that climate change is a soluble problem. Humankind still has a small window of hope; it must take collective global action to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius above the pre-industrial levels, a critical threshold set by the Paris conference on climate change in 2015 and pull the planet back from the brink of destruction. The climate crisis requires that countries go beyond ‘net-zero emissions’ of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases by drastically cutting fossil fuel emissions. Affluent countries are the major emitters of greenhouse gases and are largely responsible for compounding the crisis to the tipping point. Climate justice demands that they do more, in proportion to their per capita emissions, to mitigate climate change and keep the planet fit to live. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — The first part of the sixth IPCC assessment report has come out. It has concluded that much of the damage caused by humans to the environment is now irreversible. Even so, what actions are we taking? A conference on climate is called from time to time — for example, on October 31, a conference is scheduled to be held at Glasgow. This recent report will surely be debated, with countries across the world busy at the moment scripting their best arguments. At the same time, huge fires have been engulfing the United States of America, Greece, and Turkey. More recently, a huge fire has broken out in Algeria too, where dozens of people have died. Calamities like floods, landslides, lightning, drought have become regular. Regrettably, many countries are still in the process of setting a date when they will start reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Jang Bahadur Singh,Jamshedpur Sir — The United Nations’ report on climate change warns that limiting global warming close to 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels will be “beyond reach” in the next two decades without immediate, rapid and large-scale reductions in greenhouse gas emission. Climate change is one of the most complex issues facing the world today. Carbon dioxide, the heat-trapping greenhouse gas that has driven global warming in recent times, lingers in the atmosphere for hundreds of years, and the planet takes a while to respond to warming. So, even if we stop emitting all greenhouse gases today, global warming and climate change will continue to affect future generations. In the absence of adequate national or international climate protection policies, communities around the world have been focusing on solving climate problems on their own, like working to build flood defences, instal water-permeable pavements to better deal with floods and storm water, and improve water storage and use. But it is important to think globally and act locally in the fight against climate change. A failure to act now will mean a reversal of all developmental activities till date; this could spell doom for the poorer and more vulnerable sections of society as well as lead to an erosion of biodiversity. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai  Lend a hand Sir — These days, there are several reports in newspapers about how many private schools are coming up with novel ways of providing support to its students — some are taking steps to protect the young minds from cyber crime, some others are encouraging fitness regimes for children leading sedentary lives. All of this is heartening. Yet, one cannot help but feel sad thinking about the vast majority of Indian students who are getting further marginalized, unable to access even regular classes, just because they are underprivileged. Can all schools not extend a helping hand to those who are most in need of support? Sarmistha Chaki,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-51
13-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Cast in unity||The times are such that the participation of the Opposition in passing one bill in the Lok Sabha is news. The Constitution (127th amendment) bill, 2021 that restores to the states the right to make their own lists of other backward classes was passed unanimously, even though the Opposition’s protests against the Narendra Modi-led government’s refusal to allow discussion on snooping held up business at other times. Reservation for OBCs became an indispensable part of policy after the Mandal Commission, while caste vote banks came to be as indispensable in the electoral contest. No political party can appear to be unresponsive to this issue. The political consensus — in both Houses — was most pronounced, however, in the demand to remove the Supreme Court-mandated 50 per cent cap on reservations. This demand has grown ever since the Supreme Court laid down in 1992 that quotas should not exceed 50 per cent, reportedly because of the constitutional principle of equality. In May, the Supreme Court put aside Maharashtra’s reservations for the Marathas as a socially and educationally backward class on this basis, as it had done in similar cases brought by Rajasthan and Odisha. Tamil Nadu’s 69 per cent quotas acquired immunity under the Ninth Schedule, but it is awaiting the Supreme Court’s scrutiny. In the Maharashtra case, the court had reportedly spoken of a single list of OBCs — to be decided by the president on the advice of the National Commission for Backward Classes according to the 102nd amendment to the Constitution made in 2018. This had effectively ended the states’ powers to compile OBC lists, which were being returned by the new bill. The members of parliament claimed that making OBC lists is useless without lifting the quota cap. But social justice would be best served if reservations are tested against constitutional and legal requirements, and intra-institutional decisions made on the basis of merit. A related demand is for a caste census. The government’s ambivalence with regard to caste becomes obvious here: it has dismissed the caste enumeration of the 2011 census as flawed and outdated, although it formed a committee in 2015 for the classification of caste names. Perhaps it is worried about offending the upper castes. It is not easy to appear virtuous to all sides of the caste table.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-52
13-08-2021||Opinion||Think anew||The post-pandemic world would be different. The architecture of economic and social institutions should be commensurate with this new world. The hardest hit in the pandemic has been the poor. To understand their challenges, coping strategies and alternative business and institutional models, we conducted in-depth interviews with several self-employed individuals in Calcutta, including auto-drivers, caterers, electricians, tea-stall owners and so on. The findings are instructive. Informal networks have become critical in coping with the economic shock and in conducting business. These networks can be horizontal or vertical. At the horizontal level, networks can comprise neighbours, rentiers, suppliers of raw material and customers. The urban poor have often missed paying rent or education fee. Yet, they could get by as their pledges of delayed payment were credible to those who are part of their socio-economic constituency. The networks at the vertical level could be connections with the higher administrative staff. The much-touted strategy of taking up alternative professions appeared to have elicited a poor response. Only a few have attempted to look for alternative avenues of earnings. Some of these attempts did not last long. Those who went back to their native villages during the lockdown of 2020 did not do so during 2021. Significantly, people innovated strategies and business models in their professions with the help of the experience they gained in the last one year. Businessmen are managing stocks according to their immediate business needs. Some have maintained raw material stocks that would be sufficient in the long run. The stocks are thinner in the case of perishable raw material. Caterers are conducting their business differently when they sense that the number of attendees to an event is likely to be higher than the stipulated limit. In such cases, they are providing cooks, plate-pickers and dish-washers separately but not cooked food. Non-availability of work has been the principal challenge. Additionally, the diseconomies of scale have caused hardship to the self-employed. The loss due to the diseconomies of scale becomes evident while purchasing raw material and delivering services. For example, caterers are serving groups that get invited on different days by the same individual for the same occasion. Although the total work remains the same, the average cost goes up, impacting profit adversely. The respondents made us rethink the role of institutions in economic policymaking. An important fallacy of economic policy is the absence of formal recognition of informal networks. Robert Putnam, an American political scientist, had termed this ‘social capital’. In the absence of financial capital, social capital can provide succour to businesses in the informal sector in the post-pandemic world. These networks can even be institutionalized on an alternative, low-cost, transparent platform. These platforms can help find potential customers, increase work and lessen the diseconomies of scale by aggregating orders. The policy response of the government needs to be revisited as well. The public distribution system has helped the urban poor but some of the regulations of normal periods need to be relaxed during the pandemic. Route permits given to auto-drivers designed to maintain order in the transport system have become unnecessary during the pandemic. Yet, auto-drivers had to spend money to get their permits renewed. Development economics is critical about employing unpaid family labour, especially women, in business. Yet the experience of the pandemic reveals that this is necessary and can enhance welfare. Now is the time to think differently about and restructure our world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-52
13-08-2021||Opinion||Slipping away||The brutal killing of the journalist, Danish Siddiqui, in Kandahar brought home to India the escalated nature of the conflict in Afghanistan. The expedited withdrawal of troops by the United States of America has coincided with, and perhaps even catalyzed, a new intensity in the intra-Afghan conflict amidst a steady expansion of territory where, effectively, the writ of the Taliban runs. The situation on the ground changes from day to day but these tactical shifts cannot disguise the larger picture — the situation in Afghanistan is perilous for its government and the balance has shifted in favour of the Taliban. Whatever the future may hold — a negotiated settlement or a further descent into civil war — this changed balance will leave its imprint. Inevitably, an analysis of the present conjuncture must begin with the US’s policy, for that has been the single-most important factor in Afghanistan in the past two decades. Was the tipping point the Doha agreement between the Taliban and the US that was reached on February 29, 2020? In retrospect, there is now greater unanimity that too much was conceded to the Taliban — an unconditional withdrawal in return for a safe exit for US troops. The Taliban were not required to declare a ceasefire or temper their fundamental opposition to the Afghan government or, indeed, to the idea of an ‘Islamic Republic’ as opposed to an ‘Islamic Emirate’.  What the Doha agreement also meant was a new legitimacy for the Taliban. This was much more than an external legitimacy, although that was important too. What the Doha agreement conferred was an internal status on the Taliban as almost a kind of a putative government-in-waiting. Clearly the Taliban and its negotiators had read the US with greater clarity than the other way around; all that the US really wanted was a way out of a forever war. So, as expected in most analyses, this role of the US occupies a great deal of space. For some narrators, this is another illustration of the wider US retreat and of the systemic shift in its mindset that now makes it increasingly self-absorbed. For others, it is yet another example of imperial hubris — how the greatest storehouse of knowledge and analysis that the world has ever seen can get its policy toolkit catastrophically wrong. And, yet, these are almost futile points since, for at least a decade, the US had made clear its intentions of ending its military intervention in Afghanistan. The absence of a visible political process internally in Afghanistan to accompany such disengagement has been equally evident. The poor state of the US’s relations with Russia, Iran, not to speak of China, also meant that a regional supportive ecosystem would remain a weak impulse. In the end, the US ended up seeking a solution through, what it had always seen as being, part of the problem — Pakistan. All this further weighted the dice in favour of the Taliban. Taken together, it is difficult to envisage how the aftermath of the US withdrawal could have been less bloody. Post-Doha, such diplomacy, such as there was, has been aptly described as throwing spaghetti on the Afghan wall in the hope that something will stick. So far none has. For something new to emerge now on the diplomatic front, a military set-back for the Taliban to reverse their recent gains is a necessary condition. Afghanistan’s internal fault lines acquire a new prominence in this mixed-up and fraught external context. The great historian, Jadunath Sarkar, describing the Mughal forces campaigning west of the Indus in the 17th century in what is today Afghanistan and the Afghanistan-Pakistan border region, had referred to a twin curse-cum-boon pronounced on the Afghans by one of their own seers: “You will always be free; you will never be united.” The absence of a coherent domestic political process in the past two decades has amplified the role of external influences, which have equally been exacerbated by the former. The 2014 and 2019 presidential elections were not just bitterly contested but their results were also disputed. At one stage in 2020, there were two parallel swearing-in ceremonies of presidential hopefuls — this when the Doha agreement was being negotiated by the Americans with the Taliban. It required the former to directly pressurize the feuding candidates claiming the presidency to back off. Order of a kind may have been temporarily restored by such patch-ups, but the process eroded the legitimacy of the political system domestically. In this fragmented situation, all internal and external players are hedging and positioning themselves depending on their particular interest. Pakistan sees itself as the major beneficiary of a Taliban comeback. At the very least, a change in the present order in Kabul means a substantial reduction in India’s profile in Afghanistan which has been a principal priority of Pakistan’s policy from the beginning. Yet, even Pakistan would rather have a political settlement — on the Taliban’s terms — rather than one emerging as a military outcome or a long-drawn-out and festering conflict. The latter options risk Western opprobrium for bringing an unrestrained Taliban to the centre stage, once again. There is also the risk of blowback in Pakistan from Taliban-induced violence. Pakistan sees the potential gains from a new architecture in Afghanistan as valuable enough to take these risks but, if possible, it would still prefer change to be the outcome of a political settlement rather than from a force of arms. The bottom line, however, is that an Afghanistan free of Indian influences is worth every and all risks. The other regional players — Iran, Russia, the Central Asian states, China — have all reconciled themselves to what they see as the inevitable, but with varying degrees of enthusiasm. For Russia, Iran and China, the change comes at the expense of US influence and an erosion of its prestige and that of the West as a whole. This means that the immediate advantages are considerable. These positions may change over time, but for now the outcome is one they can happily live with. In these circumstances, there is an intense debate in India about its options. The debate, to many, also centres around India engaging with the Taliban to protect its interests and its presence in Afghanistan established in the past two decades. The intensity of this discussion obscures the more fundamental change on the ground that is underway: all the beneficiaries of the past twenty years in Afghanistan, India included, are losing out and the new architecture that may emerge will be markedly different. No amount of diplomacy or engagement with the Taliban can reverse that process. An excessive eagerness to break bread with them, in fact, overlooks the combination of forces that has sustained their fight-back and revival. The biggest loser in the process is the prospect, which was in any case always dim, of Afghan neutrality in regional contestations. With this, the chances of any respite in which Afghanistan can attend to itself or tend to its wounds appear remote. T.C.A. Raghavan is a retired diplomat and a former high commissioner to Pakistan||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-52
