14-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: ISRO satellite launch fails||Shift the focus Sir — It is unfortunate that the attempt made by the Indian Space Research Organisation to place a new earth-observation satellite in space ended in failure (“Satellite mission fails”, Aug 13). ISRO’s GSLV-F10 rocket, which took off from the Satish Dhawan Space Centre at Sriharikota failed shortly after launching on Thursday. This was India’s first launch of 2021, and its first failure since 2017. The failure has been attributed to a ‘performance anomaly’. However, ISRO has unquestionably triumphed in many of its scientific endeavours, and has several stories of success. Unfortunately, these are not highlighted nearly as much as the failures of India’s space organization. A number of ISRO’s achievements have stunned even the scientists at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration of the United States of America. And yet, every failure, such as that of the GSLV-F10 rocket for the geo-imaging satellite mission, is played up. Unless the scientists at ISRO are recognized and lauded for their hard work, it will be difficult for them to reflect on and study the organization’s failures. The space body and its management must work to raise awareness among the common people not only about their own scientific perceptions but also about ISRO’s work and moments of success. Md. Yousuf Kamal,Muzaffarpur, Bihar Sir — The failure of the recent ISRO mission to put an earth-observation satellite into orbit was reportedly owing to nothing more than a technical problem. India’s space body has already embarked on and completed many successful missions, with many more projects in the pipeline. The scientists and technicians at ISRO must remember that failure is part of a long, successful journey. U. Mangalasseri,Malappuram, Kerala Sir — It is laudable that ISRO made its first launch of the year 2021, even if it ended in failure. The work put in by the scientific community while a pandemic rages in the country is not talked about or acknowledged enough. Anirban Guha,Calcutta Tricky question Sir — In the midst of a growing demand for raising the retirement age of Supreme Court and high court judges, the Chief Justice of India, N.V. Ramana, recently wondered whether “a person’s age is the appropriate yardstick to decide the tenure and time of retirement” (“CJI dwells on retirement age”, Aug 13). His comments are also applicable in the case of people in other, largely sedentary, professions who retire at the age of 60. Advancements in medical science and facilities have ensured that people live longer lives. At the same time, retiring at a fixed age renders a workforce that has valuable experience and knowledge redundant. On the other hand, extending the retirement age would pose a serious problem. The burden of unemployment among a young, eligible workforce is already high in India. If the retirement age is raised, it would likely delay the employment prospects of the youth. Politicians seem to be the only people who can avert mandatory retirement. A noted politician is said to have once quipped about an octogenarian ruler of a rival political party, “Era dehotyag korar aage padatyag korena (They do not resign till the die)”. Sanjit Ghatak,South 24 Parganas  Save them Sir — It was distressing to read that a dead dolphin washed ashore on Mumbai’s Juhu Beach. In fact, by April, at least four ocean humpback dolphins — they are endangered — had washed ashore in the city. These occurrences are cause for serious concern among  wildlife conservationists, who seem to be fighting a losing battle against the pollution of oceans and other water bodies. Reportedly, 100 million marine animals die each year from plastic waste alone. Other forms of water pollution would only add to this number. The cleaning of India’s coastlines and adjoining water bodies must be undertaken on a war footing by the Union and state governments. Arshiya Seth,Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-51
14-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Mr Doubtfire||Is it a bird, is it a plane, is it Superman? The sight of a man — an Olympic athlete no less — knitting in plain view is perhaps rarer than that of an imaginary superhero streaking across the sky. Tom Daley, the British diver, has created quite a splash with needle and thread: when he was not in the water, Mr Daley could be seen in the stands, weaving skeins of yarn together to create a pouch for the gold he won in the diving competition, a sweater for his friend’s dog, as well as a splendid Olympic-themed cardigan for himself. The shock and awe that greeted Mr Daley’s accomplishment on land can be attributed to the fact that the postmodern cultural discourse continues to segregate leisure along the lines of gender. Mr Daley could well have been confused with a matronly lady working wonders with yarn and thread simply because she had ample time on her hands. This prejudice is not old though. A cursory look at history would reveal that men have lorded over knitting for centuries; in the Middle Ages, women were not allowed to be part of all-men knitting guilds. This discrimination may have its roots in primitive codes of labour, codes that were disrupted and altered by emerging technology. For instance, with the invention of knitting machines in the 16th century, men stopped knitting, allowing women to gain access to the craft. Yet, technology was not an equitable enabler; it ended up creating newer divisions. As toxic masculinity started to cast condescending glances towards knitting, an art that Viking and Arab men once took pride in stopped being truly representative in terms of gender. Yet, it must be asked, what explains modernity’s enthusiasm to feminize specific forms of recreation? Cooking, knitting, sewing, cleaning — each requires skill, patience, hard work and imagination — are women’s business. That fits well with the prevailing — outdated? — idea that the world is the man’s business, while the home is the woman’s fief. Role reversals, in reel or real life, lead to considerable mirth still. Be it Mrs. Doubtfire — it featured Robin Williams in the role of a nanny — or men forced to take on household chores during the lockdown, the inversion of the template of division of labour has led to an explosion of memes and satire. Yet, more and more men may need to emulate Mr Daley. A study in 2018 showed that rising unemployment across the globe has been forcing men to take up jobs — caregiving is one example — traditionally associated with women. Funnily enough, while a woman shattering the proverbial glass ceiling is — quite correctly — lauded, men excelling in unconventional duties, be they at work or in play, continue to elicit the metaphorical prick from the needle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-51
14-08-2021||Opinion||The curtain rises: NYC puppet festival||It is no surprise that New York City has a rich and diverse culture when it comes to the arts. But one art form that is not celebrated enough is coming to the city with a bang with NYC’s first-ever ‘Puppet Week’, which includes exhibitions celebrating live puppet theatre performances. This August, the International Puppet Fringe Festival, NYC is coming to the city in collaboration with the Museum of the City of New York. It will be free to the public and will have over 40 performances by creatives in the field as well as over 100 iconic puppet characters. “During the pandemic, when our curtains couldn’t go up, our roster of puppet makers and puppeteers were eagerly preparing to enthrall audiences with their creative talents, and we can’t wait to finally share their work with you,” said Dr Manuel Morán, the founder of the festival, in a press release. Some iconic puppets that will be present, ready to evoke nostalgia, include Punch and Judy, Oscar the Grouch and Lamb Chop, among others. The exhibition will take place in the Museum of the City of New York and the Clemente Center in the Lower East Side. It will include puppetry and performances by artists who have performed in past festivals, as well as those who continue to perform in the city today. It will explore how puppetry came to New York and how it has been shaped by both the city and the globe. Green signal The iconic yellow taxi cabs in New York slowly dissipated as Ubers and Lyfts took over. Now, the existing ride-sharing services may be elbowed out by a new company called Revel who just got the approval to bring baby blue Teslas to Manhattan for its car service. The company had butted heads with the NYC Taxi and Limousine Commission in the last few months over the approval owing to an existing cap on the number of new taxis allowed to enter the market, but it had an exception clause for electric vehicles. Now, Revel has the green light to bring in 50 Tesla Model Y SUV taxis into the city. Revel does not rely on the community for drivers like Uber, but has a staff of full-time drivers with benefits and salaries like a traditional company. It is building superhub charging stations for its cars. A 20-minute-charge can take you an additional 100 miles. The production and sales of electric vehicles are rising in the country and expected to continue in this trajectory, especially under the new president, Joe Biden. Biden’s “Build Back Better” plan includes lowering the country’s carbon emissions by 2030, and moving towards electric and hybrid vehicles is a major part of that plan. In fact, the White House hosted an EV event on August 5 with executives from General Motors, Ford and Stellantis (formerly Chrysler) but Tesla — who owns nearly 80 per cent of the EV market and sells the most EVs — did not get an invite. Elon Musk, in a tweet, remarked that this was “odd”. Highly rated We enjoy seeing places and experiences ranked from best to worst and take to Yelp, Expedia and other sites for ratings. We are familiar with ranked hotels, restaurants and shops. Now, you can get to know about — and vote for — the best ranked bathrooms in the country. Cintas is hosting the “2021 America’s Best Restroom” award and it has carefully selected a list of 10 finalists and invited the public to vote on its website. A surprising one on the list is a bathroom at the JFK Airport’s Terminal 4. Normally, airport bathroom experiences are associated with stress, stench and queues but this one made the cut. Last year, the award went to Bancroft Park in Colorado Springs which is a self-cleaning restroom at the public park. The stalls were colour-coded to show occupancy, and water, soap and toilet paper were motion activated. Before the toilet paper ran out, the park maintenance manager would be alerted via an app. In 2019, the Nashville Zoo in Tennessee received the award because it is more than just a regular old bathroom — it has an indoor zoo exhibit inside the bathroom itself. The women’s bathroom features a family of six tamarins while the men’s has a floor-to-ceiling window with a ball python on display. Anyone can nominate their favourite bathroom — and the voting is open to the public. This is Cintas’s 20th year of giving out the best bathroom award. Its website carries testimonials from past finalists describing how the best bathroom awards have boosted business for them. Celebrate freedom India’s 75th Independence Day is being celebrated not only in India but also in several states in the United States of America by the large Indian community living across the nation. The Federation of Indian Associations in the New York, New Jersey and Connecticut regions is one of the largest organizations representing Indian Americans and hosts robust events every year. On August 15, the FIA is organizing free bus rides to Times Square from the Shree Umiya Dham temple in Edison, New Jersey, a city with a large concentration of immigrant Indians. At Times Square, the Indian flag will be hoisted. Later in the day, the Empire State Building will be lit up in the colours of the Indian flag as per tradition. The celebrations will then continue on a ticketed yacht, boarding at Hoboken, NJ with an eight-person table selling for $1,000. Flag-hoisting and festivities also take place in other states. The India Association of Greater Boston — founded in 1962 — is celebrating with dance performances and food. It had even partnered with the American India Foundation earlier this year to help raise money for medical supplies for Covid relief in India. In Providence, Rhode Island the iconic ‘Capitol Hill’ building will be lit up in the Tricolour, followed by the singing of the national anthem. The governor will kick off the event by hoisting both the Indian and American flags as two exemplars of democracy. Footnote The world’s most Instagrammed bookstore is in downtown Los Angeles. A UK-based website called the Knowledge Academy that studies Instagram hashtags concluded that The Last Bookstore in LA had the most hashtags as of February 2021. Second was Powell’s in Portland, Oregon. The next two were in Tokyo and Paris, although one in San Francisco ranked 9th. The Last Bookstore is located inside an old bank building and is designed with vaults, marble columns and arches in a 22,000 square feet space.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-51
14-08-2021||Opinion||Bapu’s right hand||Like all other Indians, I grew up thinking of August 15 as the day when, back in 1947, the first government of independent India was sworn into office. However, in recent years the day has acquired for me another meaning, not unrelated to the first. In my consciousness, August 15, 1947 has been joined by August 15, 1942, which is the day that Mahadev Desai died in prison. Without his contributions, India might never have become free of British rule at all, and yet this great patriot and freedom fighter remains largely unhonoured today. Perhaps he would have wanted it that way. From the time he joined Gandhi in Ahmedabad in 1917 until his death in the Aga Khan Palace a quarter of a century later, Mahadev entirely submerged himself in the service of the Mahatma. He was Gandhi’s secretary, typist, translator, counsellor, courier, interlocutor, trouble-shooter and much more. He even cooked for his Master, his khichdi in particular attracting Gandhi’s praise. The best testimony to Mahadev Desai’s indispensability to Gandhi’s work and campaigns comes from the Mahatma himself. In 1918, a year after Mahadev joined the Sabarmati Ashram, Gandhi told his nephew, Maganlal, that his secretary “has come to be my hands and feet, and my brain as well, so that without him I feel like one who has lost the use of legs and speech. The more I know him, the more I see his virtues. And he is as learned as [he is] virtuous”. Twenty years later, when Mahadev came close to a breakdown because of over-work and his refusal to take a holiday, Gandhi scolded him thus: “Shall we say you have a mania for work? Don’t you know if you were to be disabled, I would be a bird without wings? If you became bed-ridden, I would have to wind up three-fourths of my activities.” One person who knew Mahadev Desai intimately was Gandhi’s English disciple, Mira Behn (Madeleine Slade). They first met when Mahadev came to receive her at the Ahmedabad station in November 1925, and they were together in prison when he died some 17 years later. In her memoirs, The Spirit’s Pilgrimage, Mira writes of Mahadev Desai that “he was tall, good-looking, with a mustache, and thinning hair on an intellectual head. By nature he was delicately sensitive, which showed particularly in his finely shaped hands. He had an extraordinarily quick and intelligent grasp of the complicated and ever-varying situations in which he was Bapu’s right hand, noting, discussing, drafting and writing, always in that swift and exquisitely clear hand. But the most striking thing of all about him was his intense devotion to Bapu. And in this was our strongest bond”. When Gandhi was arrested in August 1942 after calling for the British to ‘Quit India’, he was imprisoned in the house of the Aga Khan in Poona, which had previously been requisitioned by the colonial state for this purpose. With him were a few close associates, Mahadev Desai and Mira Behn among them. Knowing that this would be a long prison term, on the evening of August 14, Mahadev told Mira, “What a grand opportunity this would be for writing. I have at least six books in my mind which I would like to get down on paper...” The next day he was dead, of a heart-attack, aged 50. A day later, the suitcase Mahadev had brought with him to the prison was opened by Gandhi. Apart from his clothes, it contained a copy of the Bible (presented to him by the British Quaker, Agatha Harrison), some newspaper clippings and several books, among them a copy of Tagore’s play, Muktadhara, and a book called Battle for Asia. A scholar of Gujarati and English literature, with a deep interest in history, politics and the law, Mahadev Desai was perhaps the most learned of all Gandhi’s associates. The American historian, Ian Desai, has studied the books Mahadev read and made notes on, writing of how he passed on the information he gleaned to Gandhi, who was himself rather poorly informed about such subjects as political theory and international politics. In a fascinating essay published some years ago in the Wilson Quarterly, Ian Desai remarked that Mahadev “was the heart of this intellectual operation [of the freedom struggle], helping Gandhi refine his philosophy over the course of his career and providing him with concrete information to use in his ideological struggle with British imperialism”. Mahadev’s love of learning also features in an obituary published in The Manchester Guardian. In 1931, Gandhi and his secretary spent several months in England attending the Second Round Table Conference. On this trip, recalled the obituarist, Mahadev “liked going into English homes and seeing how people lived. No sooner was he inside them that he would gravitate to the bookshelves. It could be seen how much he loved books by the way he handled them. And one could be quite sure of finding him in some bookshop if he had a few minutes to spare”. While reading capaciously as well as closely, Mahadev never forgot his primary duty, which was to advise and assist Gandhi, and record for posterity all that his Master said and did. As Gopalkrishna Gandhi has observed, by diarising every event, noteworthy as well as insignificant, of Gandhi’s waking hours, Mahadev became the Mahatma’s “alter ego and what he recorded became a primary source”, indispensable for future historians and biographers. Mahadev’s diaries, writes Gopal Gandhi, “almost wrote themselves, like the works of the other ‘M’, whose name is inseparable from [that of the 19th century sage] Sri Ramakrishna”. Mahadev Desai died on August 15, 1942. Gandhi, who was much older than him, lived on for more than five years thereafter. He missed Mahadev and his counsel till the end. In the last week of his life, when he was preoccupied on the one hand with restoring peace between Hindus and Muslims and on the other with healing the rift between Jawaharlal Nehru and Vallabhbhai Patel, Gandhi remarked to his grand-niece, Manu, “Today we miss Mahadev as never before. Had he been alive, he would never have allowed things to come to such a pass”. Until I was in my forties, I myself had little understanding of what Mahadev Desai meant to Gandhi and to India. It was only while working on a biography of the Mahatma, and coming across a vast hoard of Gandhi’s personal papers previously closed to scholars, that I came to recognize Mahadev’s colossal contributions to our nation as well as his distinctive qualities of head and heart. After my book was published, my cousin, Subu, who is just a little younger than me but who had grown up in America, wrote saying that while he “certainly did not know of Mahadev Desai and his importance” before reading my biography, “now I’m convinced there wouldn’t have been an Indian Gandhi without him. I don’t understand why there aren’t statues to him across the nation”. It may be hard to canvass money and support for such an admirable enterprise, but I do hope, at least, that some younger scholar fluent in both Gujarati and English will begin work on a new biography of the man. Many years ago, Mahadev Desai’s son, Narayan, wrote a life of his father, which is moving and informative, and an important contribution to the subject. However, it now needs to be complemented by a book written by a scholar who is not encumbered by family pieties, who can use primary materials which have since become available, and who can take the wider historical view. Like Gandhi, Mahadev Desai was utterly non-parochial. He was a man who respected and befriended women, a Gujarati deeply knowledgeable about other parts of India, a Hindu who abhorred and opposed majoritarianism, an Indian keenly interested in the rest of the world. He was also a talented and prolific writer, who had a wicked sense of humour besides. And through what he did for and with Gandhi, he had a profound impact on the history of his nation and the world. He would make a wonderful biographical subject. I myself had to write about Mahadev Desai in connection with Gandhi, yet in the course of my research I discovered the extraordinary range of Mahadev’s own friendships while reading his correspondence with such people as the anglicized Kashmiri, Jawaharlal Nehru, the Indianized Englishwoman, Mira Behn, the Tamil Sanskrit scholar, V.S. Srinivasa Sastri, and the Catholic private secretary to the viceroy, Gilbert Laithwaite. Among my most joyous discoveries was a photograph of Gandhi on his morning walk in Sevagram, circa 1936, accompanied by Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan and Mahadev Desai, both dressed in khadi, the tall Pathan’s hand affectionately draped around the shoulders of the diminutive and ever-smiling Gujarati. On this Independence Day, we remember the men and women who helped make our nation — B.R. Ambedkar, Abul Kalam Azad, Subhas Chandra Bose, Kamaladevi Chattopadhyay, Birsa Munda, Dadabhai Naoroji, Jawaharlal Nehru, Vallabhbhai Patel, Bhagat Singh and many others. As honourable and admirable as any on that list was Mahadev Desai, who died exactly five years before the freedom he so nobly and selflessly fought for finally arrived. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-51
