15-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Shared freedom||Art provokes. It challenges prejudices, pushes the boundaries of settled thought and discovers new forms and modes — all of which can cause discomfort, even anger. The transgressive nature of creativity can only flourish when the artist has the right to offend to some extent, according to Akhil Sibal, an advocate who had defended M.F. Husain when his works attracted the charge of obscenity. Mr Sibal deplored the fact that artists tended to sanitize their work amid increasing intolerance and the threat of the law. Husain’s career demonstrates that the use of the law by the most intolerant elements in society has a long history in India. This is more common now, affecting not just films or music or story-telling, but laughter too. For comedy, especially stand-up comedy, has grown into a tool of witty criticism. Without a law against laughter, the State’s disapproval may yet be manifested through laws penalizing the hurting of religious sentiments, for example, as in the case of the arrest of the comic artist, Munawar Faruqui, earlier this year. He was arrested for allegedly insulting Hindu deities and Amit Shah. Mr Sibal referred to the critical, free thinking aspect of art. But this should thrive beyond art too. Are Indians truly independent from that viewpoint? There can be no absolute freedom, of course; in a democracy, each citizen’s freedom is bounded by that of others. This principle envisages a tolerant, diverse co-existence, within which everyone is free to express themselves, argue or differ. This is enumerated in Article 19 of the Constitution. The limitations to freedom that it itemizes, however, are so phrased as to allow subjective interpretations — sovereignty and integrity of India or the security of the State can mean different things to different regimes as, for instance, can public order, decency and morality. The Constitution-makers had looked ahead at a time of hope in spite of the blood spilled in order to reach the tryst with destiny; they had not imagined that phrases in the Constitution and related sections in the Indian Penal Code — penalizing alleged hate speeches or threats to the interests of the State for example — would be used with deliberate misdirection to fetter society. Independent India was envisioned as a secular democratic republic, not a Hindu rashtra. Specific definitions and the revival of institutional checks and balances would erase the grey areas that allow the misuse of provisions and laws. Only then can the violence of dominant groups be punished instead of dissenters and activists being imprisoned. The right to offend is a fundamental tenet of a free society. That Indians baulk at saying or creating anything that is critical of the majority religion or the ruling party and its policies are indications of how far the country has slipped on the path to freedom and equality. To celebrate India’s independence today would be to ensure also that the promises of the Constitution are fulfilled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-50
15-08-2021||Opinion||Feeding the beast||The principal strategy of contemporary majoritarianism is singling out a group, demonizing it as an alien fifth column, and then publicly making an example of it. In earlier columns, I’ve examined how State-sponsored majoritarianism deals with minorities in countries as different as Myanmar, China and France. Myanmar, a pseudo-democracy, ethnically cleansed the Muslim Rohingya from Rakhine, a province bordering Bangladesh. China, a communist autocracy, has set itself the task of dissolving the Uighur as a Muslim community and it has attempted this by destroying mosques, by interning the Uighur on a massive scale, by intrusively surveilling the Uighur outside the camps and by coercively dispersing adult Uighurs to other parts of China. France, a Western European democracy, shares China’s suspicion of Muslim ‘extraterritoriality’. Political parties and voters across the political spectrum have targeted French Muslims as a dangerously unassimilated minority. Marine Le Pen, the leader of France’s Front National, a party with clear historical connections to fascistic French political movements like Action Française and Poujadism, speaks, nonetheless, from the mainstream of French politics when she attacks French Muslims as an incorrigibly anti-secular threat to the republic’s ideals, especially its cardinal principle of laicité. French Muslims are in no imminent danger of disenfranchisement, ethnic cleansing or concerted violence, but they do constitute a politically beleaguered minority, singled out for suspicion by both State and civil society. Despite the enormously varied contexts of majoritarian politics and policies in these three countries, they have some features in common. In all three cases, there seems little or no significant opposition to the singling out of the stigmatized minority from civil society groups or political parties other than those that speak from within the minority community. Le Pen, Macron, mainstream French conservatives, mainstream media groups seem to agree that France’s Muslims are a problem. This consensus seems even starker in Myanmar and there’s no sign that in what passes for public opinion in China, there is any disagreement with the State’s decision to ‘domesticate’ the community and bring it to heel. Modern majoritarianism is not covert, it is explicit and performative. It sets out to make an example of the minority in question. The savage ethnic cleansing of the Rohingya was publicly defended both by Myanmar’s junta and its erstwhile ruling party, the National League for Democracy. Aung San Suu Kyi, once an icon of easy liberalism, endorsed the army’s genocidal purge with a ruthlessness that Marine Le Pen might have envied. The country’s Parliament passed laws singling out Muslims and its Buddhist monks exchanged notes with their Theravada Buddhist counterparts in Sri Lanka on the best way of dealing with inconvenient Muslim minorities. Using the police or the army or the bureaucracy against a minority serves several purposes. It indicates to the general population that the minority is a kind of underclass that does not have the protection of the State. An underclass is a prerequisite for successful majoritarianism because the poor, subaltern, working-class sections of the nominal majority — Han, white, Buddhist — are best mobilized by offering them objects of hatred more wretched than them. Pogroms and vigilante violence constantly reiterate and celebrate this public subordination. Phone cameras, Facebook Live and WhatsApp shares allow people to vicariously participate in violent subordination on an unprecedented scale. This simultaneity, this sense of sharing a moment with thousands and millions of others, creates a virtual solidarity. It’s like watching a Premier League football match live. You might be thousands of miles away but, if you have a dog in the fight, you feel a sense of belonging, of ownership, that you wouldn’t feel in the absence of a live telecast. Majoritarianism is, amongst other things, a live carnival that you can be a part of. A couple of days ago, a video began to circulate amongst Indian WhatsApp groups, a clip that showed a Muslim man being beaten in Kanpur. His young daughter tried to protect her father, begging the mob to spare him. Even as the police intervened to take him away, his assailants kept him hitting him. Later, there were dark allegations of ‘conversion’, reports that goons had chosen to leverage religious community to settle a local dispute. This is irrelevant detail. The important thing here is the spectacle, the ecstatic rage and furious joy that bearing witness to ‘righteous’ violence brings. When white southerners gathered to watch a black man being lynched, they participated vicariously in the dispensing of summary justice because the black man was, in their view, an over-sexed animal, much given to molesting white women. Something like that feeling is harnessed by campaigns against ‘love jihad’, by the criminalization of the cattle trade, by the lynchings that keep predatory minorities in order. If majoritarianism is to be understood as a global phenomenon, India is the paradigmatic case. This is simply a matter of scale. India not only has the largest population in the world, it is also home to two hundred million Muslims. This is the size of the total population of Nigeria, Africa’s most populous country. India’s Muslim population is both dispersed and massive. Only Indonesia and Pakistan have larger Muslim populations. Even if the Indian State wanted to, it couldn’t do what China and Myanmar have done: reduce or disperse or expel a relatively small minority compactly located in a frontier province. Fascism is not a useful term for majoritarianism in India because given the defining precedent of Nazi Germany, it implies a big bang, death-camp climax. This is both wrong and a distraction from the real danger. Majoritarianism in India is not premised on a final solution. Majoritarian parties and organizations are unlikely to attempt large-scale ethnic cleansing or try to corral two hundred million Muslims in concentration camps. This is not on account of moral scruple but because the logistics of both exceed India’s State capacity. Majoritarianism in India offers a tasting menu, not a main course. Love jihad, vigilantism, lynching, public beatings, urban riots, the threat of the National Register of Citizens, the Citizenship (Amendment) Act’s success in smuggling in a religious criterion for citizenship, the ransacking of minority universities, the Ram Mandir, the taming of Kashmir, these hors d’oeuvres help feed the beast. The ‘success’ of the Gujarat model in segregating and subordinating Muslims in that state sustains the majoritarian wager that campaigns of episodic intimidation and violence can replicate this success on a pan-Indian scale.  India’s majoritarians believe that this carnival of contained but exemplary violence can indefinitely sustain an election-winning electoral majority. They are wrong, but that’s an argument for another day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-50
15-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the Editor: Twitter, it seems, is going out of its way to please BJP govt||Sir — Twitter had initially received much praise for standing up to the autocratic ways of the Government of India when the Information Technology Rules, 2021 were issued. But clearly business interests always triumph over any urge to stand up to the bullying tactics of the State. Not only is Twitter now in compliance with the IT Rules, it seems to be going out of its way to please the reigning Bharatiya Janata Party government. What else could explain the clear prejudice against the Congress? First, Rahul Gandhi’s account was temporarily suspended last week after he tweeted pictures of the family of a nine-year-old victim of alleged rape and murder in Northwest Delhi. Twitter deemed this a violation of its rules. If indeed Rahul was in breach of regulations, the post could have been removed. What was the need to suspend the account of one of the principal leaders of the Opposition for a week? When BJP leaders spread canards about anything and everything in the country, Twitter does little more than attach a manipulated media tag to the post, if that. Such a tag may mean something to an educated user with the privilege of understanding how social media works, but to most common people who blindly consume and regurgitate the lies that are fed to them on social media such a tag means next to nothing. Why, when voices in the government are not silenced, is the Opposition not being allowed to speak its mind? Aneesha Das,Calcutta Sir — Even while Indians celebrated the achievements of its women athletes in Tokyo, news emerged of the rape and murder of a nine-year-old Dalit girl in Delhi. Yet, it is business as usual for the government and the Opposition in the capital city. While the government is more bothered about why Rahul Gandhi visited the victim’s house, the Congress scion himself is losing sleep over his Twitter account being blocked and his millions of followers being deprived of his opinion. There is no doubt that Twitter’s actions reek of bias, but should not the focus be on getting justice for the girl who was raped and killed? Twitter is a relatively new medium; the role of the Opposition in a democracy is much older and more potent than a social media platform. Opposition parties communicated with the masses before social media existed. In fact, with the arrival of such means like social media and other internet platforms, politicians have become complacent, not reaching out to the public in real-life. Perhaps instead of crying over Twitter stifling his voice, Rahul should take this opportunity to speak his mind directly to the masses who matter, and they are most certainly not on Twitter. Rahul K. Jha,Jamshedpur Sir — Today, India’s 75th Independence Day, is the perfect opportunity to probe the idea of independence and introspect on whether Indians are indeed free. From recent revelations about spyware being used allegedly for mass surveillance to the State setting a religious test for citizenship, freedom and agency seem to be fraught concepts in India right now. Artists, activists and dissenters are silenced and killed for exercising their ‘freedom’. Instead of celebrating an event that was achieved at the cost of many lives and much sacrifice, we should try and safeguard freedoms for one and all. Jayanta Bhattacharya, Calcutta Sir — The article, “Online class toll begins to show” (Aug 14), delineates the unfavourable impact of online teaching, particularly on pupils at the pre-primary level. It is not surprising that learning from home puts extra pressure on parents who are expected to fill in for teachers. But they are often unable to do so because of domestic chores, work or lack of knowledge. But the article only discusses schools within Calcutta, that too English-medium ones. These form a tiny segment of pre-primary schools in Bengal. Students in Bengali-medium schools in cities and villages form the bulk; they are more deprived than most. With the pandemic still raging, no light is visible at the end of the tunnel. Sanjit Ghatak, South 24 Parganas||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-51
15-08-2021||Opinion||Kapil Sibal's birthday bash was nothing more than a party, or was it? ||The birthday party of the Congress parliamentarian and former minister, Kapil Sibal, generated a lot of political noise. While one section of the media innocently portrayed it as another effort to forge Opposition unity, another section mischievously linked the event to the rebel ‘Group of 23’, speculating over whether it was a plot to chart out a new path without the leadership of the Nehru-Gandhi family. Some conspiracy theorists went so far as to suggest that Sibal hosted the dinner on the day Rahul Gandhi was in Srinagar, away from Delhi. While leaders with mature thought processes laughed off the controversy, those swayed by the media’s interpretations wondered whether the G-23 was getting active again. The truth, however, is that it was a birthday party used by the host for some political publicity. One G-23 member remarked in a private conversation, “Sibal, too, is very ambitious, but he will realize the ground reality if he invites the same set of leaders with the stated objective of forging Opposition unity. Top leaders went because it was the birthday party of a top lawyer who has fought everybody’s case, not of a politician who can play any role in Opposition unity”. A high-profile leader from another Opposition party said, “We went to Sibal’s birthday party, not to a political event. Politics was discussed informally because we are politicians. Had it been a cricketer’s party, the topic of discussion would be cricket”. The Opposition leaders are clear in their minds that politics will be conducted by the Congress, not a rebel group of the Congress, and there was no question of being part of a design to isolate the Nehru-Gandhi family. Bihar has become a land of poster wars. Tej Pratap Yadav, the eldest son of the Rashtriya Janata Dal chief, Lalu Prasad, keeps lambasting senior party leaders every other day. At times, he trains his guns on journalists as well. Investigations revealed that at the root of the malaise is the continuous absence of his photographs from the huge posters in and around the state party headquarters in Patna. Lalu, Rabri Devi, their younger son, Tejashwi, and several other leaders are given space on the billboards, but not Tej Pratap. “We all know that a silent power struggle is going on in the party and Tejashwi is now way ahead in it. But not giving Tej Pratap a place in the posters is like pinching him regularly... at least give him space on the posters to keep him calm,” a senior RJD leader said. Somebody from Tej Pratap’s group put up a huge poster displaying him prominently along with Lalu and Rabri. Tejashwi was missing. Alas, somebody blackened the poster in the dead of night. It had to be removed hurriedly in the morning. Another poster fight is going on in Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United). It is between the new national president of the party and the Lok Sabha member, Rajiv Ranjan Singh — also known as Lalan Singh — and the Union steel minister, RCP Singh, a Rajya Sabha member who was recently removed from the post of national president. The two groups keep putting up posters and pulling them down if one leader or another is either missing or poorly represented. The showdown will be on August 16, the day the Union minister returns to Patna from Delhi after losing his party chair. The Narendra Modi-Amit Shah duopoly has been systematically marginalizing senior party leaders. After edging out veterans like LK Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi, the recent ouster of Ravi Shankar Prasad and Prakash Javadekar from the Union cabinet was an assertion of the motive. Two faces of the old guard, Rajnath Singh and Nitin Gadkari, remain, but their say and influence in key matters have been drastically cut. Rajnath or Gadkari could have resolved the recent stalemate in Parliament by using their experience and good equations with the Opposition, but they were not involved. Rajnath spoke, but then stepped back, possibly because he was asked to do so. The farmers’ agitation continues but neither of the two leaders have been put forward to diffuse the crisis. One reason for this, according to whispers in the Bharatiya Janata Party’s corridors, is that the current regime does not want to give importance to the Opposition by involving the two seniors. The other reason is the intent to send out the message that the prominence of these leaders is on the ebb. Many in the BJP believe that by the next general elections in 2024, Rajnath and Gadkari could find themselves on the margins. The editor-turned-politician and the legislative assembly member from the Biju Janata Dal, Soumya Ranjan Patnaik, has kicked up a fresh political storm by describing VK Pandian — the private secretary of the Odisha chief minister, Naveen Patnaik — and the Jajpur MLA, Pranab Prakash Das, as the CM’s ‘two eyes’. Speaking at a function, Soumya, the son-in-law of the former chief minister, JB Patnaik, said, “Administrators and politicians are like the two eyes of a ruler. And in case of Naveen, they are MLA Pranab Prakash Das and Pandian babu”. He went on to say that since the CM can see only what his “two eyes” want him to see, there is always a chance of him being misled. In that case, he argued, the party will be doomed. He went on to argue the case for the supreme leader needing a third eye, or the media. “However loyal these two eyes may be, there is no guarantee they will continue to remain so. That is why a clever leader [like Naveen] also needs to have a third eye,” said Soumya, who has been sulking ever since he was excluded from the CM’s ministry. Last month, his editorial in his popular daily criticizing the state government for trying to suppress Covid-related deaths had raised eyebrows. The leader had gone to the extent of demanding a white paper on the issue from the dispensation, giving the Opposition much-needed ammunition against the government. The BJP national general-secretary, CT Ravi, has angered the Congress by suggesting that hookah bars be opened in the name of Jawaharlal Nehru. He said this while commenting on Congress leaders’ opposition to the BJP government in Karnataka contemplating renaming Indira Canteens that offer affordable meals. Started during the Congress regime headed by PC Siddaramaiah, Indira Canteens have been a big hit in the state. The question is, will Ravi not change, or will his party not allow him to change?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-51
15-08-2021||Opinion||Jack and the peace-talk||Around the time Twitter suspended the account of Rahul Gandhi and several other Opposition leaders, the founder of the social media platform was spelling out his world vision. Jack Dorsey tweeted: “Bitcoin will unite a deeply divided country [United States]. And eventually: world.” And this might come as a shock to Mr Gandhi because during his 2018 maiden India visit, Dorsey met the Dalai Lama before he met him, but Dorsey’s take on world peace is this --- “… my hope is that [bitcoin] creates world peace”. So don’t be fooled by the beard and, so what if you think a blue tick is as good as a halo and no matter what pandemic evangelism you might have pulled off riding the platform --- the founder of Twitter is not Mr God. The name’s Dorsey and he is a nerd-cum-entrepreneur, no more required to be possessed of a conscience or prize it over bottomline than your Adani or Ambani. When he holds forth on how “focus on one thing isn’t hate of the others”, he is not spewing a life view — stop focusing on the beard — but arguing against all cryptocurrency except for bitcoin. When he talks about Twitter’s future, he is sure that bitcoin will be a big part of it. And when he said in June, “I don’t think there is anything more important in my lifetime to work on,” he was still on bitcoin. When Dorsey talks blue sky and decentralisation, he is actually tech-talking; bluesky is the name for Twitter’s decentralised social networking effort. And notwithstanding his I-do-not-celebrate-or-feel-pride thread following Twitter’s decision to suspend Donald Trump’s account, it is a fact that the “right decision” was taken only when Joe Biden had secured victory in the US presidential polls and Trump’s countdown had begun. So the shock at Twitter’s censory behaviour is bizarre. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, whose account has been suspended, said, “It’s obvious now that Twitter is actually not a neutral, objective platform… they are interfering in our political process… And as a politician I don’t like that.” To think, as a politician he believed as much.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-51
15-08-2021||Opinion||Can you see what’s written there?||From where I am this is all I can see. And I may be right in believing I can read what I see. I am no longer sure. I seem to have left behind the ability to make sense of things; or shall I say that ability has left me, drip by drip, day after day. I can no longer be sure. I say “read” when actually there is nothing to read in what I see and you probably see too. There are no letters and no words. There isn’t a language. There’s nothing to read. But perhaps there is. I am confused. I can no longer make sense of one thing and another. Too many things that I thought were those things turned out not to be those things. I mean I used to think a lie is a lie and then it turned out that a lie is actually the truth. When they lie they say it like the truth and it is received as the truth. It seems I have lost my definitions and understandings of things as I had grown up to learn them. Turns out I was fed the wrong definitions and the wrong understandings, and it can be a little unsettling that all this time has been spent living and perceiving in error and now it may be too late. I probably should not be saying “read” when there is nothing to read in what I see. But then, perhaps there is. Who knows? I used to think, perhaps wrongly, that it is possible to read things by seeing things, they need not be letters or words or sentences, or longer things with many many sentences. They may just be what they are and it is possible to read them. Read a sign, for instance, or a situation, or a scene. Possible? I can no longer be certain. From where I am I can see very little and read very little. There are bars that tunnel the scope of my vision and there is nowhere else to look at anything from. All the time that I have been here, this is the only view I am allowed of what is outside. Or where you are and from where you can turn your gaze 360 degrees and up and down and see all there can be seen. You can probably guess where I am. It’s Independence Day, but it is not independence day. See I told you things mean different things, different from what you thought they mean. I might wish to read in what I see a tableau of freedom, and open sky, whatever little I can see of it, and birds in flight. But I may also read a menaced sky and birds of prey, watching over, in readiness to swoop rather than soar. I can’t tell what it is, I can no longer tell one thing from another. All that flies Isn’t all free Those are lies Of a high degree.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-51
