16-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Partition Horrors Remembrance Day||Old divisions Sir — The prime minister has declared that August 14 will henceforth serve as a reminder of the horrors of Partition (“Partition rabbit out of PM hat”, Aug 15). The declaration of the Partition Horrors Remembrance Day is nothing but an effort to keep alive the pains of an ugly event and to continue to fan the flames of bitterness and animosity among communities in India. The Partition of India was a black day in history; to date people suffer its after-effects. To go out of one’s way to continue remembering this sad day is akin to keeping old wounds festering. In light of the upcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, this move can only be seen as another effort to polarize the electorate. Sadiq H. Laskar,Guwahati Sir — One wonders why the prime minister needed to resurrect the pain of Partition when the present generation was just moving on from these horrors and focusing on a peaceful future. In reality, this is nothing but an attempt to polarize Indians and divert attention from the government’s many failures including the mismanagement of the pandemic and the economy. The prime minister has clearly blown the poll bugle for the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly elections. Is it not necessary to heal the wounds rather than poking at it? One wonders how much longer Partition and Pakistan are going to be used as a poll plank to sow the seeds of division among people. Moreover, if the horrors of Partition are to be remembered, why not a day to recall the carnage of the 2002 Gujarat riots as well? Instead of removing the poison of social disharmony and strengthening the spirit of oneness, why must we remember a day when people were divided by the powers above them? Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad Sir — The prime minister wants the country to remember the horrors of Partition. His intention behind opening old wounds that are yet to fully heal is to sow communal disharmony so that people fight among themselves and do not pay attention to his government’s inefficiency as well as its nefarious intent to line the pockets of the rich and powerful. But simply telling people that Narendra Modi is trying to divide the electorate is not enough. With a clever player like our prime minister, the trick will be to defeat him at his own game. He wants people to remember the Partition. It is time people did recall the Partition, but also time they saw it more clearly from the distance afforded by history. It is now incumbent on civil society and the Opposition to remind people of the real reasons behind the Partition. Then, too, political leaders with their own agenda had divided people whose lives were near-inextricably intertwined. This tearing asunder left scars that still have the potential to cause pain. People need to recall not just the horrors of Partition but also its causes. The parallels with our times will be striking. Perhaps in using the saffron party’s actions to turn the table against it is the only way forward for a beleaguered Opposition that has failed to counter the Bharatiya Janata Party robustly at the hustings. A.K. Sen,Calcutta Sir — Narendra Modi seems to have developed some kind of a code of his own where he always says the exact opposite of what he means. “May the #PartitionHorrorsRemembranceDay keep reminding us of the need to remove the poison of social divisions, disharmony and further strengthen the spirit of oneness, social harmony and human empowerment,” he said on the eve of Independence Day. But it is he who is responsible for disrupting social harmony and setting up a religious test for citizenship that is dividing the country at present. Farhat Bashir,Noida  Lost magic Sir — The Immersive Media & Books 2020 survey found that 70 per cent of audiobook users and 61 per cent of ebook readers multitask while reading or hearing a book. Whatever happened to the idea of reading a book for leisure? Can there be any doubt that curling up in bed with a book and a glass of wine or laying down in an open space and reading with the clouds passing in the background are experiences that are matchless? Surely, sweating in the kitchen over a pot of bottle gourd while Stephen Fry reads out Harry Potter in one’s ears takes the magic out of the experience of reading? Devyani Chakraborty,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-50
16-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: National shame||India is now in its 75th year as an independent nation. This would be the right time to examine the lives of those who have aged along with the country. The results of this assessment can be found in a performance index of states, released by the Government of India, that measures the quality of life led by the elderly in the country. It maps senior citizens’ well-being along four major parameters — financial and social well-being, health and income security — and a series of sub-pillars that include economic empowerment, employment and enabling environment. While Rajasthan and Maharashtra offer a good quality of life to the elderly in the ‘aged states’ category — states where the population of senior citizens exceeds five million — West Bengal and Telangana rank at the bottom. Whereas the highest average in the pillar-wise analyses was scored in the health category, data show that India’s elderly suffer intensely in terms of income security. This plight is not new; in 2018, the Supreme Court had to instruct the Centre to find ways to increase elderly citizens’ monthly pension. The broader troubles confronting this constituency must be considered in the light of the fact that the number of senior citizens in India is expected to touch 319 million by 2050 — three times the estimate of the 2011 census. Some of these challenges are the result of broader social transformations such as the disintegration of the traditional forms of family. That amendments had to be made to the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007 to include sons-in-law and daughters-in-law within the ambit of caregivers is a testament not only to societal apathy but also its resultant indignities that the elderly are subjected to. Alternative care systems, such as agencies that supply medically-trained staff to the infirm as well as old-age homes offering modern amenities, exist, but such privatized models of care-giving are neither affordable for all nor a sustainable substitute for family-based care. The Union ministry of social justice did announce its ‘Seniorcare Ageing Growth Engine’ project through which elderly care products and services are made available by start-up companies. But its reach and success pale in comparison to templates that are in place in the West. The labour potential of the elderly continues to be looked down upon by economic policy. There is a case for organizations to retain or hire efficient elderly workers for their experience; banks, too, should be encouraged to offer special credit schemes to the retired to start small businesses. The rights and livelihoods of India’s senior citizens are still undermined in a country whose culture encourages the veneration of the elderly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-50
16-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Insomnia||The nation must not sleep over what has given the chairman of the Rajya Sabha a ‘sleepless night’. A distressed M. Venkaiah Naidu said that the pandemonium witnessed recently in the upper House — he has held members of the Opposition guilty of unruly conduct — had caused him to lose sleep. The word is that Mr Naidu is scrutinizing legal precedents and deliberating with senior officials to chalk out a deterrent. Committees exist to examine the moral and ethical responsibilities as well as the privileges of House members. Hopefully, Mr Naidu’s deliberations would be of participatory nature so that government and Opposition can find a way out of the mess together. It is the absence of collaboration that seems to have crippled Parliament. The Centre, typically, has passed the buck, blaming its political opponents. Yet, it has shown a marked disinclination to respond to the charges hurled at it by the Opposition. These range from a shocking obduracy on the part of Narendra Modi and his government to refuse to discuss issues of pertinent public interest and national security — the allegations of snooping on Indian citizens, the farmers’ stir, a heated border with China, the mismanagement of the Covid-19 pandemic and so on — to the alleged manhandling of Opposition members inside the House to the creation of a twisted, unbalanced narrative that seeks to demonize the Opposition for the logjam. The consequences of this firefight go beyond the dire implications for the spirit of parliamentary, if not political, consensus. Policy-making is being adversely affected by the truncated sessions. There is also a case for examining Parliament’s productivity beyond the number of sittings. The Bharatiya Janata Party’s electoral dominance has coincided with the emergence of a dispensation that is no longer willing to send bills to a parliamentary committee for wider, representative discussions. Even the Chief Justice of India has taken note of the absence of debate, deepening apprehensions about the Centre’s preference for a unilateral nature of governance. Mr Naidu should wield the stick against not only unacceptable behaviour but also violations of the moral and ethical imperatives that underpin parliamentary democracy. The stick should also be used to beat transgressors, be they from the government or the Opposition, in an unbiased manner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-50
16-08-2021||Opinion||A death and its clues||I have never met Father Stan Swamy or any of his alleged co-conspirators. Like most other people, I have only read about them and their alleged conspiracies to destabilize the Republic in the media. As also the threat they pose to my safety for which they must be incarcerated. They must stay unfree, says the State. And who are we to question that profound wisdom? The State is eminent domain; it must have had its reasons for holding an eighty-four-year-old priest in a cell and denying him a chance to access bail. Many commentators have analysed this and pointed out the maladies of our time. But knowing all this does not assuage my inner self. Father Stan’s death haunts me as if it’s a personal loss. Why do I think that I knew him when I clearly did not? Probably because I had met soft-spoken but upright Jesuits like him when I was an undergraduate student in St Xavier’s College. People who could rise above their religious affiliation and extend a hand across the divisions of our society. As far as I can see, we are mourning not only the passing away of a gentle priest but the death of people who can stand with courage and conviction to build a mosaic of togetherness. Stan Swamy’s death points out to us that we have lost very many elements of what it means to be human — sympathy for the poor and the underprivileged and the resolve to defend and articulate their concerns. And, yet, we are also without a doubt a more prosperous India than, say, even three decades ago. Not that this prosperity has been distributed well for inequality among the classes has grown. Nor have we been able to create and distribute basic welfare facilities — education, health and shelter for those who are in need. What we have managed well, however, is to create an all-consuming, aspirational middle class with authoritarian streaks that has thrown up a greater number of social pathologies than ever before. It is this sense of loss that we mourn when we remember Stan Swamy and the denial of basic human dignity to an old man. We also grieve for the passing away of the symbols of a past life that we may never recover. The question is not only who killed Father Stan Swamy but also what dies along with him. What are the causes that have led to the current state of affairs that Indians find themselves in? If we were to ask these questions and answer them honestly, then it would be clear that Father Stan’s death symbolizes both the rot that has set in and our collective failure to break out of the mould of self-absorption. This new, self-absorbed individual is the outcome of our honeymoon with the neoliberal world, for every age must produce — sociologically — the character of the times. The dominant theme today is the celebration of a compassionless, egoistical human being. This unconcern with our fellow citizens must not be argued away as the manifestation of our ‘natural selves’ in the manner that the 17th-century English philosopher, Thomas Hobbes, had done. This new, brutish, self-absorbed man is the product of careful grooming and pedagogy. His persona is a socialized self, but it is emerging with a difference. For the emergent self is no longer capable of thinking collectively, of listening patiently, and sympathizing or empathizing with the victims created by the system. In our quest for economic growth, in our obsession with technology as a panacea for our problems, we have managed to normalize the marginality of the people who have been dispossessed of their land, livelihood and sustenance. The pattern that has developed over the years has a singular storyline: the prosperity of a few must be subsidized and sustained by the many marginalized, indigenous people. This story is not only true of India but also for most of the world. What is worrisome is our collective inability to spot this injustice and take corrective steps. Our unreflective selves have been shaped and transformed by a model of learning and pedagogy where we ‘see’ but are not ‘observant’, we ‘hear’ but do not ‘understand’. What Father Stan and his resistance did is bring to our notice those whom we have consigned to our amnesia, thereby disturbing our exclusive comfort zones of high consumption and spending. The question that is critical here is whether we can recover, even partially, a more sensitive, caring self. To do that, we need to embark upon a reorientation of our teaching and learning processes, of investing time and money in subjects that would allow us to be critical and compassionate. The recovery of our collective self cannot be based upon ideas that are the causes of our failures but by allowing for a more reflexive self to evolve through a dialogic process that acknowledges the world as plural and diverse. Rabindranath Tagore did precisely this by creating Santiniketan, where one moved out of the confines of the ‘mainstream’ to learn about the world we inhabit. Later, in different countries and at different times, the likes of Ivan Illich and Paulo Freire made similar efforts. It is no coincidence that Father Stan was a student of Paulo Freire. It is for us now to take up the unfinished projects that would lead us to the ‘pedagogy(ies) of the oppressed’ so that we may not belittle the struggles of those whom we invariably leave behind in our singular quest for ‘success’. While we know who killed the good Jesuit, we have to look inside us to discover the accomplices of his killers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-50
16-08-2021||Opinion||Noisy nation||"Just consider how terrible the day of your death will be./ Others will go on speaking, and you will not be able to argue back.” Amartya Sen quotes Raja Ram Mohan Roy’s poem to demonstrate India’s loquacious culture and argumentative tradition in his The Argumentative Indian: Writings on Indian History, Culture and Identity. India loves to be noisy. Voice is life and silence is death in a democratic polity. The argumentative tradition, Sen says, if used with deliberation and commitment, can be extremely important in resisting social inequalities and in removing poverty and deprivation. India has been blessed with a long tradition of public arguments and intellectual heterodoxy. Constitutional democracy is fastened to public reasoning. Public reasoning provides the opportunity for the citizenry to take part in political discussion to influence public choice. In Romesh Thappar v. State of Madras (1950), Justice Patanjali Sastri rightly observed that “Freedom of Speech and Press lay at the foundation of all democratic organizations, for without free political discussion, no public education, so essential for the proper functioning of the process of Government, is possible.” But in praxis, free speech has been a paper tiger in India. Sedition and contempt of court, two living fossils in the Indian legal ecosystem, impose an omertà of sorts on free speech that silently kills the very spirit of democracy. A writ petition has recently been filed in public interest, challenging the constitutional validity of Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code, 1860, as being ultra vires of Article 19(1) (a) of the Constitution read with Articles 14 and 21. The petitioner is a public-spirited person and a retired major-general from the army. He pointed out that in I.R. Coelho v. State of Tamil Nadu (2007), the Supreme Court had held that the Constitution is a living document and all constitutional provisions have to be construed as having regard to the march of time and the development of law. The Supreme Court has clarified that fundamental rights in the Constitution are not to be read as isolated silos or as watertight compartments, but are to be read as if the content of each fundamental right animates the other. The petitioner contends that a statute criminalizing expression based on unconstitutionally vague definitions, such as ‘disaffection towards government’, is an unreasonable restriction on the fundamental right to free expression guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) and causes the constitutionally impermissible ‘Chilling Effect’ on speech. The reasonableness of the restriction of free speech under 19(2) — in this case, sedition — will need to be looked afresh considering procedural as well as substantive due process embodied in Articles 14 and 21. The petitioner has set forth the doctrine of Chilling Effect on speech, wherein the probability of the impugned provision causes psychological tether in the free exercise of the right and the content, and that the court should consider the implication of that probability and the severity of the Chilling Effect while weighing on the validity of such a provision. Even in the United States of America, the doctrine got established only as late as 1967, starting with Justice William J. Brennan’s dissenting opinion in Walker v. Birmingham. The most concrete pronouncement on a penal statutory provision being unconstitutionally vague causing a Chilling Effect on speech is as recent as 2015 in Shreya Singhal v. Union of India. The court held that Section 66-A of the Information Technology Act casts restriction so widely that virtually any opinion on any subject would be covered by it and any serious opinion dissenting with the mores of the day would be caught within its net. Such is the reach of the section and if it is to withstand the test of constitutionality, the Chilling Effect on free speech would be total. While our founding fathers were busy drafting the Constitution, George Orwell was composing his Nineteen Eighty-Four: A Novel, often referred to as 1984. On December 13, 1946, Jawaharlal Nehru moved the ‘Objective Resolution’, which later became the Preamble to the Constitution of India, that, inter alia, promised freedom of thought and expression. There was no need to mention freedom to think at that point of time as thought was viewed as an intangible psychological process; it was unimaginable then that thought could be interfered with. Meanwhile, Orwell was imaging the Thought Police — thinkpol — that discover and punish thoughtcrime, personal and political thoughts disapproved by the government. The thinkpol use criminal psychology and omnipresent surveillance via informers, telescreens, cameras and microphones to monitor the citizens of Oceania and arrest those who have committed thoughtcrime that challenges the status quo authority of the Party and the regime of Big Brother. Our founding fathers, too, were prescient to the possibility of a future Orwellian State as they promised liberty of thought in the Constitution. But in this era of cyber, Byzantine politics and Pegasus snoopgate, the Chilling Effect is creeping into our neurons as well. Not only the State apparatus but also pernicious social elements enforce the Chilling Effect on free public discourse. In 2013, Narendra Dabholkar, a rationalist and the founder of the Maharashtra Andhashraddha Nirmoolan Samiti, was shot dead. He was an ardent advocate of the criminalization of black magic and human sacrifice. The conspiracy behind the murder has never been unveiled, nor have the culprits been punished. The macabre murders of Govind Pansare, M.M. Kalburgi and Gauri Lankesh followed. “The murders of the four activists-writers show the grave dangers of free speech in India where the mob enjoys immunity from the law even as the state structure fails to protect free thinkers or even looks away from the citizen’s rights enshrined in the Constitution... the cult of violence is breeding faster than the Aedes Aegypti mosquito and infecting many with the fever of blood lust against those they disagree with” — writes Sagarika Ghose in Why I Am a Liberal: A Manifesto for Indians Who Believe in Individual Freedom (2018). For the blood of those free-thinking intellectuals, our society is collectively guilty. A liberal polity should be anchored in discussion, debate, and dissent. Salman Rushdie’s Haroun and the Sea of Stories (1990) is a saga of the war between loquaciousness and silence. Rashid, Haroun’s father, is a storyteller known as the “Ocean of Notions” by his admirers and the “Shah of Blah” by his rivals. Let the ‘Oceans of Notions’ and the ‘Shahs of Blah’ reign. The cacophony of democracy is more soothing than the monotonous drone of authoritarianism. Faisal C.K. is Under-Secretary (Law) to Government of Kerala||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-50
