17-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Class for all||When two sets of well-intentioned legal or constitutional provisions come into conflict, it is usually the most vulnerable who suffer. A study conducted by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights investigated, from 2015-16, how children in minority communities have fared under the exemption of minority community institutions from the requirements of the Right to Education Act and the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan. The exemption went through a few stages, including constitutional amendments in 2006 and 2012 and a Supreme Court ruling in 2014. It was ultimately based on Article 30 of the Constitution, which states the right of minority groups to establish and administer educational institutions for children from  religious and linguistic minorities. Meanwhile the RTE Act emphasized inclusive education, and laid down that even unaided schools would have to reserve a fixed percentage of seats for children from underprivileged sections, while the SSA ensured that schools would offer free midday meals, uniforms, textbooks, learning material, library, computers and so on. The NCPCR report shows that the exemption has had deeply disturbing results. Paradoxically, over 60 per cent of pupils in minority institutions across the board are from non-minority groups. Christian institutions, which far exceed in proportion the percentage of Christians in the population, have around 74 per cent non-minority students. Since reservations are not mandatory, some of these schools are ‘elite’ ones, while all minority institutions together serve only 8.76 per cent of students from socially and economically disadvantaged backgrounds. Thus the positive goals of the RTE Act and of the right of minorities to run their own institutions are frustrated: protecting the second from the first denies numerous underprivileged children benefits under the SSA and the right to learn. Accommodating non-minority students in large numbers means leaving out children from the target groups: in 2016, of 3.8 crore Muslim children of 6-14 years of age, 1.1 crore were out of school. Muslim minority institutions — excluding government-recognized madrasas — differ greatly from Christian schools. Students, taught religious courses only and deprived of ‘mainstream’ subjects and trained teachers, suffer from feelings of inferiority. The exemption needs to be reviewed and a minimum percentage set for students from target groups to be admitted to minority institutions. The best rules will fail until the weakest segments of India’s children can enjoy their rights.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-49
17-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Criminalization of politics||Follow the order Sir — Politics and crime are entangled to such an extent in India that the Supreme Court has been forced to repeatedly appeal to political parties to take steps to curb the criminalization of politics (“Blood ties”, Aug 12). In a welcome ruling, the apex court had held several political parties, including the Congress, the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Communist Party of India (Marxist), guilty of contempt for violating an earlier order to notify the Election Commission of the criminal antecedents of candidates within a stipulated time. The number of elected policymakers who have pending criminal cases against them is staggering. The Supreme Court has rightly observed that there is much room for intervention and has directed the EC to create a dedicated mobile application that lists the pending criminal cases against public representatives so that voters can make an informed choice. But considering the low literacy rate in rural India, will it be possible for a vast majority of voters to access this information? S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — It is alarming that according to a survey done two years ago, nearly half of the members of the 17th Lok Sabha had criminal cases against them. The Supreme Court must be lauded for proactively trying to weed out this malaise from the system. It is crucial that political parties, too, take strict measures against party members guilty of criminal conduct. At present, there is a symbiotic relationship between criminals and political parties; this link needs to be broken. Anthony Henriques,Mumbai Sir — It is unfortunate that the Supreme Court had to pull up nine political parties for failing to adhere to its earlier directive of declaring the criminal antecedents of candidates. No one can deny that a large number of elected representatives are facing serious criminal accusations. But rather than holding party members accountable, state governments often withdraw pending cases against parliamentarians. How long must the people of India wait before Indian politics is purged of criminals? Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — The directive by the Supreme Court prohibiting state governments from withdrawing criminal cases against party members without the express approval of the high courts is welcome. All political parties must strictly adhere to this ruling. Amitava Sinha,Calcutta  Vanishing act Sir — The Delhi High Court has directed the Animal Welfare Board of India to file an affidavit disclosing the status of animals from circuses that have closed down. Last year, the court was informed by the Federation of Indian Animal Protection Organisations that although 740 animals are registered with the AWBI, only 28 had been found. This is shocking. Most circus animals are kept in inhumane conditions; the AWBI should have strictly monitored their well-being. There is no point in passing laws regarding the welfare of animals if the latter seem to have disappeared as if by magic from under the AWBI’s nose. Sharanya Sengupta,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-49
17-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Memory games||The prime minister’s address on Independence Day may have been colourless but he did make a singular announcement a day before. August 14, Narendra Modi declared, would be remembered as ‘Partition Horrors Remembrance Day’. Mr Modi’s epiphanies are not known to be independent of political imperatives. There is no denying the fact that the subcontinent experienced an unprecedented humanitarian tragedy brought about by a combination of factors — a complicit colonial government, communal fault lines and political opportunism. But Mr Modi’s invocation of the Partition, critics allege, is consistent with his polarizing politics. India’s western neighbour — August 14 happens to be Pakistan’s Independence Day — is a handy political tool for Mr Modi to deflect public attention from the failures of his own government. His utterance assumes significance because the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, supposedly a barometer of the national mood, are not too far away. There is, however, a broader ethical quandary that must not go uncommented. Trauma, history shows, is synonymous with nationhood. India and Pakistan were nations forged in the fire of conflict. The flames had different kinds of impact on them. Pakistan emerged by embracing its founder’s bitterly divisive ‘two-nation theory’. India rejected religious exclusivity, striving, not without difficulties, to honour the vision of a democratic, inclusive, secular republic as envisaged by the founders of its Constitution. This willingness to rise together from the ashes of discrimination, to heal and be healed — there could not have been a more unambiguous denouncement of the horrors of Partition that Mr Modi now wants the nation to commemorate. Without being in denial of the trauma, as was the case with post-War Germany, India and its leadership chose to look the toxic legacy of Partition in the eye so as not to repeat its folly. Pakistan’s dismemberment — Bangladesh was born amidst blood, sweat and tears — validated India’s tryst with accommodation. There is a case to argue that under Mr Modi’s stewardship, India seems to have lost much of its faith in its self-fashioned model of a pluralist republic. New India could well become a pale ghost of the constitutional vision if the prime minister reneges — has he not already? — on his pledge of collective welfare. Instead of reminiscing on past wounds, India must expend its energy to ensure that they are not opened up, once again.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-49
17-08-2021||Opinion||Wet and dry||Bhattijam is a 100-household village in the Chandrapur district of Maharashtra surrounded by small paddy fields interspersed with forest patches. The village belongs to the Dhivars, a fishing community with small land-holdings. For three decades, farmers here have been waiting for the waters from a big irrigation project to flow into their fields. The project falls under the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana, or the erstwhile Accelerated Irrigation Benefit Programme of the Central government. Distributaries are being laid at a sluggish pace — a pan-India problem with all major dams — and the community village tank is struggling with a burgeoning population, reducing its capacity. While people desperately wait for surface water to come to their fields and improve their options of having two, possibly three, crops around the year, they must till their lands with rainwaters that are becoming increasingly moody and erratic. We are in mid-August and Bhattijam and its surrounding villages are edgy. Not because of the looming fear of the third Covid-19 wave, but because the rains have been elusive, the weather hot and dam waters are taking forever to reach their fields. Bhattijam is in a region that gets 1,200 mm of rains annually, conducive for paddy and fish cultivation, which require lots of water. By this time, sowing is over, fish seeds are released in the community tanks, tillers begin to grow taller and paint the large swathes of land yellow and green. Not this time around. Sowing is incomplete owing to the lack of rain. Where it was done in June-July, the tillers are wilting, fields cracking and the soil turning harder. Bhattijam — and much of this region — is staring at a loss of the kharif paddy crop. If that happens, migrating out for work and livelihood post Diwali will be the only option. Farmers are desperate for good monsoon rains. Contrast this with western Maharashtra, or West Bengal, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, where floods, following heavy rainfall, have wreaked havoc and caused massive loss of lives and livelihoods. People will migrate from there too. It’s a paradox that afflicts state after state, but there’s no reflection on what might be the single-biggest concern for rural economies in the sessions of Parliament or the state legislatures. It is as if the law-makers don’t know and won’t care. Climate change is a calamity that is building up. There is a palpable shift in the rainfall patterns all over the country —floods and meteorological droughts are occurring in the same regions. Long dry spells and extreme rainfall events, all happen in one season. Bhattijam, for instance, got mild showers some 20 days ago, but no rains since then. It may so happen, as it has in the last few years, that the village would receive heavy rains in quick span and make up for the deficit. Long dry spells and extreme events don’t augur well for farming. It’s a trend that has been captured in many studies. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, in its voluminous report, has predicted more intense and frequent heat-waves, increased incidents of extreme rainfall, dangerous rise in sea-levels, prolonged droughts, and melting glaciers. If that’s the macro-picture, the micro-picture shows massive human pain and anguish, exacerbated by wrong or no policies to mitigate climate shocks and aberrations, unbridled and mindless infrastructure projects tampering with local ecologies, and lack of governance among other factors. We can’t deal with it unless we prepare. The only way is to draw carefully thought-out, meaningful contingency plans. Dry spells and extreme rainfall events, for instance, must inform cropping patterns, inform the Centre-state crop insurance mechanisms, even our investments. Private and government extension systems must plan for climate contingencies. States must have climate funds to meet aberrations and extreme weather events and communities must be drafted into planning and deploying a sustainable and sustained response.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-50
17-08-2021||Opinion||A national grand alliance||The results of the assembly elections held in the first half of 2021, which reinforced the view that the balance of power in the Opposition has shifted from the Congress to the regional forces, have revitalized India’s regional political outfits. While chief ministers like Hemant Soren, Pinarayi Vijayan, M.K. Stalin, Arvind Kejriwal, Uddhav Thackeray and Mamata Banerjee are growing increasingly vocal and combative against the Union government’s unilateral approach, the idea of a federal front floated by the regional satraps to take on the Bharatiya Janata Party in 2024 has been gaining currency. Several events in the last couple of months, including a series of meetings between Sharad Pawar and Prashant Kishor and the meeting of the Rashtriya Manch at Pawar’s Delhi residence, have fuelled talks of a federal front of regional parties. Conspicuous by its absence in the meeting was the Congress. The absence of the grand old party along with the venue chosen — Pawar’s Delhi residence — heightened speculations about the Congress being left out of the proposed front. After the heavy defeat it faced in the 2019 parliamentary polls, the Congress has been in a state of inertia showing no signs of urgency to set its house in order to take on the Narendra Modi-led BJP. To make matters worse, the faction-ridden party has suffered a series of electoral reverses since 2019 and is yet to elect a full-time working president. It has also received flak for being the weak link in alliances and dragging down its allies in assembly elections in the recent past. The Congress may be looking like an electoral liability, making non-BJP parties wary of allying with it. But is it really weak enough to be left out of a front that can seriously challenge the BJP in 2024? Despite its far-from-impressive electoral record in recent times and the episodic, erratic and lethargic brand of leadership of its top brass, the Congress continues to be the only pan-India party after the BJP. In 2019, the Congress won 52 seats. But it still managed to garner about 12 crore votes, capturing almost 20 per cent of the total votes polled. In over 200 seats, the Congress occupied the second position. As things stand today, the nature of political competition in at least 10 states — Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa and a few in the Northeast — is bipolar. In 117 Lok Sabha seats in these states, the Congress and the BJP are engaged in a direct contest. In four more states — Maharashtra, Assam, Karnataka and Haryana — accounting for 100 seats, the Congress remains the principal Opposition to the BJP despite the presence of regional forces. South of the Vindhyas, the Congress has its pockets of influence even as the BJP continues to struggle to gain a toehold barring Karnataka. Simply put, the Congress remains the best bet to take on the BJP in 250-300 odd seats. The party is undoubtedly too weak to challenge the BJP on its own but it is not weak enough to be left out of any political formation that aims to take the battle to the BJP in 2024. It must be added here that Pawar, Kishor and even leaders of other Opposition parties have been quick to dismiss the idea of a third front minus the Congress, calling it a futile and an unfeasible exercise. But nothing happens in politics without a reason. By taking the lead in the efforts to prop up a united front of anti-BJP forces almost three years before the general elections, the regional parties are probably sending the following message to the Congress: the task of forging a front to take on the BJP cannot be delayed on account of the Congress’s inability to sort out its internal mess. Ambitious, regional satraps are also flexing their muscles to let the party know that a weakened Congress would not be allowed to assume to be the leader of the proposed front. Only regional parties, it is being said, can break the BJP’s hegemony. Such an interpretation is erroneous. The most pragmatic approach would be to invest in a ‘horses for courses’ strategy and fully back the strongest contender to dethrone the BJP in a particular state or region. This would mean that the Congress would become an indispensable component of the anti-BJP front and, at the same time, be forced to give up seats in many states where it is not the strongest contender to fight the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-50
17-08-2021||Opinion||Challenges ahead||At the start of its 75th year, India’s economy is confronted with one of its most challenging times. Economic growth, which was slowing down from 2017-18, slipped into its deepest-ever trough last year. It is a misfortune that the once-in-a-century pandemic struck when the economy was already too weak — before the pandemic, in 2019-20, it grew 4 per cent, a rate reminiscent of the early decades after Independence. The celebration of 75 years of the economy is sobering: growth is struggling to emerge from the virus’s second onslaught in the last quarter, while rising prices and high unemployment push daily lives to the brink economically. It is reassuring that India’s economic base has come a long way since 1947: its size of Rs 203 trillion does not make economic distresses as visible as back then, and it is better equipped to handle shocks. There are other economic achievements too. But conditions surrounding the 75th birthday reinforce thoughts about what India has not achieved till now since 1947, namely an increase in the manufacturing sector share for the mass absorption of its surplus agricultural labour. This is a path well-trodden by most developing countries to provide employment to the unskilled population in the course of development. But India has never been able to achieve this. In spite of decades of reforms, the share of manufacturing in the gross domestic product has stagnated at around 15-16 per cent. The economy has been powered on the strength of the expansion of services; this has underpinned much of its high growth rates; the segment was able to import foreign demand equally and fortify India’s external balances. Services have also generated employment but can never match the scales possible by mass industrial production that serves both domestic and foreign markets. The reason for this failure, or being a global outlier in this regard, is a separate matter. What is significant is that the missing stage of manufacturing extension in India’s development has kept disproportionately high numbers of its labour force engaged in agriculture (or ‘disguised’ unemployed because this remains unobserved) as employment growth has been too slow. Weaker growth for several years, aggravated by the pandemic, has compounded unemployment. For example, the national unemployment rate has persisted at 8.8 per cent since 2017-18 according to the aggregate employment profile captured by the Periodic Labour Force Survey for July 2019-June 2020; this is under the ‘current weekly status’ category that asks if adequate employment was available in the week before the survey. However, because the economic base is very large, this distress has not been so perceptible. For the first time, though, there are noticeable signs of the unemployment stress. These can be observed in a change in the sectoral employment shares that the PLFS has uncovered. The survey, which includes only one quarter of the pandemic, shows that the fraction of the labour force employed in agriculture increased 3.1 percentage points to 45.6 per cent from 42.5 per cent in the previous corresponding period (July 2018-June 2019). Above half of this displacement appears to be from ‘other’ services (1.9 points), a segment formed by education and health activities/services, recreation, cultural and sporting activities, salons, personal services and employment with private households. The shift from manufacturing employment is 0.9 points; here, the proportions employed decreased to 11.2 per cent of total workers from a stagnant 12.1 per cent in the two previous matching survey years. These could be early signs of de-industrialization, though a longer watch is needed to confirm if the changes are temporary or permanent. The slide back to agriculture, a twist of irony as it were in the 75th year, represents higher ‘disguised unemployment’, the scourge of the formative years of economic development. This typically follows the reverse course, that is, towards manufacturing and services. Today, this probable degeneration is not merely a reminder of what hasn’t been achieved till now. Rather, it escalates anxieties about the outstanding challenge of employment that lies ahead. There’s optimism that a vigorous return to sustained, high growth rates ahead will lift employment rates. This is built upon the 9.5 per cent uplift in GDP growth expected this year, with subsequent stabilization at 7-8 per cent or pre-pandemic highs. The locomotives are public infrastructure spending, exports and consumption demand. However, these can only drive a cyclical recovery but not over a longer period, where structural concerns remain. Enduring weaknesses of the past bear upon medium-term growth, where sustenance has few forces available with a diminished potential output. Illustratively, the fiscal arms are bound with public debt at 90 per cent of GDP, a level that India will struggle to lower in forthcoming years. Export prospects are presently sound, but medium-term sustenance of advanced countries’ growth is an open question. While India’s own competitiveness, steadily eroding for decades, faces formidable and tenacious competitors, to what extent the production-linked incentive schemes promote export-oriented manufacturing awaits assessment. The consumption engine can, of course, be fired up only with a strengthening of incomes and employment leading to a critical mass of demand that then prompts private investment, which hasn’t been revived for a decade. Income shocks have been severe and frequent since 2016-17, with two successive ones delivered by as many infection waves in the last year alone. The 9.5 per cent rebound this year will raise aggregate real income (that is, adjusted for inflation) only 0.5 per cent over 2019-20 level, too feeble an impulse for meaningful demand acceleration. We must care about the effects of this prolonged fall in incomes upon consumption because households begin to perceive the decline as no longer temporary but permanent, and begin to adjust consumption expenditures accordingly. It is hard to ascertain if such changes have set in owing to the lack of a fresh consumer expenditure survey after 2011-12. But a permanent decline in consumption is not altogether dismissible given the stretching falls of incomes and employments. In the pandemic’s wake, there’s ebullience about swelling technological unicorns, a booming IT sector and the underpinnings of personal incomes and corporate profits. The endurance and magnitude of the real economic effects of these factors are yet to be seen, while the pandemic’s fallout has further enlarged the gap between upper and bottom-income percentiles by all accounts. Can the winners provide a sufficient counter impulse to the depressing forces? Numbers in the bottom-earners’ cohort are way bigger. Perhaps it’s time to recognize that the high growth rates of the new century will elude us in the foreseeable future. A sober pace is more probable, a lasting sprint less likely. Let’s hope that future celebrations of our independent economy happen in more favourable circumstances. Renu Kohli is a macroeconomist||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-50
