18-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: New disorder||Kabul has fallen. The reverberations of this development in Afghanistan are being felt in global capitals, including New Delhi. India’s challenges in that strife-torn nation are manifold. An immediate priority would be the safe return of its citizens. New Delhi must also ensure that it does its best not to leave behind Afghan citizens, especially those with links with India, who are willing to relocate. India has conducted massive repatriation exercises in the past — the Vande Bharat mission, which facilitated the return of Indian nationals stranded in different corners of the world on account of pandemic-induced restrictions, is a recent example. Curiously, the Narendra Modi government has been tight-lipped about its rescue template in Afghanistan. The Centre’s silence, hopefully, is not a sign that it does not have a plan in place. The long-term obstacle, obviously, pertains to national security. The political ascendancy of the Taliban — history bears witness — has coincided with disturbances on India’s northern and western borders. The Taliban’s patron, Pakistan, is ever-willing to fish in troubled borders too. With China breathing down India’s neck in Ladakh, New Delhi needs to urgently re-examine its options to pre-empt a crisis on the security front. There is room for diplomacy in this. India is not only a non-permanent member of the United Nations security council but also chairs the Taliban Sanctions Committee in it. These accesses can be used as handy leverages to keep international scrutiny firmly focused on Afghanistan and its neighbour. Additionally, the furtive attempts to establish a rapport with the Taliban leadership must be energized. This is because Afghanistan remains a prime theatre of the unfolding New Great Game and India cannot afford to be content with a back seat. There are strategic compulsions as well: New Delhi is keen to establish communication links in order to reach other countries through Afghan territory. Even though India has been among the nations to declare that they would not recognize a change in regime in Afghanistan by the use of force, it should persist with its outreach to the new overlords. The Taliban, keen to seek international legitimacy, may not be unwilling to respond.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-49
18-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Taliban takes control of Afghanistan||Moment of crisis Sir — The Taliban have taken control of Afghanistan, nearly 20 years after being ousted by a military coalition led by the United States of America. This development in Afghanistan poses a grave threat to the world. The Taliban are infamous for denying education to women, carrying out public executions  of their opponents, persecuting minorities and for having destroyed the priceless ancient giant statues of the Buddha. The rash decision of the US president, Joe Biden, to withdraw all forces from Afghanistan has led to a humanitarian catastrophe in the country. A new Taliban regime will be a disaster — it has a history of executions, torturing women, and shutting down schools. The group is likely to support other extremists — there is no guarantee that Afghanistan would not once again become a safe haven for outfits such as the al-Qaida and the Islamic State. As in the past, they may try to cause harm to foreign countries. In fact, the Taliban in Afghanistan could also strengthen the militant groups in Pakistan, which are causing trouble in the country. But it is impossible for Pakistan to support the Taliban and maintain good relations with Washington. China has promised big investments in different projects in Afghanistan. According to reports, it is ready to formally recognize the Taliban. The Taliban rule in Afghanistan could jeopardize India’s peace and security as well, especially if it supports insurgent groups in regions as volatile as Kashmir. Venu G.S.,Kollam, Kerala Sir — With the fall of Kabul and the flight of the outgoing president, Ashraf Ghani, the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan seems to be almost complete. The Afghan forces could not resist the advances of the Taliban; they crumbled like a house of cards. In fact, it has been reported that many Afghan soldiers readily handed over their weapons to the Taliban and joined their ranks. The United Nations has urged the Taliban ‘to show restraint to protect lives’. The Afghan special forces may now find it hard to fight back. The withdrawal of the American troops has clearly hastened the Taliban’s return to power. This has drawn parallels with US troops getting out of Vietnam. The Taliban claim that their return to power was made possible by the ‘uprising’ of the people. The visuals of human figures clambering up the ladder and clinging on to the sides of a plane standing on the tarmac at the Kabul airport, the crowds running alongside a US military plane as well as reports of five persons being killed by gunfire at the airport are reflective of the chaos marking the transition of power in the country. While laying out their future plans, the Taliban have promised ‘serenity’ and to build an ‘inclusive Afghan Islamic government’. But only their conduct will show if they have changed and become less rigid — the Taliban have not explicitly stated that girls and women would not be discriminated against and denied education or jobs. They have not made it clear how they plan to treat ethnic minorities either. By securing stability in the region and becoming less stringent in imposing religious laws, they can change their perception of being an entity with a hard-line attitude and become more acceptable. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — Having taken over the reins of power, the Taliban juggernaut is finally trampling on Afghanistan. This onslaught has put the US in an embarrassing position, given that its intelligence agencies had predicted the siege of Kabul in 90 days. A Taliban spokesperson recently spoke of the outfit’s appreciation of India’s involvement in the development of Afghanistan. India must tread carefully. K. Nehru Patnaik,Visakhapatnam  Step up Sir — As always, Indian athletes who won medals at the Tokyo Olympics were heaped with praise. But few paid attention to ones who got close to a podium finish but failed — for instance, the golfer, Aditi Ashok, missed the bronze, as did the wrestler, Deepak Punia. It is, therefore, heartening that Tata Motors has decided to felicitate such promising sportspersons by gifting them one of its premium cars. It would be further helpful if such major companies also stepped up to sponsor the training of athletes in need of support. This might help the country clinch more medals next time. Jyotsna Ray,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-49
18-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Unseemly rant||The captains of Indian industry were horrified last week by the intemperate outburst against the Tatas and several other reputed business houses by the Union commerce minister, Piyush Goyal. He accused them of pursuing grubby corporate motives in a manner that undermined national interest. The diatribe was apparently triggered after the Tatas strenuously opposed Mr Goyal’s plan to amend e-commerce laws that seek to clamp onerous restrictions on digital marketplaces. The Narendra Modi government has already spooked industry by ordering an intense scrutiny of the relationship between online marketplace operators like Amazon and Walmart and their partners that sell their products through these digital channels. This has snowballed into an anti-trust investigation into their business practices. The Tatas fear that the proposed e-commerce laws will circumscribe their ambitions in the online retailing arena. The boffins at Bombay House, the headquarters of the $106 billion conglomerate, have been beavering away on a ‘Super App’ through which the Tatas plan to sell a wide range of products manufactured by group companies, business associates and their joint ventures. The row is over restrictions that could potentially block the sale through the Super App of multi-brand products currently peddled by BigBasket in which the Tatas recently acquired a 64 per cent stake. The worrying aspect in the controversy is the Centre’s attempts to push a woolly self-reliance agenda under the ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ initiative and re-define the notion of national interest. The sordid attempts to blend narrow, executive-inspired policy objectives with harsh regulatory directives raise barriers to business and make a mockery of the government’s self-gratulatory assertions that it is trying to create a level playing field. There is concern that the government’s interference in matters that should be decided by market forces is another sinister attempt to influence outcomes and cherry-pick winners. The industry has retreated into a sullen, dignified silence after Mr Goyal’s tongue-lashing. The fear of retribution has muzzled protest. Opposition politicians have been the only ones to express outrage at the outburst. It is high time that India Inc learnt to work up the courage to publicly voice its views on vital issues that impact its business. The Centre has been grappling with the task of framing new rules for the digital economy. A draft national policy framework paper had projected the size of the digital economy in India at $1 trillion by 2022 which will swell to almost half the size of the overall economy by 2030. There is a lot to play for here. Mr Goyal’s rant is a sign of the edginess within the government as it tries to balance conflicting, often competing, interests in an emerging battlefield.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-49
18-08-2021||Opinion||Lessons in new ways to lead||On August 1, India assumed the presidency of the United Nations security council for the month and promptly got to work on setting the agenda with a focus on three major areas: maritime security, peacekeeping and counter-terrorism. India began its eighth two-year term as a non-permanent member of the UNSC on January 1; this is its first presidency during its 2021-2022 tenure. New Delhi clearly wants to leave a significant imprint of its presidency, as was underlined by the Union external affairs minister, S. Jaishankar, when he said that India will always be “a voice of moderation, an advocate of dialogue and a proponent of international law”. Narendra Modi became the first Indian prime minister to preside over a meeting of the UNSC last week when he chaired the open debate on ‘Enhancing Maritime Security: A case for international cooperation’ via video conference. This reflected a new desire on the part of New Delhi to lead from the front on global governance issues. The message that went out was one of the commitment of India’s top political leadership to sustain and support the nation’s foreign policy ambitions. It was way back in 1992 that the then Indian prime minister, P.V. Narasimha Rao, had attended a meeting of the UNSC. New Delhi seems determined to make the most of its two-year tenure in the UNSC. This was reflected in the comments of the foreign secretary, Harsh Vardhan Shringla, in the run-up to India’s presidency: “We will leave our mark on the Council and our point is to say that India really, by its contribution, establishes the right to be a permanent member of the UN Security Council.” The open debate gave India an important opportunity to highlight its role in bringing the international community together on a topic that is important not only for global stability but also for Indian interests. Under Modi’s chairmanship, the UNSC adopted the first-ever outcome document on maritime security which emphasized the importance of safeguarding the legitimate uses of the oceans while affirming the need to embed it in international law as reflected in the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. Modi outlined five principles to develop a “framework of mutual understanding and cooperation” on maritime security which included free maritime trade, a joint fight against maritime threats from natural disasters and non-State actors, the preservation of the maritime environment, the promotion of responsible maritime connectivity and the peaceful settlement of maritime disputes in accordance with international laws. This was a push towards a more holistic and comprehensive approach to maritime security away from the piecemeal approach of the past. As the centre of gravity of global politics and economics shifts to the Indo-Pacific region, there is no denying the critical role of maritime security; the ability of nations, big and small, to harness its full potential remains a function of wider stability and peace in the maritime order. India’s growing role as a critical, nodal actor in the Indo-Pacific region makes it imperative to push this agenda on the global stage, in spite of the challenges from nations like China. India’s UNSC membership gives it that diplomatic heft, which New Delhi has done well to exploit. The UNSC meeting was attended by several heads of state and senior UNSC members, including the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, and the secretary of state of the United States of America, Antony Blinken. The latter highlighted India’s leading role in maritime issues in the Indo-Pacific and thanked New Delhi for its “leadership in bringing us together today and calling on all nations to recommit to defending and strengthening the maritime rules and principles that we forged together and [are] committed to uphold”. Putin, on the other hand, recommended the creation of a maritime security body in the UNSC to address maritime crimes, piracy and maritime terrorism even as he reassured the international community that Moscow would continue to work towards ensuring security in the Persian Gulf and the Atlantic Ocean. India also ensured that the language of the presidential statement was acceptable to all members without losing the essence of New Delhi’s priorities. In the past, the UNSC has engaged with selective aspects of maritime security, but India has pushed for a comprehensive approach. Chinese actions in the maritime domain were clearly an important target for New Delhi as Modi called for peaceful resolution of maritime disputes on the basis of international law and emphasized the need to encourage responsible maritime connectivity. India has moved away from the idealism of the past in its engagement with the global multilateral order. New Delhi has become more pragmatic in seeking outcomes in its favour, as is reflected in the way it has taken up key issues as its priority during its UNSC presidency. As a nation that seeks to emerge as a ‘leading power’, a more effective use of multilateral organizations like the UN to shape the global governance agenda should be a priority for New Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-49
18-08-2021||Opinion||Leading prophet||In his book on Zoroastrian scripture, Rohinton Nariman writes evocatively about Spenta Mainyu, the holy spirit that shows man the path to truth. As judge of the Supreme Court of India, Justice Nariman exemplified an abundance of that spirit. True to the revelations in the Gathas, holy verses for Zoroastrians, Justice Nariman sought to emulate the spirit through “deeds done for the love of truth”, speaking “words of the highest wisdom”. If the Supreme Court were a court of religion, Justice Nariman would be one of its leading contemporary prophets. Like most prophets, Justice Nariman’s foremost contribution was to advance human understanding. He did this masterfully by laying down new laws in several areas. The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code was in serious danger of being stillborn with challenges to its constitutionality being brought almost contemporaneously with its enactment. Justice Nariman deftly rescued the Code from these birth pangs and made it the centrepiece of India’s new financial regulation regime. His concurring opinion in the right to privacy case laid down a fundamental proposition — that individuals have privacy over their bodies and their minds to do and think as they please. In taxation matters, his assessee-friendly judgments have given succour to taxpayers, large and small. He leaves the jurisprudence of the Supreme Court in a better state than in which he found it. His shining moment in court came quite early, in a case when the power of policemen to arrest citizens for sending messages on social media that they deemed “menacing” or “grossly offensive” was challenged for violating the freedom of speech. Justice Nariman, together with Justice J. Chelameswar, struck down the infamous Section 66A of the Information Technology Act that gave policemen this power. The fact that posts critical of governments can even be published on social media today is a legacy of this judgment. Even though its effects seem to be fraying as several police forces are contemptuously going ahead and registering cases under this unconstitutional section, they are still on the wrong side of the law. As long as the rule of law means something in India, the judgment in the Shreya Singhal case will remain a lodestar of freedom. Freedom, particularly for the oppressed, was a theme Justice Nariman often returned to during his judicial tenure. Its most politically significant expression was in the Triple Talaq case where his judgment ensured that no Muslim man would be able to say talaq thrice and divorce his wife. It was a terrific strike for gender equality, yet it expressed a certain dogmatism. It refused to view the issue as one of gender discrimination, choosing instead the more arcane legal principle that triple talaq was manifestly arbitrary. Like many religious prophets of yore, women’s empowerment did not appear to matter to him for its intrinsic value. In laying down a new principle that parliamentary legislation could be struck down as ‘manifestly arbitrary’, Justice Nariman broke new ground. It is a well-established principle that judges cannot question the wisdom of Parliament — if legislators feel the best way to deal with drug addicts is by putting them in prison, judges cannot question that choice, no matter how senseless it might be. Without such a principle, the rule of law could simply be replaced by a rule of judges who could do as they thought best. If that were the case, there wouldn’t be any need for an elaborate Constitution with carefully delineated rules. Merely stating something was manifestly arbitrary would be enough. But so certain was Justice Nariman about his conviction that manifestly arbitrary legislations emanating from Parliament should have no place in modern, progressive India that a well-defined precedent was overturned to achieve this result. This came from a deeper, more prophetic, belief that courts, and not elected legislators, could get things done more effectively for the greater good of the country. His presence on the benches of the Supreme Court that fast-tracked the finalization of the National Register of Citizens in Assam is a direct consequence of this belief. Again, when threats to the independence of the judiciary, real or feigned, were claimed in the aftermath of sexual harassment allegations against the then Chief Justice of India, Ranjan Gogoi, Justice Nariman along with his brother judges agreed to institute an internal inquiry into allegations of a conspiracy to defame the judiciary. With the inquiry proving inconclusive, in hindsight, this appears like a smoke and mirrors exercise in which Justice Nariman willy-nilly participated. His time-tested belief in the unchecked ability of courts to do justice brooked little introspection. This is why when the former CJI, R.M. Lodha, offered him judgeship of the Supreme Court of India in 2014, Nariman, following the time-bound conventions of the court, accepted it. This was despite his flourishing legal practice and in full knowledge that in the ordinary course he would not have an opportunity to become the CJI. Gopal Subramanium, another leading member of the Bar, also accepted the then CJI’s offer at the same time, only for it to be rejected by the government. In his final years on the bench, Justice Nariman would have the opportunity to revisit this opaque system of appointments where two similarly placed senior members of the Bar could face completely different fates in the appointment lottery. If prophets are society’s greatest reformers, this was Justice Nariman’s opportunity to rise to the occasion. For close to two years now, the Supreme Court has not had a single new judge. Some have put this down to Justice Nariman’s insistence on merit above all other considerations in appointment. Others have pointed to internal politics of the collegium, especially judges only picking their favourites. That the facts themselves are unclear and no criteria for judging merit exists mean that the opaque system of appointment continues. A convention-bound Nariman remained a silently conscientious objector; but a reformer he was not. Perhaps post-retirement, freed from the constraints of his office, Nariman will be more vocal. After all, the judicial ‘Garo deman’ (abode of song, or heaven, in the Gathas) cannot be an overly silent place. It needs its prophets to speak clearly and wisely. What legacy then does Justice Nariman leave behind? On his retirement, different people have answered this question differently. The senior advocate, Indira Jaising, believes that he will be remembered for his “commitment to liberty”. Advocate Gautam Bhatia, focusing on his role in the NRC orders, considers them on a par with “spirals of exclusion, violence, detention camps, and death” for which “we continue to pay the cost in human suffering”. Both are right in their own way. After all, one’s assessment of a judge’s legacy is shaped by whether one likes the results reached in particular cases. But it would be a disservice to Justice Nariman to see him this way, whether in praise or rebuke. Both Spenta Mainyu, and its twin, Angra Mainyu (the evil spirit), are part of the larger omnipotent force of creation in the Gathas. Both exist in each of us and the Gathas urge us to strive to choose good over evil. In every action in his judicial career, Justice Nariman remained steadfastly true to this dictum. With the Supreme Court at a critical juncture in its history, this is his abiding legacy. Arghya Sengupta is Research Director, Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy. Views are personal||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-49
