19-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Sold off||Hawking used gunny sacks is not something school teachers are expected to do. The Bihar government, however, ordered teachers of government schools to do exactly that. The loss in revenue in the years 2014 to 2016 under the mid-day meal scheme was to be made up by teachers selling the sacks used to distribute food grains to schools at half the price of each. This amount was to be returned to the government. The money was calculated according to the number of sacks given to the schools in the designated years. Any teacher unable to return the amount for which he or she was responsible would be charged with embezzlement. The lack of respect underlying the order is not new, although the Bihar government’s stand is still outrageous. A principal who tried to make this obvious by hawking in the open market sacks that nobody was buying was suspended; his colleagues protested against both the suspension and the order. They emphasized the government’s disrespect and coercion, fearing that they themselves would have to pay for sacks that were torn, damaged by rats and floods, used by children without chairs to sit on. There never had been any scheme to return the sacks. Teachers in government schools are expected to serve the government besides teaching. A Central government rule kindly says that teachers should not be deployed for any non-educational activity except the census, disaster relief and election duties. These tasks in the national interest are time-consuming; they also allow the administration to take teachers for granted. So teachers are now in charge of mid-day meal systems in their schools, from buying ingredients to tasting the food, and maintaining accounts. They distributed dry rations to students during the pandemic; the reported number of deaths from the virus is staggering. Participating in surveys or the pulse polio campaign, even taking pictures of open defecation during the programme against it are, reportedly, other tasks. In 2019, a survey of five states showed that teachers taught for only 19.1 per cent of their time; the rest was given to non-academic duties. The Bihar incident is the extreme expression of a typical disrespect. It is a corollary of the administration’s indifference to foundational teaching. It is no use criticizing achievement levels if teachers are not allowed to teach.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-48
19-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor:  India and England Test series||Remarkable victory Sir — The ongoing Test series of five matches between India and England has been nail-biting so far. The Indian team showed grit in the second Test at Lord’s, winning the match by 151 runs. On the final day of the match, it initially seemed that the game might swing in favour of the host country. India had declared its second innings at 298-8 just after lunch and set England a target of 272 runs in 60 overs, which seemed manageable. However, India’s strong fast-bowling unit — Mohammed Siraj, Jasprit Bumrah, Ishant Sharma and Mohammed Shami — turned the game on its head. This match will remain etched in the minds of cricket fans across the world. Having said that, the English skipper, Joe Root, must be congratulated for scoring an outstanding unbeaten run of 180 in the first innings. As both teams head into the third Test of the series, there is no doubt that cricket fans are in for a treat. Aditya Mukherjee,New Delhi Sir — The recently concluded Test match at Lord’s between England and India was certainly thrilling. The fifth day of the second Test started with India on the back foot. However, the Indian men’s team performed remarkably, ensuring a victory. It must be noted that only one other team in history has declared the third innings of a Test after lunch on the final day and won — New Zealand beat Sri Lanka at Kandy in 1984. While all players contributed to the Indian victory, Jasprit Bumrah and Mohammed Shami deserve special mention. Hopefully, India will keep up the momentum and clinch a series victory. Abhiroop Sarkar,Birbhum Sir — The dramatic manner in which the Indian cricket team scripted victory against England at Lord’s reaffirms that the oldest format of the game is going to survive in spite of the popularity of Twenty20 and one-day internationals among the younger generation. Both teams played well with noteworthy performances from several players. Hopefully, many such unforgettable games will continue to delight us in the future. Rakesh Bajoria,Calcutta Hidden worries Sir — For the past few weeks, the deteriorating situation in Afghanistan has, rightly, captured the attention of the world. Many may thus not be aware that a devastating earthquake of 7.2 magnitude hit Haiti last Saturday. Nearly 2,000 people lost their lives and many others were severely injured. According to reports, 1.2 million people have been affected, but with rescue operations still underway, it will be a while before the actual scale of devastation can be comprehended. Haiti is currently battling a political crisis as well — the former president, Jovenel Moise, was assasinated last month at his residence. On top of all these troubles, the rescue operations have now been hindered by heavy rainfall. Unless other nations extend a helping hand, it will be difficult for the people of Haiti to recover from these problems. Jang Bahadur Singh,Jamshedpur Sir — The ongoing crisis in Haiti must not be overlooked. In the aftermath of the earthquake, countless families have lost access to shelter, safe water and food. The Caribbean nation, which already had a rickety infrastructure, is battling an earthquake in the midst of a pandemic. India must send aid to Haiti as soon as possible. Medha Parekh,Mumbai Unfair game Sir — The Calcutta-based couturier, Sabyasachi Mukherjee, has been embroiled in a controversy regarding his collaboration with the fast-fashion brand, H&M. Many are enraged that the designer known to promote Indian artisans failed to involve them in a project that claims, ironically, to be dedicated to Indian patterns and craftsmanship. Worse, the products were similar to ones that can be found in local markets at a tiny fraction of the price. This fiasco has laid bare, once again, the exploitation in the fashion industry. Should designers not be held accountable for fleecing both artisans and customers? Anamika Saha,Calcutta PARTING SHOT Sir — The mistreatment of elders has become one of the major problems of our times. Many people refuse to care for aged family members and leave them at old age homes. The latter often suffer physical abuse at the hands of their children. There is an urgent need for the government to provide senior citizens with a monthly pension so that, at the very least, they are not financially dependent on their children. Kiran Agarwal,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-48
19-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Snaking line||It is possible that the compulsions of the New Great Game unfolding in Afghanistan and its neighbourhood have deflected global attention from the frightening scale of the humanitarian crisis that is gathering pace simultaneously. Some estimates put the number of internally displaced Afghans at 250,000, 80 per cent of whom are women and children. Another manifestation of this catastrophe is the steady stream of refugees seeking asylum in other countries. Pakistan and Iran host the highest number of Afghan refugees as mandated by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. India, too, has been supportive of displaced Afghan citizens over the years: till July, around 15,467 asylum seekers were registered with UNHCR India, according to recent data. It is strange that a nation that has been forced by history and geography to play host to those seeking refuge — be it from Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Tibet or Myanmar — is yet to draft a refugee policy of its own. Neither is India a signatory to the UN Convention of 1951 or the Protocol that followed later. There is a line of thought that argues that this enables New Delhi to respond to requests for asylum on a case-by-case basis. This flexibility, it is argued, is important when the issue is viewed from within the prism of national security. Yet it is equally true that the absence of a law can give the State room to behave in a discriminatory manner. For instance, the political rhetoric favoured by the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Centre on the Rohingyas who were accommodated by India was one of subtle vilification. The Union home ministry has announced emergency visa that will permit Afghan applicants to stay in India for a mandated time period: this is welcome, even though periodic extensions in visas cannot be a substitute for citizenship that offers specific entitlements. Unfortunately, a tweet by the foreign minister, pledging to prioritize the welfare of Hindus and Sikhs from Afghanistan — the prime minister reportedly reiterated this point in a cabinet meeting — has also stoked concern that the present government may be selective in its benevolence. After all, the Centre has championed the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, which is discriminatory towards Muslims seeking shelter in India. Humanitarian assistance cannot be predicated upon identity or ideological considerations. With changes in India’s neighbourhood, there is a case for Parliament to legislate a law for refugees that is free of prejudice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-48
19-08-2021||Opinion||Take charge of the climate problem||All of humanity contributes to the climate change problem. All of us alive at a given point in time consume, and our consumption has a carbon footprint. However, consumption is non-uniform — higher-income consumers have larger footprints, including carbon. Economic inequality and carbon inequality go hand-in-hand. Rich people in every country have contributed more to global warming than the poor. In fixing the problem, the rich must bear greater responsibility as well. Wealthy people everywhere must adopt lifestyle changes to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but it is unlikely that they will do so on their own. Should the wealthy be coerced? Probably not. Then how do we bring about lifestyle changes among the wealthy that create a smaller footprint while, at the same time, increasing the consumption of the poorest to basic subsistence levels? How about letting the market address the problem of economic inequality and carbon inequality? Carbon dioxide emissions are the primary driver of global climate change. It is well accepted that to avoid the worst impact of climate change, the world needs to urgently reduce emissions. But global discussions regarding how this responsibility is to be shared have yielded little. Nor have courts across jurisdictions been able to usher in the required change in spite of a few judgments against governments and corporations. It is us, all individuals who consume, who need to be active participants in the solution, and not countries or corporations that have been the target of climate change negotiations and lawsuits. The current per capita carbon dioxide emission is 4.79 tonnes. For the sake of argument, let us presume that the members of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change agree to freeze per capita carbon dioxide emissions at this level, effective 2025, by when global carbon emissions must peak. During this intervening period, two things need to happen: a mechanism put in place to track every adult individual’s carbon dioxide emission, and the establishment of a global carbon trading platform for individuals, the ultimate consumers. The Paris Agreement target of a global average temperature rise well below two degrees Celsius by the end of this century is a political decision. In the last 11,700 years or so, humans have experienced a relatively stable environment with minor changes in climate and thrived like never before. In the northern and southern hemispheres, humans became accustomed to a narrow range of climatic variations of only about one degree Celsius up or down. Currently, we are just outside that range and the consequences are already severe. We would rather be within the one-degree Celsius variation band. Scientifically, it is possible to arrive at a per capita emissions quota to remain within the narrow variation band, adjusted periodically for a population rise and a fall sometime in the future. It is now technologically possible to track every individual, their consumption and, therefore, their carbon dioxide emissions. Think Aadhaar, think Pegasus. All those who are below the per capita quota can put up their unused carbon space as credits while all those who are above the cap can buy credits to offset their excess emissions. There could be nationally determined incentives and penalties of various forms for those with excess emissions for not participating in the market. For example, those who do not voluntarily agree to be tracked for emissions could be assigned default emissions that are two income slabs above, or those who do not comply, when detected, would be heavily penalized. Those below the per capita emissions quota would have a built-in incentive to participate in the market for financial gain. Governments could tax these transactions for public expenditure on mitigation and adaptation. All those who need to offset their excess emission would look for ways to reduce their footprint by refraining from over-cooling or over-heating homes or opting for energy services with the least footprint. They could take up walking and cycling, cut air travel and shift to diets with a higher share of plant-based protein, bringing about changes in lifestyle and consumer preference. Over time, economic and carbon inequalities would narrow as those who gain financially would increase their consumption as well as footprint. Some may even turn buyer from seller in the global carbon exchange, but the per capita emissions quota would hold. The idea may seem idealistic or even bizarre, but individuals need to take charge — it is their lives that are at stake. For the better part of human history, governments and corporations did not exist, yet the species survived. Yes, governments and corporations have made a big difference in human well-being, the greater good for the greatest numbers ever. However, the well-being of these entities cannot hold human beings hostage. We are in a situation where the institutions we created to serve us are demanding that we serve them. This cannot and should not be the case. I am not arguing that we jettison these institutions but rein them in to serve the purpose they are meant to serve.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-49
19-08-2021||Opinion||Trouble at the door||Since last Monday, the international media and countless social media handles have been juxtaposing the dramatic images of Afghans trying to clamber on to a military aircraft of the United States of America in Kabul airport with 46-year-old images of a line of Vietnamese civilians getting into a helicopter parked near the US embassy in Saigon. Both images have a common theme: American defeat. At the risk of anticipating developments, I would like to suggest that in the coming weeks and months, the images from Kabul are likely to be displayed alongside a very different set of photographs: the ball of fire engulfing the twin towers of New York City on September 11, 2001. This time, the message that will be conveyed will be significantly different: the triumph of jihad. The reasons for the abrupt collapse of the Afghan State that was established after the military defeat of the Taliban in 2002 in the ‘War on Terror’ have been subjected to a great deal of analysis. The profound global concern over the fate of Afghans, particularly Afghan women, who had invested in the creation of a modern country, adhering to internationally-accepted norms and even a form of imperfect democracy, has been coupled with a measure of anger directed at the US administration. With the benefit of hindsight, it is now acknowledged that the abrupt exit of the US and other Western troops had a devastating impact on the morale of the Afghan National Army and led it to yielding ground to the ragtag Taliban forces without a fight. Whether the announcement of withdrawal on April 14 by President Joe Biden was premised on an overestimation of the Ashraf Ghani regime’s capacity to hold out against the Taliban or was simply a reflection of a couldn’t-care-less attitude of a declining power is certain to be the subject of future debate. There will, however, be unanimity over the fact that the billions of dollars spent on building Afghan capacity didn’t yield the desired political results. Without America’s hand-holding, the entire edifice collapsed like a pack of cards. The despondency over the recapture of Afghanistan by the Taliban has been experienced all over the West and even in India, which, too, invested heavily in the building of a new Afghanistan. The focus is now likely to shift to the orderly rehabilitation of those Afghans who managed to get out of the country and concern for those Afghans whose social profile makes them anathema to the victorious Taliban. The example of post-1975 Vietnam suggests that the problem of Afghan refugees will preoccupy the West (and even India) in the coming years. There is, however, another issue that is, for the moment, being overlooked amid the unfolding human tragedy of Afghans who want to get the hell out of the resurrected Emirate. How is the re-conquest of Afghanistan being viewed by those who waged a doughty jihad against American, British and other Nato forces for the past 19 years? The issue is relevant because — at least until 2014 when the US and other powers reduced their boots on the ground drastically — the Taliban survived against formidable odds. The challenges that confronted the Taliban have been spelt out by Antonio Giustozzi in his well-researched book, The Taliban at War: 2001-2018. “During 2009-13 the Taliban stood against a much larger force, with the US contribution to the coalition amounting at one point to over 100,000 men. With US funds, the Afghan security forces increased to over 300,000 men by 2014, and US allies contributed tens of thousands of additional combat troops. The Taliban’s enemies, particularly the Americans, had immense superiority in terms of technology and firepower; airpower in particular inflicted heavy casualties on the Taliban. The Taliban mostly relied upon military technology from the 1950s, and had little or no anti-aircraft defences except heavy machine guns. During 2002-14 Taliban combat groups often took casualties averaging between 10-20 per cent yearly. By 2014, few of those who had entered the insurgency in the early years were still alive to tell the tale. Almost all still in the ranks, particularly in the elite mobile units, would have seen many of their comrades in arms blown to pieces. Whatever one might think of the Taliban and their cause, their resilience should not be in doubt.” Having interviewed scores of Taliban fighters, Giustozzi also observed: “The Taliban claim that their moral righteousness, in serving the cause of Islam, has allowed them to surmount all these challenges.” In short, as the larger consequences of the post-American world sink in, there is also likely to be a mythology that is certain to grow around the Taliban and their unflinching commitment to a jihad they believed in. For the moment, the visible celebrations over the Taliban victory may well be confined to some parts of Pakistan and in enclaves dominated by Palestinians. However, there is little doubt that the euphoria over the humiliation of America and the West is certain to generate a new wave of Muslim radicalization globally. In an incisive study written in 2005, Landscapes of the Jihad, the Oxford academic, Faisal Devji, had observed that Osama bin Laden’s “jihad is global not because it controls people, places and circumstances over vast distances, for Al-Qaeda’s control of such things is negligible... but for precisely the opposite reason: because it is too weak to participate in such a politics of control... [T]he global consequences of Al-Qaeda’s jihad have outstripped its local causes, and so have exceeded its intentions, to take on a life of their own well beyond the politics of control.” In plain terms, global jihad of the type spawned by al-Qaida had been transformed into a hit-and-run operation after 2002. The recovery of Afghanistan has given Islamic jihad a State and a territorial base. The question is: will the resurrected Taliban regime oblige Reacting to the Taliban takeover and mindful that the role of Pakistan is, once again, likely to come under international scrutiny, its prime minister, Imran Khan, argued that Afghanistan had broken the “shackles of slavery”. Positing the conflict in his neighbouring country as a cultural conflict, he said that Afghans had resisted a bid to make the country “psychologically subservient”. Khan’s bid to project the Taliban as a personification of Afghan nationalism is understandable, and this is also how China would like it to be. What will be tested in the coming months is the extent to which groups in close ideological proximity to the Taliban factions visualize the future direction of Islamic reorientation. More important, will the Taliban 2.0 overcome their earlier urge to be a global nursery for jihadis all over the world? This has a deep bearing on India’s national security since in the coming months there will be a concerted bid by sections of the Pakistani State apparatus to transform conflicts in the Kashmir Valley into an Islamist cause célèbre, on a par with Palestine. On its part, China is certain to use its new-found status as a Taliban-friendly world power to either encourage pressing the accelerator on Kashmir or demanding a price for applying the brakes. For India, the Taliban victory in Afghanistan has brought new foreign policy and security challenges. At present, New Delhi’s old Northern Alliance friends are in disarray but they are certain to regroup and create enclaves of resistance to the Taliban. The choices are clear but difficult: unfriendly indifference or surreptitious encouragement of forces that will not be reconciled to a Taliban-controlled Afghanistan. One chapter in Afghanistan’s troubled history has ended. A new one may be just beginning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-49
