20-08-2021||Opinion||A moral car crash||On YouTube, you can watch a video clip of Volkswagen’s chief executive, Herbert Diess, denying that he knows what’s going on in Xinjiang. When the BBC correspondent helpfully spells it out — so-called ‘re-education camps’ for one million Uighurs — the VW boss says, “I’m not aware of that.” Either he was culpably ignorant about a region where VW has a factory or he was lying. This was in spring 2019, and a company spokesman soon declared that Diess was “of course aware” of the situation in Xinjiang. The case is particularly sensitive because Volkswagen was originally set up by the Nazis and its use of forced labour during the Third Reich has been scrupulously documented by German historians. It is interesting to compare his response with a statement made earlier this year by the president of the Board of Deputies of British Jews to coincide with Holocaust Memorial Day. “As a community, we are always extremely hesitant to consider comparisons with the Holocaust,” Marie van der Zyl wrote in a letter to the British prime minister. But, she went on, there are similarities between what is reported to be happening in China and what happened in Nazi Germany in the 1930s and the 1940s. The violations of the human rights of the Uighurs are “shaping up to be the most serious outrage of our time”. Volkswagen is also significant in another way. It is an example of a Western company that has become so dependent on the Chinese market that it can hardly do without it. China accounts for more than 40 per cent of Volkswagen’s global car sales. Whatever the exact calculations that led VW to open its relatively small plant in Xinjiang in 2013, it seems clear that to close it down now would negatively impact its whole relationship with the Chinese regime on which its entire business in the country depends. The company has got itself stuck between the rock of Xi Jinping and the hard place of an increasingly outraged Western public opinion. The result could be a moral car crash. Behind this leading Western company that is too dependent on China is a leading Western country that is at risk of becoming too dependent on China. Under the chancellor, Angela Merkel, China has risen to be Germany’s largest single trading partner. Her likely successor, Armin Laschet, the Christian Democrat candidate for chancellor, currently heads a federal state, North Rhine-Westphalia, which has a large stake in economic relations with the East Asian dictatorship. Every week, many giant container trains pull into the city of Duisburg, which bills itself as the Western land terminus of Beijing’s Belt and Road Initiative. Despite pressure on Berlin from the Joe Biden administration in Washington, everything Laschet has said so far in the German election campaign suggests the continuation of a soft, business-first German-China policy. Without a change in German-China policy, there will be no coherent European-China policy. To be clear: this is not just about Germany. Coca Cola also has a factory in Xinjiang. Wall Street firms are piling into Chinese markets wherever they can. British bankers, lawyers and estate agents have for years been falling over themselves to service Russian oligarchs, Chinese apparatchiks and Central Asian tyrants. France would love a larger slice of the action. In the original Cold War, the West was never economically dependent on the East (then meaning the Soviet bloc). On the contrary, in the later years of the East-West conflict, several East European states became heavily indebted to the West. That hastened their downfall. In this new Cold War — or Hot Peace, if you would rather — the West is already economically dependent on the East (now meaning China). In the 2000s, it was still just possible to believe in the possibility of ‘Wandel durch Handel’ (Change through Trade). But when the German economics minister, Peter Altmaier, said last year, “I still believe that change can be achieved through trade,” it sounded like the ideological platitude of a bygone era. In the last decade, China has done more trade, become more repressive and acquired more leverage over the West. So who has changed whom? Although it is a dangerous illusion to believe that economic interdependence necessarily prevents international conflict, we certainly do not want a world of competitive autarkies. Western democracies do, however, need to ensure that they are not strategically dependent on China. We had a taste of such dependency in the early months of the Covid pandemic when we discovered just how much of our personal protection equipment came from China. If Huawei were to dominate our 5G networks, that would be a deep strategic vulnerability. Our businesses must also accept the ultimate primacy of politics in a democracy. In the German Ostpolitik of the 1970s and 1980s, German trade and investment in the Soviet bloc served the country’s larger foreign policy goals. In Germany’s recent China policy, by contrast, the commercial tail has wagged the political dog. As individual investors and consumers, we should include a broader concern about violations of human rights in our ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) criteria for assessing companies. The German Parliament recently passed an admirable Supply Chain Act, which requires German companies to monitor human rights standards wherever they produce. It will be fascinating to see how VW responds to this. Last year, the chief executive of Volkswagen Group China, Stephan Wöllenstein, said he is aware of the “allegations” in relation to Xinjiang (what a great leap forward in executive knowledge!) but that no forced labour is used in its factory or its local supply chains. Diess repeated this assertion in an interview earlier this year: “Neither we nor our suppliers employ forced labo[u]rers.” As it happens, I drive a Volkswagen. It’s a perfectly good car, but I need to change it soon for one with a climate-friendly electric engine and there are plenty of other good makes. I am realistic. I don’t expect the boss of VW to speak out like some fiery human rights advocate. Back home in Europe, jobs, prosperity and the sustainability of our social model depend on those earnings from abroad. But next time a Volkswagen executive is asked about the Chinese camps, he or she could at least say something like this: ‘As a citizen, I am deeply concerned whenever I hear credible reports of human rights violations in areas where we do business. As a company, especially having in mind the early history of Volkswagen, our specific duty is to ensure that no violations of human rights are to be found in our supply chain.’ And then a group of reporters experienced in Chinese affairs should be invited to visit the VW factory in Xinjiang, talk to its employees and look in detail at its supply chain. History and conscience demand nothing less. Timothy Garton Ash is Professor of European Studies at Oxford University and a Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution, Stanford University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-48
20-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: In place||The lack of an adequate number of judges in Indian courts has become a matter of great urgency. The years seem to be deepening the lack: reportedly, 454 vacancies remained in the high courts and the Supreme Court in July 2021 after 66 judges were appointed in 2020, fewer than 81 in 2019 and 108 in 2018. Perhaps this urgency prompted the Supreme Court Bar Association to propose that high court judges be chosen from advocates practising in the Supreme Court. The SCBA reportedly formed a ‘search committee’ that sent to the Chief Justice of India 48 names for elevation to indicated high courts. Reports that the CJI had ‘acceded’ to the proposal, however, have not been welcomed by high courts although the CJI’s office has reportedly not made any comment. While deploring the media’s haste in reporting that nine new Supreme Court judges have been listed, the CJI reportedly said that the appointment of judges is sacrosanct. Besides, there is a long-felt need for transparency and merit; these principles can minimize political interference. These would also apply to high court judges. The high courts’ objections to the SCBA’s list spring from its apparent overriding of the constitutionally and legally approved system. The chief justice of a high court, in consultation with two of the court’s seniormost judges, and sometimes with a suggestion from the state’s chief minister, sends up the names for judges’ appointments to the CJI. Lawyers who have practised for 10 years in a high court, or consecutively in two, would be eligible. The CJI, with the two seniormost Supreme Court judges, approves or rejects the list, or defers approval. Once approved, the names go up to the government. High court bar associations reportedly objected to what seems a flouting of this system, and to the SCBA’s description of Supreme Court advocates as more meritorious than those in the high courts. Also, they felt, practising in the Supreme Court is not the same as 10 years of high court practice. The problem seems to lie in the perception of a hierarchy, and the suggestion that the power of high courts and states is being infringed. But an urgent need should not fall prey to conflicting perceptions tinged with suspicions of intra-institutional politics. Perhaps this will spur high courts to make their choices soon and frequently.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-48
20-08-2021||Opinion||Northeast: Gird the borders||Border disputes in the northeastern states are so commonplace that they seldom grab headlines unless the violence takes a toll on lives. And now, with the Taliban taking news centre stage, this little corner has receded further from our minds. The boundary between Assam and Mizoram turned into a festering hotbed of violence since July 26, when six policemen from Assam were killed at a disputed site. Over the next fortnight, the incident steamrolled into retaliatory moves, with trucks headed for Mizoram along National Highway 306 being attacked in Assam and the landlocked Mizos staring at an acute shortage of essential commodities, including medicines. It was only earlier this month that the two states managed to sign a truce. As per a Union home ministry directive, neutral forces will remain in charge of disputed zones straddling the three Barak Valley districts of Cachar, Karimganj and Hailakandi in Assam, and Mamit and Kolasib in Mizoram. On August 12, the advocate-general of Assam and his Mizoram counterpart informed the Gauhati High Court that there was no longer any blockade on the Assam-Mizoram border. The court said that although it could not go into the inter-state dispute in view of Article 131 of the Constitution, it could look into the law and order concern. Article 131 of 1949 states: “...Supreme Court shall, to the exclusion of any other court, have original jurisdiction in any dispute between the a) Government of India and one or more states; or b) between the Government of India and any state or states on one side and one or more other states on the other; or c) between two or more states.” Since the states of Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya, Nagaland and Mizoram were carved out of Assam, the boundaries have been a bone of contention. Mizoram was a part of Assam until 1972, when it became a Union territory and later, the 23rd state of India on February 20, 1987 after the Mizoram Accord was signed in June 1986. Much earlier, the British had taken over the land the Mizos used for jhum (shifting) cultivation to plant tea bushes and resented the hunting ritual of the Mizos that was impeding the tea plantation drive by the British in Assam’s Barak Valley district. So in 1875, the British made a demarcation between the plains of Assam and the hills where the Mizos lived. In 1933, another boundary demarcation was made, separating Assam’s Cachar district from Manipur and Mizoram. While the Mizos follow the 1875 demarcation line, Assam goes by the 1933 decision. When Mizoram became a state, a no-man’s land stretch was marked out on either side of the boundary, but it has remained a festering zone. Assam’s border with Meghalaya, too, is contentious in 12 areas. The problem owes its genesis to Meghalaya challenging the North-Eastern Areas (Reorganisation) Act, 1971, which gave Blocks I and II in Karbi Anglong district to Assam. Meghalaya claims these blocks formed part of the erstwhile Khasi and Jaintia Hills district when it was notified in 1835. Meghalaya cites survey maps of 1872 and 1929 as well as notifications of 1878 and 1951 while Assam proffers the recommendations of the Churachand Committee. This month, the chief ministers of the two states decided to look into these disputes and have formed three committees to obtain the views of local residents. Similarly, Arunachal Pradesh contends that its forest tracts were given to Assam. After it achieved statehood in 1987, a tripartite committee recommended that certain territories be transferred from Assam to Arunachal but Assam contested this. The case is still in the Supreme Court. The longest-running border dispute, however, is between Assam and Nagaland, which began soon after Nagaland became a state in 1963. The State of Nagaland Act, 1962, had defined the borders according to a 1925 notification when Naga Hills and Tuensang Area were made a new administrative unit. Nagaland does not accept the present boundary delineation. Now it all borders on a thrust-and-parry mechanism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-48
20-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Strange unity||Dissent lies at the heart of the democratic project. A principal — political — manifestation of the difference in opinion is the Opposition, which, ideally, is meant to function as a bulwark against the dominance of and excesses by an elected government. Nagaland, however, has come up with an alternative model: an Opposition-mukt legislature. This has come to pass with the People’s Democratic Alliance, the coalition comprises the Bharatiya Janata Party and independent legislators, deciding to join hands with the Naga People’s Front, formerly the chief Opposition force, to carve out the Nagaland United Government. Incidentally, this is the second time that the Opposition has gone extinct in the state: in 2015, Congress legislators had joined hands with the NPF, the then party in power. The agenda for ‘unity’, on this occasion, has been spelt out by the foes-turned-friends: a resolution to the Naga peace talks. The intent may be pious but the intervention is radical. This is because the health of a democracy is inevitably impaired when dispensations are allowed to rise above accountability. Nagaland needs a robust Opposition to voice people’s concerns given the unprecedented challenges of the time: a health emergency, hurdles on the path of development and economic prosperity and, as always, the lingering shadow of militancy. The absence of an Opposition undermines the sanctity of the legislature and, in turn, the model of democracy. There is legitimate concern that a polity that is willing to speak in one voice may not be entirely representative. There are also whispers of the NUG being reduced to an instrumental arm of the Centre. That cannot be a good advertisement for federalism. It remains to be seen how effective a force the NUG can be as a stakeholder in the floundering talks between the Centre and the National Socialist Council of Nagaland since states, by convention and law, have a nominal role when it comes to negotiations pertaining to sovereignty. The curious development of political consensus in Nagaland should not deflect attention from the sorry state of affairs as far as the peace deliberations are concerned. Formidable challenges have bedevilled the exchanges, with the NSCN expressing its refusal to accept the governor as the Centre’s interlocutor; it also remains inflexible on the issues of a separate flag and Constitution. The Narendra Modi government’s announcement of a Framework Agreement six years ago was hasty. Optics, at the Central level or in the state, is unlikely to enchant the people for long.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-48
20-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the Editor: Nation thanks Supreme Court for eliminating gender bias in NDA exams||Sir — The entire nation is thankful to the Supreme Court for eliminating gender discrimination in the National Defence Academy examination (“SC allows women to take NDA exam”, Aug 19). With this decision, the fundamental rights guaranteed in Articles 14 and 15 of the Indian Constitution will finally be carried out. Patriotism does not have a gender; neither does it have a particular caste, colour or religion. Yet, women had thus far been deprived of the right to undertake defence training at par with their male counterparts. It is therefore a matter of pride for Indians that women will, from now on, be able to serve the nation on an equal footing in the army, navy, and air force. This is a basic aspect for an independent, democratic country. The judges who authorized permanent commission for women officers in the Indian army must also be thanked for upholding the true spirit of the Constitution. Md. Yousuf Kamal,Muzaffarpur, Bihar Sir — The apex court’s directive to the government to allow women to appear for NDA entrance examinations in order to pursue training in defence services is welcome. Women will now be able to enter the defence services at an earlier age. Having been granted permanent commission last year, they will also be able to hold top positions in Indian defence. These rights were thus far denied to them. It is highly unfair towards women to not appoint them in certain challenging jobs and sectors in a progressive society. They are entitled to have all opportunities on a par with men. The government should take initiative to correct the course and eliminate gender bias. D.V.G. Sankararao,Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh Sir — The Supreme Court has, once again, had to interfere in the policies of the Central government to allow women to participate in the NDA entrance exam. Even after 74 years of independence, women have to struggle to serve the nation as part of the defence forces at par with men. Such an outlook ignores the contribution of women in the building of our nation. The Centre’s objection — it filed an affidavit — against the plea stating that the exclusion of women from NDA exams is purely a policy decision that the court should not interfere with is ridiculous. If any policy deprives women of their lawful rights, then people are left with no choice but to look to the judiciary for redressal and justice. Abhijit Chakraborty,Howrah Sir — It is heartening to learn that the Supreme Court has allowed women to take the NDA examination. This is a great victory for women. Besides enabling many women to pursue their dreams of serving the nation, the apex court’s decision has reinforced the fundamental right to gender equality. After all, how can one forget the role of women in our freedom struggle? Shyamal Thakur,Ramnagar, East Burdwan Sir — The apex court’s decision to allow women to sit for the NDA exam is yet another laudable step in its catalogue of recent rulings that have promoted the empowerment of women in India. In February last year, a Supreme Court bench had quashed the Centre’s arguments for depriving women of permanent commission citing their physiological features and domestic obligations. Its rulings on sex-selection, adultery and inheritance laws have also been exemplary. The road to a society free of gender bias might yet be arduous, but such progressive decisions by the apex judicial body give citizens hope. Arpita Sharma,Delhi Sir — Drastic steps are often taken to defend India’s land borders against alleged mortal enemies. But little thought is given to the 7516.6 kilometres of its coastline, threatened by natural forces. The National Centre for Coastal Research recently revealed that nearly one-third of the country’s coastline was eroded between 1990 and 2018. This phenomenon was particularly pronounced in West Bengal — 60 per cent of its coastline suffered from erosion. Such change is severely detrimental for the coastal communities. The need of the hour is for the government to focus on building embankments to secure their homes and livelihoods. Priyam Basak, Calcutta Sir — On Wednesday, the Congress leader, Shashi Tharoor, was discharged by a sessions court in Delhi in connection with the sensationalized case of the death of his wife, Sunanda Pushkar (“Court clean chit to Tharoor”, Aug 19). Pushkar was found dead in a hotel room in January 2014. The medical report had indicated the presence of drugs in her system. While initial investigation pondered whether it was a murder, the police finally filed a charge-sheet for suicide, accusing the Kerala parliamentarian of offences under Sections 498A (marital cruelty) and 306 (abetment to suicide) of the Indian Penal Code. This vindication has dealt a big blow to government-friendly media that have been running parallel ‘investigations’ to tarnish the image of the Congress and its leaders. Bhagwan Thadani, Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-48
