21-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: The community cup||Policing and punishment have, over the years, become synonymous in the public eye. In India, this connection is planted early on when errant children are threatened with the bogey of a policeman’s wrath for transgressions big and small, be it their refusal to eat greens or bunking classes. Ironically, the primary responsibility of the police is to protect, not to punish. The derivation of the word, police, from the Greek polis, meaning city, underlines the organic connection between cities and cops: as cities evolved, it enhanced their dependence on dedicated personnel tasked with the protection of citizens. Unfortunately, history has shown that the protector can also become the predator. This is especially true in a country where the police have been used as a tool by the State to oppress opponents in the guise of maintaining law and order. Unsurprisingly, in India, the police force has a markedly chequered record when it comes to committing such excesses as extracting forced confessions, disregarding prisoners’ rights or being implicated in custodial deaths. According to the National Campaign Against Torture, 76 per cent of the deaths in police custody in 2019 could be attributed to lethal coercion. Significantly, the Chief Justice of India pointed out recently that police stations pose the “highest threat” to human rights and dignity. This is not to suggest that the police are not vulnerable to retaliation. Indeed, pop culture has emerged as a potent weapon to caricature the man in the vardi. In popular cinema, the bumbling policeman inevitably arrives on the scene after the hero has taken the law in his hands and beaten villains to pulp. Hearteningly, the importance of an image makeover seems to have dawned on the wise men in Calcutta police. Perhaps mindful of the poor public perception of the police — incompetent, authoritarian, comical — the officer-in-charge of the Burtolla police station, one of the oldest in the city, has invited the aam aadmi for a cup of coffee at the newly renovated station in the hope that renewed public interaction would address the deficit in trust. And why not? They say a lot can happen over coffee. Conversations between cop and citizen can be mutually beneficial. They can lay bare the areas that need improvement in policing. Citizens, too, can educate themselves about the formidable challenges faced by the police, ranging from paucity of personnel and funds and long work hours to political meddling. In fact, this novel 'coffee pe charcha' ought to be looked at in terms of the police embracing the idea of community policing. Calcutta police have already launched several such welfare programmes — helping the elderly, educating citizens about online frauds, a cyber cell for women and so on; these, along with a welcome coffee break, can go a long way in building durable bonds between police and people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-47
21-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Nick Compton calls Virat Kohli 'foul-mouthed'||Play smart Sir — It is amusing that the former England cricketer, Nick Compton, called Virat Kohli “foul-mouthed”, especially after India decisively beat England at the Test match at Lord’s. During the fourth innings, Kohli was recorded on the stump microphones calling Ollie Robinson a “big mouth”. Whether that qualifies as foul language is debatable — especially since Robinson himself has expressed decidedly objectionable views on social media in the past — but sledging is a part of modern cricket and greatly increases the intensity of the game. I, for one, chortled when Kohli said, “[Robinson] laughed at me when I missed a cover drive; now he is playing to save a home Test”. Alisha Banerjee,Calcutta Dark ages Sir — It was appalling to read about the alleged rape of a 35-year-old Ghaziabad resident in a moving car in northeast Delhi just a day after Independence Day. The incident has, yet again, brought to the fore the growing violence against women in India and put the spotlight on gender-based attacks. Sexual violence against women is alarmingly common in the country. It is deeply unfortunate that entrenched patriarchy in Indian society has rendered women ‘second-class’ citizens. Data released by the National Crime Records Bureau in 2020 showed that India recorded 88 rape cases every day in 2019. These figures ought to make us bow our heads in shame, but they are just the tip of the iceberg. Only a fraction of rape survivors file complaints; most of them prefer to remain silent on account of the social stigma attached to rape. It is a disgrace that Indian society blames survivors for the crime committed against them and casts aspersions on their character. Popular culture equates masculinity with sexual aggression and encourages young men and boys to bully and harass women, all of which often leads to rape. Although the Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 2013 outlined a wider definition of rape and provided for stringent punishment, it has not been successful in curbing rape in India. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai Sir — The news of the reported rape of a 35-year-old woman in a moving car by two men in northeast Delhi’s Shastri Park area on August 16 was shocking. It is perhaps of some relief that the accused were apprehended soon after they committed the crime. Going by reports from sources in the police, prompt action seems to have been taken: the survivor’s statement was recorded, she received medical care and a case was filed under Sections 376(D) (punishment for gang rape) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. While the relative promptness shown by the police in catching the accused is praiseworthy, the incident shows that Delhi continues to be unsafe for women. The fact that the crime took place the day after Independence Day proves that for all the strides India may have made in 74 years, it continues to consistently fail its women. Surya Ramachandran,Delhi Pushed to the brink Sir — Shopping malls, multiplexes, restaurants, bars and resorts all seem to have received the go-ahead from governments to reopen. Even sports tournaments are being allowed. Schools, however, remain shut, almost as though they are the only places where children might be exposed to the coronavirus. The virtues of online education have been widely advertised by the authorities, but the latter fall curiously silent on the subject of providing smartphones and smooth internet connectivity to students. Is it any wonder, then, that the 13-year old student from Odisha, Adria Jagaranga, was left with no choice other than to climb atop a rain-soaked hill to get enough network to attend online classes? As a result of having been forced to undertake such a hazardous activity, the young boy slipped and fell to his death (“Teen on hill for online class slips to death”, Aug 19). The child will soon fade from public memory; his parents and loved ones will have to live with his absence. In the meantime, the celebratory drum beats of ‘Digital India’ will continue to reverberate across New India — a nation that is only for the privileged. Kajal Chatterjee,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-47
21-08-2021||Opinion||Lost freedom: The Afghan situation||My limited knowledge of Afghanistan comes from seeing a DVD of Tapan Sinha’s Kabuliwala and reading A Study in Scarlet, in which Sherlock Holmes tells John Watson at their first meeting, “You have been in Afghanistan, I perceive.” I also saw a stage version of Khaled Hosseini’s The Kite Runner in London in 2017 and thus listened carefully when he was recently interviewed on BBC Radio 4’s The World Tonight by Ritula Shah, who said: “Khaled Hosseini’s novels made dusty, distant Afghanistan seem a little more vivid in all its beauty and cruelty. And in A Thousand Splendid Suns you write vividly about the plight of women under the Taliban.” In the early 1980s, I did slip across the border from Iran into Afghanistan in a pick-up truck to try and “interview” the invading Russians but they were on the other side of the country. But I remember the spectacular beauty of Afghanistan’s purple mountains. Hosseini, who has been given asylum in America, was “just heartbroken” and found the Taliban’s return “absolutely devastating”. He urged the international community to maintain pressure on the Taliban because “the way they ran the country before 2001 is no longer acceptable. Afghanistan is not the country the Taliban left behind. What will happen to the women who have painstakingly carved a niche for themselves, at least in urban centres? Will freedom of movement, their right to attend school, to enter the workforce, to work in the government, to show their faces in public, to dress as they like, to leave home without the company of a male, be erased in one fell swoop?” Role model It says much about British society that Sarah Gilbert did not jump the queue when it came to being given the Covid vaccine. After all, Gilbert, professor of vaccinology, is the woman who designed the Oxford vaccine. “Since I was not a healthcare worker or in any of the other priority groups, I would have to wait my turn,” she explains in her book, Vaxxers: The Inside Story of the Oxford AstraZeneca Vaccine and the Race Against the Virus, co-authored with a colleague, Catherine Green. On New Year’s Day, she was at home when she read something odd was going on in Wuhan, China. Two weeks later she had the vaccine. But it took a year to ensure it was safe. The book tells how the Serum Institute of India, “the world’s biggest vaccine manufacturer”, was brought into the picture. The authors, “two ordinary people” who write their chapters as “Sarah” and “Cath”, relate a very human story. Sarah, a mother of triplets, worried about a son who was living in Bath. Cath, meanwhile, reveals her personal heartbreak: “My husband had left me a few months earlier and I was still angry and hurt and a bit fearful of what 2020 would bring.” Sarah emphasizes that the vaccine was “a collaborative effort by an international network of thousands of heroes — dedicated scientists in Oxford and across four continents.” And it wasn’t a race against other scientists but “against the devastating virus that took millions of lives”. It is fitting that Gilbert was given a standing ovation at Wimbledon and has inspired a Barbie . Shakespeare with a twist When Ajay Devgn came with Vivek Oberoi to the Cannes Film Festival to promote Omkara, Vishal Bhardwaj’s adaptation of Shakespeare’s Othello, he had assured a press conference: “His script is so good, it is even better than the original.” In London, after more than a year’s lockdown, Shakespeare’s Globe and other theatres have reopened, I am pleased to report. These days Shakespeare is always done with a twist. I recently saw Twelfth Night at the Globe — it’s the first play I studied at school in England — but with women taking the roles of Sir Toby Belch, Feste, Fabian and even the yellow cross-gartered Malvolio. Then I went to the National Theatre to see Paradise, described as “a new version of Philoctetes”, the Greek epic written by Sophocles in 409 BCE. Its 12-strong cast was all women, seven of them non-white. Theatre audiences are usually white but the National has committed itself to “diversity” and says it wants to reflect a multicultural Britain. A dark shadow Of the books I have read on Winston Churchill, Geoffrey Wheatcroft’s just-published Churchill’s Shadow: An Astonishing Life and a Dangerous Legacy is probably the best. The author, who read modern history at Oxford and has been literary editor of The Spectator, acknowledges Churchill’s greatness as wartime prime minister but also tackles his racism, the Bengal famine and his irrational hostility to Indian independence. Wheatcroft recalls that years ago he went to an India-England Test at Lord’s when “my friend Pankaj Mishra said to me, ‘It is not easy for an Indian to love Winston Churchill.’ And I completely understand that.” Wheatcroft adds: “Another Indian friend has just written to me about the Test match, saying he was obviously pleased that India had won but he very much dislikes the behaviour of Kohli and the team. And he said this is yet another example of the India of Modi and the ugly Indian.” Footnote Wearing his teacher’s hat, Wisden editor and The Daily Mail cricket writer, Lawrence Booth, has been giving marks out of 10 after the Lord’s Test. They range from 3 for Dom Sibley to 4 for Haseeb Hameed, 5.5 for Moeen Ali, 7.5 for James Anderson and 9 for Joe Root. Among the Indians, the lowest mark — 6 — goes to Kohli, Pujara and Pant. Jadeja and Rahane get 6.5; Ishant 7; Shami 7.5; Rohit 8; Rahul and Bumrah 8.5; while Siraj tops with 9. England’s total is 66.5; India’s 79.5.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-48
21-08-2021||Opinion||Tricky terrain||A recently-released India Today survey asked its respondents to name the top achievements of the Narendra Modi government. Over half of the people opted for either the revocation of Article 370 or the Supreme Court sanction for the construction of the Ram Mandir. More than any other dispensation since that of Indira Gandhi, the Modi government has staked its reputation on its ability to bring about sweeping ideological changes in the country. Besides Article 370 and Ram Mandir, most state governments of the Bharatiya Janata Party have also pushed through, or reinforced, laws against cow slaughter and ‘forced conversions’, ticking off other items in their ideological bucket-list. Yet, in some respects, the BJP has now become a victim of the astonishing pace of its ideological triumphs in this dominant phase. A political party makes capital out of ideological issues in two ways: one, by mobilizing support for the struggle for the goal and, two, from the political goodwill that follows its achievement. The trouble is that the goodwill doesn’t persist ad infinitum. Having squeezed out the bulk of the political gains to be had from its many decades’ long ideological issues, the party is now constrained to look for a new generation of big issues that push the frontiers of Indian society and polity. There are two candidates that have been attracting growing attention in recent months. The first is the Uniform Civil Code, one of the three core demands of the BJP at its foundation (along with the construction of the Ram temple and the removal of Article 370). The second big issue that has gained newfound traction among large sections of the Hindu Right is population control. The governments of Uttar Pradesh and Assam have taken the lead in framing population control policies in line with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh’s call for checking ‘demographic imbalance’. However, both these issues have inbuilt liabilities that make for a trickier political terrain. The essential criteria of the sangh parivar to select an ideological issue is that it should represent, in some manner, the political and cultural domination of Hindus over Muslims. Whereas the other big issues of the BJP — Ram Temple, Article 370, cow slaughter and religious conversions — could be used to target Muslims, the UCC and population control also draw Hindus into their coercive or punitive dragnet. First, let’s take the case of the UCC. Earlier this year, the Uttar Pradesh state executive committee of the BJP resolved to make the UCC a key poll plank for next year’s state elections. The political rhetoric of the BJP on the UCC is framed in simple terms — countering Muslim autonomy or ‘separatism’ by taking away their regressive personal laws. But the reality is much more complicated, which is why the BJP has consistently shied away from moving ahead on the UCC. If a comprehensive UCC were to actually see the light of day, it would provoke the ire of political constituencies beyond Muslims. First, the UCC would disrupt the social life of Hindus as well as Muslims. Despite the impression of the Hindu code bills bringing in a uniform and progressive regime to regulate Hindu family life, the personal laws of Hindus are neither uniform nor particularly progressive. Hindu personal laws actually protect diverse customary laws, with regulations governing matters such as marriage and inheritance often varying according to the customs of different states and communities. Similarly, like the personal laws of other communities, Hindu personal laws are also regressive on gender equality. For example, the Hindu Succession Act differentiates between men and women in matters of intestate succession. As much as it relishes its rhetoric of ‘saving’ Muslim women, the BJP would, understandably, be wary of implementing policies that can draw it into a clash with Hindu conservatism. The modernist and progressive impulse of the BJP, after all, almost exclusively extends to Muslims. Second, the UCC would take away the autonomy in personal laws from the key political constituency of tribals who manage their affairs according to their customary laws. The suggestions coming from the Union law ministry and the Law Commission on bringing tribals into the fold of the UCC have been met with consternation among tribal groups. A few years back, the Rashtriya Adivasi Ekta Parishad had petitioned the Supreme Court against the UCC, stating that under it, “the Adivasi’s right to perform marriage, worship, last rites and other ceremonies would be abrogated.” Third, a thoroughgoing UCC would also abolish (as the Law Commission had advocated in its report on the UCC) the tax-evading contraption known as the Hindu Undivided Family, marking a significant financial blow to small businessmen and traditional Hindu joint families. One way out for the BJP would be to the split and phase the implementation of the UCC, such that it is able to isolate and target only Muslim personal laws. However, this would remove the veneer of constitutionality that the BJP has so skilfully instrumentalized for its political moves on cow slaughter, Ram Mandir and Article 370. A nakedly majoritarian approach would entail not just stronger legal challenges but also sharper international opprobrium. Now let’s come to the issue of population control. The draft bill of the Uttar Pradesh government would restrict access to political participation, jobs, welfare schemes and even the provision of subsidized food grains for those who violate the two-child norm. Again, this draconian legislation would harshly impact the poorer and less educated sections of society (including Hindus) more than it affects Muslims as a group. As the NFHS-4 data for Uttar Pradesh document, the fertility rate varies much more according to education than in terms of religion. For instance, the difference in fertility between an illiterate woman and a fully educated woman is 1.6, whereas the difference between the fertility of a Hindu and Muslim woman is 0.5. The political implications for the BJP become even more troubling when one notes that the fertility rates of the other backward classes and the scheduled castes are substantially higher than those of the upper castes. In fact, according to the NFHS-4 data, the fertility rate of Muslims and SCs in Uttar Pradesh is almost indistinguishable (3.10 and 3.09, respectively). In sum, this is a policy that would disproportionately punish the rural poor and the lower castes in addition to Muslims. The BJP has spent the last three decades meticulously effecting an image makeover from being an urban, upper caste party to one of the poor and the disadvantaged. Such a legislation, appearing more like a fantasy fermented in a middle-class drawing room than a carefully calibrated policy, would hardly burnish the egalitarian credentials of the party. Moreover, since it would be a prospectively applied law, it would discriminate against a young population already reeling under unemployment and grim economic prospects. The politics of coercive population control also has a forbidding legacy in India. One of the main reasons Indira Gandhi’s Congress got wiped out in northern India in 1977 was the fallout of its ham-handed, mass sterilization drive. The fact that even the Vishwa Hindu Parishad has opposed the UP population policy is hardly a propitious sign. Of course, one might reasonably contend that the sangh parivar is using the issues of UCC and population control as bugbears to mobilize Hindu support rather than as actual policies it plans to seriously implement. It is no doubt true that the Hindu Right has succeeded to a large extent in planting in the popular imagination myths about Muslim regressiveness and demographic expansion. However, there are two complicating factors here. One, since the BJP commands a formidable majority at the Centre, issues such as the UCC and population control risk losing their potency in the evident gulf between political rhetoric and political action. There is no Congress establishment to excoriate any longer over not bringing the UCC. And, two, Opposition parties have become smarter than to fall into the trap of debating the BJP on ideological issues, especially when they remain confined to the theoretical realm. What this era of BJP dominance has testified to is the broad political constituency that exists for grand ideological triumphs of Hindus over Muslims. However, this appetite likely pertains to symbolic or psychological victories that don’t require any particular sacrifices from ordinary Hindus. Having achieved its low-hanging ideological goals, the BJP now embarks on a trickier ideological road that can potentially also exact personal, social and financial costs from its base of Hindus. It must tread with caution lest the blowback outstrips the benefits.  Asim Ali is a political columnist and research associate with the Centre for Policy Research, Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-48
