22-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the Editor: Why India's vaccine certificate can be an embarrassment||Sir — A woman and her family were recently stopped at the Frankfurt airport by authorities who were confused by their vaccination certificates. The airport officials could not match the face on the certificates with their bearers and accused the family of fraud. The travellers had to then explain that the photo on the certificate was that of the Indian prime minister, much to the amusement of authorities. The photo and the message are meant to encourage people to get vaccinated. The question is, why do fully vaccinated people need such encouragement on a personal document? Minakshi Saha,  Calcutta Sir — The list of cases pending before the courts in India is significant. The problem is especially acute in the lower courts, which is where most people flock to in times of trouble (“In place”, Aug 20). But this backlog is hardly surprising given the number of posts that are lying vacant in the high courts and in various tribunals. What makes the situation much worse is that the law ministry has a paltry allowance in the budget. Is it any wonder that India has one of the world’s lowest ratios of judges to population in the world? Justice delayed is justice denied. It is perplexing that the government is not speeding up the procedure of appointment of judges and tribunal heads. The authorities concerned and the Supreme Court should explore the idea of having additional benches of the apex court in the southern and eastern parts of the country. Just as tribunals have regional benches in large states, the Supreme Court, too, should have additional benches to meet the needs of people across the length and breadth of the country. Experienced and talented advocates may not always wish to practice in the Supreme Court as they may not want to shift to Delhi. This is a loss to the country’s judiciary. Local benches of the Supreme Court will redress this issue and offer a level playing field to all talented advocates. The high court bar associations are absolutely correct. H.N. Ramakrishna,Bangalore Sir — The editorial, “In place”, rightly pointed out that the lack of adequate numbers of judges is a matter of great concern. The number of unresolved litigations is a problem for both the State as well as citizens. But the government cannot be the only one to blame for this situation. The collegium for nominating judges must be held responsible too. In the United States of America, Supreme Court judges are nominated by the president and then this nomination is confirmed by the Senate. Although this leaves the judiciary vulnerable to the executive, the collegium system that is prevalent in India needs to evolve with the times too. It is unfortunate that even after seven decades of independence, India has not been able to deliver speedy justice to its citizens. To overcome this problem the legislature and the judiciary must work together to fill the gaps in India’s justice delivery system. Jayanta Datta, Hooghly Sir — It is disheartening that the Chief Justice of India, N.V. Ramana, is allegedly “extremely upset” about speculation in the media surrounding the collegium’s recommendation of nine new judges. People have the right to know what the collegium is thinking. It is also unfortunate that high court lawyers have taken an exception to practising lawyers from the Supreme Court being appointed as high court judges. Matters relating to the functioning of the courts should be considered more important than anything else. The need of the hour is to fill the vacancies at all levels of the judiciary. This is the only way to reduce the huge backlog of cases — some of them pending for decades now — in the Indian courts. This is not to blame the judiciary for the delay, but swift action must be taken if Indians are to have any hope of getting justice. K. Nehru Patnaik,Visakhapatnam Sir — Vacancies in the courts help wrongdoers get away with injustices. This must be remedied at once. Rima Roy,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-47
22-08-2021||Opinion||When Jyotiraditya prompted BJP leaders to sing 'Yeh dosti...'||The national general-secretary of the Bharatiya Janata Party and West Bengal in-charge, Kailash Vijayvargiya, has been spending more time in his home state, Madhya Pradesh, these days. With the dream of wresting power in Bengal being shattered, he now has a lot of time to spare. Madhya Pradesh has been the pivot of his politics and it is no secret that he nurses the ambition to rule the state. Recently, Vijayvargiya and the chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, were seen singing the popular Sholay number, “Yeh dosti hum nahi todenge”, at a function. This surprised many since he has been eyeing the chair that Chouhan has been occupying for years now. Party insiders feel that the new alignment is the result of Jyotiraditya Scindia’s entry into the BJP from the Congress. Scindia has been made the civil aviation minister at the Centre but everyone knows that he, too, has his eyes set on his home state’s hot seat. So Vijayvargiya is trying to mend relations with Chouhan to counter Scindia. People close to Vijayvargiya, however, are of the opinion that things would have been different had the BJP won Bengal. A chunk of the credit would have gone to him and then he would have secured Amit Shah’s full backing to fulfil his dream. With Bengal lost, Vijayvargiya now has to fend for himself. Of late, the goalkeeper of the Indian hockey team, PR Sreejesh, has been receiving more political leaders than politicians themselves do. Ever since he returned to the country — and to his hometown in Kerala — he has reportedly been busy receiving important visitors, including ministers, movie stars and everyone in between. Sreejesh, the second Olympic bronze medallist hockey goalkeeper from Kerala after Manuel Fredericks, who was the star at the 1972 Munich Olympics, has just one request to the politicians who visit him — provide good facilities for the beautiful game that has brought two Olympic medals to the state. With not a single decent hockey pitch in Kerala, all that ‘The Wall’ needs is hockey infrastructure, including synthetic turfs, so that youngsters who grab the stick can try their skills just as the boys from Punjab and Odisha have been doing for decades. But, as Kerala’s sports lovers say, politicians know promises are meant to be broken. Around a month ago, the chief minister of Bihar, Nitish Kumar, decided to revive his weekly ‘janata durbars’ to listen to the woes of the people and connect with them. Alarmed over the move, the BJP, the Janata Dal (United)’s ally in the state, also relaunched its own version of the programme, ‘Jan Sanyog’, by fielding a couple of ministers at the state party headquarters on a daily basis to hear the problems of all and sundry. Not to be outdone, the JD(U) hit back by planning jan sunwai (public hearings) four days a week. Reportedly, three of its 12 ministers will be present on every such occasion. Sources in both the parties said that the government is now focusing on reviving the janata durbars in districts, sub-divisions, blocks and police stations under its public outreach campaign. JD(U) leaders and legislators may also hold such programmes in their respective areas to know the pulse of the people. Some top BJP leaders are also planning similar moves. “Such a competition is good in [a] democracy, but the focus should be on sincerely resolving the problems of the people,” a senior minister in Kumar’s cabinet added. The former bureaucrat and, now, the railways minister, Ashwini Vaishnaw, may be new to politics but he knows the art of image-building. The soft-spoken minister, who served in Odisha as an Indian Administrative Service officer, earned brownie points for his decision to travel by train to the Rayagada district, dominated by tribal communities, for the BJP’s ‘Jan Ashirwad Yatra’ from Bhubaneswar. He took many by surprise during the journey by interacting with the people in the general bogies of the train. Everything was being recorded by his team and forwarded to mediapersons for obvious reasons. While Vaishnaw’s train journey had been adequately publicized in advance, the minister made it a point to tell the passengers he interacted with about the various pro-people initiatives undertaken by the Narendra Modi government. He also highlighted the fact that the prime minister had chosen to give the railway portfolio to a parliamentarian from Odisha. He even danced with the tribal people in Payakut village. Vaishnaw’s PR exercise had begun right from the moment he boarded the plane from Delhi for Bhubaneswar. He tweeted, “Odisha is my Karmabhumi and waiting to get the blessings of Jagannath and the people.” On his way to Puri from Bhubaneswar, he halted at several places and interacted with the local people. Sanjay Yadav, a man from Haryana, has suddenly become a household name in Bihar after Tej Pratap Yadav, the eldest son of the Rashtriya Janata Dal chief, Lalu Prasad, accused him of creating a rift between him and his younger brother, Tejashwi Yadav, as well as in the party. Sanjay, 37, serves as a friend and adviser to Tejashwi. They have known each other since Tejashwi’s cricketing days. Sanjay is said to have a good knowledge of socialist thought, philosophy and politics. He previously worked with the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister and Samajwadi Party leader, Akhilesh Yadav. Party leaders say that his experience and understanding of socialist politics helped Tejashwi during the 2020 assembly elections in the absence of Lalu. The RJD won 75 of 243 seats in the polls and emerged as the single-largest party in the state. His presence also helped Tejashwi’s rise to prominence in the family power struggle which started around six years ago. Sources say that Tej Pratap sees Sanjay as Tejashwi’s shield and is, therefore, trying hard to get him removed. At the inauguration of a cow protection campaign, the Malayali actor and Rajya Sabha member, Suresh Gopi, declared that he has no issues with being called ‘cow dung’, a description he has been slapped with on social media. Gopi, who had unsuccessfully contested the state polls on a BJP ticket in April, in fact, welcomed it. Hailing from a state where his party has zero presence in the assembly, much has been said about his over-dramatized utterances at public meetings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-47
22-08-2021||Opinion||Making a point||There are in Neeraj Chopra’s memorable throw of the javelin and its hitting gold in the Tokyo Olympics some earth-solid reasons for celebration. The most obvious of these is, of course, that we were all, we Indians, pining for news of some precious metal coming our way from Tokyo. And he delivered the best of them — pure gold. Hockey, that luck-starved prince of Indian sport, had fetched us burnished bronze. And now, in a curved rainbow of vibrant VIBGYOR, we had got to the pot of sun-flared gold. We? No, he. By himself. Because he was who he was, moulded by the as yet incompletely understood working of inherited skills and instincts passed on by mute but inexorable impulses which some call genetics, others define by the three letters — DNA. There was something very elemental about the accomplishment, something that linked the Tokyo moment to the millennial practice of precise aiming, measured strength and — sheer will. And that is what made me more than joyful. It moved me. Moved? Yes, exactly that. Here was a stranger to privilege, even to patronage, using his instinct alone with an instrument that could be called primitive to reach a level of competitive prowess before the narrow-eyed gaze of a grade-allotting world to show what that ancient art can still do and with such élan. Neeraj was, of course, following tradition — aiming targets for food, for survival, getting substituted by aiming targets for sport. Neeraj is, quintessentially, rural, from village India, a part of India — Haryana-Punjab — a tract that has, for centuries, millennia, in fact, known rivers to course through it, change course, even disappear. Neeraj has grown up in a village, schooled there, playing village pranks like a village trundler, tying up buffalo’s tails, disturbing beehives. Neeraj is that footloose village boy who, taken by his father to learn some ‘proper sport’ to tame his fancy-free ways, sees the lot — football, hockey, cricket. And chooses instinctively, but emphatically, the javelin. Something in him has made him choose the flying spear over the hitting bat or the chased ball. So it is a very old connect, between the javelin and the javelineer, making him and, doubtless other rural youth not ‘spotted’ for the Olympics, inherently fit for that sport. As Akshay Sawai tells us: “Neeraj Chopra threw the weight of five cricket balls, at 100kmh, across the equivalent of four cricket pitches... The men’s javelin weighs a minimum 800 gm, while the cricket ball typically weighs 163 gm. The length of a cricket pitch is 20.12 metres. Neeraj’s best throw in the final was 87.58 metres… On the face of it, javelin is a simple sport. Grab spear, run and throw. But when it is broken down, its complexity reveals itself. The approach itself has two components — the run-up and crossover steps. Then there are the load-up and release, which comprise concepts such as ‘angle of attitude’ and ‘angle of velocity vector’.” And what of his instrument? Here is a plain projectile, also just by itself, that has evolved from being a weapon for hunting and fighting to becoming an instrument for sport, pure and simple. It does not target a victim, does not impale or kill. It does not even puncture or disfigure an inanimate target. It just measures a distance reached by the power of an arm’s throw. And it shows the working of skill in that throw not by technologically-backed computings of aerodynamic speed and distances but by a combination of biochemical instincts that can assess the muscular packing needed for the launch so that it covers the span aimed at. Hunting and husbandry have marked, or rather made, that region’s life over the ages. The javelin’s antiquity over other ‘darters’ like the old bow-and-arrow and the less old gun in its various avatars is obvious. The javelin is to the gun what the 5,000-year-old Indus Valley Civilization is to Silicon Valley. Haryana, where Neeraj hails from, is about where the great IVC site of Rakhigarhi is located. It would not be stretching imagination to assume that javelin-like or rounded, rock-like objects must have been made and used for hunting in ancient times in that as in other pastoral sites of the pre-Common Era. While the authoritative report on the excavations at Rakhigarhi has not yet been published, the distinguished historian, Nayanjot Lahiri, has been kind enough to say in a communication to me “… harpoon-like objects made of copper are part of what have been described as copper hoards found in different parts of the Doab and elsewhere. These definitely go back to the second millennium BCE. Such objects have been found at Hissar, Mahendragarh and Ambala. Such a harpoon is also found in a late Harappan context at Mitathal in Haryana…” The partridge or kaalaa teetar, which is the state bird of Haryana, was ‘protected’ by Emperor Asoka in his Pillar Edict V from hunters and is protected again by the Wildlife Protection Act of 1972, would not have needed javelins to be hunted. But the blackbuck or kaalaa hiran, which is the state animal of both Haryana and Punjab (Asoka protected the antelope as well) and is now protected again on account of having been over-hunted through time (it has all but disappeared in Pakistan), would have. That quadruped is the subject of many a Moghul miniature painting, two of which show the ill-starred Prince Khusrau and Shah Jehan, respectively, hunting that antelope with bow and arrow, trained cheetahs helping the builder of the Taj in his chase. All that activity has to have happened in and around present-day Haryana-Punjab and Rajasthan. And it has to pulsate within Neeraj Chopra’s sporting dividend. What is the upshot of this reflection on Neeraj Chopra’s javelin win? Just this: high-end, high-cost, high-tech sport will entrance India’s imagination. But history, cultural ecology, social capital and that elusive reality called the DNA of things make athletics, running, swimming, horse-riding and the javelin with its cousins India’s natural sporting fields. Tribal India has to be their natural inspiration. And behind this verity lies a greater one beyond sport, namely, that India’s way ahead in the world, politically, economically, technologically, cannot be non-competitive. But it need not be imitative, certainly not mulishly so. And meant not for the gratification of the spectating world but for the quenching of our own inner thirsts. Being true to oneself is an old, almost tired, phrase. But I cannot think of a better one to say India must cease worrying about bettering China here, Japan there and others everywhere. It must be itself — as in Neeraj’s golden moment in Tokyo. When, after the Jallianwala Bagh massacre in 1919, Rabindranath Tagore lifted a reed to write his letter to the then Viceroy renouncing his Knighthood, and when Gandhi picked up his staff in 1930 to walk from Sabarmati to the seashore at Dandi to break the salt laws, they made, austerely, unmistakably, and originally, a ‘point’. We could call it a javelin’s point — causing huge change, no hurt. And the world applauded that silent triumph.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-47
22-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Spinning no longer||Indian cricket, of late, has acquired a distinct Caribbean flavour. Batsmen around the world — Englishmen were the latest example at Lord’s — are all at sea against the Indian pace battery, jumping around to fend off darters or, leaving the pitch, their despondent heads shaking after being dismissed by one of India’s talented pacers. India’s famous quartet no longer spins a web; they bowl with fire, turning matches in the team’s favour. Indeed, India’s triumphs away from home — back-to-back series wins in Australia and also in the West Indies and Sri Lanka — have been, in recent years, gifted by its pace battery. The investments made in fast-bowling by the Board of Control for Cricket in India — a state-of-the-art pace academy, livelier pitches in domestic competitions and, perhaps the most influential, the emergence of the Indian Premier League as a steady supply of talent to the national team — seem to be bearing fruit, at last. Yet, there is fear that the sunrise in Indian pace-bowling is causing the sunset in spin. If this speculation turns out to be true, it would be particularly tragic. This is because Indian spinners have made glorious contributions to Indian and, indeed, international cricket. From Anil Kumble and Harbhajan Singh in recent times, to the fearsome foursome of Erapalli Prasanna-Srinivas Venkataraghavan-Bhagwat Chandrasekhar-Bishan Singh Bedi in the 1960s-70s, to, even earlier, V. Mankad and C.S. Nayudu, among many others, the list of the magicians of spin is long. Yet, the magic — an art really — is no longer casting a spell. A number of factors have been cited to explain this crisis. In its bid to conquer overseas territory, India and its cricketing wise men have ended up lending disproportionate support to the fast-bowling department, ranging from roping in global experts to turning pitches friendlier for the quickies. Unfortunately, India is yet to make full use of its rich spinning legacy to guide faltering youngsters. The most formidable challenge, however, is the changing nature of cricket. With the rise in the popularity of shorter formats — T20 and T10 cricket — captains are increasingly deploying spinners to contain, rather than attack, batsmen. This shift — from attack to defence — and the changes in rules to make cricket attractive have also robbed spinners of the opportunity to ply some of the finest tricks of their trade: the teasing loop, subtle changes in length, even classical leg-spin are now on the endangered list. There can also be a cultural explanation for the existential crisis in spin-bowling. Society’s relationship with time — the slowness of time — has undergone a profound transformation with the advent of modernity and the technological revolution. The primacy accorded to everything that is quick, instantaneous — even aggressive — has meant that the pleasure of all that is leisurely, including spin, has turned out to be rather fleeting. The revival of spin, therefore, will be predicated upon a reassessment of not just cricket but also contemporary life itself.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-47
22-08-2021||Opinion||Namesake||Assam’s detention centres will hereafter be known as transit camps. Reportedly, the move is the new chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma’s idea and an attempt to “humanise” the camps. That is a big leap or two, from oblivion (during the 2019 election campaign PM Modi was saying “whither camp?”), to admittance (Union minister of state for home Nityanand Rai said in Lok Sabha in 2020 that there were six such camps in the state) to humanisation. Mind you, these centres/camps are located inside district jails and have been used to house those declared “foreigners” by various tribunals. In 2017, China set up vocational education and training centres all over Xinjiang, an autonomous region of the People’s Republic of China and home to ethnic minority groups such as the Uyghurs. These centres are said to have a million-plus inmates, all belonging to ethnic minority groups. The government steadfastly denied the existence of these centres — 380-plus according to one report — but after an international outcry in 2018, it passed a clause to legalise these. According to the clause, governments above the county level could set up education and transformation organisations “to educate and transform people who have been influenced by extremism”. It also stated that these centres would psychologically treat inmates to “transform their thoughts”. Former detainees, however, have spoken about mass sterilisation, mass rape, forced labour and rampant torture at these centres. Camp Justice was the informal name granted to the complex where Guantánamo detainees faced charges before the military commissions. British judge Baron Steyn described its working thus — “The military will act as interrogators, prosecutors and defence counsel, judges, and when death sentences are imposed, as executioners. The trials will be held in private. None of the guarantees of a fair trial need be observed.” And after the bombing of Pearl Harbour in 1942 by Japan, US president Roosevelt ordered the creation of Japanese internment camps. Japanese Americans were sent to assembly centres — reconfigured horse stalls or cattle sheds — and relocation centres, basically prison camps. Germany’s Nazi concentration camps were called Dachau, Sachsenhausen, Buchenwald, Auschwitz…||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-47
22-08-2021||Opinion||Give us this day our daily spread||Ah, come, come. You’ve been generous, let’s have a little more of what you’ve given us, and given us in plenty. At night you gave us the music that sings to us, the music of tinkling quaffed rum bottles you hung in rows by the barbed fencing. Our dogs wouldn’t bark for you, you got yourselves the sonata of swilled alcohol; when they swing on the fence, or someone swings the fence, it’s music that wakes you up. And it’s music that alarms us. Thank you, our alarms are orchestral, peril comes to us when the bottles tinkle and we wake, or we are out to sleep, with such heady music as you’ve invented and bequeathed upon us. That’s night. For days, you gave us, ah well, what a spread. You gave us bunkers. You gave us barricades. You gave us diversions. You gave us your throated cry, you gave us the unambiguous swish of your arm, this way, that way, backwards, forwards, no other way, no way, just stop. You gave us, you know —- or perhaps you do not know but generous people often do not know —- you gave us the gift of yoga. Hold your breath! Now swing, this way, that way, and now stand still. And silent. You gave us that gift. Our bodies are supple for your commanding. We know maun, for your commanding. We know obedience, for your commanding. Your commanding gave us gifts. And other gifts. Whoever did bother to bequeath upon us these before? They didn’t care, not for us, they didn’t think us worthy. Until you came. And ordered us, who needed ordering because we were all such a ramshackle disorder, hai na? Nobody on the streets, and there was nobody on the streets. Everybody on the streets, and there was everybody on the streets. Speak up! And we spoke up: Jai Ho! Shut up! And we shut up, it was always better that way, having not to say what did not need to be said. Stand up, and we stood up. Kneel down, and we knelt down. Hands behind your heads, and we had hands behind our heads (although that also made us realise, by some divine stroke of something or other, that we also had heads). And that’s when some of it started, you know. The realisation that we also had heads. We could think. And we thought: What a finishing school! We are finished. But if there’s some extra, do give it, go on. We know it does suit For you to lovingly tell You’d favour us with your boot So at your feet, dear, we all fell.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-47
