23-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Equal stakes||In a nation afflicted with entrenched gender-based prejudices, it is the highest court of the land that has shone as a beacon of hope for doing away with such discrimination. It recently did so when it pulled up the Indian army for not allowing women to sit for the entrance examinations of the National Defence Academy, saying that such a “policy decision... is based on gender discrimination”. This is not the first time that the Supreme Court has had to intervene in decisions related to the rights and representation of women in the armed forces. In a landmark verdict last year, it enabled women officers in the army to get permanent commission and command postings; it had also pulled up the Centre for its blatantly sexist arguments against women officers. Among other things, the government had said that male officers would not want to ‘accept orders’ from women and that the ‘inherent physiological differences’ between men and women render the latter unfit for performance on a par with men. It is a pity that the apex court has had to step in on different occasions to direct both the Union government and the Indian army to give women their due as equal citizens. Neither the provision for permanent commission nor the right of women to appear for the NDA exams can be viewed as an unfair entitlement, especially when women personnel have already proved their worth with their exemplary performances in the short service commission. Several countries with powerful militaries, such as the United States of America and Israel, allow women in different forms of active combat. In contrast, the Indian army — the world’s second-largest — still has an official ban on women taking on combat roles; women also comprise a paltry 3.8 per cent of the army’s personnel. While common sense dictates that gallantry and displays of capability be rewarded with equal opportunities, the reluctance of both the Centre and the army to do so only reinforces the belief that the structural exclusion of women is the result of a wider form of conservatism. This makes the Supreme Court’s recent stand encouraging; it may create a momentum in favour of fairer gender representation not just in the army but also in other institutions. The judiciary’s consistent and progressive stance on such matters notwithstanding, uprooting gender disparities in India is a long-term challenge, one that can be confronted with the help of supportive legislations by a political constituency receptive to the need for equality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-46
23-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Together alone||Inclusion can be an illusion. The Centre recently informed the Supreme Court that under the Samagra Shiksha scheme, a majority of the 22.5 lakh children with special needs would be admitted to regular schools where teachers would be trained to address their needs. However, special schools would continue to cater to children with more than 40 per cent disabilities. This was in response to a public interest litigation seeking adequate numbers of trained teachers in special schools. Integration is an objective that must be lauded; but the government’s noble intentions are unlikely to address other, relevant challenges. What about the aspect of enhanced burden on educators at regular schools, which already have an abysmal teacher-student ratio of about 1:32? Tellingly, of these teachers, 70 per cent have not received training in special education and do not have any experience teaching students with disabilities. The lack of trained educators or training overburdened teachers is not the only challenge. Not even one per cent of Indian educational institutions are accessible to disabled persons, according to the National Convention of Youth with Disabilities. This in spite of the fact that the inclusive model of education where every child has the right to attend a school of his or her choice was introduced in India in 2009 as part of the Right to Education Act. There are also reports from across states of schools denying admission to children with disabilities despite the existence of regulations that prohibit this kind of segregation. All of this conveys a deep unwillingness on the part of culture and educational institutions to be more accommodating; can this be remedied by a fiat in favour of convergences of students with diverse sets of needs? Strikingly, a 2019 Unesco report revealed that there is a gap between the Right to Education Act, 2009 and the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, leading to ambiguities about where children with disabilities should study and who should teach them. Germane to this confusion is the attitude towards education of children with special needs. Education for this constituency is often imagined in terms of the challenges it poses — the need for dedicated infrastructure, trained educators and so on — instead of being seen as a means to assure the fundamental right that it is. This is not to say that the challenges are not significant, but policy interventions need to go beyond these. As long as the needs of those with disabilities are confined to a ‘special’ category, these will not be a part of regular educational initiatives, and till such a time, inclusive education will remain a pipe dream.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-46
23-08-2021||Opinion||With Death on its wings||One superstition that keeps me going — or not really — is that of “ek shalik”. The shalik, or the Indian myna, I have been told since early childhood, is ominous when it is alone. It brings bad luck. The English rhyme, purportedly about magpies, goes further, adding an antidote to singleness, which is not singularity: “One for sorrow, two for joy.” These bits of wisdom have been driven through my brain into my muscle memory so successfully that every time I see a solitary shalik, my stomach, even if for a moment, promptly contracts with a sense of terror, the light goes out and I stop. I hear footsteps. They are coming for me. I do not believe in god, the after-life or the supernatural, although I may be afraid of them, and that may partly be the problem. But why do I feel this strange, enormous fear at the sight of a little bird, that too when it is alone? It could also be that fear is our most powerful feeling, and it just needs to attach itself to a shape to strike us down, and there is something about feathers that can be terrifying, as Hitchcock, who specialized in our fears, showed us so well. But this still does not explain why a lone shalik should be able to do me in. I think the solitary shalik can inspire such fear in me because it is solitary. The unpartnered, the unaccompanied, the single, the one who has lost a partner: they make us uneasy, especially if the single creature is female. A witch was feared, she was kept away, not allowed into the social. Can we imagine a married witch? Same for mad women, who tend to be isolated and demonized more than mad men. A widow in an Indian family in earlier times could be dreaded in a similar way. The ritual that officially announced her bereft, new single life was horrifying: her sindoor was erased, her shankha and pola, the bangles that symbolized her marital status, were broken and her hair was often shaved off. Two centuries earlier, her entire person could have been eliminated through sati. About the same time, in Jane Austen’s England, the “spinster” could evoke quite a lot of dread, too. Sometimes, hatred. Like witches and widows elsewhere, although perhaps with less obvious violence, spinsters needed to be avoided, too, if not asked to wither away. Single males fare better. From the lone wolf to James Bond, though we are not sure what would happen to them if they were consigned to everlasting solitariness. Religion and myth conspire against singleness (and we will not even get into later institutions such as Hollywood, Bollywood and Valentine’s Day couple dinners). Two for joy, because it is the law of nature, they seem to say. Which is why Noah took two from each species in his ark. The death of a bird (the winged species, again!) led to the birth of Valmiki’s Ramayana and the first poetic utterance. The sage observes two krauncha birds, engrossed in each other in intense desire, when a hunter kills the male bird. The female survives, but its heart-rending cry awakens in Valmiki a grief that can only be expressed as poetry. He curses the hunter for killing one of two birds so deeply in love. Shoka (grief) becomes shloka (poem), which is a sublime theory of the emotions and art, but it endorses the natural state of bliss as being double. Which reminds us of another Paradise that was ruined. Some exceptional singles are sage Valmiki himself, or other sages and hermits, or priests, or nuns, or some prime ministers. But only god in his essential, eternal form is One. The rest are mortals and are not enough alone. The solitary shalik is dreadful because it reminds us of our mortality. Death is the only fear. So if I see one shalik, I quickly look away and look again. That should make “two for joy”. But I am not sure I can cheat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-46
23-08-2021||Opinion||Dust off the forgotten shelves||We all have fond memories of libraries — visiting the library, roaming among the different sections for hours and finally the joy of finding the book we want to read, which takes some skill. Libraries have served as the gateway to knowledge, but somehow they are now finding it difficult to survive. It is time to remind everyone of the importance of libraries. What started through the patronage of emperors and scholars in ancient India still exists. Ancient universities like Nalanda, Taxila and Vikramshila had magnificent libraries with massive collections of manuscripts. Mughal emperors were known for their contributions to art and literature, which provided further stimulus to the growth of libraries. Babur, Humayun and Akbar established new libraries and also developed the existing ones by appointing scholars as librarians. Maharaja Sawai Man Singh of Jaipur and Maharaja Ranjit Singh of Punjab played significant roles in the promotion of library services. In fact, the Sarasvati Mahal Library was started by the Maharaja of Tanjore around 17th century CE. Maharaja Sayajirao Gaekwad III of Baroda travelled across the world and was amazed by the role played by libraries in promoting education. He later invited the American expert, William Alson, to help establish a library system in his state to extend its benefits to his subjects. Initially, libraries functioned as private institutions where admission was limited to small, affluent sections of society. Even during the British rule, when Indian cultural heritage was dealt a severe blow, there were some developments in library services. In 1808, the Government of Bombay proposed to register libraries. The three presidency towns of Bombay, Calcutta and Madras set up public libraries, mostly funded by Europeans. The most significant of these was the public library in Calcutta (1835), which was later developed into the National Library of India. The first three decades of the 20th century were seen as the golden age of the Indian library system. The Imperial Library Act was passed in 1902 and the Calcutta Public Library was converted into the Imperial Library by Lord Curzon in 1906. A series of conferences took place — first Conference of Library Workers and Persons Interested in the Library Movement (1914, Andhra Pradesh), first All India Library Conference of Librarians (1918, Lahore), first All India Library Conference (1933, Calcutta) — and, for the first time, there were gatherings with a common agenda: the development of libraries. Many rural libraries were set up in Assam, Bihar, Punjab and Travancore between 1937 and 1942, by which time there were some 13,000 rural libraries across the country. Post Independence, there was considerable improvement in our public library system. The Delhi Public Library (1951), which was the first joint project of the Unesco and the Government of India, tried to adapt ‘modern techniques to Indian conditions’ and to serve as a model public library for Asia. After this, many states passed legislations on the public library system and five-year plans allotted funds for the development of public libraries. The Sinha Committee was set up in 1957 to report on the status of public libraries across India. It described the condition of libraries as ‘dismal’ and called them a ‘stagnant pool of books’. It also mentioned that users were not trusted and rigid rules prevented readers from visiting libraries regularly. It stated that there were 32,000 libraries with around 71 lakh books across the country and advocated the creation of state library networks with uniform legislation. The most important recommendation it gave was that library services should be free for every citizen of India. The establishment of the Raja Rammohun Roy Library Foundation in Calcutta in 1972 was a significant step that enhanced library development, especially in rural areas. It gives financial assistance to Central, state and district libraries. The West Bengal Public Libraries Act, 1979 gave further impetus to the development of libraries by laying down details on regulation, guidance and supervision of libraries across the state. Libraries play a significant role in reducing the education gap among urban and rural masses. They can create a more equitable society by providing access to national and global knowledge. These information and learning centres have to be seen differently as they seem to have lost their significance; the untapped potential of libraries has to be utilized in order to create a better-educated and informed citizenry. We have lost interest in libraries owing to technological advances. We may have information at our fingertips, but devices cannot replace libraries. The latter played a part in developing social capital where people of varied interests would visit and exchange information. Moreover, smart devices are still not affordable in many parts of India; libraries can play a very important role in such areas. Once again, we have to inculcate among people the idea of seeing library visits as a hobby, something that can be enjoyed and can make them feel connected to the world. We cannot allow libraries to be a stagnant pool of books where knowledge lies idle. We have to start local movements to ensure that these knowledge centres are utilized to their full potential. West Bengal has 2,480 libraries; it is up to us to decide whether they are forgotten assets or a resource that we can be proud of.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-47
23-08-2021||Opinion||Boom to bust||Afghanistan has been a running media story for two decades now, more so than any other country in South Asia. Partly because the country has been continuously at war, at least in terms of occupation by foreign troops. But also because of the media agenda, which followed the invasion by the United States of America in 2001. Donor agencies led by the United States Agency for International Development marched in right after the Taliban’s exit as rulers, determined to manufacture a ‘free media’ in a nation ravaged and suppressed by an Islamic organization. So where there had only been a single radio station offering religious programming under Taliban control, three Afghan diaspora returnees supported by USAID set up the country’s first private radio station, Radio Arman, which began airing by 2003. It was quickly followed by others. Between UNESCO, USAID, Internews and other do-gooders, Western nations set about funding and training to establish an independent media in Afghanistan. The rapid proliferation which followed was only partly sustainable, and only partly free. But in the long term, a media landscape established itself, in Kabul and in the provinces. Because of limitations imposed by literacy, the cost of television sets, and electricity available in the countryside, radio stations were the most ubiquitous. Its donor-funded media growth sets Afghanistan apart from other nations in the region. In November 2002, Reporters Sans Frontieres published a report on press freedom one year after the fall of the Taliban. It cited 150 publications being sold on the streets of Kabul, electronic media outlets springing up, and dozens of journalists being trained by non-government organizations. It also cited for contrast its own 2000 report, which had described five years of Taliban domination turning Afghanistan into “a country without news or pictures”. Also noteworthy was the reappearance after five years of the privately-owned Kabul Weekly. The West attempted to set the norms, but ground realities governed how the media fared here. Funding the lot of the media did not instantly ensure a climate of editorial freedom. The Central government led by Hamid Karzai began to intimidate journalists, something which eased under international pressure. It began to publish 35 newspapers, controlled almost all electronic media, and promulgated a press law that forbade publishing information which could “offend Islam” or “weaken Afghanistan’s army”. The country’s penal code, meanwhile, contained no less than 37 articles that provided for punishing journalists with prison sentences in connection with their work, the RSF report noted. While the Central government kept an eye on the media in Kabul, the provincial radio and television stations were quickly taken over by governors who ruled there and intimidated local journalists. Since the transformation was imposed rather than organic, the environment for the media to flourish had not yet developed. An Afghanistan Independent Journalists’ Union came up, along with similar other unions. In 2003, the young journalist heading it described what was missing — there were too few good journalists. There were not enough good journalists to go round. Not even one professional per publication: “There are too many NGOs and too many publications.” Nor was the environment conducive as yet for a free media attempting to hold those in power to account. Warlords, militia commanders, the mujahideen, and the governors of the provinces were all part of the landscape of control apart from the government in Kabul. By 2012, the BBC identified five categories of media in Afghanistan: warlord media (media funded by local tribal leaders and politicians for tribal or personal agenda), the mainstream commercial media, Taliban media, government media and local FM radio, including radio stations set up by the International Security Assistance Force through the provincial reconstruction teams. The last was a Nato-led military mission in Afghanistan. The Taliban media refers to the communication network the organization built in the areas it dominated, much of it in Pashto, the language of the largest ethnic group.  Most of the media outlets multiplying in Kabul were publishing and broadcasting in Dari, catering to the country’s second-largest ethnic group, the Tajiks. The 2014 elections in Afghanistan were a high point for the independent media that had taken root. Najiba Ayubi, who headed the Killid Media Group, described to an interviewer how they had deployed a network of 209 reporters at voting centres in different locations in Afghanistan to provide live updates on Killid’s radio programmes. Meanwhile, BBC Media Action collaborated with Afghanistan’s public broadcaster, Radio Television Afghanistan, to devise a talk show called Open Jirga, which had politicians and experts being grilled by a live audience from the different provinces of Afghanistan. The then president, Karzai, was persuaded to appear on it, a far cry from the initial year of opening up when a reporter was ticked off for asking him an ‘unsuitable’ question. Now that the Taliban are back fully in control, the wheel is turning full circle; starting from April, media outlets have been shutting down. At the beginning of this month, Tolo News reported that 51 media outlets had closed amid the fighting, including five TV networks and 44 radio stations, one media centre and a news agency. Over this period, it said, over 1,000 reporters and media workers, including 150 women, had lost their jobs. Apart from outlets shutting down, there were reports of those falling to the Taliban — in Baghlan, Faryab, Badakhshan and Samangan provinces. Another report from Tolo News in January quoted the media support organization, Nai, to say that there were 130 incidents of violence against journalists in 2020, up 10 per cent from 2019. Has Afghanistan’s independent media story begun to unravel completely then? What is at stake, more than anything else, is the future of a whole generation of Afghan journalists with multimedia skills who cut their teeth in this crucible over the last two decades. International media development evangelists fostered Afghanistan’s media flowering in an inhospitable terrain. What order of negotiation skills will it take from the international community at large to save this experiment from grief and destruction? Sevanti Ninan is a media commentator and was the founder-editor of TheHoot.org||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-47
