24-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: All work||The kids are not alright, especially in an India reeling under the effects of a global contagion. This has been borne out by a report by the International Labour Organization and Unicef — it was published earlier this year — that estimated that 16 crore children around the world were working as labourers at the beginning of 2020. That is not all. Nearly half of the minor workers, numbered at 7.9 crore, were employed in hazardous occupations, with reports suggesting that a further 89 lakh children would become child labourers by the end of 2022. The last census had pegged the number of child labourers in India at 1.01 crore; this figure would have grown exponentially in the past decade with the intensification of the causal factors pushing children into the worst forms of labour. Poverty, inequality, social discrimination and the lack of access to schooling have always been driving forces in the perpetuation of child labour and allied evils such as child marriage and trafficking. In 2017, the Centre had released data regarding such challenges plaguing children in 409 districts in India and had laid out guidelines for action under headers such as ‘survival’, ‘education and development’, and ‘protection and participation’. However, plans for giving children healthy lives and universal education are being consistently derailed by large-scale institutional failures. The resultant irony is stark: India has the highest number of laws against child labour in the world while also having the highest number of minor labourers. There are chinks in the law too. For instance, while the Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Amendment Act prohibits children under 18 from being employed in hazardous occupations, they are allowed to work in ‘family enterprises’. Such loopholes allow for children — especially those from poor families trapped in intergenerational debt bondage — to slip through the cracks. The pandemic has exacerbated these problems. The closure of schools and the advent of online classes have put education beyond the reach of children with little or no access to the internet or digital gadgets. They, along with those who lost one or both parents to Covid-19, have been at increased risk of being pushed into work deemed illegal. The problem is layered and needs interventions at multiple levels. Campaigns against child labour and early marriage must be accompanied by the realization of universal education as well as economic security for the underprivileged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-46
24-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Nod to three-dose Covid vaccine for kids||Hopeful moment Sir — The Drug Controller General of India’s approval for ZyCoV-D, the three-dose DNA vaccine manufactured by Zydus Cadila, comes as a relief for parents. Children aged 12 years and above can now be vaccinated (“Nod for first jab for 12-plus kids”, Aug 21). But the Ahmedabad-based company is expected to be able to produce only 30 to 40 million doses by December as opposed to the 50 million demanded by the government. The company has stockpiled three to five million doses and hopes to start working on large-scale production by the second half of September. It is encouraging that the company has a well-thought-out plan for steady production. The government must not pressurize Zydus Cadila to produce vaccines quickly at the expense of safety and quality control. The health of the citizens, especially children, must be prioritized over everything else. Md. Yousuf Kamal, Muzaffarpur, Bihar Sir — It is great news that Zydus Cadila’s DNA vaccine,  ZyCoV-D, made especially for children between the ages of 12 to 17, is going to hit the market soon. ZyCoV-D would be the first available vaccine for children in India and the fourth overall to be approved. Although the government has proclaimed that it plans to vaccinate the entire adult population by December 31, this is unlikely to happen in reality. Nevertheless, if more vaccines are approved — ZyCoV-D can be administered to both children and adults —  it would certainly speed up the process. Manisha Panwar,Ujjain Sir — Scientists at Zydus Cadila must be lauded for creating the world’s first DNA vaccine against Covid-19. The vaccine, ZyCoV-D, uses a section of genetic material from the virus that gives instructions as either DNA or RNA to make the specific protein that the immune system recognizes and responds to. The three-dose vaccine is expected to kick-start the inoculation process for children in India. S. Sarkar,Berhampur Sir — School-level education in India has suffered immensely since the outbreak of the pandemic last year. It is hoped that schools can resume once children are vaccinated. The government must ensure that children from all socio-economic backgrounds are inoculated on an equal footing. The Centre must come up with a comprehensive plan in collaboration with the state governments so that the vaccination programme can reach vulnerable children in all corners of the country. Nisith Mazumder,Calcutta Rare gem Sir — No discussion on Bhanu Bandyopadhyay would be complete without remembering the iconic line, “Mashima, malpoa khamu”, from the film, Sharey Chuattar (“Comicbabu”, Aug 22). There was a time when the comedic duo of Bandyopadhyay and Jahar Roy was as celebrated in Bengali cinema as the romantic pairing of Uttam Kumar and Suchitra Sen. In each of his performances, Bandyopadhyay would steal the limelight with his comedic talent and acting skills. Co-actors like Madhabi Mukherjee remember Bandyopadhyay being just as witty off-screen. Bandyopadhyay was truly one of the greatest comedians of Bengali cinema. Ashoke Basu,Baruipur, South 24 Parganas True legend Sir — The demise of the legendary German footballer, Gerd Mueller, has shaken football fans across the world (“‘Bomber’ Mueller no more”, Aug 16). The ace striker who helped West Germany win the 1972 European Championship and the 1974 World Cup was regarded as one of the greatest players of his generation and was nicknamed “Bomber der Nation”. Mueller scored 566 goals in his 607 appearances for Bayern Munich and continues to hold the record for the most goals — 365 — in the Bundesliga. He also notched up 68 goals in 62 matches for West Germany between 1966-74. The football world has lost one of its iconic athletes. His contributions to the game will always be remembered by football fans. Sourish Misra,Calcutta  Lost intrigue Sir — There was a time when writers of spy fiction feared that the collapse of the Soviet Union meant the drying up of interesting material for their books. They could not have been more wrong. The recent Pegasus scandal is proof that there is more than enough material when it comes to espionage to fire the imagination of authors. Yet, something is missing. Travelling to foreign lands and exotic settings were synonymous with spy fiction. But with spying now happening on the world wide web, James Bond can ditch the dapper suits and lounge in front of his laptop in his pyjamas.Ananya Chakraborty,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-46
24-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Free to marry||The intent of a law must be clear in its phrasing. So, when the advocate general, Kamal Trivedi, told the division bench of the Gujarat High Court that the Gujarat Freedom of Religion (Amendment) Act, 2021 did not prohibit interfaith marriage per se, the court reportedly said that its language did not make that clear. Rather, the law was like a sword hanging over interfaith couples. Therefore, in response to two petitions against it, the Gujarat High Court put an interim stay on several crucial provisions. The popular perception of the law was closer to its intent: it is against ‘love jihad’, a phenomenon invented by the Bharatiya Janata Party to punish unions between women from the majority religion and men from the largest minority religion. The premise is that such marriages are conducted for religious conversion; the men use force, allurement or deception — fraudulent means — to get the women to marry them. Love jihad was shown to be non-existent by government agencies and the police. Yet BJP-ruled governments continue to formulate laws against ‘illegal conversion’ through marriage. Gujarat gave the law a veneer of constitutionality by referring to the freedom of religion in its name, while destroying freedom through the amendments. The high court reportedly ruled that an interfaith marriage cannot be termed a marriage for unlawful conversion if force, fraud or allurement is not employed. The relevant provisions have been stayed, together with the provision that places the onus of proof on the accused. So have the provisions that make permission of the district magistrate mandatory for conversion and for prosecution, as has been the one that says that a family court would declare a marriage between members of two faiths void in case of unlawful conversion. The ambiguity about who decides on the ‘unlawfulness’ is deliberate and dangerous. Not only can anyone — from the immediate family to remote relatives — complain about unlawful conversion, but anyone found to have abetted it is also to be punished together with the groom. The amended law, therefore, could target a community while destroying women’s agency and a couple’s right to privacy. The Gujarat High Court’s interim order is thus more than welcome. It can protect interfaith couples from ‘unnecessary harassment’ while asserting constitutional rights and the principles of coexistence in a diverse society.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-46
24-08-2021||Opinion||The history of a code||While hearing a divorce case, the Delhi High Court directed the Centre to take the steps necessary to bring in a Uniform Civil Code in order to avoid conflicting realities coming in the way of the delivery of justice. Various other courts have expressed similar views. Gender justice and equality were the primary concerns for Jawaharlal Nehru and B.R. Ambedkar when they championed the cause of the UCC originally. They were forced to retreat, calibrate and eventually re-strategize in the face of stiff opposition from religious conservatives. The UCC remains a contentious and politicized issue in a polarized India. The Bharatiya Janata Party’s election manifesto has pledged the UCC. Other political parties are either opposed to it or ambiguous about it. The cherished goal of equality for India’s women citizens thus remains distant and marred by politics. India won independence after a prolonged freedom struggle that saw the participation of women and men from all backgrounds. Democratic principles and such values as justice, equality and pluralism guided the deliberations in the Constituent Assembly as the newborn republic strived to create a Constitution by which to rule its citizens. The archives of the Constituent Assembly debates on the question of the UCC are fascinating. The idea was rejected outright by luminaries — all men — of the Hindu Mahasabha, traditionalist Congressmen and Muslims. They united to protect personal laws based on religious identities. The UCC was perceived to be an assault on Hindu civilization as well as a threat to the identity of a religious minority. The opposition to the UCC grew both inside and outside the legislature, forcing Nehru to abandon the plan to the utter disappointment of the All India Women’s Conference and Ambedkar. Patriarchy masquerading as religion ensured that the status quo of male domination over women would remain undisturbed. The UCC was included as Article 44 of the Directive Principles in the Constitution. However, proof of the statesmanship of Nehru, Ambedkar and a few others lay in the Hindu code bills being introduced in Parliament. Massive reforms followed. A spate of Hindu family laws governing marriage, divorce, guardianship, succession and the ownership of property were enacted through the 1950s even as opposition from some quarters persisted. Although Indian women continue to face injustices, Hindu women enjoy greater legal protections in family matters thanks to the progressive laws passed by Parliament in 1954-55. Muslim women were denied similar protections owing to resistance by the conservative clergy towards reforms in Muslim personal laws. All women are entitled to comprehensive legal protection drawn from affirmative religious and cultural practices. The practice of meher in Muslim society is one example. There are other examples of progress, ranging from the Shah Bano case to the women-led movement against instant triple talaq, the latter culminating in a favourable verdict from the Supreme Court. The Centre fulfilled its constitutional obligation by filing its affidavit supporting the women but it has lost considerable goodwill since then. It chose to disregard the women-led, peaceful protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and arrested women students instead. The CAA as well as the National Register of Citizens defy the idea of unification of India and among Indians, fuelling separation and division. The government must also clarify its position on Sabarimala and unequivocally defend women’s rights. The love jihad laws and other coercive measures must be stopped forthwith. The Centre must appreciate that gender equality is a goal of paramount importance and that the UCC is not the agenda of a political party. It can learn from Nehru, who honoured his commitment through incessant opposition and dialogue. It took many years for Nehru to build a conducive climate that led to the acceptance of the Hindu code bills. Gender equality is too important a goal to be sacrificed at the altar of electoral politics and communal ideologies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-46
24-08-2021||Opinion||Background noise||For those of us privileged enough to be able to work from the comfort of our homes, one of the biggest things the pandemic has brought into our lives has been Zoom and other similar video-conferencing applications. The basic concept is not new; Skype, Google Chat and, more lately, smartphone video-calls, have been around for a while; what Zoom et al have added to the mix is the possibility of several dozen or more people being able to see and hear each other at the same time. Had there been no Covid-19, the usage of these apps would have spread unevenly and perhaps at a slower pace, chiefly being used by commercial corporations while the rest of the world went about its Zoom-free business. What the pandemic has ensured is the rapidly multiplying usage and the absolute centrality of these web-conferencing programmes in many of our lives. As with any new technology, gizmo or fashion, the Zoomiverse has produced its own protocols, etiquettes, tropes, absurdities and hilarities. In India, we’ve now become used to the verbal brawls that pass for television debates; therefore it is really funny how quickly participants on Zoom calls have learnt not to interrupt each other; everyone seems to have understood that the limits of digital sound mean that a bunch of people speaking together turns into incomprehensible static; it’s wonderful how quickly we have reverted to being well-behaved Class VIII students, raising our hands for permission to speak. The other thing we’ve instinctively grasped is the need to sit quite still, from seeing others fidgeting and moving around, creating a cell of distraction in the mosaic of faces. What Zoom has also done is made us physically schizoid. Now there is the whole business of what you wear for a Zoom meeting, about how one pays detailed attention to what is visible on camera and completely ignores what is out of frame and below the desk. All sorts of jokes abound on the internet about how high-end tailors are now selling half-suits or ‘Zoom suits’, with several cartoons showing a man or woman sporting colourful pyjamas or slovenly track pants and slippers, but attired on top in the crispest of formal office-wear. The entire presentation of the self becomes distilled into the frame being captured by one’s computer camera. The advice goes that at the start of any Zoom session, you should only switch on the camera and mike after having made sure of how you look and what is visible and audible. Sometimes, of course, there are accidents. There is the unfortunate journalist in New York who turned himself into a world legend when his camera caught him vigorously pleasuring himself during an office meeting; there is the staff member of a city council in Brazil who decided that the municipal committee meeting he was attending was too tedious and entered into coital action with his partner, neglecting to switch off his camera first. The journalist in New York lost his job, the world-weary woman hosting the municipal meeting merely used her over-ride to switch off the staff member’s camera and everybody continued as though nothing had happened. There are also subtler, less dramatic pleasures to be derived from what one can only call Zoom-watching. Take, for instance, the whole business of background and lighting. Apparently people spend a lot of time ‘sculpting’ their faces with light in preparation for important Zoom meetings. It seems that an ordinary old lamp or room illumination will no longer do; ring lights used by professional photographers have now made their way into academics’ studies. As for the backgrounds, suddenly we have become like mannequins in a puppet theatre. It’s not just about one’s face or costume, it’s also about giving oneself the ensconcement of an illusory environment. People know just how much time they themselves spend checking out what is visible behind other Zoom participants. It stands to reason, therefore, that others will have the same prying, judgmental gaze focused on your frame. The special effects concept of the green screen from cinema has now been imported into video-conferencing and people can digitally insert different backgrounds. So, a cousin living in a Manhattan high-rise sits in a thick tropical jungle; every time she gets up to get a glass of water she disappears into the foliage; a well-known Covid-expert doctor sitting in Gurgaon has a huge American ranch-style living room sprawling behind him, complete with a grand piano. Then there are the people who couldn’t care less — veritable vessels of insouciance who leave their surroundings untouched. These characters fall into two categories. There is, for instance, the famous desi tenured academic sitting in the study of his house near his Ivy League university. Unlike the good doctor in Gurgaon, this is a real American house, large, airy, rooms opening into rooms, bookshelves marching away as far as the eye can see. Unlike the mensongious backdrops of people who photograph their friends’ bookshelves to use for their green screens, you know this background is real because you can see the curtains fluttering in the large picture windows. Then there are those people who actually don’t give a damn. On a much-forwarded meme there is a still from the Zoom ‘window’ of the Arab academic, Talal Asad, which shows the epic chaos of the study behind him, including his exercycle being used as a clothes rack. The text above it concludes: “Talal is not worried about log kya kahenge regarding his Zoom background. Be like Talal.” An academic friend of mine has become a fan of a senior English scholar she follows in Zoom seminars. Having spent her whole life in wild landscapes, this professor, too, dries her laundry within the frame of her camera. While my friend values the deep scholastic knowledge and insights, her voice takes on the excitement of a bird-watcher at the changing laundry in the background: “Today she’s hung red pyjamas!”, “Oh, she’s washed that polka dot t-shirt again!”, “Oh-ho, she really needs to dump those torn argyle socks!” Only time will tell if this Zoom moment is just that — a freakish point in our history when we were obliged to work with a fairly primitive digital interface solution — or whether it was a hinge point when we transitioned from being a (semi-intelligent) species that mostly interacted face-to-face to one that increasingly began to use technology to abbreviate most of our essential exchanges, most of us happily or unwillingly reducing ourselves to a screen inside our room, to an obsessively arranged, minutely observed box within a box.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-46
