25-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Caste count||Politics is a strange animal; contestation can thus masquerade as consensus. Consider the all-party delegation led by the chief minister of Bihar, Nitish Kumar, that met the prime minister, Narendra Modi, to press the demand for caste enumeration. The last time such an exercise had been undertaken was in pre-Independent India. The Bharatiya Janata Party, which is ruling Bihar in an alliance with the Janata Dal (United), Mr Kumar’s party, was part of the delegation. But there is no denying the tug-of-war that is unfolding between Mr Kumar and the BJP under the veneer of unity. Mr Kumar, whose party’s wings had been clipped by the BJP, now the dominant partner in the coalition, has an axe to grind and he has chosen a potent weapon: the caste card. Caste, a perennial feature of Indian society and politics, is the principal capital of provincial parties that are, more often than not, representatives of communities rather than regions. Demanding a realignment in the architecture of reservation — Mandal 2.0? — these parties are hoping, would be one way of cementing their political futures. It must be noted that there has been unprecedented political unity when it came to making sympathetic noises to raise the court-imposed ceiling on reservation in recent times. The BJP’s challenge is unique in this respect. It must be conceded that among all political outfits, it is the BJP that has been the most successful in stitching together a formidable electoral constituency blending the interests of not just the upper castes — its traditional vote bank — but also segments among the other backward classes that had not been mobilized by its rivals. The party itself is divided on the issue. Its representatives from disadvantageous groups may be in favour of such a census but the upper caste lobby — always the dominant force ideologically — is unlikely to be supportive. There is legitimate fear that a caste census could also prove that the BJP’s claim of empowering, or even being representative of, OBCs is rather hollow. Mandal-I may have been neutralized by the rhetoric of the Mandir, but the BJP is circumspect about repeating that success given the changing ground realities and aspirations of India’s marginalized social groups. The real tragedy, of course, lies elsewhere. Even after 74 years of Independence, progress is still predicated upon ascriptive identities in the republic. This is anathema to the principle of collective welfarism. But none of India’s political parties seems to be ready to acknowledge this failure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-45
25-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Public libraries in India||Turn the page Sir — It is true that public libraries in India, which served as reservoirs of knowledge for ages, are struggling to remain relevant and sustain themselves in the digital age (“Dust off the forgotten shelves”, Aug 24). The government must take urgent steps to improve their condition. Once revitalized, these libraries could, once again, cater to the needs of those who do not have access to other sources of knowledge. Digital books may come and go, but the joy of finding a physical book, stacked among thousands of others in a library, evokes a nostalgia that is priceless for book lovers. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai Misery ahead Sir — A heartbreaking video, in which an American marine was seen lifting a baby over a razor-wired wall of the Kabul airport, recently caught global attention. This was shot as a huge crowd of Afghans was trying to enter the airport to escape the Taliban. It was later reported that the American troops were requested to help the baby as it was sick. The infant was treated and then returned to the family (“Afghan baby reunited with family”, Aug 22). This was truly an act of compassion. Such visuals are becoming increasingly common. This is cause for concern. The American military released several other officially approved photographs of soldiers helping out Afghan children — one of these shows a soldier in his combat gear, sitting with a blanketed baby in his arms as fellow soldiers stand nearby on alert. The plight of the common people will surely foment anger among the global population against Taliban rule. One hopes that the day is not far off when all countries will unite to end the suffering of the Afghan people. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — Some moments, captured as images or videos, become emblematic of the crisis during which they were taken. Take, for instance, Kevin Carter’s iconic photograph of the Sudan famine. The image of an infant being held up by an Afghan to be lifted by US troops has become the symbol of the ongoing crisis in Afghanistan. It was a relief to learn that the child has been returned to the father after being provided medical care. Yet, one cannot help but shudder at the plight of the many other children — the future of the nation — who must grow up under the Taliban regime. Given the Taliban’s treatment of girl children, one especially worries about their future. Baisakhi Mitra,Calcutta Divisive tactic Sir — Instead of fulfilling the Centre’s avowed objective of bringing people together, the observance of the ‘Partition Horrors Remembrance Day’ on August 14 — coinciding with Pakistan’s Independence Day — will do just the opposite. Digging up the wounds of one of the greatest tragedies in human history with the potential to ignite communal passions and mutual distrust cannot be a good idea. The obvious agenda behind this well-thought-out decision is dangerous. But communal polarization is a policy that the right-wing thrives on. While M.A. Jinnah and the Muslim League must shoulder the major share of the blame for Partition for their uncompromising stand on Pakistan, other stakeholders cannot evade responsibility for their failure to avert the catastrophe. The right-wing holds the Congress and its bête noire, Jawaharlal Nehru, accountable; the Congress points its fingers at the mentor of sangh parivar, V.D. Savarkar, for allegedly formulating the two-nation theory. With the ‘Ram temple’ card having already been played, the BJP has little to bank on before the Uttar Pradesh elections. Given the UP chief minister’s appalling incompetence at handling the second phase of Covid-19, the BJP was desperately looking for another emotive issue to further polarize the electorate. It found one such in the Partition. Should we as a nation not put such tragic events behind us and move forward, addressing more pressing issues affecting the lives of millions? Surely this is possible without undermining the sufferings caused by the Partition. The prime minister needs to demonstrate a certain degree of statesmanship, rising above the agenda of winning elections. S.K. Choudhury,Bangalore Sir — The prime minister’s tweet that August 14 would now on be observed as ‘Partition Horrors Remembrance Day’ is yet another instance of his old habit of trying to cover up his government’s failures — Covid mismanagement, inflation, farm laws and many others — by using diversionary tactics. It is high time he acted wisely. Once the voters see through his ploy, he would face difficulty retaining his chair after the 2024 general elections. Murtaza Ahmad,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-45
25-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Odd reward||Logic is sometimes not enough. The Madras High Court reportedly described the reduction of Lok Sabha seats from Tamil Nadu as ‘unfair and unreasonable’. Until 1962, Tamil Nadu had 41 seats in the Lower House, but this number was reduced to 39 in 1967 because Tamil Nadu’s success in implementing birth control measures had lowered its population numbers. The logic behind the reduction lay in the need to maintain some equivalence in the number of electors that each legislator represents. Delimitation, or the redrawing of the boundaries of constituencies, is thus related to changes in population size. Although this should be conducted after each census, a constitutional mandate has held it up till 2026 when the population is expected to stabilize. The Madras High Court’s response exposed the failure of the logical approach since states reduced population at different rates. As a result, those states that successfully implement the Centre’s policy — Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh in this case — are in effect penalized by reduced representation in the Lok Sabha. The Opposition fears that the Narendra Modi-led government might bring about a constitutional amendment to conduct delimitation before 2024, which would lessen the representation of the southern states and increase that of states such as Uttar Pradesh. The Madras High Court’s focus, however, was on the need to change the unfair situation. It reportedly suggested that Article 81 of the Constitution, which mandates that the ratio of the number of Lok Sabha seats and the population of a state should be the same in all states, could be reviewed. Compensation, too, could be considered, one being an increase in Rajya Sabha seats against those lost in the Lok Sabha. This would mean other calculations, for Rajya Sabha seats cannot be simply equated to Lok Sabha ones. Since one seat could topple a government in 1999, the Madras High Court saw the loss of two seats through no fault of the state as a serious matter. It also suggested monetary compensation, reportedly fixing a notional amount of Rs 200 crore for a legislator’s contribution for five years; the loss of two members and 14 elections since 1967 meant Tamil Nadu should receive Rs 5,600 crore. The Madras High Court laid bare the problem underlying the rules of representation. Addressing it before 2026 would be unavoidable.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-45
25-08-2021||Opinion||It takes two to tango||With India emptying out its embassy in Kabul and flying its official personnel back home in the aftermath of the Taliban takeover of the Afghan capital, the parallels with 1996 are impossible to ignore. Then, when the Taliban first grabbed power in Kabul, India shuttered its diplomatic mission and refused to recognize a regime that then — and now — counts Pakistan as its chief international sponsor and patron. But as Afghanistan grapples with the discomfiting reality of returning to Taliban rule, India must learn from its experiences and avoid repeating its mistakes from the 1990s. And it must do so with the knowledge that if there’s one area where the hardline Sunni militant group appears keen on treading new ground, it’s on the issue of international relations. The Taliban once killed Iranian diplomats. Now it’s talking with Tehran. It formed the core of the mujahideen that fought and defeated the Soviet Union in the 1980s. Today, Russia is one of a handful of countries — along with Pakistan and China — that have kept their embassies in Kabul open, confident that a newly-built relationship with the Taliban will serve its interests there. China, which — like India — refused to recognize the Taliban in the 1990s, now hosts teams of Taliban leaders for publicized meetings with Beijing’s top diplomats. And don’t forget how the Kabul collapse all started: with a ‘peace’ deal signed by the United States of America and the Taliban in 2020. The current Joe Biden administration in the US might blame the former president, Donald Trump, for that pact, but the new government in Washington has chosen the roadmap for withdrawal from Afghanistan as one of the few legacies of its predecessor that it too has followed. Indeed, India has, over the past year, slowly initiated diplomatic and security contacts with the Taliban. Qatari officials have revealed that an Indian team met with the Taliban’s political leaders in Doha in June. And while it was sensible to pluck Indian officials and personnel from Afghanistan for the time being, New Delhi hasn’t ruled out sending diplomats back there. It’s tempting for the Indian government to sit back, wait and watch what unfolds in Afghanistan, and then take a decision on its next steps. That would be a folly. It must proactively continue to seek engagement with the Taliban — without committing to anything in return just yet. It must build on that engagement, dangling the carrot of economic and other incentives if the Taliban agrees to India’s core red lines, even if New Delhi eventually decides it can’t formally recognize a government run by the group. In part, this should be a lesson India has learnt from its past blunders. By not engaging with the Taliban in the 1990s, India didn’t succeed in pressuring the group to mend its ways. On the contrary, when Pakistani hijackers took IC 814 to Kandahar, New Delhi had no contacts in the Taliban to speak with. It’s a lesson America appears to have learnt too. While there’s no love lost for the Taliban in Washington, the US has clearly reached an arrangement with the group that’s allowing America to retain control of Kabul airport long enough for it to evacuate its citizens and Afghan partners. In other words, if New Delhi’s primary goal in Afghanistan is to ensure that the country’s territory isn’t used to attack India, it stands a better chance by keeping lines of communication open with the Taliban. But there’s another reason for India to approach its equation with the Taliban differently this time. Unlike earlier, the Taliban’s relations with multiple other nations — Russia, Iran, China, among others — means that the group is likely to want to gain some degree of independence from Pakistan. It’s unlikely that the militants will ever really break with Rawalpindi, home to Pakistan’s military headquarters. But if it is looking for more elbow room, India should be willing to join a careful dance with the Taliban. To be sure, all of this depends on whether the Taliban has learnt lessons from its first stint in power in the 1990s. While the world was shocked by the public stoning and the moral police that whiplashed women who dared to step outside without male relatives, the Taliban’s biggest strategic weakness was Osama bin Laden, al Qaida’s founder and Saudi tycoon, who was bankrolling it. It was bin Laden who placed the Taliban in the crosshairs of the US and its allies. In 2021, with a range of other nations ready to do business with it, the Taliban doesn’t need a terrorist financier. India has the strategic clout and economic heft to give the Taliban enough rational reasons to behave responsibly with it. Given the group’s ties with the Pakistani military, that will be a difficult task and might not work. But to not try would be worse. In 1996, the Taliban was a global pariah. In 2021, if India doesn’t try and talk with the Taliban, New Delhi is the one that could be isolated. When the future of South Asia’s security is at stake, the region’s largest nation can’t be a bystander.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-46
25-08-2021||Opinion||The Kabuliwalas||Should copies of Deshe Bideshe, Syed Mujtaba Ali’s memorable chronicle of the one-and-a-half years he spent as an educator in Afghanistan, be sent to Washington DC and New Delhi where, the grapevine says, the mandarins apparently watched, bewildered, as the Taliban strolled into Kabul without having to fire a shot? The suggestion is not being made in jest. Neither is this another mutation of that contagion known as Bengali exceptionalism. Even though scholarly works on, what an American Colonel christened, the ‘Afghan Puzzle’ are voluminous — Ahmed Rashid’s Descent into Chaos is one notable example — Mujtaba Ali’s book has an advantage over these. It is his gift of prescience. Some of the passages in Deshe Bideshe — Nazes Afroz translated it into In a Land Far from Home — blur the border between past and present, lending Mujtaba Ali’s experience of events that took place between 1927 and 1929 a remarkable degree of contemporaneity. The closing chapters of the book evoke a Kabul besieged by the fear of civil war. Mujtaba Ali’s Kabul could well be the Kabul we are reading about, or whose images we are devouring, in our time. In Mujtaba Ali’s Afghanistan, Amanullah Khan, the sovereign, attempts to introduce ‘Western’ reforms — doing away with the purdah for women, introducing the dereshi, as well as modern education for boys and girls and so on — but enraged clerics mobilize public opinion as well as the dreaded outlaw, Bacha-ye Saqao — the Taliban’s poster-boy? — forcing Khan, much like Ashraf Ghani, to flee the nation. Mujtaba Ali, his 117th birth anniversary falls in a few weeks, also brings to life the desperation of expatriates and Kabulis trying to escape the yoke of imminent brutality, with the British Ligation — an ancestor of the Indian Mission? — being notoriously leaden-footed when it came to anticipating the unrest and, then, in its rescue and repatriation mission. That the Afghanistan unveiled by Deshe Bideshe echoes with its readership decades after Mujtaba Ali’s sojourn makes it a perfect text for the wise men in Washington and New Delhi to pore over. Mujtaba Ali was alert to some of Afghanistan’s quandaries that seem to have foxed the United States and its allies as they went about rebuilding that strife-torn nation in their own image. The maulvi — the mullah, a scourge in the Western eye — Mujtaba Ali argues, functions as the lynchpin of Afghan society no matter who possesses the sceptre in Kabul. The clerics’ conservatism, he writes, did not dull their anti-colonial sensibilities. A report in Forbes has revealed that in the course of its 20-year occupation, the US has spent a total of $2 trillion — around 300 million dollars per day for two decades — on Afghanistan. A bulk of these expenditures, Brown University’s ‘Costs of War Project’ estimates, must have gone into war expenses as well as training the Afghan National Army. It would be interesting to speculate the outcome of a proportionate investment by the West in social reform and religious moderation, especially in rural Afghanistan. Interestingly, Ahmed Rashid attributed the Taliban’s resurgence after its defeat in 2001 to the international community reneging on its commitment of bringing equitable development — educational and cultural — to large swathes of Kabul’s hinterland, especially in the southeast. The sharp-eyed Mujtaba Ali spots another anomaly; the tension between the collective —Afghan — fidelity to ethnicity and the imperatives of the nation-building project. One of the pearls of wisdom in Afghan Statecraft, Mujtaba Ali writes cheekily, is to exploit fissures among tribal entities and turn these groups against the sovereign — be it an autonomous Emir or a puppet of the West. This pearl continues to sparkle. One curious manifestation of the persistent ethnic pulls and pressures has been the changing nature of the Afghan national anthem: perhaps no other country has had to change its national anthem five times in 95 years to honour the political ascendancy of a particular ethnic constituency. The “Milli Surud”, the anthem adopted to celebrate the spirit of a new, united Afghanistan, evidently fell on the proverbial deaf ears of the squabbling warlords. Even a pan-Islamic identity, such as the one that the Taliban lays claim to, is not immune to these contestations. Panjshir — the home of Bacha-ye Saqao as well as of Ahmad Shah Massoud — a stronghold of the Tajiks, Afghanistan’s second-largest ethnic group, has pledged to resist the Taliban. And yet, conquerors, deshi or bideshi, force a non-representative national unity upon a land that has imagined nationhood to be a complicated, usually competitive, solidarity among clans. What gives Deshe Bideshe its distinct flavour is Mujtaba Ali’s joyful communion with people and their politics that challenges some of the modern — mischievous — misconceptions about Muslim society. The Bengali reader, so enchanted with Rabindranath Tagore’s politically benign kabuliwala, is suddenly confronted with Kabulis spiritedly opposed to dogmatism, orthodoxy and bigotry. Among Mujtaba Ali’s friends is Dost Mohammed, a Socratic figure, detached from all else but the spirit of liberty: he conscripts himself to defend Kabul from the approaching fanatics. There is Mir Aslam, a scholar of shastras, who fearlessly denounces the rebellion by Islamists as anti-progressive at considerable personal risk. And, of course, who can forget Abdur Rehman? More friend and confidante than man-servant to Mujtaba Ali, Rehman, who could not stop talking about the silvery snowfall in Panjshir, thinks nothing of leaving Afghanistan to find refuge in hot and humid Hindustan. Even as the shadows of a regressive orthodoxy lengthen in Afghanistan, on its women as well as on the pockets of progressive, liberal constituencies, just as they had in Mujtaba Ali’s time, the Indian foreign minister has tweeted to let the nation and the world know that the repatriation of Hindus and Sikhs would be New Delhi’s priority. The concern for Afghanistan’s minorities is not unwarranted, especially at a time when Kabul has fallen prey to a regime infamous for inflicting medieval barbarity on ethnic and religious minorities. But the Afghans who believe in upholding the inclusive dreams of those visionaries — Dost Mohammed, Mir Aslam, Abdur Rehman — need the attention and assistance of New Delhi and of the world. Mujtaba Ali had to leave Rehman behind in Afghanistan. As the ancient mechanical bird with a propeller became airborne, he recalls watching Rehman’s diminishing figure searching the sky. New Delhi, hopefully, would not abandon its well-wishers, assets — Afghans recruited for missions, covert and overt — and those who still dream of liberating Kabul from yet another long night. uddalak.mukherjee@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-46
