26-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Demand for a national caste census||Numbers game Sir — The chief minister of Bihar, Nitish Kumar, recently led an all-party delegation to meet the prime minister, Narendra Modi, to press for a caste enumeration (“Caste count”, Aug 25). Although the prime minister is said to have patiently heard the concerns of the delegation, it must be remembered that it was only last month that the Union home ministry had informed Parliament that it had decided against conducting a caste-based census. Every census in independent India has, so far, only collated data on Dalits and adivasis, leaving the Other Backward Classes, the largest constituency of castes in the country, outside its purview. As of now, no political party has publicly opposed the demand of the Bihar delegation, but it is clear to all that the Bharatiya Janata Party-government is reluctant to undertake this exercise. The salience of caste as a fundamental marker of identity in India has only grown since Independence and can be one of the primary factors determining the outcome of an election. A caste-based census will have far-reaching implications for politics in the country. In recent years, questions have been raised regarding the effective implementation of affirmative action with many caste groups claiming that some have disproportionately gained while others continue to suffer. With a decrease in government jobs, there has also been a clamour for implementing quotas in the private sector. These concerns are being debated without adequate and reliable data, leading to conflicting and often misleading claims. There is an urgent need to conduct a complete caste-based census so that the government can thoroughly evaluate the needs of the people and legislate accordingly. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — The reason why the Narendra Modi government is non-committal about the demand for a nation-wide caste-based census is obvious. It fears that the exercise will be inimical to the interests of its core support base — the upper castes — but at the same time wants to be able to appeal to the other caste groups. If the BJP government truly wants the betterment of the people, it must not be blind to the continued ill-effects of caste divisions and the necessity for a fresh enumeration. It is a shame that even 74 years after Independence, caste continues to determine the lives of people in India. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Wasted lessons Sir — The directive of the Bihar government ordering school teachers to sell gunny sacks to make up for the loss in revenue for the period between 2014 to 2016 under the mid-day meal scheme is deplorable (“Sold off”, Aug 19). Teachers were instructed to sell the sacks used to distribute the food grains at half the price and return the money to the government. Failure to do so would attract a charge of embezzlement. Even if the government has incurred massive losses in the mid-day meal schemes, it is not up to the teachers to compensate for that loss. The teachers’ associations in Bihar are right to protest against that directive and the suspension of Muhammad Tamizuddin — the primary school principal was accused of ‘tarnishing’ the image of the state government by hawking jute bags in the marketplace. We must all stand in solidarity with the teachers in Bihar. Shyamal Thakur,Ramnagar, East Burdwan Sir — It is unfortunate that teachers in government schools are often made to perform duties which have nothing to do with teaching. Besides classroom instruction, teachers are responsible for a plethora of administrative duties. On top of that, a Central government rule mandates that teachers can be deployed for non-educational activities such as census, disaster relief and election duties. But the Bihar government has taken it a step too far by asking teachers to sell gunny sacks to make up for the loss in revenue under the mid-day meal scheme. The Central government must intervene and put an end to such unfair practices. Anthony Henriques, Mumbai Sir — We are quick to complain that the public education system in India is lacking but how many of us have spoken up about the injustice faced by teachers in Bihar? It is time we took a stand against such draconian orders. Mohana Ganguly,Calcutta  Miraculous birth Sir — In a baffling development, a baby shark was born in an aquarium in Sardinia, Italy, where only two female sharks have lived for over a decade. Experts believe that the baby could be the result of parthenogenesis — a process where the egg can develop into an embryo without fertilization by sperm — and could be a genetic clone of its mother. If confirmed, this would be the fourth shark species to have given birth in this manner. This shows that not only do we have a lot to learn about other species, but also nature’s ability to evolve in order to regenerate life. Gitanjali Mehta,Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-45
26-08-2021||Opinion||Nurturing freedom||As a child growing up in the Calcutta of the late 1960s and early 1970s, August 15 was the day to listen to tales of derring-do on part of sundry elderly relatives — some dead, some then still alive — who had played their part in what seemed to my untutored ears to have been an almost unending struggle for independence from British rule. Stories of how my father’s older cousin had smuggled armaments to armed revolutionaries when still a schoolboy; of my maternal grandmother learning to drive a car, ride a horse, and fire a revolver as a teenager; of how one of my father’s uncles, the redoubtable Pulin Behari Das (1877-1949), had waged a ceaseless battle against the colonial rulers, armed with little more than a lathi; of how one of my mother’s maternal uncles had so developed his physique that he could lie on his back with two wooden planks laid on his chest and have a jeep drive over him; and many more that combined the factual with the fantastical. My cousins and I would look on goggle-eyed and flappy-eared as aunts, uncles, grand-aunts, grand-uncles, and the occasional friend of one or more of them told us these stories, which often became impossibly heroic with each retelling. (For example, that Pulin Das could deflect bullets with his twirling lathi, or that our mother’s uncle of robust physique could hold back a steam locomotive using his bare hands, and so on — you get the idea.) Such reminiscences would be garnished with expressions of sorrow and lamentation at the mysterious ‘disappearance’ of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose — in the early 1970s, it was still possible to believe that the great leader would magically reappear and lead Indians in a new freedom struggle to rid society of divers ills — and the often twinned suspicion of Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi’s championing of non-violence. One aunt, in particular, was fond of saying that the only reason Gandhiji was successful was because “the British allowed him to be so”, for the alternative to the Mahatma’s ahimsa was the way of the gun and the sword, which — the said aunt would emphasize — “would have won us a better freedom, you mark my words”. Of course, there were Gandhian freedom fighters in the family too, most notably on my mother’s side, including some who had abandoned the path of violence to set up ashrams and schools in rural parts — but, somehow, these pacific individuals never quite found pride of place in these storytelling sessions. Curiously enough — or so it seemed to the young me then — such valorization of heroic freedom fighters (of both the violent and non-violent kind) was accompanied by a peculiar kind of respect for what I mentally labelled as ‘English’ values, chief among them being system, discipline, and fair play. In a strange way, the family heroes who were invoked in these meandering adda sessions were those who seemed to have best internalized such values — a distant cousin of my paternal grandfather was compared unfavourably to others because he had apparently attacked (without success) an English official and his family ‘sneakily’, from the rear, in the dead of night. Serves him right to have failed and been jailed to boot, seemed to be the consensus among those aged relatives. On the rare occasion the Mahatma was praised, it was inevitably for his immaculate punctuality — yet another ‘English’ virtue held up as an example, especially for the youngest members of the gathering. As I grew older, one thing became gradually clear to me when I looked back on these cherished memories — the freedom we took for granted was not so simple a thing as our history books made it appear. Take, for example, an exchange I had with one of my uncles when I was about fifteen or so, who had made his home in the West for decades but steadfastly refused to part with his Indian passport, even though he’d had to face problems at the border checkpoints of various countries he had visited, or tried to, unsuccessfully. When I asked him why he hadn’t taken on the nationality of the country that was now his home, he said, “My father had a passport that said ‘Indian Empire’ on it. I’m no slave of Empire, I’m a free Indian citizen.” I didn’t dare point out to him that none of his children seemed to have inherited his sense of patriotism and loyalty to India since they were all citizens of the country in which my uncle lived. According to some estimates, the number of Indians who were born before Independence makes up less than 3 per cent of our population now, but when I was young practically all the adults in the family had memories of British rule; memories they were happy to regale us young ’uns with. Almost all of them are dead now, but I sometimes wonder what they would have made of today’s free India that they, or their parents’ generation, had so ardently dreamt of and fought for. Would they be satisfied with the path we have traversed in these last three-quarters of a century? Would they be disappointed at the ways in which, to quote a beloved grand-uncle, India is free but so many Indians are still in shackles? Would they be happy with our present leaders and the directions in which they are taking the country? What would they make of what our generation (rapidly approaching senior-citizen status) has done with the freedom that can, without much exaggeration, be considered their gift to us? As I was musing on such matters this Independence Day, I was reminded of a poem by the great African-American poet, Langston Hughes (1901-1967) called “Freedom” which goes like this: “Freedom will not come/ Today, this year/ Nor ever/ Through compromise and fear.// I have as much right/ As the other fellow has/ To stand/ On my two feet/ And own the land.// I tire so of hearing people say,/ Let things take their course./ Tomorrow is another day./ I do not need my freedom when I’m dead./ I cannot live on tomorrow’s bread./ Freedom/ Is a strong seed/ Planted/ In a great need./ I live here, too./ I want my freedom/ Just as you.” How have we watered and tended that strong seed of freedom that was bequeathed to us by those who came before and — perhaps more pertinently — how will those who come after us care for the tree that has sprung from that seed? Will its branches be sturdy, its leaves bright, and its fruit nourishing a quarter-century hence when the tree completes a hundred years of existence? Will all Indians be able to reap the harvest of freedom by then? Samantak Das is professor of Comparative Literature, Jadavpur University, and has been working as a volunteer for a rural development NGO for the last 30 years||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-45
26-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Wrong model||It seems to be the season of epiphanies in Bengal. First, the comrades realized, all of a sudden, why the state had turned its face away from the Left during the recent assembly elections. Now, it is the turn of the Bharatiya Janata Party to pay a visit to the proverbial confession box. In a closed-door interaction, Shivprakash, a key strategist, reportedly admitted that the central leadership had committed an error by putting its trust in the replication of the ‘Uttar Pradesh model’ to wrest Bengal from the Trinamul Congress. The ‘Uttar Pradesh model’, evidently, refers to sowing the seeds of communal discord in order to mobilize the majority community. This is a time-tested strategy employed by the BJP to reap electoral dividends not just in UP but also in other states. Bengal’s long history of pluralism — the state has a sizeable representation from the Muslim community — its pride in its own cultural exceptionalism, a strategic outreach by the TMC to rectify its errors were some of the factors that kept the BJP out — for now. Is it possible that the admission would encourage the BJP to pursue an inclusive, non-partisan politics in the future? This is unlikely. The senior leader’s tone is inconsistent with the line that the BJP has taken even after its decimation in the elections. The word is that the party’s internal assessment has indicated that the blatantly polarizing campaign — it was unprecedented in the electoral history of the state — had reaped riches and that there is a case for widening the chasms between the communities in the future to secure a footing in governance. Indeed, the BJP has kept the pot boiling, with its periodic and baseless allegations of appeasement of minorities and corresponding discriminations against Hindus. The challenge for Bengal’s polity and society is to stop this poison from spreading further. For this to happen, the ruling dispensation must rise above narrow political interests when it comes to dispensing welfare. Civil society must complement this by remaining vigilant against any transgression that impairs — contaminates — the body politic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-45
26-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Sweating assets||Privatization of State-owned assets has always been a hot-button issue steeped in controversy because no one appears to have worked out a way to hive them off in a sensible and transparent manner. About 30 years ago, the P.V. Narasimha Rao regime took the first fumbling steps down an uncharted road when it created arbitrary bundles of the shares that the Centre owned in about 30 public sector companies and sold them to financial institutions. Every single government since then has tried its hand at parcelling out the government’s stakes in public sector entities. Yet, the attitude towards disinvestment has always been ambivalent: political parties have backed the idea when in power and opposed it when in the Opposition. The finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, has unveiled the most ambitious programme to farm out government-owned assets to the private sector from which she hopes to raise at least Rs 6 trillion over the next four years. The National Monetisation Pipeline aims to unlock investments in public sector assets spread across 13 sectors, from roads and railways to sports stadia and urban real estate. Political rivals have accused the government of selling the family silverware — a charge that Ms Sitharaman has tried to deflect by arguing that the Centre will not be ceding ownership of the projects or the land. The NMP creates an elaborate schema for the transfer of assets and lease rights through a myriad contractual arrangements. Most of the brownfield assets will either be farmed out under toll-operate-transfer contracts or be covered by a re-imagined public-private-partnership model. But since these concessions will extend over 50 to 60 years, no one is convinced that the ownership of these assets will not change into perpetuity. The government’s estimates of the realizable value of these assets are based on some crude yardsticks. For instance, the 26,700 km of roads that will be offered through tolling contracts is valued at Rs 1.6 trillion, calculated at a factor cost of Rs 60 million per km. The NMP says that most TOT contracts have been offered between Rs 90 and 140 million per km in the past. It may be harder to justify the monetized value of the four heritage toy train railways, including the one at Darjeeling, at Rs 6.3 billion. The government is also seeking to rebuild several colonies in Delhi that house civil servants using private capital with little clarity on how the developers will recover their investment. The Vijay Kelkar committee, which submitted a report in 2015 listing suggestions to rework the PPP model, said it might be necessary to build some flexibility into the contracts. During the United Progressive Alliance regime, many of the PPP projects were stuck because of tiresome lawsuits arising from rigid provisions. That could happen again. Mr Kelkar had said the success of concessionaire arrangements would depend on the ability of the ruling dispensation to stop “abusing its sovereign authority and act more as partners and less as clients”. Will the Narendra Modi regime embrace that sage advice?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-45
26-08-2021||Opinion||Women will not be silenced||On Pakistan’s Independence Day, a female TikToker went to Minar-e-Pakistan in Lahore to make some videos. What happened there has left her scarred for life. She was sexually assaulted and harassed by 300-400 men for two and a half hours. The videos of the incident are extremely triggering — she is being thrown around like a football, her clothes are being torn and men are touching her inappropriately. One cannot even look at the videos for more than a few seconds; she, on the other hand, had to bear the assault for two and a half hours. She called the police helpline more than once. Help never came. Last month, when I wrote about Noor — a woman who was tortured and brutally murdered — in these pages, I thought I would write something different this time, something political. Instead, here I am, writing about violence against women, again. I feel angry, I feel triggered, I feel unsafe, I feel helpless. While more than a hundred men have been arrested in this case, I also know that had this incident not been recorded on video, had there not been outrage, had there not been discussion in the media about this incident, there would have been zero accountability. No policemen would have been suspended for negligence if she had not made it public that she had called the police helpline. No men would have been arrested had the video not been played and replayed on our television screens. Why? Because the State only reacts when something becomes public, when something goes viral. Women in the country are not feeling safe anywhere. When we say we feel unsafe everywhere, even in our graves, we are told by men that these are just sweeping statements, that in general, Pakistani men are very respectful towards women. When men don’t hear us or don’t want to hear us, when they dismiss our lived experiences, when they tell us that women are safe, they are stifling our voices. They are telling us to be quiet and listen to them — the men. Two more videos surfaced after this incident; these were quite disturbing too. In one of them, a woman in a Chingchi rickshaw with another woman and child was stuck in traffic while men catcalled her and made videos. Suddenly, a man jumped onto the Chingchi and forcibly kissed the woman. Another video shows a woman keeping men at bay with a stick every time they try to come near her to harass her. And yet, we are being told by men that just because a few incidents take place here and there, it does not mean that women are unsafe. I wish that men would stop telling women how to feel, what to say, what to do, what to wear, where to go and so on. We know that what we are feeling is what most women feel. We know that women are not feeling safe after receiving news of Noor’s beheading, after seeing a woman being groped and assaulted by hundreds of men in a public place, after seeing a woman being forcibly kissed by a man when she was on the road, after reading about a 14-year-old girl’s corpse being dug out from her grave and then raped. How can we feel safe after we hear about such incidents every day? How do we not get triggered or feel angry at how men enjoy so much impunity while victims are questioned each time. After the Minar-e-Pakistan incident, we saw apologists trying to justify what happened by asking why the female TikToker had invited her fans for a meet-and-greet and arguing that this was bound to happen. No, this should not have happened, period. Men should not behave like maniacs every time they see a woman. These are the same men who get outraged when women take out an Aurat March around the country, they are enraged when women shout, ‘Mera Jism, Meri Marzi’ (My Body, My Choice), because at the end of the day, these men think that women don’t have any rights. When they circulate fake videos endangering the lives of several women, nobody is held accountable. It is the women who have to set the record straight about the videos being morphed and fake. Not the men who circulated them. And yet, women are not even allowed to say they are feeling unsafe. But we will keep saying it until and unless our society changes, until each man realizes how unsafe we feel — everywhere. We will keep raising our voices and nobody can stop us. We, the women, demand justice for every injustice. We, the women, will not be silent. We, the women, will ask uncomfortable questions. We, the women, will always stand up against each and every case of violence against women and make the culprits answerable.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-45
