27-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: House trouble||Snatching defeat from the jaws of victory is an art that has been perfected by the Congress in recent times. Internecine conflict has been the principal reason behind these episodes. Having been reduced to electoral insignificance — the Congress is in power in only a handful of states — it is astounding to note the party’s inertia when it comes to dousing domestic flames. Consider the case of Punjab. The anger of the farming community against the Bharatiya Janata Party for its stubborn refusal to nullify the contentious agricultural laws — the Shiromani Akali Dal, which was in alliance with the BJP, has suffered collateral damage on account of this collective disenchantment — should have made it relatively easy for Amarinder Singh and the Congress to return to power. But the simmering feud between the chief minister and the coterie led by Navjot Singh Sidhu is likely to impair the Congress’s electoral prospects. The tiff between Ashok Gehlot and Sachin Pilot in Rajasthan may have been managed for the time being but the word is that unrest is brewing in Chhattisgarh where Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel is being challenged from within by T.S. Singh Deo. These strifes force the Congress’s attention away from governance and damage its credibility as a party that can manage to keep its house in order. Of course the reasons for the ‘brawls’ are not unknown. The ideological moorings of the party have been corroded. This has made it possible for its chief rival, the BJP, to repeatedly topple the Congress from the perch of power by engineering defections within its ranks. What the Congress’s leaders and the rank and file need is a renewed commitment to public and ideological charters. That could help revive both morale and fortunes of the party. But the high command, a rudderless entity, is equally apathetic. Rahul Gandhi’s disinclination to take up the mantle of party presidentship is contributing to the deepening of these fissures. Mr Gandhi must act now and fill the leadership void if he is interested in purging the Congress of its ailments. Else, the mantle must be passed to a deserving candidate. The Congress’s erosion is inimical for the health of Indian democracy. That is because a weakened Congress leaves the BJP virtually without an opponent that has a pan-India presence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-44
27-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: National Monetisation Pipeline||Sold off Sir — The Bharatiya Janata Party keeps saying that no development work was done by the Congress in 70 years. Yet, the finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, has now identified State assets worth at least Rs 6 lakh crore — these range from the power sector to road and railways — which she plans to disinvest through the recently unveiled National Monetisation Pipeline (“Sweating assets”, Aug 26). If the ruling party’s claims were true, then where did these assets come from? According to the new scheme, the assets will stay with the government. Then why should multinational companies enjoy the profits? It is unfortunate that even after seven years of being in power, the Narendra Modi-led government remains incompetent when it comes to handling the economy. It is this failure that makes it hand over government assets to someone else to operate. It is important that the ruling party sheds light on the details of the contracts — the modalities of the mandatory handback should be made clear. This would help both the private players and dispensations that form the government in the future. There is also a chance that the unrewarding experience of a few firms will discourage others from taking the plunge. The common people are not happy with the government’s plan to virtually sell off assets built over 70 years to raise money. How much profit the government would actually make will depend on the rollout of the scheme. But the risk is that the country may effectively be left with no public sector. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad Sir — The National Monetisation Pipeline scheme announced by the Centre to raise Rs 6 lakh crore in the next four years by leasing out various assets is utterly unwelcome. Precious national assets would be served on a platter to private players for a pittance. Irrespective of the government’s claims about ownership and authority, the leased assets will be operated according to the policies of the private companies for the entire duration guaranteed by the contracts. Why can the government not continue to manage them efficiently, saving the assets and helping the public exchequer? D.V.G. Sankararao,Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh Sir — The present government has taken privatization to a different level. It has now come up with the National Monetisation Pipeline. This is an initiative to hand over State legacy to private players. This government has been claiming that it has no interest in doing business. But what is clear from its policies is that its primary duty is to protect businessmen. With a massive chunk of the public sector being put in private hands, corporate enterprises will have a field day. They will run everything, from airports and railway stations to stadiums and coal mines. The government says that this will raise Rs 6 lakh crore in four years. But does it not also insist that all is well in the economy? If that is indeed the case, then what is the need to privatize State assets to raise money? The answer is that private investment has come to a standstill after demonetization. Demand has suffered a big blow, and the finance ministry has no clue how to resolve this crisis. Jang Bahadur Singh,Jamshedpur Take care Sir — The Bombay High Court has warned the Maharashtra government of strict action if even a single child in any of the tribal areas dies on account of malnutrition. It has ordered the state to depute specialist doctors in these areas to ensure that proper care is taken of pregnant women and infants. The same yardstick should be applied to the migrant workers, who have suffered through the pandemic in order to meet the basic needs of roti, kapda and makaan. Civic care should also be extended to all during the pandemic. The court’s directive is truly a step in the right direction. Akhila Gopalan,Coimbatore  Hit the pedals Sir — Calcutta has long been choking on account of air pollution. Studies show that vehicular emission is a major contributor to this problem. A simple solution would be to promote the use of bicycles. Yet, cycles are banned from plying on 64 of Calcutta’s arterial roads during most of the day. This month, cyclists from various walks of life came together to urge the authorities to remove this restriction. Attention must be paid to this plea. Removing these curbs in a planned manner — demarcating cycling lanes, for instance — would go a long way towards addressing the issues of pollution and traffic congestion that plague the city. Dibyo Guha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-44
27-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Key markers||Sometimes it may be wise to seek operational convenience at the cost of precision in identifying a desirable set of characteristics in a set of individuals. The Supreme Court’s ruling that income, or at least income alone, cannot be the sole criterion for determining who is to be included in the ‘creamy layer’ among other backward classes for the purposes of deciding the beneficiaries of reservation is a case in point. While court rulings dating back to 1992 have stated that certain individuals, such as those holding constitutional posts or in Class A government service, would be counted as belonging to the creamy layer, the Haryana state government had defined income as the determining criterion. The contention is that the reservation benefits should not go to OBC members who have already attained economic, social and educational advancement. Attaining advancement would presumably mean integration with the upper echelons of Indian society. The relatively advantaged could be identified by income, wealth, educational attainment, political influence, economic power and social mobility. All these, and perhaps more, provide the empowerment needed for integration with the elite. The Supreme Court has, quite correctly, indicated that income alone cannot satisfactorily determine the social status of a person. There ought to be a vector of indices that can better identify a person’s social standing and, hence, the need for further special opportunities in the form of reservations. The real problem lies elsewhere. How does one accurately measure wealth, income from different sources, educational attainment in terms of skills and abilities, intelligence, and human capital? Even if these could be measured accurately, it would be a mammoth task to gather and process the relevant information. Finally, even if a composite index could indeed be computed, how would the cut-off mark be agreed upon? This is where the degree of accuracy may have to be sacrificed for getting an imprecise, but operationally convenient, criterion. In this context, gross income from all sources, as reported to the tax authority, is easily observable. It can be considered a good estimate of empowerment. Or it could even be worth the while to get rid of the concept of creamy layer completely and prioritize merit. The philosophy of reservations leading to better integration does not depend on the beneficiaries as much as it depends on the elites’ willingness to induct new members into the club for exclusive privileges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-44
27-08-2021||Opinion||Tales of triumph and defeat||When the acclaimed film-maker, Naomi Kawase, known for her lyrical film-making, was chosen to direct the official film of this edition of the Olympics, she said, “I hope to capture ‘time’ and take full advantage of the appeal of documentary films and their ability to freeze those moments into ‘eternity’, allowing the significance of the Tokyo 2020 Games to be communicated worldwide.” Little did she know that she would get the rare opportunity of capturing the Games during one of the most difficult periods in human history. The Olympics are undoubtedly a celebration of pageantry, a feast of human drama. Interestingly, cinema and the modern Olympic movement were born around the same time in the same city, Paris. While the Lumière brothers presented the cinématographe to an audience in December 1895, Baron Pierre de Coubertin established the International Olympic Committee in June 1894. Subsequently, accomplished international film-makers such as Milos Forman, Kon Ichikawa, Claude Lelouch, Leni Riefenstahl and Carlos Saura used their passion and brilliance to capture the Olympics of their times. Kawase follows in the footsteps of the legendary Japanese film-maker, Ichikawa, who was officially commissioned by the organizing committee and the Japanese government — after Akira Kurosawa had been dropped — to make the documentary of the 1964 Tokyo Games. Ichikawa not only followed athletes and events but also created a spectacle of the bittersweet reality of how Japan was becoming part of the modern world, erasing the past while building the future. Ichikawa’s film begins with the statement: “The Olympics are a symbol of human aspiration.” This is followed by a bright sun against a red sky and a wrecking ball demolishing old buildings in anticipation of the Games and Japan’s future. Ichikawa’s creation is a simultaneous epilogue of the celebration of victory and the solitude of defeat — a humane and honest account of the Games. It depicted the victorious moment when Bob Hayes won the 100-metres as well as Billy Mills’s astounding come-from-behind victory in the 10,000-metres. But Ichikawa’s coverage of the 10,000-metre final continued to follow the last man, Ranatunge Karunananda from Sri Lanka. Ichikawa closely followed Chad’s only competitor — the 800-metre-runner, Ahmed Issa — while he trained, ate, roamed the Olympic village, and visited around Tokyo, all alone. The film finished with the great Ethiopian runner, Abebe Bikila, winning the men’s marathon along with the pain and distress of the athletes trailing after him. Ichikawa went on to show new constructions demolished by the wrecking ball in a bomb-ruined block of Tokyo city. Ichikawa captured the triumph, passion and suffering of competition with a singular humanistic vision and eventually created lyrical, idiosyncratic poetry out of the athletic drama surging all around him. Ichikawa’s impressionistic film won two Baftas, and is now regarded as one of the greatest sports films ever made. Like Leni Riefenstahl’s Olympia, which documented the 1936 Berlin Olympics, Ichikawa’s masterpiece is considered a cinematographic milestone which transformed the art of documentary film-making. But, it was disliked — possibly even hated — by the organizing committee. They wanted a straightforward, commemorative film — a narrative of Japan’s miraculous recovery. They, thus, edited Ichikawa’s footage to make another film, Sensation of the Century. Naomi Kawase thus has a difficult job given the monumental legacy of Ichikawa. What kind of narrative would Kawase depict in her film? Would she risk portraying some naked truths in the organization of the Covid-edition of the Olympics? The Games being held amid an emergency has offered Kawase a unique opportunity to freeze some exceptional moments of this turning point in history. Unfortunately, Kawase will not be able to draw on footage of crowds the way Ichikawa did. She planned to focus on some backstories, particularly of sportspersons who developed their careers as top athletes even after they had become mothers. This is certainly a unique vision in the context of a film on the Olympics. But, this alone might not make her film a classic. Kawase decided to capture the feelings of the medical workers and quarantine staff at the airport, who strove day and night to make the Games safe and secure. She even planned to relay the opinions of the people who were against organizing the Games amidst a pandemic. “I think it’s very important to keep both negative and positive feelings as the record of this period,” she said. But how far would she go? Will Kawase portray the ‘emergency’ situation in Tokyo, the empty roads and, more importantly, the anger of 80 per cent of the Japanese people who were against the organization of such a sporting fiesta, which has made the Tokyo Games the most unwanted Games in history? Will an Olympic like no other eventually get a film like no other? Indeed, time has given Kawase a grand opportunity. We have to wait for the film’s release in early spring of 2022 to see what she has made of it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-45
27-08-2021||Opinion||Children’s story||Lewis Carroll seems to peek occasionally into Enid Blyton’s Folk of the Faraway Tree, which turned 75 this year. But pinning his memory to the board as it flits past is unfair to the colourful overflow of the third book in the Enchanted Wood and Faraway Tree series — and a typically adult response. Adult, because I never did read about the Faraway Tree in the age of enchantment; my introduction to English-language ‘story-books’ happened later, much after I had left my stumbling introduction to “Pat can run. Can Pat run? Come Ann come” thankfully behind. So even if Carroll is the granddaddy of rabbit-holes, odd personages, magic potions and tea parties, the tone and spirit of the tale of the Faraway Tree, inhabited by Moon-Face and Silky, Angry Pixie and Dame Washalot, the clanking Saucepan Man and Mr Watzisname are quite distinct. The Tree is crowned by the lands that come, rest on and float away from its top — is that Swift? — with the Land of Tea Parties offering tables laden with chocolate cakes, dewdrop and honey sandwiches and blue jelly; it is saved from extinction at the hands of greedy trolls by its loyal folk with the help of Woffles, the rabbit, who loves scooting down the hollow in its trunk called the Slippery Slip. The lucky humans whom the Folk love may be a couple of years younger than Alice. First Term at Malory Towers, the second of Blyton’s books that turned 75 this year, however, came into my hands off the school library shelf at the right time. I have not yet outgrown the vibrant but matter-of-fact magic of Darrell, Alicia and Gwendoline’s journey through school in the Malory Towers series. A boarding school that looked like a four-towered castle perched on a cliff over the sea was a wishful fantasy, yet the girls’ fun and follies, their rough corners, the travails of their friendships were familiar at some indefinable level. The formulaic plots, type-cast characters, limited vocabulary for which Blyton has been accused by worried adults since the 1950s may have contributed to its popularity for children learning English in countries where Britain had left its mark. Yet in 2008, Blyton, with her detective and adventure series, her school, circus and fairy stories, remained a bestselling author even among children of her own country. The two 75-year-old books were written a year before the British were to leave India. Blyton’s stories are blissfully free of turmoil, creating bubbles of escape where children appear to have their own agency within the invisible security of a stable world. The rough inheritance of midnight’s children, or the pain of children born on the side of the border wrong for them, would find place in other writers’ tales; Blyton’s “complicated legacy”, as one writer described it, was one of “sunlit chauvinism”. Yet the racism, sexism, class snobbery, over-simplification and xenophobia that adults find plentifully in Blyton may not have caused young readers in the 1960s lasting damage; they could be passed over and outgrown, maybe because these attitudes, together with the firm moral structure that she provided, were not always distinguishable from the values absorbed from Sixties’ grandparents in a post-imperialist world. Even in 2018, half a century after her death, she continued to be a best-seller, and among one of the most translated authors in the world. Yet now, as 2021 moves towards autumn, Blyton’s popularity may be put to new tests. Adults calling her out for inappropriateness or mediocrity had not mattered too much, but will today’s children be able to seize upon her universe of clear blue skies, cherry cakes and ginger ale with as much enthusiasm as before? Other images, instantly and universally accessible, may intervene, such as that of a baby in Afghanistan passed hand to hand in a mass of desperate people to be held up against a barbed wire-topped wall for rescue by soldiers on the other side. That image demonstrated to the world the terror and helplessness of the baby’s parents and of all those who raised the child towards imagined salvation: no words were needed. Images of children have always brought home the savagery of war and the cruelties of hatred, exploitation and neglect, but access to these was neither immediate nor universal. Many of us who enjoyed Enid Blyton in the 1960s may have known about the war in Vietnam, but had not seen the 1972 picture of the nine-year-old ‘Napalm Girl’ till later, when the agonizing image could no longer be connected immediately to man-made horrors. So, too, the haunting face of the half-buried little girl, killed in the 1984 Bhopal gas tragedy, although in India its immediacy was greater than elsewhere. A vulture watching a famine-stricken little girl struggling to reach a UN feeding centre in Ayod, now in South Sudan, won the Pulitzer in 1994; the photographer killed himself soon after. We saw it at a shorter interval after it was taken than Don McCullin’s 1969 picture of two little starving boys in Biafra. It is different today. Children of wars and famines, children of the Holocaust and of occupations, of the past and of the unchanged present, crowd our screens and are laid out before young eyes. Which child would not have understood the terrible message in the picture of the dead little boy in red on a Turkish beach, drowned when a boat full of Syrian refugees capsized in 2015? The changes in the child’s world are not limited to perception or awareness, they are more immediate, and felt more widely than before. Extreme weather events are increasing rapidly in frequency, and the recent Unicef Children’s Climate Risk Index has sought to identify children most vulnerable to climate and environmental hazards, shocks and stresses. The goal is to formulate targeted corrective actions to make the planet liveable for them. Of 183 nations, the 33 ‘extremely high risk’ countries for children include India. The Unicef analysis shows how the effects of climate and environmental shocks, from cyclones to heatwaves, are exacerbated by inadequate access to the essentials of life: water, nutrition, health facilities and education. Even beyond the one billion children who live in high risk zones, floods and wildfires across the world cannot leave children unscathed. Human beings took a while to bring the earth to this tragic pass; Covid, however, has been more headlong. Its effect on the economy has resulted in a possible 2,67,000 excess deaths of infants in low and middle income countries. Loss of household income has affected nutrition and healthcare, while countries focused on controlling the pandemic may have failed to continue with immunization and other aspects of public health for infants. The World Bank study of 128 countries projecting the possible effects of the economic downturn on infant deaths suggests that there may have been 99,000 extra infant deaths in India in 12 months. Covid has also had a devastating effect on education, most acute among underprivileged children and first-generation learners. But children of families from all socio-economic segments have lost loved ones — no child, although far from war or genocide, has been left unacquainted with death. Will Enid Blyton’s books sell five years later as much as they did in 2018? Will altered childhoods long even more for the vivid happinesses of Blyton’s world where good is rewarded and wickedness defeated, or will that world have lost its scaffolding?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-45
