28-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: The sloth’s redemption||Rumour has it that not only has the sloth made it to the Chinese calendar, but that it could also be given pride of place by that nation’s millennials. Synonymous with one of the seven deadly sins, this sedate creature is often seen as the very antithesis of industriousness and, hence, much detested in the West. This makes China’s new-found veneration of all that is slow — sloth-like — instructive. The link between labour and lassitude is not too difficult to discern. Chinese millennials are discovering that work is a false idol and they have decided to ‘lie flat’ in protest and just take things easy. It all started when a former factory worker, Luo Huazhong, drew the curtains and crawled into bed, posting a picture of himself on social media along with the message: “Lying Flat Is Justice.” Mr Luo’s assertion that he has the right to choose a quiet life of reading, exercising and doing odd jobs to get by went viral. The Western media have described the trend as a natural consequence of China’s hypercompetitive work culture where employees often report working “996” weeks — 9 am to 9 pm, six days a week — a lifestyle that has been praised by the billionaire, Jack Ma, and other captains of industry. Indeed, even though China has powered its economy to rival the dominance of the United States of America, the country’s punishing work ethic has a dark underside to it. Suicide rates are ‘low’ officially, but regular reports of workers’ suicide and death owing to overwork are emerging from China. In neighbouring Japan, too, attitudes shaped by post-War nation rebuilding and the desire for global dominance have led to a spike in what is called ‘overwork deaths’. Data show that suicide claimed more lives in Japan in October 2020 than Covid-19 did in that entire year. America is not taking the tyranny of overwork lying down either. In the US, as of June, there were more than 10 million job vacancies according to the Labor Department — the highest number since the government began tracking the data two decades ago — revealing that Americans just did not want to work. The ‘Lying Flat’ movement is thus just one expression of a global epiphany on the cost inflicted by the ‘work is worship’ principle on the body and the mind. Global capitalism has responded cannily by linking rest to enhanced productivity — the ‘Premium Friday’ initiative in Japan sends employees home at 3 pm on the last Friday of the month. Interestingly, the ‘Lying Flat’ movement advocates leisure for leisure’s sake. India, where snoozing and the sarkari office are almost synonymous, has always appreciated the wisdom of leisure. Among Indians, Bengalis can claim to be the original worshippers of the deity called bhaat ghoom. At a time when relations between India and China are strained to say the least, perhaps this solidarity over the joy of doing nothing can cool things down a bit. Moreover, human beings seem to have forgotten that some of the greatest inventions in history had taken place during repose — Archimedes changed the fate of physics while relaxing in a bath while Newton discovered gravity sitting under an apple tree. Being slothful is not always a sin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-44
28-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: The ‘milk crate challenge’||Risky climb Sir — The pandemic led to an increase in the time we spent online and caused a spurt in young people following social media ‘trends’. While many of these trends are harmless, some are downright dangerous. The most recent is the ‘milk crate challenge’, in which people stack up several empty milk crates in a pyramid formation and then film themselves trying to climb and subsequently descend from the crate mountain. Several individuals have reportedly been injured as a result of a crate climb gone wrong, and doctors have warned against trying it. Must attempts to beat the loneliness and boredom brought on by the pandemic pose such a danger to life and limb? Rania Hamid,Calcutta National treasure Sir — It is heartening to learn about the community participation project undertaken at the Acharya Jagadish Chandra Bose Indian Botanic Garden in Howrah’s Shibpur, owing to which two micro-biodiversity hotspots in the garden have been identified (“Diversity hotspots at garden”, Aug 13). The project — it is for the regeneration of the garden, and is a collaborative effort by the Botanical Survey of India, the Asia Scotland Trust and the Edinburgh University — was aimed at assessing the sector-wise levels of micro-biodiversity. It bears recall that the Indian Botanic Garden was founded way back in 1787 by Colonel Robert Kyd, an officer of the British East India Company. It has subsequently undergone several phases of redesigning and development under the supervision of eminent botanists. This resulted in a superbly landscaped green reserve. Regarded as one of the world’s oldest botanic gardens, it is spread over an area of 273 acres, and is home to over 13,000 trees belonging to 1,100 species sourced from India and abroad. A treasure trove of rare plant species, the garden also houses the Central National Herbarium which has more than two million specimens collected from various parts of the world. As India’s foremost botanical research facility and a repository of flora, the garden requires continual care and attention from the Centre. In May 2020, the cyclone, Amphan, wreaked havoc on the green reserve, causing severe damage to around 1,000 trees. Plant species are known to be susceptible to unpredictable climatic fluctuations. The garden has also reportedly been facing recurring financial difficulties in recent years. The government should immediately mobilize resources to facilitate the complete restoration of the garden. The authorities should consider initiating actions to push for the Indian Botanic Garden to find a place on Unesco’s list of world heritage sites. The Singapore Botanic Gardens, a world heritage centre, are an appropriate example in this context. It ought not to be hard for the authorities to ensure that the stipulated requirements for the Indian Botanic Garden to qualify as a world heritage site are fulfilled. Tapes Chandra Lahiri,Calcutta No tooth fairies Sir — Quackery in dentistry is becoming a serious problem. I observed this recently when my well-to-do, educated neighbour switched from a qualified dental surgeon to a quack. Many of these quacks have gained effective marketing skills, which help their unethical, unauthorized businesses to flourish; they are aided by the inaccessibility of quality dental care. Dental quackery has percolated down to the grassroots level. There is no dearth of dental surgeons in India; the main problem is that such doctors are unevenly distributed across the country. This skewed demand-supply ratio and the cheaper rates advertised by quacks enable the latter to attract patients from marginalized groups as well as those with poor awareness of dental health. The World Dental Federation and the Indian Dental Association have repeatedly warned against the use of unsterilized instruments and unskilled manpower, all of which can cause infection and even death. Young dental surgeons should be encouraged to work in rural areas, and given the necessary incentives to do so. Dental hygiene lessons must be actively taught in schools to help students become aware not only about dental health but also the menace of spurious dental treatment practices. Basudeb Dutta,Santipur||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-44
28-08-2021||Opinion||New attractions at Times Square||When we picture Times Square, New York, we think of flashing billboards, gazing tourists, selfie sticks and yellow taxi cabs flying by. This ‘destination’ of lights and sounds that New York residents love to hate was eerily empty in the midst of the pandemic. But now, as the city is waking up and getting back in its old groove, new icons are emerging in this tourist site. First comes a giant ferris wheel — 110 feet tall — in the middle of the Square, open to be ridden by the public. This is a temporary arrangement. It has opened for two weeks — August 23 and September 12 — with each ride being 12 minutes long and offering a unique vantage point of the city. The tickets are $20 per person, or $35 if you skip the line. The Time Square Wheel website calls it a ‘sensory overload by a billion pixels’, a nod to the 200+ digital billboards that are scattered in the area. To add to the sensory stimuli of sight and sound, a giant artwork is also headed this way. “A Fountain for Survivors” by Pamela Council will be available for viewing at the Square starting October 7. It is an 18-foot-tall fountain covered in 400,000 acrylic nails. Although exact details have not been revealed, Artnet News says that the fountain is meant to be a place of reflection and will even have provisions for coin tossing as an offering, not unlike the Trevi fountain in Rome. Visitors can also smell the scent of Florida Water. Stay alert With the Delta variant of Covid-19 affecting the country, the government of the United States of America must battle not just the virus itself but also virus misinformation. According to research by Morning Consult, after Russia, the US has the highest number of vaccine skeptics. Recently, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention stopped short of mandating mask-wearing even by vaccinated individuals — it has highly recommended it. Yet, across cities, many businesses are starting to check vaccination proof at the door before letting anyone inside. For now, people are taking pictures of their vaccine cards, carrying the physical card with them or uploading their information onto the several digital vaccine ‘passport’ apps that have emerged. In New York and San Francisco, these checks are required for entry to places like bars, restaurants, Broadway shows, bowling alleys, concerts, among others. On the heels of vaccine checks is the emergence of fake vaccine cards. They bear the CDC logo and are reportedly shipped from China to the US for people who are unvaccinated but seek entry to public places needing proof. The Washington Post found that US Customs recently seized 3,000 such fake cards. These cards often have incorrect Spanish translations or spellings. The Associated Press found fake cards selling online for $25 a piece, especially for students as many colleges have mandated that all enrolled students be vaccinated. But using fake vaccine cards with the CDC’s logo can cost the offender one to five years in prison. Nothing to hide Once again, hundreds of cyclists around the world took to the streets on their bicycles with one thing in common — they were completely or partially nude. The World Naked Bike Ride movement, begun in 2004, typically takes place on the second Saturday of June. The concept is designed to draw attention to body positivity and freedom from pollution-causing transportation. This year, many cities pushed the event to August on account of Covid restrictions. Depending on the city, riders were instructed to wear masks and helmets, but all were recommended to leave their clothes at home. The cyclists were also encouraged to come with body paint, costumes or any kind of personal artistic expression. In Chicago, for instance, where the bike ride took place on August 14, bikers who rode for about 14 miles were challenged to “bare-as-you-dare”. The slogan of the movement is “Celebrating freedom from oil and the beauty of people!” In Philadelphia, the ride will take place today — it will also require masks. The16-kilometres course includes iconic Philly sites such as the Independence Hall, the Liberty Bell and the steps of the Philadelphia Museum of Art. Follow the rules In light of the Covid outbreak, most universities had students take the academic term online. This time, schools are gearing up for a safe return to in-person classes. This Fall, more than 680 US colleges and universities will require students to show proof of vaccination to even enter the premises. Several have mandated the use of masks inside the classroom. While many are in full support of these rules, some Republican-led states are barring universities from asking for vaccination proof at public institutions, citing that it is an encroachment on personal freedom. So some colleges got creative. They have begun to offer monetary incentives and prizes to students who do show proof of inoculation. Some colleges are providing exemptions only on medical or religious grounds. However, just last week, The Philadelphia Inquirer reported that Philly’s Archdiocese has instructed priests to not provide vaccine exemption letters to Catholics requesting it. Philly is not the only one. So far, the Archdiocese in New York, San Diego, Honolulu and Los Angeles have been following similar policies. It is clear that the return to school this year will not be smooth for students as the country battles constantly changing rules and new information. Footnote In Gainesville, Florida, a customer left a $10,000 tip for the waitstaff at the restaurant, Wahoo Seafood Grill. The owner of the restaurant told Newsweek that the customer asked to see the 10 waiters that were working during his visit; he said he appreciated everything they did and asked the tip to be split among them. The restaurant shared a picture of the diner’s receipt on its Facebook page; it showed that the meal bill was for $144.66. The identity of this customer remains unknown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-44
28-08-2021||Opinion|| Special triumphs||The city outside India I know best is London, and the place in London I know best is the British Library, where, for 30 years and counting, I have scoured the capacious collections pertaining to the history of colonial India. I must have worked there for at least a thousand days all told, always following the same routine, which is to deposit my belongings in a locker in the basement before showing my membership card and proceeding to the reading room four floors above, to consult the records of what in imperial times was known as the India Office. The British Library’s lockers require one to have a four-digit numerical code to open and close them. Most of us, when asked to choose a code of this sort, seize upon the year of our birth, or the year of our marriage, or the year in which one or the other of our parents was born. In all these years of working at the BL, I have always used the same set of numbers: 1971. I was 13 in the year 1971, and my marriage lay 13 years in the future. But it is not for such contrived symmetry that I chose those numbers for my locker. Rather, 1971 was the year when, in a cricketing sense, we one-time subjects of the raj struck back most forcefully at our former colonial masters. For a cricket fan doing historical research on the underside of the Empire, this set of digits uniquely captured the combination of my profession and my passion. A few days ago, we marked the 50th anniversary of India’s first Test series victory in England. I’ll come to that event presently, but let us remind ourselves that earlier in 1971 India had won a series in the West Indies for the first time. That, too, was a notable achievement. For on the last occasion we had toured the Caribbean, in 1962, we lost all five Tests. Nine years later, of the great West Indians who had previously humiliated us, some had retired and others were ageing. However, Garry Sobers was still their captain, and he had magnificent cricketers like Kanhai, Lloyd and Gibbs playing alongside him. No one gave India the remotest chance of defeating the West Indies at home. And yet we did, winning one Test and drawing the other four. The series in the West Indies was played between February and April 1971. I was then in boarding school in Dehradun. I read about the Tests in the sports pages of The Times of India, via the daily reports of K.N. Prabhu, a fine writer who combined a lyrical style with a deep knowledge of the game. My dormitory got one newspaper for its hundred or so residents; this was the dak edition of The Times of India. After lunch, when classes were done for the day and the games period was still an hour away, and while my mates were chatting or gossiping or playing pranks on one another, I would sit on a bench with the newspaper and read Prabhu’s elaborately crafted accounts of how wickets were taken and innings nurtured and partnerships created. The matches in the West Indies started, as they do now, at about 7.30 pm Indian time. The Delhi edition of the next morning’s paper probably carried a lunch-time report; but the dak edition, dispatched hours before, did not even do that. So I was reading about each day’s play two full days later. The delay added to the enchantment as well as to my appreciation of K.N. Prabhu’s leisurely and expansive narrative. The present generation is accustomed to instant gratification, to watching everything live. I am grateful that I grew up when I did. I think my admiration for the batsmanship of Gavaskar and Sardesai, and for the bowling of Bedi, Prasanna, and Venkataraghavan, and for what Wadekar’s team collectively did in the West Indies 50 years ago, may not have been as deep and enduring had I watched it all unfold before me on a screen. Although Wadekar’s side won in the West Indies in the spring, they were distinct underdogs when they toured England that summer. In 40 years of trying we still hadn’t won a Test in that country. On our last two tours, in 1959 and 1967 respectively, we had lost all the Tests we played. Besides, while Garry Sobers and his side were noticeably on the decline, England under Ray Illingworth were acknowledged to be the best team in the world. The previous winter, they had comfortably beaten a strong Australian side Down Under. By the time the England series started, the summer holidays had begun. It was at home, on the radio, that I caught the tail end of the England-Pakistan series, and it was at home, on the radio, that I heard every ball of the first Test between England and India, played at Lord’s. It was a gripping contest, hard-fought all the way. Chasing a target of 183 in the fourth innings, India were, at one stage, 100 for 3, but then wickets started falling rapidly. With about an hour till stumps, the skies opened and the match was declared drawn. At this stage India needed about 40 runs to win, but they had only two wickets in hand. I also listened to much of the second Test, played at Manchester, at home on the radio. This time India were comprehensively outplayed, and saved by rain. By the time the third Test at The Oval commenced, school had started, and I was back in my dormitory. There was one radio, access to which was restricted to members of the senior form alone. They listened to it in the evenings, until the mandatory lights-out at 10 pm, while us benighted juniors were supposed to be studying in our cubicles. Happily, our house captain, Vivek Bammi, was kind enough to come with periodic bulletins for the rest of us. It was thus that one night, shortly before we were all commanded to go to bed, that Bammi walked to where I sat, offering this latest and most dramatic update: “England 101 all out. Chandrasekhar 6 for 38!” Fifty years later — almost to the day since I heard my house captain utter those words — this remains one of my most cherished cricketing moments. I have since seen, countless times, the replays of all the wickets Chandra took on that magic English afternoon: the yorking of Edrich, the artful caught-and-bowleds to dismiss Illingworth as well as Snow, the trapping of the last man, John Price, leg-before-wicket, the snaffling of Fletcher by Solkar in the leg-trap, and — my own personal favourite — the magnificent catch taken at slip by Venkat to a Luckhurst slash. I enjoy seeing these dismissals, one by one, as captured by the grainy footage of the time, but nothing can ever compare with how I learned about B.S. Chandrasekhar’s act of collective demolition in the first place. There are no cricketers like those seen through 12-year-old eyes, wrote Ian Peebles once — or those read about by 12-year-old eyes either. I myself turned 13 in the last week of April 1971, shortly after the series in the West Indies ended. I was still a 12-year-old at heart when we won in England. And when remembering or writing about those two series, I suppose I must be a 12-year-old still. There is an India-England Test series on as I write. Even if India wins the series, I somehow doubt whether the digits ‘2021’ will ever evoke lasting feelings of attachment in the teenage cricket fan of today. The obsession with the Indian Premier League has something to do with this; besides, our side wins Test series so often now that no particular victory can be truly significant. On the other hand, for cricket fans of my generation, the numbers ‘1971’ shall always be special, sacred even. For it was in that year that we won series in the West Indies and England for the first time. Among the reasons I want the pandemic to end is to once more enter the British Library, to proudly punch in those four numbers in the basement’s lockers, before going to examine the files in the reading room upstairs. I see that act as both protest and affirmation, as a critique of colonial rule and a celebration of what our cricketers did in 1971 to lay its ghosts to rest. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-44
