29-08-2021||Opinion||Spine Shine||There is nothing quite as sexy in a sportsperson as a nice straight spine. And when it comes gold-plated ‑ kya baat. It was nicely done, the manner in which Olympian Neeraj Chopra called out all those who were piggybacking his javelin and him to either run down Pakistan or foreground some hyper nationalism or just let off surfeit venom. Sharp, straight and swift. In recent times, sportspersons turn politicians readily enough, but are loath to espouse a politics or a stand. The record-holding ones prefer to work on the art of fence-sitting, a position that does not exercise to the fullest the ideological vertebrae. In the early days of the farmers’ protest, Sachin Tendulkar said, “India’s sovereignty cannot be compromised. External forces can be spectators but not participants. Indians know India and should decide for India etc. etc.” Virat Kohli, who is known as the fittest cricketer of current times, said, “Let us all stay united in this hour of disagreements. Farmers are an integral part of our country and I'm sure an amicable solution will be found, etc.” In 1967, boxer and Olympian Muhammad Ali refused to be inducted by the United States army. The conscientious objector said, “I ain’t got no quarrel with them Viet Cong (the National Liberation Front of South Vietnam).” Almost immediately he was convicted, sentenced to prison, fined and banned from boxing for a couple of years. Martin Luther King Jr. said in a sermon, "He is giving up his fame. He is giving up millions of dollars in order to stand for what his conscience tells him is right. No matter what you think of his religion, you have to admire his courage." Then again, in the 2003 World Cup hosted in Zimbabwe, Zimbabwean cricketers Andy Flower and Henry Olonga wore black armbands to protest and draw attention to the abuse of human rights in their home country. What followed were death threats, expulsion from the team, an end of their international cricket careers and exile. Years later, Flower reportedly said, "I suppose at that time my convictions were stronger than my fears."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-43
29-08-2021||Opinion||So when we are this, and not||So here we are, this is what we look like. Recognise yourself? Erect. Full. Fulsome. Grounded. Variegated. In bloom. One. And many. Many in one. It’s the way we have come to being here, like this. Branches sprouted from a single root and trunk. Leaves sprung on many branches sprouted from a single root and trunk. That’s who we are. Not all alike, but all part of a splendoured thing that is one. Look at it! We used to. I don’t want to sound like someone with water on their brains that has trickled down and also rendered me not just wet but rather deluged behind the ears, but there you are. We used to. And then we embraced other ways of looking, and as a result we began to recoil from the embrace that came to us as naturally as the way the root embraces the earth (or the other way round), or branches embrace the trunk, or leaves embrace their branches and embrace each other too. Without the need to proclaim, hey, we are doing something special here! That was the way things were, the natural way of things. Which no longer are wanted or required or encouraged to be the natural way of things. And so some things like these things may happen. We began to look at each other and then we began to pick the other and then we began to tell the other, you are the other, you are not me. And then we began to argue, a sort of tuu-tuu, main-main, you know, that is how it is shorn of the frills, tuu-tuu, main-main! Who are you? And who are you? Why are you? And why are you? Will you get off? But why should I? Who said you belong? And who said I don’t? And so that’s how we began to shout and scream, and those who were more sounded louder. And then we began to point and poke and those who were more pointed and poked more. And then we began to snatch and stab and those who were more snatched and stabbed more. And then we began to tear and throw and those who were more tore and threw more. And the more this tumult pirouetted, the more it churned and chucked, until it came to an unmaking of natural things. To a shredding. To a shaking and a shuddering. To a creaking and a snapping. To a falling. To a dwindling. To a stripping. To an ugliness that wasn’t meant to be. But an ugliness which is. Do your willing, but do well know Not all good things come for free We can use the shade, bro to bro Or we can hang from the tree.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-43
29-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Spectacular species ||The human race is believed to be the most intelligent living species on earth. This belief is, of course, held by human beings — whether or not it is shared by other species in the animal kingdom remains a mystery to scientists. This conceit has, unsurprisingly, led civilization to be narcissistic. The collective conviction in the superiority — intellectual and otherwise — of their own kind has rendered human beings unable — unwilling? — to acknowledge the sentience and intelligence of other life forms on the planet. This smugness has had an interesting consequence: the endowing of ‘human’ qualities to flora and fauna. This human urge to anthropomorphize creatures great and small in order to perceive them in the light of mankind — wise, emotional and intelligent — is evident in literary works, be it the fables of Aesop with their talking animals, the Jatakas documenting the many lives of the Buddha, some of which were in animal form, or the beloved Cheshire Cat and its brethren in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. The time, however, may have arrived for these blinkers to finally come off and for human beings to acknowledge that intellect and a scientific bend of mind may not be their monopoly. Scientists in two independent research groups have discovered a mathematical law in the way elephants use their trunks and a principle of physics in ants’ building of underground tunnels. According to scientists, ants, in spite of their speck-like brain, are intelligent enough to execute an intricate tunnelling behavioural programme — it mirrors tunnel excavation strategies familiar to engineers — to build complex underground cities. Animals, as usual, are being benevolent; scientists now think that elephant trunk dynamics can be used to develop bio-inspired robots to detect, grasp or manipulate objects. These scientific discoveries open up an intriguing chicken-and-egg question. For years, in spite of their condescension towards fellow creatures, humans have been inspired by animals and their behaviour in diverse fields such as fashion, art and architecture. This phenomenon even has a name: biomimicry. In evolutionary terms, is it possible, then, that animal intelligence played a part in helping early humans — the world’s premier imitators — solve certain challenges? Humans have wondered at, and even envied, animals for their heightened senses, their remarkable efficiency and their ability to adapt to new situations and conditions; present-day robot engineers, such as those at Boston Dynamics, base many of their designs on animals. The recent findings about elephants and ants, while bridging science and literature, have opened up the possibility of anthropomorphism being used as capital for conservation practices. With the planet having entered its sixth phase of mass extinction — more than 500 species of land animals are expected to disappear soon — human beings should take on the responsibility of protecting wildlife and the ecological balance now that science has proved that the differences between man and beast may not be that much.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-43
29-08-2021||Opinion||Welcome addiction||Writing this on the morning after India batted out the day at Headingley to finish at 215 for two, still 139 runs behind, it’s apparent that the power of Test cricket vests in the weird fact that you don’t just watch a match, you live inside it. A Test isn’t a house, more a shamiana or a pandal rigged up for five days. You eat your way through the contest: fifteen meals (if you don’t count teas) lived in hope or gathering desolation. These meals are communally eaten — even the ones you eat alone — because you call up friends to rage about Kohli or despair about Pujara or exclaim about the historic duplicity of the angrez. You vent in all caps messages on WhatsApp groups given over to cricketing conversation. There are more temperate ways of watching cricket, driven by non-partisan appreciation, but even Spockian spectators go to sleep marvelling at Root’s backfoot play and wake to the prospect of more of it. It’s the anticipation that’s addictive; in normal life, you have to work to create a sense of purpose, but a Test match does that for you as one day barrels into the next driven by the momentum of the match. There’s a certain pathos, of course, to middle-aged men, accustomed to their days bleeding one into the other, using cricket to hurry up their lives but as addictions go this has to be one of the more harmless ones. Test cricket is an education; as a child, I was taught time zones by the BBC. The dislocation involved in pretending that the day began at 3.30 in the afternoon, drove home the significance of the prime meridian at Greenwich and the temporal implications of living on a round planet in a way that no physical geography textbook could have done. As a child, I accepted the fact that English lunch times coincided with evening tea without demur; it was just one more proof of the essential arbitrariness of the grown-up world. The deranging thing about following foreign matches is the difficulty in making the two days you’re living in align. The time zone challenge is straightforward. Total immersion in a match happening, say, in Australia, shakes up the rhythms of the day. The great thing about Australian tours was that if I had late morning class, I could follow pretty much all three sessions by the time I had to leave for the lecture. The alarm went off at 5.20 in the morning and because it was always winter and I was always in Delhi so it was always cold, I’d rise wearing my bedclothes. Swaddled in my blankets, I’d shuffle off to the drawing room where the Philips radio used to be. There, after some mooing and whistling on the shortwaves, a thin, clear thread of sound, courtesy the Australian Broadcasting Corporation, would join me to the match. The source of this thread of sound was one Alan McGilvray and, at other times, a man called Lindsay Hassett. I didn’t know who they were, but I was grateful that they talked all morning to bring the match to me. I didn’t always understand what they were saying because reception fluctuated and, to my provincial ear, all their words were shaped by a single vowel, a flat, nasal ‘a’ sound, so it was sometimes hard to tell them apart. Later, of course, there was television and the magical professionalism of Channel 9 and Richie Benaud, but either way, after six hours of cricket, the rest of the day, my real day, unwound like a prolonged anti-climax, made bearable only by the prospect of another day’s cricket at the crack of dawn. Hard as it was to live in two time-zones, home matches created the more acute reality problem. My one mystical experience was brought on by that match in Calcutta in 2001. It was a teaching day, and as I drove to university, Laxman was trying to shore up that first innings collapse. I was carrying a larger backpack than usual because I had to fit in a chunky transistor radio along with my usual teaching materials. I went straight into class for a fifty-minute lecture. At the end of it, I locked myself in the department’s small makeshift tea-room, and caught up with the match on the radio. Laxman was out for 59 and India had been made to follow-on. In the way that desi fans have, I decided all was not lost, that Laxman’s fifty was a sign. Cricket for the largely non-playing Indian fan is a kind of cargo cult and you’re always looking for a saviour ship on the horizon. Laxman, I had decided, was my redemptive vessel. The trouble was, I had another class. This was a class on Sufism in late medieval India. It was meant to be an account of a debate at the time about whether the mystical union between man and god was a union of their respective essences or ‘merely’ a unity of perception. My grasp of the metaphysics of this was shaky to start with and with India’s second innings about to begin, it was all I could do to get the names of the doctrines and their historical protagonists right. I managed to make my way to the end of the class without disgracing myself, but I did have an epiphany: I knew, for an extended moment, that this classroom, the university, Delhi in general, were insubstantial and illusory: that reality was unfolding elsewhere, specifically inside the Eden Gardens. It’s too much to hope that Pujara and Kohli (or Rahane or Pant or Jadeja) will reprise Laxman-Dravid. It’s not a home Test, for one. For another, the middle order has been in wretched form. I’ve just read an essay on a cricketing website that makes the monstrous claim that the miserable recent batting averages of Kohli and Pujara tell us nothing about their form. That, apparently, must only be measured by a new metric, their ‘control’ percentages: that is, how often are batsmen in control of the balls they face and contrariwise, how many balls do they miss or edge. According to the author, there is nothing in Kohli and Pujara’s recent record that suggests a decline in ‘control’ and, therefore, no evidence of a decline in form. He’s wrong, of course. Once you absolve batsmen of the responsibility for their failures, you forsake the most refined pleasure that Test cricket has to offer, the post-mortem. Here praise and blame are assigned, professionalism assessed, impetuosity condemned and steadfastness praised. To suggest that Rohit Sharma’s failures aren’t down to fecklessness or Kohli’s low scores to arrogance, or Pujara’s to timorousness, is to split cricket from character. The no-blame duck is to cricket what the no-fault divorce was to marriage: the end of civilization as we know it. On the other hand, the author of the piece, Kartikeya Date, does suggest that Kohli’s control figures indicate that he is due a big score soon. I don’t hold with prophecy, but this innings might be a good time for him to get one. It’s not impossible that new-fangled nerds know stuff that sedentary pedants don’t. Perhaps it isn’t too much to expect that Pujara and Kohli will get to lunch with their partnership intact. Does this match have another night’s sleep in it? A fifth day’s breakfast? There’s no other sport that you can ask those questions of. There’s only ever one answer, though: we shall find out. mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-44
29-08-2021||Opinion||When Modi enquired about Lalu's health ||The 10-member delegation of different parties led by the Bihar chief minister and Bharatiya Janata Party ally, Nitish Kumar, was all charged up to meet the prime minister, Narendra Modi, to demand a caste census for the country. The leaders had rehearsed what to say to the PM on the issue, but once the meeting started, everything changed. Modi set the ball rolling by emphasizing the need to get acquainted with the leaders and reportedly spent a major part of the 40-minute-long meeting on this, bowling them over cups of tea. Most of them had never chatted with a prime minister before. Mukesh Sahni, ‘Son of Mallah’ and the leader of the Vikassheel Insan Party, who claims to represent fishermen and boatmen, produced a silver fish as a gift for Modi, much to the amusement of the other delegates who joked that a fish made of gold would have been more appropriate since it is considered auspicious. The PM even went on to ask the Bihar leader of the Opposition, Tejashwi Yadav, about the health of his father and Rashtriya Janata Dal chief, Lalu Prasad. In fact, he dwelt on it for quite some time. “Tejashwi was very happy while Modi enquired about Lalu and we saw the discomfiture of Nitish over it. We wondered whether it was a signal to him that the BJP was not averse to forging a new political equation, if he tried to cut loose from the alliance,” confided a leader who was part of the delegation. The Communist Party of India (Marxist) Kerala state committee has finally asserted its right to have more say in governing the Left-ruled state. While the CM, Pinarayi Vijayan, had a free run over matters in his first term, the second one has already raked up a slew of controversies. Added to that is a stubborn Covid-19 surge which has brought more brickbats than bouquets to the ‘commissar’ known for his tough ways. At a recent brainstorming session, the state committee even prepared a ready reckoner on negotiating road humps for the party-led Left Democratic Front lawmakers in a clear indication that things are not hunky-dory just three months after the party was voted back to power. Many see it as an effort to prevent the Left Front from going the same way it did in West Bengal and Tripura. All is not well with the Bharatiya Janata Party in Karnataka either. There seems to be no remedy for the ‘rebel’ headache. One of the 17 turncoats who helped the party come to power in 2019, AH Vishwanath, has turned against his party colleague. When the BJP Lok Sabha member, Pratap Simha, claimed credit for widening the Bangalore-Mysore expressway, Vishwanath rubbished his claim, reminding him that it was among the projects the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance had sanctioned. The leader rubbed it in further by reminding Simha that the projects were sanctioned when he and other Congress MPs were in the Lok Sabha — this was long before Simha entered the lower House. The railways minister, Ashwini Vaishnaw, won hearts during his recent visit to Odisha as part of the BJP’s Jan Ashirwad Yatra, which is being held across 22 states to introduce the new inductees to the Union cabinet. But Vaishnaw disappointed his own party as he desisted from criticizing the Biju Janata Dal government in the state. The bureaucrat-turned-politician was an instant hit with the people wherever he went as he mingled with them freely. He danced with the tribal people in Koraput and had tea at a roadside stall. But while reviewing railway projects at different places, he was careful not to speak a word against either the BJD or the CM, Naveen Patnaik. Elected to the Rajya Sabha with the BJD’s support and having served as a bureaucrat in the state, he perhaps thought it wise not to attack the government and the ruling party. This disappointed the state BJP, which is locked in a fierce turf war with the BJD ahead of the panchayat polls due early next year. As the main Opposition party in the state, the BJP misses no opportunity to attack the government, hence its displeasure with Vaishnaw. The BJP’s Jan Ashirwad Yatra in Assam has put the spotlight back on the former CM, Sarbananda Sonowal, who had maintained a low profile since losing his seat to Himanta Biswa Sarma. This was Sonowal’s first visit to Assam after gaining a place in the Union cabinet as the minister for Ayush and for ports, shipping and waterways. He was given a grand welcome by Sarma and the new state unit president, Bhabesh Kalita. The Opposition, though, seized the opportunity to embarrass the government by asking why the people should bless Sonowal and the BJP. The Congress also said that the BJP should have held a Jan Khama Yatra instead of an ashirwad rally for the scores of unfulfilled commitments since it came to power. Political pundits claimed that the Congress’s reaction underlines the importance of performance over publicity and packaging. Sonowal has to deliver in his second stint if he is to secure his political future was the whisper in the corridors of power. The Union minister, Hardeep Singh Puri, faced the ire of trolls — usually reserved for his opponents — this week for tweeting in memory and appreciation of Mother Teresa on her birth anniversary. The right wing went for his throat with all the canards that have been used against the saint — particularly the charge of conversion. The responses on his Twitter timeline put the minister in the company of ‘sickular libtards’ for the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-44
29-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: BJP failed to gauge Bengal's humanitarian soul||Sir — At last, someone in the saffron camp seems to have spoken the truth (“Wrong model”, Aug 26). The Bharatiya Janata Party joint national general-secretary (organization), Shivprakash, has allegedly admitted that “[p]eople [in Bengal] are mostly secular and hence, didn’t fall for the Hindutva brand of politics...” Unlike most of India at present, Bengal has still resisted activities like communal pogroms, murder in the name of cow protection, love jihad and so on. Bengal is a place where Muslims donate money for the construction of Durga temples and Hindus part with land to set up graveyards. The BJP and its bhakts failed to gauge the humanitarian soul of Bengal. This is why, in spite of unleashing the entire power of the State machinery in Bengal before the assembly polls and churning out a deluge of communal poison, the BJP has received a severe thrashing from the electorate. Yet, far from accepting this defeat gracefully, the BJP is not only making every effort to demean Bengalis, but there was also a proposal to divide West Bengal. The party seems hell-bent on dividing the people, one way or the other. Moreover, fake assertions of “assault” on Hindu festivals in Bengal are laughable. With each passing year, the celebrations of Ganesh Chaturthi, Ram Navami and so on are becoming more boisterous. No place in the world is free from sectarian tensions, and in Bengal, too, stray instances of communal tension may have been reported in some places. But compared to the rest of the country and many parts of the globe, Bengal remains an oasis of communal harmony. Given their mindset, BJP leaders and bhakts are requested to refrain from invoking the name of Swami Vivekananda — the epitome of communal brotherhood. This humanitarian worshipped a four-year-old Kashmiri Muslim girl during Kumari Puja at the Kheer Bhawani temple in 1898. The BJP should pay heed to what Shivprakash has to say and imbibe the essence of humanity from Bengal. Kajal Chatterjee,Calcutta Sir — While most people are celebrating the admission of the BJP functionary, Shivprakash, what is striking is that hardly anyone is surprised by his open acceptance of the fact that the party and its Hindutva brand of politics use the communal card to win elections. This resignation about the poor state of affairs in what is purported to be a democracy is unfortunate. Neither the electorate nor the politicians seem bothered about the narrow means being employed to win elections. Rather, in most parts of the country, it appears to be reaping rich dividends. Why is the government not being held accountable for its failure to provide jobs, economic stability and food to the masses? Rashmi Singh,Calcutta Sir — The Alipore zoo is all set to be modernized in the model of the Prague zoo — new animal species are also to be brought in as part of an exchange programme as per an agreement signed between the West Bengal state forest department and Prague zoo authorities. This is encouraging. But what must not be forgotten is the difference in climatic conditions between Bengal and Prague. Animals used to European weather will invariably be ill at ease in the tropical heat. Earlier, the government’s attempt to turn Bengal into London had failed. One hopes the same does not happen this time. Ashim Mukherjee, Calcutta Sir — It is heartening that the police and civic officials will resume visits to markets to remind traders and customers to wear masks (“Market mask policing to resume”, Aug 28). The other day, I went to the New Market area for some work at the municipal office and was shocked to see that both sellers and those shopping had done away with even the pretence of wearing a mask. Earlier, there was much mirth about masks hanging from ears and around the chin. Now, people seem to be carrying on as if the pandemic has passed. This can be dangerous when a third wave is being expected. Rima Roy, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-44
