30-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Buzz fades||Temporary solutions can lead to permanent problems. The scourge of global hunger has plagued the world for years: according to the Food and Agriculture Organization, the number of hungry people has increased consistently over the last six years. This, in spite of the United Nations’ resolution to eliminate global hunger as part of its sustainable development goals. Efforts to mitigate food shortage and rising global food prices — projected to increase by about 25 per cent in 2021 compared to last year — have mostly focused on stopgap measures, such as the enhanced use of pesticides and agricultural practices aimed at maximizing crop yield. However, a recent study has identified these very practices to be the primary reasons behind the decline of the population of natural pollinators like bees, butterflies, wasps, and bats, which is adversely affecting the volume of food produced and, thus, contributing to global hunger. Natural pollinators increase crop productivity  — they are essential for the reproduction of three-fourths of food crops and flowering plants — by facilitating fertilization. Their role is particularly significant in countries like India where farmers cannot afford large-scale artificial methods of pollination. Therefore, a decrease in their population would, naturally, lead to a fall in the quality and the quantity of crops. According to a 2016 report, there has been a 300 per cent increase in pollinator-dependent food production over the past half century. But while other causes of food shortage — such as climate change, overpopulation, social inequality — are widely discussed, the impact of the shrinking population of pollinators on global food security is sporadic in the public discourse. The gap between the growing demand for food and its supply needs to be mitigated, but by sustainable means. The need of the hour is to understand the importance of pollinator species and formulate concrete plans to conserve their numbers. India’s environment ministry has taken a step in the right direction by launching a project that enables the study of such ecosystems. But scientific investigations will only yield fruit when their findings are incorporated into grass-root policies. Ecocentric agricultural practices — the use of eco-friendly pesticides, for instance — must be encouraged. The loss of natural habitat for pollinators must be redressed by integrating them into the models of future ‘smart cities’. The larger challenge is to harmonize the needs of ecological sustainability with agricultural production and its practices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-43
30-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor:  Bitter dishes at start of Bengali meal||Bitter bonanza Sir — The article, “The necessity of bitter beginnings” (Aug 29), by Paromita Sen correctly pointed out that an authentic Bengali meal is incomplete without a bitter dish. In fact, it is traditional to consume at least one bitter dish before commencing the main course. Bitter dishes like uchchhe bhaja, neemer jhol, neem-begun, shukto, tetor dal, uchchhe sheddho and helencha shaaker bora are an integral part of the mealtimes in most Bengali households. This is not all. It is also a time-honoured custom for Bengalis to consume juices of bitter ingredients or water in which some bitter item has been soaked. Chiratar jol and neem juice are just two of these medicinal concoctions that most Bengalis have been forced to have at some point. Sourish Misra,Calcutta Sir — Ayurveda preaches the virtues of bitterness — particularly in late spring and early summer, bitters are said to ward off diseases like measles and chickenpox. Although preparations like neem begun and uchchhe bhaate celebrate the bitterness of the produce, not all Bengali bitter dishes are harsh. Shukto is a mild, milky bitter curry commonly made with a number of vegetables and served at the beginning of a meal. Health benefits notwithstanding, a small helping of bitters at the start of a meal can help prepare the taste buds for the more elaborate dishes. A.K. Sen,Calcutta Sir — All over the subcontinent, bitter foods are both friend and salve as well as powerhouses of nutrients. Fenugreek seeds and leaves, bitter gourd, guar, papdi and vaal are staples as are leaves of the neem plant, night jasmine, pointed gourd and amaranth. Souryajit Mukherjee,Calcutta Expensive thirst Sir — Rich Indians have discovered artesian water sourced from aquifers in the Himalayas. Besides concerns about the sustainability of a venture that disturbs pristine Himalayan ecosystems which are known biodiversity hotspots, it must be noted that it takes three litres of water to produce each one-litre plastic bottle, which is likely to end up in landfill. This is a thirst that will suck the earth dry. Jharna Roy Chowdhury,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-43
30-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Move it||The delay of investigative agencies in filing chargesheets no longer raises eyebrows. Referring to complaints against members of parliament and members of the legislative assembly, the Supreme Court recently focused on the unfairness of letting cases hang over the heads of legislators for an unspecified time. A bench headed by the Chief Justice of India reportedly remarked unfavourably on the lack of explanation in the reports of the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Enforcement Directorate as to why charges have not been framed in allegedly serious cases against legislators for 10 to 15 years. If anything was found in an investigation, charges should be framed; otherwise the case should be closed. The Supreme Court said that it did not wish to demoralize the agencies and was aware of their problems arising from inadequate infrastructure and manpower. They were overburdened, as were the courts — one CBI court reportedly had 900 cases. But that did not account entirely for the inordinate delay in framing chargesheets; it was mentioned that quite a few of the pending cases would call for life imprisonment if proven. Offences under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, too, were plentiful, and the court reportedly felt that the ED showed very little movement. It had apparently attached crores worth of property but had not framed charges. The Supreme Court’s remarks cut through layers of undesirable practices by investigation agencies that feed into the delay of the justice system. The amicus curiae suggested a monitoring committee which would ensure that investigations are completed within a reasonable time, while the court reportedly asked the solicitor general to find out from the directors of the ED and the CBI what they needed in terms of infrastructure and manpower. The Supreme Court’s stand may act as a spur to the agencies in question; in that case, it can be hoped that chargesheets would be framed in time for all accused, not just legislators. Earlier, the Madras High Court had reportedly said of the CBI that the ‘caged parrot’ should be released from government oversight and made into an independent agency answerable to Parliament. At a time when the scene of alleged crime and detention is so messy as to endanger the people’s trust in the system, the courts’ interventions offer hope of positive change.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-43
30-08-2021||Opinion||Old tricks||Violent Islamist movements, as current events in Afghanistan demonstrate, have had some success in Muslim countries that were invaded by the United States of America. But they have failed everywhere else, and the whole Islamist ideology is getting long in the tooth. Revolutionary ideologies rarely prosper after they pass the age of 50. There is much media chatter at the moment about how the Taliban’s victory will inspire like-minded groups elsewhere and lead to a steep rise in terrorist attacks. Some of this is just journalistic panic-mongering, but various military and political interest groups will also promote this notion for their own purposes. Therefore, we will soon find ourselves being urged to engage in a new ‘war on terror’. It wouldn’t be as big, long and counter-productive as the first one, but much time, money and many lives would be wasted if it got off the ground. So think of this as an aide-memoire on why that would be a very stupid thing to do. The Taliban are Afghans, of course, but Islamist terrorism is primarily a phenomenon of the Arab world. That is the part of the Muslim world where the rulers are most brazenly cruel and corrupt. Many Arabs have been attracted to Islamism as a possible way to replace those regimes; some of them have concluded that only violence can bring Islamists to power. A minority of Arabs, then, buys the Islamist argument that the deplorable state of the Arab world is because Muslims are failing to live their lives as god intends: in the radical version of Islamic observance that Islamists believe is the only correct interpretation of god’s will. The solution to the Muslim world’s current plight, therefore, is to instal revolutionary Islamist regimes that will enforce that version of god’s will, whereupon with god’s help they will start to win. A united Muslim world will arise that breaks its current shackles, achieves great power and prosperity — and in some versions, converts the entire world to Islam. An attractive vision for many Arabs who were near despair, and the 1970s, ’80s and ’90s were filled with attempted Islamist revolutions, from Algeria to Saudi Arabia, all of which failed. The Islamists never managed to convince enough people that this pipe dream was worth dying for. So around 1999 an Islamist leader called Osama bin Laden came up with a new strategy. The only way to mobilize enough Muslims behind the Islamist dream, he believed, was to provoke a direct assault on Islam by the infidels. And the only way to motivate the lazy infidels to play their allotted role in this strategy was to attack them directly — not to conquer them, which was impossible, but to trick them into invading Muslim countries. That was the strategy behind the 9/11 attacks, and it succeeded even beyond bin Laden’s expectations. The outraged US declared the ‘war on terror’ and invaded not one but two Muslim countries: Afghanistan and Iraq. The former had little to do with 9/11 and the latter nothing at all, but the invasions had the effect that bin Laden was seeking. Twenty years later, however, the benefits for the Islamist cause have been quite limited. The Taliban are finally back in power in Afghanistan, and there was an interval when the ‘Islamic State’ controlled a lot of Iraq and even expanded into Syria, but there is still not a single revolutionary Islamist regime in the Arab world. The obvious conclusion is that this strategy has definitively failed. Even with the help of Western invasions and the ‘war on terror’, the Islamists have been unable to convince enough Arabs that they are the right solution to the Arab world’s problems. Doubtless, scattered Islamist terrorist attacks will continue both within and beyond the Arab world for many years, even if none as dramatic as 9/11. But the notion that the Taliban takeover in Afghanistan will lead to a huge new wave of Islamist terrorism is absurd. The Taliban’s victory was discounted in advance years ago, and the idea of provoking US invasions as recruiting tools for Islamist revolutions is now very old hat. Even Washington can see through it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-43
30-08-2021||Opinion||Follow the Dhaka model||Bangladesh has gone ahead of India in many respects in recent years. Its GDP per head is now higher than that of India. To put this in perspective, on average, a Bangladeshi earns 51 per cent more than someone from Uttar Pradesh and 16 per cent more than an Assamese citizen. Aside from GDP per capita, Bangladesh’s performance in the progress of quality of life is outstanding as reflected in social indicators. Life expectancy is estimated to be about three years longer in Bangladesh than in India. One of the many lessons that Bangladesh holds for India is its remarkable success in reducing fertility, from a high of 6.3 children per woman in 1971 to two children per woman in 2018. The significance of this achievement is best understood after taking into account Bangladesh’s situation at the time of its independence. When Bangladesh’s war of independence ended, the economy was in tatters. The GDP contracted by 7 and 15 per cent in 1971 and 1972, respectively. There were severe problems of mass illiteracy, hunger and malnutrition. The infant mortality rate stood at 158. The birth of Bangladesh was promptly dismissed as a ‘basket case’. However, the young nation demonstrated two things to the world. First and foremost, its impressive economic advancements stand in stark contrast to the neo-Malthusian predictions on the future development of underdeveloped countries. Two, Bangladesh’s success story is also distinguished by the fact that it did not employ a coercive approach like a one-child or a two-child policy to lower fertility rates. Bangladesh’s policymakers purposely avoided taking that line and, instead, implemented a voluntary family planning programme. More importantly, Bangladesh implemented human development programmes — especially girls’ education — to influence the determinants of fertility. The Female Secondary Stipend and Assistance Programme, which provided stipends and tuition waivers to girls attending secondary school, was instrumental in increasing secondary school enrolment for girls from 39 per cent in 1998 to 67 per cent in 2017. Evaluations suggest that the conditional cash transfer programme did not only improve education outcomes but also led to a decline in early marriage. The government also undertook other initiatives to enhance overall human development. Bangladesh’s child immunization programme achieved near universal coverage. The national sanitation campaign made the country nearly open-defecation-free in 2016, and this has significantly contributed to improving health and hygiene conditions. Also, Bangladesh’s successful drive against childhood diarrhoea and the consequent reduction of diarrhoea-specific mortality is another high-achievement tale. In nutrition, especially child nutrition, Bangladesh fares enormously better than India. Twenty-two per cent children are underweight in Bangladesh (2017-18); the figure is 35 per cent in India (2015-16). The key factors that are believed to be responsible for the improvement in nutrition include improving incomes, women’s education and wider access to healthcare. It is worth noting that unlike in India, where the benefits of economic growth are being enjoyed by a tiny segment of the population, Bangladesh’s prosperity is broad-based. Bangladesh’s story is also special because it has successfully reduced fertility much faster than many Hindu-majority states of India by addressing the underlying causes of poverty and underdevelopment. Differently put, the Bangladesh experience reiterates that inclusive economic growth accompanies lower birth rates. To explain, raising living standards beyond subsistence levels refers to increasing opportunities for off-farm work, higher educational achievements and better health, leading, in turn, to changes in families’ motivation for having children and declining fertility. The progress in human development indicators is sluggish in India, particularly for the economically backward states. For instance, in Bihar, as per the NFHS (2019-20), the IMR is still very high (47 per thousand live births) and has been stagnating for years; 42 per cent of the women are illiterate and only about 29 per cent completed 10 years of schooling. Besides, the female work participation rate (4.2 per cent and 2.5 per cent in rural and urban areas, respectively, in 2017-18) is substantially below Bangladesh’s FWPR at 33.9 per cent. The poor socioeconomic conditions of families keep the average age of marriage low in Bihar, leading to a large number of women getting pregnant and bearing children in their teens, thereby contributing to both higher fertility and mortality. The demographic situation in the other Hindi heartland states is more or less similar. As India’s population size is still increasing and the overall well-being of a large majority is yet to reach the desired level, many think that there must be something wrong with India’s population policy and that there is a need for compulsory government control to achieve smaller family size. However, according to the latest data, on average, women are having less than two lifetime births in two-thirds of the bigger states. Only six states — Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh — where women regardless of their caste or religion are also bearing lesser number of babies than their mothers, are yet to achieve the replacement level fertility. But coercion is not the answer to their population woes. These demographically sick states would do well if they take cues from Bangladesh, which is working on enhancing the capabilities of young people and empowering women. The most important takeaway from Bangladesh’s case is this: high fertility is not the cause but a symptom of a deeper malaise like poverty. Soumitra Ghosh is Associate Professor, Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-43
30-08-2021||Opinion||The final curtain||One of my earliest memories of theatre is of darkness. I am a sleeping child, eyes shut tight, about to be slaughtered at the divine altar. It is Rabindranath’s play, Bisarjan, where the goddess needs human blood. The priest carries me and I feel the silent movement. I knew when the slaughtering machete is to come down on me; my heart screams but I keep quiet as promised. The king’s sword blocks the priest’s machete. He will not allow the sacrifice of life in his land. I would live, grow up to be a real human being. I was three years old. The play was a local affair, performed in a primary school in North Calcutta. My school principal, a giant of a man with great shaggy hair, played the priest. My mother, a professional actor, was the cruel queen. “It’s going to be a little scary,” they’d asked me, “Can you stay quiet?” I had fulfilled that promise. I had played the sleeping child who did not know how close he came to being slaughtered. My tiny role in that play, in many ways, predicted what theatre would mean in my life. A child in a blanket of darkness, the fury of swords over me, a religion thirsty for blood, a king pledged to prevent the murder of innocents — Rabindranath’s play breathes too much reality for this nation to bear. But it was also the semi-conscious nature of the moment, the primal fear and joy of life, the breathing proximity of one of my earliest teachers and, most importantly, of my mother, whose acting life would be a source of much pride, beauty and pain all through her brief life and her short-lived presence in my own. A finely executed play as the work of a local community, an intense classic with political undertones. It speaks so much of Calcutta, a certain Calcutta where I grew up. A wilted tradition of feudal decadence, the languor of unemployed (or under-employed) youth, a sharp, left-leaning political polemic. This was a mixed bag of contradictory things, but they made up everything from which we were asked to keep away if we wanted a rewarding career and a safe life. This was the city to leave behind. For those of us who came of age in the 1980s and 1990s, straddling the liberalization of the last decade through the continuing apathy of communist rule, life and career were to be staked on the desertion of the old drugs. My personal stakes were higher. It was difficult to be the only child of an actor who struggled with career, family, and community all her life for brief luminescence on stage. Starting with Manoj Mitra’s Sundaram, my mother moved through many groups, often forming lasting bonds — Theatre Workshop, Nandikar, several others — before appearing for the last time for Sayak. Glances of her on screen return to me from time to time — as the widow of a slain Naxalite interviewed by a journalist played by Goutam Ghose in Buddhadeb Dasgupta’s Grihayuddha, the sister-in-law of Rani Rashmoni in the early years of the mega serial. A mud-splattered Antigone, carrying the corpse of her dead brother, in Hansgünther Heyme’s production in the open grounds of St Paul’s Cathedral. But middle-class society, too, is its own dramatic stage, especially when it comes to a married woman’s life in theatre. The conflict of belief and passion created intense trauma in its own right and spilled into the alleys run by the communist moral police. Plays remained the bitterly sonorous clash of swords that were too spectacular, too sharply shamed by the public eye. Literature, in the spirit of bourgeois modernity, the quiet isolation and solipsism of print, was the safe space to which one could turn. Safer, more distant, if it be the literature of the West, richer with promise, with the potential to flee a city starting to feel claustrophobic. But how does a Bengali grow up in Calcutta without theatre? My personal terrors, including the emotional death-trap of watching, as a five-year-old, Ma die on stage, would later breathe into my novel, The Firebird. But it also shaped a happy delirium through which I experienced many worlds. There was the amazing universe of Utpal Dutt and People’s Little Theatre — the sharp-white naval revolt of Kallol and its searing explosions, the lyrical pain of the assassination of Mahatma Gandhi in Ekla Cholo Re, a play sharply criticized by a high school friend who would later become a national leader of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad. The drowsy spring cornucopia of Chaitali Raater Swapno, Dutt’s translation of Shakespeare’s A Midsummer Night’s Dream, where the agile elf, Puck, springs in and out of my fancy. The spellbinding chimera of Bohurupee, led by Kumar Roy, and the death of giants: of Galileo who dared to speak the truth before the world was ready for it, of Joan of Arc who went up in flames at the stake right in front of the stage. The last one, Jean Anouilh’s L’Alouette, translated as Aguner Pakhi, the bird of fire, by my mother’s brother, Arup Rudra, who taught literature at Jadavpur University, branded that image of the burning woman into my soul to inspire, years later, the carving of the novel with the soul of a play. But the last decades of the last century were a twilight hour. While we marvelled at the experimental aesthetics of the plays in halls like Girish Mancha, Academy of Fine Arts, Rabindra Sadan, Madhusudan Mancha, lights started to go out in another set of playhouses, mostly around Hatibagan in North Calcutta, a few of them in the red-light district along Central Avenue. Rangmahal, Star, Circarina, Minerva, Kashi Bishwanath, Biswarupa — if they did not reinvent themselves as a movie hall or a repertory theatre, they became shopping malls or banquet halls. Or, in the case of Circarina, whose owner, the octogenarian, Amar Ghosh, I interviewed in 2012 shortly before his death — just a decrepit, deserted building. There are few things, I realized, more heartbreaking than an abandoned theatre hall, the dust-glazed seats, and, at Circarina, a cobwebbed circular stage. For these playhouses held the hue of a different genre — the babu theatre of feudal culture, the gaudy naturalism of commercial theatre as opposed to the progressive experimentations of group theatre, a binary set in motion since the Indian People’s Theatre Association emerged as a firm voice of the left. Dying in the brightening glare of multi-channel television, the mega serial, and video culture, the loud and often licentious genre of middlebrow culture, once a raging hit with the middle-class Bengali, was allowed a lonely death by a communist government that naturally didn’t care about it. Mysterious fires that enriched realtors and insurance beneficiaries, too, helped cremate some of them. Burnt playhouses hold much of the city’s memories, as they hold some of my own. The sensory trauma and communal spectacle that make up plays pushed me to the quiet safety and privacy of literature. It was not till many years later that I would realize that my imaginative life as a novelist would be strung to the primal rhythms of performance. Saikat Majumdar is Professor of English and Creative Writing at Ashoka University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-43
