31-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Nusrat's choice to not name child's father||Stand together Sir — The actress-turned-member of parliament, Nusrat Jahan, recently gave birth to a boy. Amidst much speculation about the child’s parentage, Jahan has declined from naming the father. Even though she is well within her rights, she has been severely trolled both online and offline. Another actress, Neena Gupta, had faced similar reproach way back in 1989. Little has changed since then. The only difference is that women are now socially and economically more empowered, and are thus able to rally behind one another — as witnessed by the support Jahan received from other single mothers — in times of need. Subhalaxmi Chakraborty,Calcutta Stellar skills Sir — The Indian table tennis player, Bhavina Patel, scripted history by winning a silver medal at the Tokyo Paralympic Games in the women’s singles class 4 finals (“Bhavinaben, Nishad win silver, Vinod waits”, Aug 30). The 34-year-old put up an impressive fight but ultimately lost the match to the top-seeded Chinese paddler, Ying Zhou, who has five Paralympic medals to her name, including gold from Beijing and London. Other Indian para-athletes performed remarkably as well. Nishad Kumar won the silver medal for India in high jump for men on the same day and the discus thrower, Vinod Kumar, clinched a bronze medal in the men’s F52 event — he has since been stripped of the medal after being found ineligible in the disability classification assessment. But the most exciting news came when Avani Lekhara won India’s first gold medal in shooting in the women’s 10 metres air rifle standing SH1 event. Lekhara won the gold medal with a total score of 249.6 in the final, equalling the world record. It is a shame that in spite of such stellar performances, the Paralympics do not receive much coverage in India. Nevertheless, the multiple wins at both the Tokyo Olympics 2020 and the Paralympics will encourage other youngsters in India to overcome hurdles and pursue their dreams. Vinay Mahadevan,Oud Metha, Dubai Sir — Bhavina Patel must be congratulated for winning a silver medal at the Tokyo Paralympics. Her win set off a string of victories with Nishad Kumar and Avani Lekhara following suit. All athletes taking part at the Paralympics must be lauded for their exemplary grit and determination. Sporting facilities and infrastructure in India are abysmal. It is even worse for athletes with special needs. The multiple wins at both the Summer Olympics and the Paralympics must act as an impetus for the ministry of sports to work on improving the sporting infrastructure in the country. Bal Govind,Noida Sir — Avani Lekhara, with her win at women’s 10m air rifle standing SH1 event, became the first Indian woman to win a gold medal at the Paralympics. Many in the country do not consider a Paralympic medal to be on a par with those won at the Summer Olympics. This could not be farther from the truth. Athletes at the Paralympics compete with world-class sportspersons from around the globe. Indian athletes have already secured seven medals at the Paralympic Games, including two golds — the same number of medals won by the Indian contingent at the 2020 Summer Olympics. With a few more events left to go, chances are that the tally might go up. This proves beyond all doubt that para-athletes have contributed to Indian sports as much as those who are able-bodied. We should all be proud of these achievements. Noopur Baruah,Tezpur Equally smart Sir — The editorial, “Spectacular species” (Aug 29), rightly points out that human beings have been arrogant in considering themselves more intelligent than other species. The recent discovery by scientists that elephants use a mathematical law in the movement of their trunks and that ants execute an intricate tunnelling behavioural programme to build complex underground cities proves that we know very little about the cognitive ability of animals. There is much to learn from the animal kingdom. We know that birds have an extraordinary sense of navigation, octopuses can carry out complex tasks and have an incredible ability to learn new skills, and dolphins and non-human primates have a complex communication system. With the planet entering the sixth phase of mass extinction, it is high time that governments around the world do all they can to protect wildlife and maintain ecological balance. The survival of all creatures — not just mankind — is crucial for the well-being of the planet. Ashok Kumar Ghosh,Calcutta Sir — Although scientists have employed biomimicry in technological innovations for a while now, it is rarely accompanied by a commitment to the protection of nature. We are yet to learn the value of non-human lives beyond our selfish gains. We must accord all creatures, big or small, equal respect. Nidhi Ranjan,Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-42
31-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Far from epic||Changes in education, in system and content, seem to be gathering momentum. The Bharatiya Janata Party-led government at the Centre is busy imposing its views and values on syllabi without bothering about facts or disinterested learning. The BJP is not the first to tweak syllabi; this has always been the tendency of ideology-based parties. But the recent changes to the undergraduate history syllabus are not a tweak or two: the BJP is changing not only the interpretation of the past even if it means devaluing facts — downplaying medieval history, for example — but, more dangerously, the concept of the subject, too, by tilting it towards myth and religious texts. The latest changes, however, were made in the English literature syllabus of Delhi University. The Oversight Committee dropped Mahasweta Devi’s classic story, “Draupadi” and works by two Dalit women writers, Sukartharini and Bama, from the course, replacing these with the work of an upper-caste writer, Ramabai. This was done without going through any of the expert bodies of the university, including the committee of courses and standing committee, and was pushed through in spite of the objections of a number of academic council members. Since “Draupadi” describes the rape of a scheduled tribe woman by army officers and her defiance of them through a display of her body when they order her to ‘cover up’, it was presumably unacceptable — and disrespectful to the military. The removal of Bama and Sukartharini’s works needs no recondite explanation. Their replacement by an upper-caste writer’s work is enough. The attempt to erase the harsh realities of existence in India, into which literature affords entry and encourages reflection, is only one aspect of these changes. It is part of the BJP’s agenda to devalue Dalits as subjects and producers of literature, and silence women who speak truth to power through their creations. Instead, the BJP would like literature to be tales of hope and optimism in difficult times that allow a ‘magical escape’, as the vice-president put it recently. Such fairy-tales would be unlikely to have Dalits and custodial rapes. But the project to sanitize a literature syllabus does not match the BJP-led state governments’ enthusiasm to get the 50 per cent cap on reservations lifted. Votes, evidently, are one thing, and academic indoctrination quite another.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-42
31-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: True challenge||The assurance of the triumph of truth — satyameva jayate — is inscribed on India’s national motto. Yet, in a Post-Truth polity, one in which contestation over truth — indeed the falsification of truth — is not unprecedented, citizens and institutions have to be mindful about the version of truth that is allowed to be triumphant. The pursuit of truth and its attendant challenges formed the heart of a stimulating memorial lecture delivered by the Supreme Court judge, D.Y. Chandrachud, recently. Mr Chandrachud’s observations and inferences have philosophical and political relevance in the Indian as well as the global context. Given the State’s complicity in manufacturing truth, Mr Chandrachud iterated that speaking truth to power — in other words, demanding accountability from the powers that be — should be transformed into a public undertaking. Public, in essence, implies a shared, collective responsibility. This task, therefore, does not fall on the citizen alone. It needs to be complemented by strengthening institutions such as the media as well as by removing stains from the electoral process. The importance of this initiative is underlined by the fact that the health — survival — of a democracy is predicated upon the endurance of a culture of truth. The judge’s words have a special significance at a time when there is growing evidence in the form of international, credible assessment that the weakening of India’s democratic edifice has coincided with the capitulation of the fourth estate to an authoritarian, albeit elected, dispensation. That the erosion of institutional integrity can be instrumental in impairing the fate of democracy has been demonstrated by the alleged partisanship of bodies that are supposedly the custodians of a democracy. The commitment to uphold truth, Mr Chandrachud warned, is seldom a simple exercise. This is because of the multifaceted nature of truth. This fragmentation is not a feature of the Post-Truth world alone. In diverse, but non-representative, societies that do not accommodate the opinions of those on the margins — Dalits, women, religious and sexual minorities in the Indian set-up — the version of truth that becomes dominant may turn out to be exclusive in nature. The challenge, therefore, is to develop the mechanisms of consensus. But such a concord among communities is likely to remain elusive unless the leverages of power are representative. The Mahatma — arguably the most famous Indian in modern times — was a seeker of truth. Mr Chandrachud’s invocation of truth, its relevance to democracy, and its impediments harks back to the legacy left behind by that great man in the 75th year of Independence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-42
31-08-2021||Opinion||Porous borders||The reorganization of the Northeast and the creation of new states between 1963 and 1987, all carved out of Assam, left behind unresolved boundaries. The disputed lands have both symbolic and substantive value — natural resources coveted by revenue-deficient states, lush forests with lucrative timber and so on. All these factors combined make for competitive electoral subnationalism. When politicians ignite passions to boost vote banks, one can see why two state police forces of the same country would attack each other. On a visit to Vairengte, after a clash left six Assam policemen dead and scores injured on both sides, three facts became clear. First, the Assam police crossed the buffer zone manned by the Central Reserve Police Force on July 26 and took over the Mizoram police camp at Vairengte. Assam thus tried to revert the status quo by force. Second, the Mizoram policemen, evicted from the Vairengte camp, took positions on the hills around it and, after a brief warning, opened fire on the Assam policemen, inflicting heavy casualties. Third, Assam retaliated with a punishing economic blockade, leading to huge scarcity of essential commodities, especially medical supplies, at a time when Mizoram is battling a particularly vicious wave of Covid-19. The northeastern states seem prone to using force to reverse possession of disputed boundaries as well as to defend their possessions and resorting to inhuman measures like economic blockades when crossed. Assam has a border problem with all states carved out of it. The 1985 Merapani border clash between policemen from Assam and Nagaland led to more than 40 deaths. Assam and Mizoram returned to the peace table after the Union home minister, Amit Shah, intervened. The two sides have agreed to avoid forward patrolling at disputed points, leaving Central forces to take care of the buffer zones. Assam has also lifted the economic blockade. But tempers are still frayed. Despite the belated peace overtures by both governments, it will take a lot of oversight from Delhi to avoid another such clash. Shah had indicated to chief ministers of the northeastern states to resolve boundary disputes before India turned 75 next year. But within days, intrusions were reported along Assam’s borders with Meghalaya and Arunachal Pradesh as was the clash along the Assam-Mizoram border. This is not enough; enforcing is the key. A joint action committee in Mizoram, led by civil society leaders and backed by all major political parties in the state, has called for a comprehensive boundary commission to resolve the border dispute. A commission helmed by Supreme Court judges and backed by experts can then work out a boundary acceptable to both sides. That is easier said than done. Visiting the disputed areas this month, immediately after the clash, one saw the Assam forest department planting teak in the mountains of I-Tlang, with displaced Mizo shifting cultivators complaining about the loss of jhum pastures handed down to them by their ancestors. Assam’s pitch for constitutional boundary and the Mizo idea of cultural boundary are different: one is a document-backed possession with clearly demarcated plots, the other a loose, mobile idea of community ownership with possession determined by traditional use. Trouble is that both sides are right in their own ways, pointing to a need for reconciliation of not just boundaries but also the outlooks towards borders. Mizoram’s home minister, Pu Lalchamliana, is not optimistic about the outcome of boundary commissions. He insists that any resolution should be based on ‘give and take’, pointing to bilateral negotiations overseen by Delhi. When the Mizos noisily celebrated the achievements of the Indian women’s hockey team and the local girl, Lalremsiami, it seemed that the days of insurgency were a distant memory. But border clashes and economic blockades ignite those passions and do not augur well for India’s global image.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-42
31-08-2021||Opinion||A nation for Haves||After a decade-long pursuit of billions of dollars in taxes arising from the transfer of Indian assets through the route of offshore companies, the Narendra Modi government, in an astonishing U-turn, has relinquished the tax claims and agreed to refund millions of dollars in capital gains tax. Prime Minister Modi has hailed his measure as a testament to his commitment of providing a ‘stable policy framework’. As recently as May 23, 2021, the government had called the transactions of Cairn Energy an ‘abusive tax avoidance scheme’ and a classic case of ‘double non-taxation’. Cairn Energy was one of the 17 offshore indirect transfer cases, which India wanted to tax. OIT was an egregious technique used by certain multinationals to avoid paying CGT in India where their real assets like oil and gas fields or mines and mineral or telecom licences are located. On top of these real assets, the multinationals had created layers of holding companies (called letter-box or shell companies) incorporated in tax havens like the Cayman Islands, Mauritius or British Virgin Islands. So when the time came to realize capital gains, instead of directly selling their assets, these multinationals transferred the shares of holding companies to buying companies that were also similarly registered in tax-friendly jurisdictions. Hence capital gains were booked in tax havens that did not tax them at all. The Income Tax Act 1961, designed for a pre-liberalization-era Indian economy, did not anticipate this kind of OITs. Hence, there was no explicit provision to tax them. A purposive reading of the Income Tax Act could have still allowed India to tax OITs. Unfortunately, the Supreme Court of India opted for a textual interpretation and quashed the CGT demand in the Vodafone International Holding B.V. v Union of India case in 2012. The Bombay High Court had earlier upheld India’s jurisdiction to tax the Vodafone-Hutchison transaction. In 2012, a weak and discredited UPA II, hobbling under the weight of multiple scams and charges of misgovernance, tried to plug the misuse of statutory ambiguity by introducing an amendment in the Income Tax Act. Under the amendment, the gains arising from the sale of shares of a foreign company were taxable only if it derived substantial value from the assets located in India. But the Bharatiya Janata Party, then in Opposition, and a majority of the mainstream media built a narrative that the United Progressive Alliance was trying to tax multinationals ‘retrospectively’, which was unfair and capricious. They did not care to ask whether the tax was discriminatory or whether it led to double taxation. Or should multinationals not pay their due share of taxes in a jurisdiction from where they derived their economic gains? It was instead projected as yet another example of the UPA’s lack of ability to govern; it didn’t help its cause by speaking in different tones. The BJP promised to repeal the provision after coming to power. But once in power, the Modi 1.0 government persisted with the CGT demands and spent millions of dollars in defending disputes before international arbitral tribunals. Therefore, the question arises how a deplorable tax avoidance scheme became a legitimate public policy for the Modi 2.0 government in a matter of a few weeks. The government’s volte-face is consistent with its overall fiscal policies fuelling hyper-capitalism and jaw-dropping income and wealth disparities. In September 2019, the government slashed the base corporate tax rate by roughly 10 per cent. This has reduced corporate tax collections by approximately Rs 1.5 lakh crore annually. In the April-September 2020 period, corporate tax collections had dropped by almost 40 per cent year-on-year. In the financial year, 2020-21, corporate tax receipts fell by 18 per cent. The 2019-20 Economic Survey shows that Modi’s ‘historic’ tax rate cut has only benefitted the top 1 per cent of the corporate world. It says that corporate rate cut led to a gain of 3.2 per cent-13.5 per cent of the existing tax liability for small and medium companies, while large companies benefitted by about 18.5 per cent-27.3 per cent of their tax liability. Under Modi, India is becoming one of the most inequitable countries in the world. The fortune of India’s 100 billionaires increased by Rs 12,97,822 crore since March 2020, enough to give every one of the 138 million poorest Indian people a cheque for Rs 94,045 each, according to Oxfam’s The Inequality Virus report. Seventy-three per cent of the wealth generated in 2017 went to the richest 1 per cent, while 67 million Indians, who comprise the poorest half of the population, saw only a 1 per cent increase in their wealth. Besides making the rich richer, Modi’s tax policies are also depriving the poor of the income support they desperately need to overcome the loss of earnings caused by the pandemic. The government has not provided any substantial direct financial relief, such as cash transfers, to the poor. This is partly because this government doesn’t have the money and partly because it believes in ‘growing the pie’, $5 trillion and beyond, rather than distributing it equitably. To make up for the steep fall in corporate tax collection (a 7.7 per cent decline in total revenue receipts in 2020-21), the government has gone on a borrowing spree. As a result, its debt-to-GDP ratio is expected to go up to 61.7 per cent in FY22 from 60.5 per cent a year ago, a 16-year-high, raising the spectre of sovereign credit rating downgrade. In many of the 17 OIT cases, the government had already collected millions of dollars in CGT. That will now have to be refunded, further bleeding the exchequer. In contrast to Modi’s inequitable fiscal policies, the president of the United States of America, Joe Biden, is rolling back many of the corporate tax rate cuts in the 2017 tax law passed by the former president, Donald Trump. Companies in the US could end up collectively paying hundreds of billions of dollars more in taxes in the coming years. Biden has also managed to make 130 countries agree on levying a global minimum tax rate of at least 15 per cent, which would prevent large corporations from evading taxes. Biden sees tax justice as an important means of making the global economy more equitable for workers and middle-class families around the world. In essence, the 2012 income tax amendment brought in by UPA II was aimed at curbing the double non-taxation of capital gains. For instance, the oil major, Cairn Energy, made a capital gain of US $5.5 billion but didn’t pay any taxes on its gains in any tax jurisdiction, neither in India where it carried out economic activity nor in the United Kingdom where it was headquartered. Therefore, for the Modi government to legitimize a corporate tax avoidance instrument like the OIT as a ‘stable policy framework’ shows it has no comprehension of the construct of tax equity or fiscal justice. Besides cutting down the corporate tax rate, the Modi government had also abolished wealth tax in 2015. To make matters worse, India also doesn’t impose any inheritance tax on its super-rich. Inheritances are taxed at 40 per cent in the US and the UK, at 50 per cent in South Korea, and an average of 15 per cent across the members of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. Recently, the family of the chairman of Samsung Electronics was asked to pay more than $10.78 billion in inheritance taxes. Even the OECD, in a 2018 report, conceded that “there is a strong case for addressing wealth inequality through the tax system” and has recommended significant, broad-based taxes on capital gains, coupled with similarly efficient levies on transfers of wealth through gifts and inheritance. The question is why a poor country like India does not levy tax on inheritance and wealth? When governments lose tax revenues on such an enormous scale and the ultra-rich walk away without paying their due share of taxes, it is the poor who suffer. India is producing, on an average, 70 millionaires every day even as 22 per cent of Indians live on less than $1.25 a day. Of India’s children under the age of five, 35.7 per cent are underweight; 38.4 per cent of all children under five are stunted. Without redistributive fiscal policies, these children will never be able to escape the poverty trap. In the seven years of his rule, Modi has not once touched upon the issue of inequality. In his Independence Day speech in 2019, Modi said, “Let us never see wealth creators with suspicion. Only when wealth is created, wealth will be distributed.” But if the wealthy are not taxed enough, how will the wealth get distributed? Ashish Khetan is Associate Professor at Jindal Global Law School and specializes in international economic law||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-43
