01-01-2021||West Bengal||Soumendu Adhikari, 15 other TMC councillors join BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Friday made its front even stronger ahead of the Bengal assembly polls when 15 TMC councillors in the 20-member Contai Municipality, including its former administrator Soumendu Adhikari, quit the state's ruling party and joined the saffron camp. Suvendu Adhikari, a senior BJP leader and Soumendu's brother, handed over party flags to the councillors at a programme here. Soumendu was recently removed from the administrator's post at the civic body by the Mamata Banerjee government. Adhikari, who had quit the TMC and joined the BJP last month, said Soumendu's removal was a "vindictive move" on the part of the state government. "Soumendu has a long political career ahead of him. He has worked hard all these years... and the same goes for the other councillors. The Adhikari family is no longer with the party of Pishi-Bhaipo (TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee and nephew Abhisek Banerjee)," he said. The former state minister also said that the Mamata Banerjee government had been delaying municipal polls, as it was scared of its "imminent defeat". "People will vote in favour of the BJP, be it the civic polls or the assembly elections. The BJP will be the frontrunner in Contai South and other places where it had been trailing in the last Lok Sabha polls," he asserted. Earlier in the day, Soumendu had told reporters that his “family had been enduring many unsavoury attacks. But we believe in giving a befitting reply on the battlefield".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-251
01-01-2021||West Bengal||Visva Bharati stopped from building wall along crucial road||The administration in Bengal's Birbhum district on Friday issued an order, asking Visva Bharati authorities to immediately stop the construction of a wall along a road - which connects the twin towns of Santiniketan and Sriniketan. District Magistrate Vijay Bharti, who inspected the area on Thursday, said the wall, if built, could hinder people's movement along the route. Locals had long been using the route, and no restriction can be imposed all of a sudden, he said, adding that problems need to be solved amicably through discussions. Visva-Bharati authorities, however, refused to comment on the matter. The administration has also taken over another road -- connecting Upasana Griho to Kalisayar More -- from Visva- Bharati, which was inaugurated in 2017. Several heritage buildings, including the Rabindra Bhavan museum, and monumental sculptures -- the ones built by artist Ramkinkar Baij -- dot the 2.9-km road. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, during her recent visit to Bolpur, had said that the Public Works Department would take back the possession of the road from the varsity. Authorities of the central university had recently drawn the ire of Banerjee after media reports suggested that vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty accused Nobel laureate Amartya Sen of illegally occupying the land. Last year, the state had locked horns with Visva- Bharati officials over the erection of a wall around the Poush Mela ground, in the vicinity of the varsity campus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-251
01-01-2021||West Bengal||Brother Soumendu along with other TMC workers to join BJP, confirms Suvendu||BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari on Friday said his disgruntled brother and TMC leader Soumendu -- recently removed from the post of administrator at Contai Municipality -- will join the saffron camp along with a host of other activists from the state's ruling party. Asserting that the TMC, of which he was a part till about a month ago, will "disintegrate" soon, Adhikari, during a meeting here in Purba Medinipur, claimed that Soumendu, together with a few councillors and 5,000 TMC workers, will switch over to the saffron party later in the day. "My younger brother Soumendu will join the BJP in Contai today. He will be accompanied by several councillors and 5,000 TMC grassroot workers. The TMC will steadily disintegrate," Adhikari said here on the occasion of the Mamata Banerjee-led party's Foundation Day. Soumendu had on Thursday said lotus will bloom in every home, hinting that he would join the saffron party, following in his brother's footsteps. The Adhikari household has two other members in the TMC camp -- MPs Dibyendu and Sisir. Contending that at least one lakh people will attend his rally in Nandigram on January 8, Adhikari told his supporters, "If any of you face blockade on the way to the meeting, just give me a call." "TMC miscreants had carried out an attack on pilgrims when they were en route to a religious programme on December 29. Their vehicle carried flags of Sanatan Hindu Dharma organisation. The attackers will be taught a befitting lesson," the newly inducted BJP leader stated. Talking about CBI raids on Thursday at two Kolkata residences of businessman Binay Mishra, reportedly close to the TMC, in connection with cattle smuggling along India- Bangladesh border, and the arrest of alleged kingpin Enamul Haque in November, Adhikari said, "The agency would soon knock the doors of a heavyweight involved in the case. Just wait..." The BJP leader, following his rally, told reporters that he will ensure that the saffron party takes lead in all assembly segments in Purba Medinipur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-251
01-01-2021||West Bengal||TMC celebrates foundation day across Bengal||The Trinamool Congress on Friday celebrated its 23rd Foundation Day across West Bengal with Chief Minister and party supremo Mamata Banerjee asserting that she will fight and work for the people. Senior TMC leaders hoisted the party flag at its state headquarters and congratulated workers for their tireless efforts in serving people. "As Trinamool turns 23 today, I look back at the journey we began on January 1st, 1998. Our years have been of immense struggle, but throughout this time, we have continued to achieve our objective of being committed to the cause of only the people." Banerjee said on Twitter. As Bengal steps into the election year and the party is set to complete a decade in power, Banerjee vowed to carry on her fight to make the state better. "On #TMCFoundationDay, I extend my sincere gratitude to our Maa-Mati-Manush and all our workers who continue to fight with us in making Bengal better and stronger each day. The Trinamool family will carry on with this resolve for times to come!" she said on the microblogging site. The TMC had issued instructions to its workers to conduct various programmes across the state to mark the occasion. The TMC leaders in districts have arranged for various functions and street-corner meetings to discuss and highlight the party's achievements in the last ten years. Banerjee broke away from the Congress and formed the TMC on January 1, 1998 with an objective to oust the then Left Front regime from power. The party achieved its goal in May 2011 after forging an alliance with the Congress. The party faces a challenge in the next assembly elections, as the resurgent BJP has pulled out all the stops to defeat the TMC dispensation in the polls, slated to be held in April-May this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-251
01-01-2021||West Bengal||Fire destroys textbooks worth Rs 15 lakh||School textbooks worth around Rs 15 lakh were gutted in a blaze that broke out at a circle office of the state primary education department at Islampur in North Dinajpur district on Thursday morning. Furniture and documents at the office were also reduced to ashes in the blaze owing to suspected short-circuit. Two fire engines doused the flames in over two hours, till over 11am, on Thursday. Sources said that from January 2, schoolbooks provided free of cost by the state government would be distributed among students of state-run and state-aided primary schools for the new academic year. “Accordingly, new books have all been sent to districts. For North Dinajpur's Islampur subdivision, those were kept at a godown in the Islampur sadar circle office of the department,” said a source. Residents around 8.30am spotted smoke coming out of the closed office and godown. They informed firemen who rushed to the spot. A police team and officials from the subdivision also arrived. “We suspect an electrical short circuit caused the blaze. An inquiry would be held,” said an officer of Islampur fire station. The police, he said, are doing a separate investigation. Belal Hossain, sub-inspector of schools (primary) of Islampur sadar circle, said they had sent most books to schools. “Whatever was there in stock got damaged in the fire. So it would take some time to distribute books in some primary schools (which have not yet received the consignment). We have told our superiors and hope to get new books soon from the state,” Hossain said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-251
01-01-2021||West Bengal||Prod on Assembly session||Leaders of the Left Front and the Congress in the Assembly jointly wrote to chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday urging her to convene the legislative house to facilitate a discussion on and a resolution against the Centre’s contentious farm laws. “Several states have called Assembly sessions and passed resolutions declaring that the contentious farm bills will not be implemented in those states. There are other important issues that need to be debated upon as well,” Left legislative party leader Sujan Chakraborty said. Along with him, the letter was signed by leader of the Opposition Abdul Mannan. “In spite of writing repeatedly to the CM, the Assembly has not been convened,” Chakraborty said. Sources said since September, the Left parties and the Congress had written seven letters to Mamata urging her to convene the Assembly. However, there has been no positive response from the government, which has prompted the Opposition to question Trinamul’s stand on the farm bills, the sources added. The letter to Mamata says Punjab, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Delhi and Kerala, along with many other states, have passed resolutions in their respective Assemblies not to implement “the anti-people legislations of the central government”. The Opposition leaders also said the farm bill passed by the Bengal government in 2014 echoed the central laws and they, too, should be repealed in the interests of farmers. On the other hand, both Mannan and Chakraborty asked Mamata if she was not convening the session because she was wary of her majority in the House following the recent defections from the ruling party to the BJP. “We believe her own party legislators don’t have faith in the government anymore. Let her call a session and check for herself if she has the numbers to stay in power,” Chakraborty later said in a video message. The BJP construed the letter by the Left parties and the Congress as an attempt to help Trinamul. “The Left and the Congress are playing from the sidelines these days. They are demanding a trust vote so that they can make Trinamul win and send a message to the people that the BJP will not win the ensuing polls,” BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said. “I’m sure the people of Bengal will reject such a conspiracy,” he added. Trinamul leader Tapas Roy said if the Left Front and the Congress wanted to prove their anti-BJP credentials, they should not take such steps that benefit the saffron camp.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-252
01-01-2021||West Bengal||Job for wife of dead BJP worker||The state government on Thursday handed over a government job letter to the wife of deceased BJP booth committee president Saikat Bhawal, who was allegedly lynched by suspected Trinamul supporters at Halisahar in North 24-Parganas on December 12 during an outreach programme of the saffron party. On Thursday, Trinamul’s Naihati MLA Partha Bhowmik visited Saikat’s home and handed Nabaparna Bhawal the appointment letter, asking her to report for duty at the fire services department in Calcutta immediately. Trinamul leader Trinangkur Bhattacharya later took her to Calcutta, where she joined duty in the fire services department. On December 12, Saikat was allegedly lynched by suspected Trinamul supporters during the BJP’s Griha Sampark Abhiyan. Six other BJP activists had been injured. Based on an FIR, police had arrested three accused on the same night. Two days later, Trinamul leaders called on Nabaparna and she said the murder was “apolitical”. Saikat, a contract worker at Halisahar Municipality, married Nabaparna in March 2019. Trinamul sources said when chief minister Mamata Banerjee came to know about Saikat’s family, she took the initiative to arrange a job for Nabaparna. Mamata advised a job for Saikat’s brother as well, a Trinamul leader said. MLA Bhowmik said again that the murder was not political. BJP leader Subhranshu Roy welcomed the government’s gesture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-252
01-01-2021||West Bengal||Cops find 1,000 bombs in lavatory||Around 1,000 crude bombs were seized from a lavatory in Jalalpur area of Chanchal by the police on Thursday. The police raided the area after a woman collecting vegetables in a field got injured when one of the bombs exploded. Sources said homemaker Beradun Khatun went to the field for vegetables when the bomb burst. The sound and her yells made others rush to the spot. Beradun is hospitalised. A police team found seven containers at a newly constructed and unused lavatory of a villager, with 150 to 200 small crude bombs in each container. “In all around 1,000 bombs” said a senior policeman. “If all burst together, damage would have been major.” The CID was asked to defuse them. The police did not reveal the villager’s name but locals said he was a quack. SP Alok Rajoria said probe was on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-252
01-01-2021||West Bengal||Two held with fake notes, MLA leads BJP protest||BJP workers led by party MLA Swadhin Sarkar demonstrated in front of Baishnabnagar police station on Thursday against the arrest of two persons suspected to be fake Indian currency note (FICN) peddlers. Both of them are BJP party supporters implicated in false charges, the protesters said. On Thursday morning, a special team of Baishnabnagar police station and special task force jointly raided the house of Dhananjay Mandal, a member of Bakhrabad panchayat. They found fake notes of Rs 3.26 lakh in denominations of Rs 2,000 and Rs 500 from his house. Dhananjay and his brother Amrit were arrested. Later, as police officers were preparing to take the duo to court, around 100 BJP supporters, along with MLA Sarkar, reached the police station and demanded the immediate release of the brothers. “Both of them joined BJP on December 26 and Trinamul is being vindictive and implicating them in false cases,” said MLA Sarkar. During the protests, some BJP workers tried to stop the police from taking the duo to court, standing in front of a police vehicle carrying the brothers. Policemen used their batons to disperse the BJP supporters, BJP supporters alleged. Sarkar said some of their supporters suffered baton injuries. Senior police officers, however, denied the charge. “Some people were trying to deter our men from taking two the FICN peddlers to court. They were merely pushed away. We did not use batons,” said Malda SP Alok Rajoria. Trinamul scoffed at the saffron camp. “On one hand, BJP leaders are claiming that the Centre is taking steps against cattle and coal smuggling. On the other hand, a BJP MLA and his party workers are trying to prevent police from taking steps against FICN peddlers. This shows the double-faced nature of the BJP,” said Subhamay Bose, a district spokesman of Trinamul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-252
01-01-2021||West Bengal||Scan on poll preparation||Administrative officials in the districts of Jalpaiguri, Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Alipurduar and Cooch Behar have been asked to ready the infrastructure at polling booths and identify additional voting centres if required to conduct Assembly elections during the Covid-19 pandemic. Aariz Aftab, the chief electoral officer (CEO) of the state who held a meeting here on Thursday, asked the district magistrates and other officials to check out whether there were proper roads to, and electricity and drinking water supply and cellphone connectivity at the booths. “The CEO has specifically mentioned that infrastructure at all booths should be examined and if any work is needed, it should be done immediately. He has also pointed out that additional booths should be readied in view of the pandemic,” said a source. In the course of the three-hour-long meeting, Aftab also mentioned that in all those districts, the officials should try to come up with an error-free electoral roll that would be published on January 15. “He said steps should be taken to remove names of duplicate voters or voters who have names at more than one place. The voter has to be assured his name will be in the electoral roll but not at multiple locations,” said the source. After the meeting, Aftab said: “We have discussed preparations for the Assembly elections and publication of the final voter list. The electoral roll will have photos of all the voters.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-252
01-01-2021||West Bengal||Amartya Sen’s lawyers ask Visva-Bharati VC to withdraw land-related allegations ||Lawyers for economist Amartya Sen have asked the Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor to immediately withdraw land-related allegations against the Nobel laureate. “Our Client has learnt from newspapers that you and your officers have made statements, among other false statements, to press/news agencies/journalists that a plot of land owned by Visva Bharati is unlawfully occupied by our Client. However, no communication in this regard has ever been received by our Client. Nor is this allegation correct. In fact, your allegations are completely false. Our Client hereby calls upon you to produce to our Client documentary evidence to justify your aforesaid statements,” the solicitors said in a communication to Bidyut Chakrabarty, vice-chancellor of the central varsity. “We, on behalf of the Client, reserving our Client’s legal recourse against you, call upon you to immediately withdraw the allegations made by you against our Client and refrain yourself from making any further false allegation,” added the communication, dated December 29. Visva-Bharati officials could not be contacted for comment because this newspaper came across the information late at night. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had rubbished the allegations, attributed to a section of varsity officials, and offered full support to Sen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-252
01-01-2021||West Bengal||BJP supporters beaten up, three in hospital||A group of people allegedly attacked the houses of seven families of BJP supporters at Dakshin Goalpara village on the outskirts of Raiganj town on Wednesday night, assaulted family members and took away valuables. Three persons, including a woman, who suffered serious injuries, were admitted to Raiganj Government Medical College and Hospital. Police started a probe and arrested one person. The targeted families have accused a local Trinamul leader of orchestrating the attack. Trinamul leaders, however, denied the charges and said those families had indulged in illegal activities and faced spontaneous protests by villagers. “All of us are BJP supporters. For past few days, Bappa Adhikary, a local Trinamul leader, had been mounting pressure on us to defect to Trinamul. A few days back, they beat up a woman supporter. On Wednesday night, they organised an attack on us,” alleged Usha Roy, a member of one of the seven families. The attackers, she said, barged into their houses, damaged the furniture, beat up every family member and left with valuables. “We have been threatened with dire consequences if we do not listen to them,” she added. BJP supporters Rina Roy, Badal Roy and Bijoy Roy are hospitalised at the RGMCH. A police team from Raiganj reached Dakshin Goalpara and arrested a person who locals said is a Trinamul supporter. Police confirmed the arrest but did not specify the political leanings of the person. Bappa Adhikary, accused of the attack, brushed aside the charges. “These families were running illegal hooch dens and selling drugs too.  Other villagers were aggrieved with them for their activities. On Wednesday night, some villagers ransacked their homes. It was a spontaneous outburst of people,” he said. “Our party has nothing to do with the incident,” Adhikary said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-252
01-01-2021||West Bengal||Mamata  visits tribals in Santiniketan’s Ballavpur Danga village||A host of government officials on Thursday descended on Ballabhpur Danga, the tribal hamlet in Santiniketan’s Sonajhuri forest where Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday made a surprise detour on her way back to Calcutta to meet villagers and even wield the ladle at a roadside food stall. The hamlet buzzed with activities on Thursday when officials came to look into the issues that villagers had raised with the chief minister on Wednesday. When Mamata walked down the hamlet’s dusty tracks — stopping by a food stall to help cook vegetable curry — many residents told her about the lack of toilets and disability pensions, and the continuing water crisis, among others. Taking their complaints seriously, Mamata had immediately turned to Birbhum district magistrate Vijay Bharati and said: “You (district magistrate) will construct 130 toilets here from my Duare Sarkar camps and work should start from tomorrow (Thursday). Vijay (DM), you are doing very little. I am telling you and this is my instruction.” On Thursday, villagers woke up to a flurry of activities as SUV after another with “Government of West Bengal” stickers drove into the village to list grievances and demands. “We had no idea that work on our complaints would start so fast,” said villager Matal Mardi as a government vehicle zoomed past him. District magistrate Vijay Bharti on Thursday said he sent “six sets of officials” to study complaints and find out those left out of government schemes. “We started work in the village from today (Thursday). The survey is over and we instructed the electricity department to ensure power supply to a few shops and households. We will sanction extra funds to construct toilets. Everything will be done as soon as possible according to the chief minister’s directives,” Bharti said. Shops to get electricity by Monday include the now-famous food stall, said sources. Its owner, Babu Bagdi, said: “Today (Thursday) electricity department officials told me that my shop will get power connection very soon. It happened as Didi had come to my shop.” A team from the Bolpur-Sriniketan block headed by BDO Sekhar Sain and additional district magistrate (zilla parishad) Sabyasachi Sarkar looked into toilets and other benefits that could be given to villagers. Four dusty tracks would be turned into concrete stretches, said an official. An official who visited the hamlet said many homes had toilets that were however too small to use.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-252
01-01-2021||West Bengal||UK returnees on test alert||The Mamata Banerjee government directed all district health units to map and test all those who returned to Bengal from the UK in the past month after the state reported its first case of the mutant Covid strain. The new strain is a cause for worry as Bengal and the UK have considerable two-way traffic, sources said. The state detected one of at least six cases found in India with the new strain — the VUI-202012/01, which includes a genetic mutation in the “spike” protein. State government sources said that after UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson said the new strain might be up to 70 per cent more transmissible than the original, Bengal went on high alert trying to track, trace and test all UK-returnees in December and people they have come in contact with. A source close to Mamata Banerjee said the chief minister got worried after a youth — the son of a senior official in the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital — was detected with the mutant strain after he returned to Bengal from the UK around 10 days ago. “We achieved a major turnaround since Durga Puja in Covid-19 management. But UK returnees infected with this new strain could potentially lead to a public health hazard,” the source said. The state health department of which Mamata is the minister-in-charge outlined new guidelines in its order for the UK returnees, asking to keep them under observation for 28 days since their arrival. The order said that all who arrived over the past month from the UK must be tested by the RT-PCR method after sample collection at home. District surveillance officers must ensure follow-ups daily for those crucial 28 days. Also, the persons concerned would be requested to self-monitor symptoms such as fever, cough and breathing problems for those 28 days. “If they develop symptoms, they have to put on a mask, isolate themselves at home and inform the district surveillance officer or state helpline,” the order reads. “All the community contacts (without any exception) of those travellers who have tested positive will be subjected to institutional quarantine in a separate quarantine centre….” it added. On Thursday — the last day of 2020 — Bengal reported a drop in total active Covid-19 cases for the 66th consecutive day (since Vijaya Dashami on October 26), as it fell from 37,190 to 11,985. The recovery rate is 96.07, surpassing the national rate of 96.05 per cent. The state also logged 1,537 recoveries, 1,170 new infections, and 29 deaths, including five from Calcutta, on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-252
01-01-2021||West Bengal||CBI at 3 homes of TMC youth leader||The CBI carried out raids and searches on Thursday at three Calcutta homes of businessman and Trinamul Congress youth wing leader Vinay Mishra in connection with the cattle smuggling scam that the central agency has been probing for a while. Mishra was not at any of his three residences — at Rakhal Das Auddy Road in Alipore, Rashbehari and Patipukur in Lake Town — but pen drives, laptops and documents were seized, said a CBI officer. He is believed to be in the Gulf, the CBI officer said. “His family was given a notice asking for his appearance at the CBI headquarters in Calcutta on January 4,” said a source, adding a lookout notice was issued in his name and hence the CBI would be alerted by immigration authorities the moment Mishra tries to enter or exit India. CBI sources also said the home ministry “activated” its channels in the Gulf for news of his whereabouts. Trinamul dubbed the raids politically motivated. BJP’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya in one of his tweets on Thursday called Mishra a “power broker” and sought to link the CBI raids to chief minister Mamata Banerjee and her nephew Abhishek.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-252
01-01-2021||West Bengal||EC for warrant execution ||The Election Commission (EC) has asked district authorities to execute nearly 50,000 pending non-bailable warrants (NBW) at the earliest, the move considered unusual as the poll panel usually lays stress on such a measure after the model code of conduct comes into effect. The deputy election commissioner, Sudip Jain, had visited Bengal recently to observe the poll preparedness. During his five-day visit, Jain held several meetings with government officials. He also visited some districts to assess the ground situation. “During the meetings with district and state government officials, Jain came to know that nearly 50,000 NBWs were pending. He said the figure was very high and the authorities should lay stress on executing those at the earliest,” said a senior official. According to sources, the deputy election commissioner has made it clear the EC would keep a tab on the execution of the NBWs from now on. “We have been asked to send reports on execution of the NBWs on a regular basis. We will have to mention how many pending NBWs were executed in every 14 days,” said a district magistrate. The EC had earlier asked the district officials to file daily reports on law and order across the state. This was unusual, too, as the poll panel usually keeps a tab on law and order once the model code of conduct is put in place. “It is clear the poll panel is attaching special importance to Bengal. This is apparently because of the state’s history of poll-related violence,” said a source. Sources in the state administration said the district authorities had swung into action after the EC had given the directive. Police superintendents have asked police stations under their respective jurisdiction to prepare lists of pending NBWs. “The police stations have been asked to get into the act to execute all the pending NBWs once the list is prepared. Primarily, a target has been set to execute the pending NBWs by February next year,” said an official. It was found in the past that people who were involved in poll-related violence had NBWs pending against them. The NBWs are executed ahead of the polls to ensure the elections are conducted peacefully by putting all trouble-mongers behind the bars. As the EC has decided to exercise the initiative even before the model code of conduct comes into effect, it is clear the poll panel is trying to make campaigning by political parties in the run-up to polls incident-free, said sources. “The political atmosphere in the state has already heated up. The attack on BJP nation national president, J. P. Nadda and some other violent incidents in districts like East Midnapore clearly indicate the situation is very charged. The EC is perhaps trying to initiate some precautionary measures,” said a bureaucrat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-253
01-01-2021||West Bengal||Bimal lays claim to ‘original’ Morcha flag ||A unique confusion is likely to become a part of politics in Darjeeling hills with Bimal Gurung deciding to use Gorkha Janmukti Morcha’s “original flag” from Friday, January 1, 2021. Till the last day of 2020, the Gurung camp of the Morcha was using a flag with Gurung’s image. The Morcha headed by their rivals Binay Tamang and Anit Thapa was using the “original flag.” “From New Year’s Day we will use the original flag that we have been using since the birth of the party in 2007,” said Gurung. “We were using this flag (with Gurung’s picture) because of elections.” A court had earlier ordered the two Morcha factions to fight the Darjeeling Assembly bypoll separately and thus two variants of the flag represented these two factions. “Now with supporters of both the factions being directed to use the same flag, there will definitely be some confusion,” said a hill resident. Both the factions are now allies of Trinamul — the Tamang faction since 2017 and the Gurung faction since October 2020 after leaving long-time allies BJP — but bitter rivals too. The confusion over the flag will add to the animosity between the two factions of the Morcha, which are at odds against each other. On Wednesday evening, there were allegations that Bimal Gurung camp tried to capture Binay Tamang’s party office at Lebong. Leaders and supporters of Tamang camp said that they managed to take “control” of the party office within hours. The animosity between the two factions can be felt through the speeches of leaders from both the parties. The Binay Tamang camp has decided to hold a public meeting of the youth wing at Tukvar, considered a bastion of Gurung. Gurung, too, will be going to Kalimpong on January 7. This is not the first instance of Gurung making changes to the original flag. He changed the way Gorkha is spelt in Nepali in the flag in 2016.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-253
01-01-2021||West Bengal||Fabulous views back as ropeway resumes operations||The services of the Darjeeling Rangeet Valley (DRV) Ropeway resumed in Darjeeling on Thursday after almost 10 months. The ropeway — a major tourist attraction of the queen of the hills — was shut in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown. Rachana Muherjee, the director of Conveyor & Ropeway Services Private Limited (CRSPL) which runs the ropeway, said they were forced to put on hold this major tourist attraction because of the pandemic. “However, from Thursday, the ropeway has started operating and tourists have once again lined up for the ride,” Mukherjee added. “A lot of associated businesses and livelihoods of the hill people are dependent on the ropeway. It is great that the service has resumed. All the standard operating protocols would be maintained for passengers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-253
01-01-2021||West Bengal||Nandigram TMC workers block road to protest police raids||Trinamul Congress workers staged a five-hour-long blockade of the Nandigram-Sonachura highway early on Thursday to protest against police raids on the homes of over a dozen party workers at Bhutamore in East Midnapore’s Nandigram on Wednesday night. The police raids were carried out a day after 17 ruling party workers were named in an FIR for allegedly attacking 25 BJP workers while they were on their way to join a procession led by Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari on Tuesday. Trinamul leaders claimed that the police had “buckled” under Central pressure and carried out the raids on party supporters. “This is a textbook case of police brutality, backed by BJP forces at the Centre. We demand justice for the affected families,” said one protester, among a group of at least 100 who had blocked the highway on Thursday morning. The protesters claimed women were “pushed around and insulted” at some of the homes which belonged to some of the accused. “The police resorted to unnecessary tactics of force by breaking down our doors and shoving our family members around,” said Ayub Shah, a Garchakraberia gram panchayat member who was named in the FIR connected to the Tuesday incident. Trinamul leaders in Nandigram wondered what had prompted the state police “to turn against the ruling party”. “Trinamul is still in power and the police are already behaving in this manner. They can investigate and arrest but not assault innocent people,” said zilla parishad chief and Trinamul leader Sheikh Sufian. Local sources admitted, however, that most of the accused were absconding after the Bhutamore incident, and the police had made two arrests on Thursday but none of them had been named in the FIR. BJP workers on Thursday said they would “bring Nandigram to a standstill” if the accused were not brought to justice. “Trinamul is in a panic mode and they are expecting us to believe that this is staged incident. Our demand of arresting the accused stands firm,” said state BJP vice-president Pralay Pal. Nandigram police officer-in-charge Ajit Jha termed the allegations of police brutality as “baseless”. Soumendu plea Soumendu Adhikari, who is the younger brother of BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari, filed a petition in Calcutta High Court on Thursday, claiming he had been removed as the administrator of the Contai municipality on invalid grounds. “The termination was a blind act of revenge on the chief minister’s part and so Soumendu da has challenged it,” said a source close to Soumendu, who did not answer calls on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-253
01-01-2021||West Bengal||Eight on plane with mutant virus patient isolated||Eight tourists from Chinsurah of Hooghly district were isolated at a resort run by the West Bengal Forest Development Corporation (WBFDC) at Rajabhatkhawa of Alipurduar district after it was found that three of them had travelled from the UK in the flight with the youth who tested positive for the mutant Covid strain around 10 days back. Paramedics of the district health department collected their samples — as well as those of five resort employees — for tests. While reports of the rapid antigen tests came back negative, those of the RT-PCR tests are awaited, said Girish Chandra Bera, the chief medical officer of health of Alipurduar. Sources said the trio, after reaching their Chinsurah home from the UK, left for the Dooars on December 28 with five others. The group comprises three men, four women and a six-year-old. On December 29, they checked into the WBFDC resort in Rajabhatkhawa of the Buxa Tiger Reserve. After the youth tested positive for the new SARS-CoV-2 variant, state health department officials started getting details of his co-passengers. “On Wednesday, they came to know that three such co-passengers reached Rajabhatkhawa. They immediately alerted the district health department here,” said the source. Alipurduar health officials acted promptly and reached the resort on Thursday morning to collect samples from the group and from five resort employees. “The property has been sealed and all 13 have been asked to stay in.  A team has been posted at the entrance to ensure no one enters or gets out of the property,” the source added. As the news spread, tourism stakeholders sounded worried. Biswajit Saha, president of Alipurduar District Tourism Association, said they asked lodge owners to check the travel history of guests and follow health safety protocols. “The tourism industry has just started getting back on track and we have to ensure that we do not get exposed to risks like these,” said Saha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-253
