02-01-2021||West Bengal||Amartya Sen denies calling Visva-Bharati VC Bidyut Chakraborty||Amid the controversy over Nobel laureate Amartya Sen telephoning Visva Bharati Vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakraborty and introducing himself as Bharat Ratna, the famed economist has denied having any conversation with the VC in recent times, according to a teachers' association of the central university. In a mail to Sudipta Bhattacharya, who is the president of the Visva Bharati Faculty Association, the Nobel laureate said the phone call that the varsity authorities claim was made by him is "tantalisingly untrue" and that he had spoken to Chakraborty a few years ago, not in June 2019 as was being said. Visva Bharati authorities had in a recent statement claimed that Sen had called the VC from a number in India either on June 2 or 14 in 2019 and complained about the eviction of hawkers from near his Shantiniketan residence. Following this, the teachers' association president had sent a mail to Sen seeking his comment about the university's statement and got a reply on December 29 last year. "On June 2, 2019, I was in France, attending a meeting in Paris. On June 14, 2019, I was in America, at our home in Cambridge Massachusetts. After that I was in England, in the English Cambridge," Sen said in his reply to Bhattacharya. About speaking to the VC, Sen said, "On your other question, I have talked with the present VC of Visva Bharati, Bidyut Chakravarty, only once, to the best of my knowledge. This was a few years ago when he was chairing a meeting for the release of a book by Pranab Bardhan. "His claim that we have talked on the phone and I had introduced myself as Bharat Ratna is tantalisingly untrue. Thanks for your interest in preventing injustice and untruth!" Sen said. Responding to Bhattacharya's query on the Nobel laureate's visit to India in the summer of 2019, the economist said, "I came on the 3rd of July, and went to Delhi first, and then Calcutta and Santiniketan. I was not in India at all in June 2019. I am extremely rarely in India in June. I prefer to come only after the monsoon settles in - so it tends to be July, not June." The VC or any other senior official of the central university could not be reached for comments. Bhattacharya had in December last year said that the VC had claimed during a recent online meeting with the faculty that he had got a phone call from a person who introduced himself as "Bharat Ratna Amartya Sen" and requested him not to evict hawkers from near his Shantiniketan house as his daughter "buys vegetables from them". The faculty body president had sent a mail to Sen seeking his remarks about the VC's claim. Bhattacharya said Sen had previously denied such claims by Chakraborty. Another controversy had erupted on December 24 in 2020 when the media reported that the university had written to the West Bengal government alleging that dozens of land parcels owned by it were wrongfully recorded in the names of private parties, including Sen. On that day Prime Minister Narendra Modi had addressed the centenary function of Visva Bharati. The Nobel laureate, who was born in Shantiniketan in 1933, had said that the university land on which his house stands is on a long-term lease, which is nowhere near expiry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-250
02-01-2021||West Bengal||Flood of irrigation funds in pipeline||The Bengal government has released Rs 150 crore for carrying out important irrigation projects and more funds are being lined up for the irrigation department amid murmurs that Nabanna is planning to give special emphasis to the department that was helmed by Suvendu Adhikari, who joined the BJP last month. Despite submission of detailed project reports, the demand for funds from the department had been gathering dust for the last few months. “A sum of Rs 150 crore was released to undertake pending projects of the irrigation department a few days ago. The department has also been assured that soon, another tranche of Rs 800 crore will be released to take up the pending projects,” said a senior government official. According to sources, the irrigation department had put forward files of several projects, including strengthening of Durgapur Barrage and repair and restoration of its sluice gates, a few months ago. Moreover, files of projects like strengthening of some river embankments in Sunderbans and restoration of Muriganga in North 24-Parganas were also sent for finance department’s approval. “According to a rough estimate, projects worth Rs 200 crore were pending for approval from the finance department. The department had put forward the files in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic considering the importance of the projects. Finally, the majority of the projects were approved a few days ago with an assurance that more funds would be allotted soon,” said a source. Sources said files were cleared a few days ago amid murmurs that the delay was because of the uncertainty over Suvendu’s political future. The former minister, after months of bargaining with the Trinamul top brass, severed ties with the party on December 17 after he had submitted his resignation as a Trinamul MLA from Nandigram. Prior to this, Suvendu had resigned as a minister on November 27. These days, the irrigation department reports to the chief minister after she decided to hold the charge following Suvendu’s resignation. A senior Nabanna official, however, said release of funds for the irrigation department had no connection with the resignation of Suvendu from the helm of the department. “No projects, except some urgent ones, were being cleared till the end of November because of the crisis of funds. The finance department relaxed its austerity drive on December 21 and since then, funds are being allotted for various projects. It has no connection with the resignation of the minister,” the official explained. But some officials aware of the developments said that during the pandemic, funds were being allotted for some departments, including municipal affairs and urban development department. “But projects of the irrigation department are also important and time bound as these have to be completed before the monsoon. It is still not clear whether the delay would hit the projects as most of the projects would require six to eight months to get completed,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-250
02-01-2021||West Bengal||Reservoir crumbles during first pumping in Murshidabad||The administration’s wish of fresh water supply as a “New Year’s gift” for a village in Murshidabad district came crashing down when a new overhead reservoir with a capacity of 12 lakh litres collapsed on Friday afternoon, minutes after its pump had been switched on for the first time. The structure near Hariharpara caved in around 3.30pm. Sources said the tank had started leaking and collapsed before even 25 per cent of the capacity had been filled. Work on the project, an initiative of the public health and engineering department, had started in 2018. “I switched on the pump and started walking home. Within minutes, I looked back and witnessed the horrendous sight of the tank crumbling,” said operator Abdus Selim Mondal, who owned the land that was let out for the project. “We were all eager for the operation of this new reservoir because we had been promised fresh water as a New Year’s gift from the district administration,” the Imamnagar resident added. There were no casualties in the incident. Sources said the Hariharpara block development officer Raja Bhowmick and police had visited the site on Friday evening. Public health engineers from Behrampore were on their way to the spot. “I informed police right away and rushed to the site. We are awaiting the arrival of engineers to know the exact cause of the crash,” said the BDO. He declined further comment citing “technicalities” associated with the incident. Executive engineer of the Behrampore public health and engineering department, Asit Roy, said: “We will launch an inquiry and await official results before going into conclusions about the incident.” On January 22 last year, an overhead reservoir with a capacity to store 700 cubic meters of water had crashed in Bankura’s Sarenga, raising questions over the structure that had been completed at a cost of Rs 165 crore just three years before. Engineers of the state government had cited the design fault as the cause of the collapse. The tank collapse had resulted in severe water scarcity at 20 villages in Sarenga, which is known as one of the most arid and dry zones in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-250
02-01-2021||West Bengal||Abhishek Banerjee to visit north Bengal||Trinamul MP and party’s youth wing president Abhishek Banerjee will be in north Bengal on a five-day visit next week and will attend a slew of indoor meetings with party workers. During his trip, Abhishek will address a public meeting in South Dinajpur district. The visit has been planned just ahead of a trip of Trinamul turncoat Subhendu Adhikari who is likely to be in north Bengal on January 7.  Abhishek’s visit appears to be a proactive move by the ruling party of Bengal to put all efforts to prevent Adhikari from eroding Trinamul’s support base. After Adhikari joined the BJP, he hasn’t yet visited the region on which the saffron brigade has been focusing for months and intends to secure 50 of 54 Assembly seats. “In north Bengal, three Trinamul MLAs have already defected to the BJP, along with a former MP and some other party leaders. Subhendu Adhikari has managed to dent Trinamul’s support  to some extent at a number of places in south Bengal and hinted that he would bring in more people on board. That is why it seems, Abhishek Banerjee, along with PK, will be in the region to foil the BJP leader’s plan,” said an observer. The three MLAs who have joined the BJP are Mihir Goswami of Cooch Behar South, Dipali Biswas of Gazole (in Malda) and Sukra Munda of Nagrakata (in Jalpaiguri). During his visit, the youth Trinamul president will attend indoor meetings in Siliguri, Alipurduar, Jalpaiguri and South Dinajpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-250
02-01-2021||West Bengal||Tourists, UK returnees test negative  for Covid||All eight tourists from Chinsurah of Hooghly district, including the trio who had travelled from the UK, have been tested negative for Covid-19, much to the relief of the district health officials and tourism stakeholders of Alipurduar district. Also, the five employees who are posted at the resort of West Bengal Forest Development Corporation (WBFDC) in Rajabhatkhawa of Buxa Tiger Reserve where these tourists had checked in have also been tested negative. On Thursday, a health team had rushed to the resort after they had been informed by the state health officials that three persons who had got to the property had travelled from the United Kingdom on the same flight in which the youth of Calcutta who was found infected with the mutant strain of Covid-19, had boarded. They had collected samples of the entire group and also of the staff who work at the resort and had served the tourists. All of them were asked to stay at the resort and entry or exit of people was halted at the property. “We had initially conducted a rapid antigen test and all the samples were tested negative. Even then, we waited for RT-PCR reports and received the same last night. It is a relief that all of them have been found negative,” said Girish Chandra Bera, the chief medical officer of health of Alipurduar. After getting the reports, the department withdrew the restriction imposed on the group and the five employees on Thursday. “The tourists have been told that they can travel as per their schedule. We have also sent an instruction to all tourist accommodations of the district to obtain travel history of people before they check in,” Bera added. The tourism sector in the region was hit by the novel coronavirus and the resultant lockdown||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-250
02-01-2021||West Bengal||10 named in Manish Shukla murder chargesheet||The state CID submitted its chargesheet to a court in Barrackpore on Friday in connection with the killing of BJP leader Manish Shukla and brought criminal conspiracy and murder charges against 10 persons. The CID has already arrested the 10 accused persons from Bengal, Bihar and Punjab. The list includes Khurram Khan, Subodh Rai, Nasir Khan, Sujit Rai, Amar Yadav and Roshan Kumar Yadav. In the chargesheet, the sleuths claimed that the BJP leader had been killed over personal enmity and not for any political reason. A CID official who refused to be identified said: “The investigation revealed that Khurram Khan, a local trader, with the support of Subodh Singh, Subodh Rai and Nasir Khan had apparently conspired to eliminate Manish by engaging sharp shooters from Bihar.” “Subodh materialised the conspiracy while staying in jail in Nalanda. However, the exact amount of this contract murder could not be ascertained so far,” he added. Subodh Singh’s name did not feature in the chargesheet but was mentioned as a “suspect” in the case. The “suspect” list includes the names of Trinamul leader and former chairman of Barrackpore municipality Uttam Das, former chairman of Titagarh municipality Prasanta Chowdhury, Rajendra Yadav and others. On the evening of October 4 last year, Shukla was shot dead at Purani Bazar adjacent to BT road near Titagarh police station. BJP’s Barrackpore organising district committee president Rabin Bhattacharyya said: “The CID has so far said nothing about the suspected role of Trinamul leaders. It appears that the probe agency was trying to protect them on the direction of its political bosses.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-250
02-01-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul, BJP test Teesta waters||The Teesta river, which meanders through the hills and the plains of north Bengal before entering Bangladesh, is emerging as an important political issue ahead of the Assembly elections after remaining a matter of discussion in the diplomatic circles in New Delhi and Dhaka for around a decade. The trigger behind Teesta’s inclusion in the domestic political matrix is a recent meeting that Prime Minister Narendra Modi held with his Bangladeshi counterpart Sheikh Hasina where the sharing of water of the Teesta, an agreement on the subject is pending since 2011 because of the opposition of Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, came up after Dhaka prodded Delhi for an immediate resolution. Several BJP leaders in north Bengal said in private they would make Teesta an issue and blame the Trinamul government for the delay in sealing a deal on sharing of water, which apparently strained bilateral relation. The Trinamul leaders, on the other hand, will try to reach out to the rural population of the region with the message that they had put the interests of the farmers of north Bengal ahead of other considerations. Sreerupa Mitra Choudhury, a state vice-president of BJP’s Kishan Morcha, said the Trinamul leadership was simply trying to play politics over the issue. “For the central government, farmers of north Bengal are the first priority but reluctance of the Trinamul government has made this issue an area of contention between the two countries. We doubt whether the state has any proper data to confirm its point that the portion of water that north Bengal will receive as per the proposed treaty is inadequate,” she said. The BJP leaders think the issue will give them political dividends in north Bengal because of a number of reasons. One of the major reasons, a source said, is the presence of a considerable section of voters who have roots in Bangladesh. Besides, bilateral trade is carried out through multiple borders of north Bengal because of which there is a connection between people on both sides of the border. Chandan Bhowmik, a district coordinator of Trinamul in Jalpaiguri and a senior party leader, when mentioned about the issue, said their stand would continue to be the same. “If the Centre wants to go ahead with it, there would be protests. Also, as we are meeting people these days, we are elaborating on the issue that it is because of Mamata Banerjee that the region has not faced any crisis because of paucity of water in the Teesta,” said Bhowmik. Several Trinamul leaders said opposing the water treaty would help them at a time New Delhi was aggressively trying to push the deal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-250
02-01-2021||West Bengal||State government takes over road at Visva-Bharati||Three days after chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s announcement at the Birbhum administrative review meeting, the state government on Friday formally took back control of a 2.9km road connecting the Visva-Bharati campus in Santiniketan to Sriniketan. “Today, we took back the control of the road that the chief minister had announced at the administrative meeting,” said Vijay Bharti, the Birbhum district magistrate. In her administrative meeting in Bolpur on December 28, Mamata accepted the plea of Santiniketan residents who had wanted the government to take back control of the road that it had handed over to Visva-Bharati in 2017. The residents had written to her that the varsity authorities had placed barricades on the road to restrict the movement of goods vehicles. In a formal ceremony on Friday, a new board declaring that the “road is maintained by PWD, Govt. of West Bengal” was placed on the road. The board was decorated with flowers and several Santiniketan old-timers, including Rabindranath Tagore’s descendent Supriya Tagore and economist Amartya Sen’s cousin Shanta Bhanu Sen, were present. Tagore cut the ribbon to complete the formality of the state taking back the road. District police chief Shyam Singh said law enforcement personnel would be deployed on the road to ensure free movement of local residents and tourists. While the district administration completed the formalities, Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty wrote to Mamata requesting her to reconsider her decision of taking back the road from the varsity’s control. He apprehended that the decision would lead to movement of heavy vehicles and encroachment in the vicinity of old buildings and sculptures located on either side of the road. District magistrate Bharti, however, said: “There will be no plying of heavy vehicles and the state government will take better care of the road.” On the day the road was being taken back, the Visva-Bharati authorities embarked on a new project, which Sanitiniketan residents said was a “retaliation” of the state government’s decision, to put up a boundary wall on an existing metal road near Santiniketan Doordarshan Kendra. The officials went to the site where the wall was being built and stopped the construction. A varsity official said: “We have already constructed an alternative road and the existing road will be closed for security of the campus and staff quarters.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-250
02-01-2021||West Bengal||26 more die of Covid, active cases fall further in Bengal||Bengal on Friday began 2021 with 1,496 Covid-19 recoveries, 1,153 new infections and 26 deaths, logging a drop in its total of active cases for the 67th consecutive day (since Vijaya Dashami on October 26). The total of infections fell from 37,190 to 11,616 during the 67 days, improving by nearly 69 per cent. The recovery rate has risen for 71 consecutive days now, by nearly nine per cent since October 22, to 96.14. After months of lagging behind the national rate — 96.07 per cent on Friday — the state overtook it on Thursday and extended the lead on Friday. “We have achieved —actually bettered — all our year-end targets in the pandemic management. If Day One of 2021 is any indication, we will be able to keep improving as the trend continues to hold,” said a minister. “In just a few weeks, we managed to lower our share in the national total of active cases from around seven per cent to 4.6 per cent. That was key to finally getting past the national recovery rate again,” he added. Since the end of Durga Puja, the state has reported over 2.21 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 1.99 lakh new infections detected. The state’s Covid-19 total of 5.53 lakh cases include over 5.31 lakh recoveries and 9,738 deaths. In December alone, the state reported 79,604 recoveries and 68,579 new infections. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. The numbers of infections from the festivals in October and November showed that the court’s instructions were effective. “Now, we will monitor the data for a couple of weeks, from around a week from now, to see if the Christmas-New Year spell of revelry caused us a setback, by worsening the outbreak. Having said that, since we were able to see off the mega autumnal spell of festivals, this one should not be a big problem,” said the minister. “The only thing we have to watch out for, right now, is the new strain of Covid-19 being brought from outside the country. But that is irrespective of the revelry,” he added. Bengal’s positive confirmation rate is 7.74 per cent now, having improved steadily from the 8.27 of November 20. With 39,109 tests on Friday, the state’s total test count went past 71.49 lakh, at 79,439 tests per million people. The 26 deaths reported included six from the city. The state attributed 8,162 (83.8 per cent) of the total deaths to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate is now 1.76, compared to the 1.44 per cent nationally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-250
02-01-2021||West Bengal||Brother follows Suvendu Adhikari to BJP||Former chairman of Contai municipality Soumendu Adhikari, who is also the younger brother of Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari, joined the BJP on Friday evening. Soumendu’s switch to the BJP, along with 13 former councillors, comes three days after he was removed by Trinamul as municipality administrator. He filed a petition in Calcutta High Court against the move on Thursday. Soumendu joined the BJP at the rally in Contai, East Midnapore. He, along with others, received BJP flags from the party’s Contai organisation secretary Anup Chakraborty at a rally held at the venue where Trinamul minister Firhad Hakim and MP Saugata Roy had addressed a meeting on December 23. On Friday morning, Suvendu had given hints regarding Soumendu’s switch to the BJP at the rally. Nandigram had become the centre of retaliatory rallies by the supporters of Suvendu and chief minister Mamata Banerjee. While Trinamul will hold a meeting of party workers in Nandigram on January 7, Suvendu is scheduled to hold a rally there the following day. Suvendu said Soumendu joining the BJP was the beginning of a “decisive phase” in Bengal and the Mamata Banerjee government would lose majority “by January 30” considering the way “leaders (MLAs) were joining the BJP”. “You have known me as a son of the soil. I have also been a councillor in Contai and we know what we have contributed,” Suvendu told a packed rally, his brother Soumendu by his side. “Trinamul says I had been in talks with the BJP for months. Yes, I had been, but it is to ensure that youths can get jobs in the state after clearing exams,” he added. Contai Trinamul leader Mahmud Hossain said Soumendu joining the BJP had “proven Trinamul’s suspicions right”. “It was for the best he was removed from his post of municipality administrator. He did not even wait for a week to switch sides,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-251
02-01-2021||West Bengal||Protest at bid to open RSS office in Jalpaiguri||Representatives of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh had to face protests from residents at Santipara of Jalpaiguri town on Friday when they arrived to make preparations for opening an office at a building. Police and administrative officials reached the locality and asked the RSS to lock the building and approach the authorities with necessary documents of the office. Sources said a two-storied building owned by Narendra Berlia had been lying unused at Santipara for the past few years. On Friday, 50-odd RSS workers started cleaning the building. When some local people inquired, they were told that an office of RSS would be opened there. This led to protests. Over 100 residents gathered and asked the RSS workers to stop their work. While the locals claimed the RSS workers had broken the lock and entered the house without informing them, those on the other side said they had documents with them. As the altercation continued and the crowd swelled, a police team led by Bipul Sinha, the inspector-in-charge of Kotwali police station and Samir Pal, a deputy superintendent of police, reached the spot. Subhendu Das, a deputy magistrate, was also sent to the spot. They spoke with both sides and brought the situation under control. “The house owner stays somewhere else. Before leaving, he had told us to look after the building. Suddenly, some people entered the house today by breaking the lock. That is why we have protested. The house owner had also assured us that if he disposed the property, he would help us renovate a local temple,” said Biswajit Majumdar, a local resident. “If these people can satisfy the administration with necessary documents, we do not have any problem,” he added. Ajay Singhania, a relative of Berlia, claimed Berlia had given him a power of attorney for the house and last year, the house owner had provided the house to a local trust for setting up the RSS office. “I have the power of attorney with me and all other relevant documents. The RSS office was supposed to open earlier but it got delayed because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Three days ago, we had even informed the district police that the office would be opened today,” Singhania said. The deputy magistrate and the police officers, who collected details about the issue, later asked the RSS representatives to lock the house. “They have been asked to meet administrative officials with relevant documents to prove that they have legal rights to use the house as an office. They can open the house only after they get necessary assent from the administration. Prohibitory orders have been clamped on the premises and anybody trying to get inside will have to face legal steps,” said Pal, the deputy superintendent of police. Debasish Lala, one of the organisers of the RSS in Jalpaiguri, said: “We had taken the building months ago and today, we planned to clean it so that we could open our office. But some locals objected.” “We informed the police and administration. We will speak with the administration in due course to resolve the issue.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-251
02-01-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati authorities seal women’s socio-cultural office||Visva-Bharati authorities on Friday sealed the office of a women’s socio-cultural organisation set up on the campus on Rabindranath Tagore’s instructions, prompting its outraged and elderly members to demonstrate for several hours. The action against the Alapini Mahila Samity comes days after economist Amartya Sen’s assertion about a big gap between the Santiniketan culture and that of Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty, “empowered as he is by the central government in Delhi”. Visva-Bharati’s officiating public relations officer did not take calls but a senior university official said: “The decision to vacate the office had been taken by the VC.” Samity members said the office at Notun Bari, a thatched mud house near the Mrinalini Ananda Pathshala, was given to the organisation in 1956 when Indira Devi Chaudhurani, daughter of Tagore’s elder brother Satyendranath, was Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor. Visva-Bharati’s estate department had on December 10 written to the president and secretary of the Samity, asking them to vacate the office by the end of the month on the ground that the university wanted it for academic activities. “We wrote back to the varsity authorities asking for a discussion but they did not respond,” said Samity member Sharmila Roy Pommot. “As we did not adhere to their wish, the authorities sealed the office today (Friday). The organisation has a historical background and we want to keep it intact. We want the office to be returned to us.” Sources said Rabindranath had over a century ago advised women of the Tagore family to set up the Alapini Mahila Samity so they could get involved with Santiniketan’s culture. Since its inception in 1916 under the stewardship of the poet’s eldest brother Dwijendranath Tagore, the organisation has been helmed by stalwarts such as Rabindranath’s daughter-in-law Pratima Devi, niece Indira Devi Chaudhurani and Amita Sen, mother of Nobel laureate Amartya Sen. Samity president Aparna Das Mahapatra, 86, said the organisation represented the Tagorean tradition and the university authorities had in a way dishonoured the poet by sealing its office. Manisha Banerjee, Samity executive member and a varsity alumna, said: “Aparnadi’s maternal grandmother was Nanibala Roy, who learnt midwifery on Tagore’s instructions and helped women in Santiniketan deliver babies in a scientific way.” The 60-strong Samity members now carry out social activities, publish the cultural magazine Shreyashi, and interact with Patha Bhavana students when the school remains closed during holidays. Many among the Samity members who protested for hours outside one of Visva-Bharati’s gates around noon were aged in their 70s and 80s. Among them was Mahapatra. “We had no choice but to protest against the authorities as the present vice-chancellor is trying to create a disconnect between the varsity and the more-than-a century-old organisation,” she said. Shortly after the protest, the varsity authorities sent a fresh letter to the Samity extending the deadline to vacate the office by three days and offering to unseal it for that period. “We are not ready to accept any fresh deadline; we want our office back,” a Samity member said. She added: “We use one room at Notun Bari twice a month to hold meetings. (After the December 10 letter), we even offered to pay a monthly rent of Rs 1,000 to the university. But the authorities did not respond.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-251
