03-01-2021||West Bengal||Owaisi gears up as Bengal nears polls, visits state||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen supremo Assaduddin Owaisi on Sunday visited  Furfura Sharif in Bengal's Hooghly district to hold discussions about the state’s political scenario. He discussed the upcoming assembly polls with prominent Muslim leader Abbas Siddiqui, sources in his party said. Owaisi, who has announced that AIMIM will contest individually in the state during the polls, visited Bengal for the first time following the move. “Owaisi wanted to keep the meeting a secret as we were apprehensive that the TMC government would stop him from exiting the airport. From Kolkata airport, he went straight to Hooghly to meet Abbas Siddiqui. He will leave for Hyderabad in the afternoon,” AIMIM state secretary Zameerul Hassan said. The leader had earlier decided to hold a virtual meeting with Siddiqui, but changed his mind at the eleventh hour to fly down to Bengal and meet him in person. Siddiqui, a pirzada (religious leader) from Furfura Sharif, has been speaking out against the state government over several issues in recent times. According to the sources, he is planning to float a minority outfit of his own. Owaisi, whose party put up a good show during Bihar polls last year -- bagging five seats in the region bordering Bengal -- might have also held talks with Siddiqui on a possible seat-sharing deal, they said. The AIMIM chief's visit to Furfura Sharif, however, evoked sharp reactions from the ruling TMC. The AIMIM is nothing but a proxy of the BJP. Owaisi is well aware that Muslims here are mostly Bengali-speaking, and won't support him. He is trying to forge ties with Abbas Siddiqui, but that won't yield any result,” Trinamul MP Sougata Roy said. “Muslims in Bengal stand firmly by Mamata Banerjee,” the senior TMC leader asserted. A deciding factor in nearly 100-110 seats in the state, minorities especially Muslims have acted as a bulwark of the TMC against its rivals till 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Prominent Muslim leaders in the state, nonetheless, have claimed that equations are likely to change with the entry of the AIMIM. According to a senior leader in the Hyderabad-based party, Owaisi has seen in West Bengal a fertile ground for his expansion plans, as Muslims constitute around 30 per cent of the state's population. Of the 30 per cent, however, at least 24 per cent are Bengali-speaking Muslims.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-249
03-01-2021||West Bengal||Dada’s heart attack creates political flutter||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee as well as her political opponents made a beeline to a city hospital to enquire after the health of Sourav Ganguly, who was admitted there after a mild heart attack on Saturday. “Sourav is stable now. He was lying on the bed and he asked me about my health,” Mamata told journalists after meeting the cricketer-turned-BCCI-chief. “I thank the doctors for the kind of treatment they have provided to him,” the chief minister added. When the news of Sourav’s illness broke on Saturday afternoon, several rumours had surfaced. It was a tweet by Mamata that confirmed that Sourav had suffered a mild heart attack. “Sad to hear that @sganguly99 has suffered a mild cardiac arrest and has been admitted to hospital,” Mamata had posted on the microblogging site. Sources said Union home minister Amit Shah called up BJP’s minder for Bengal Kailash Vijayvargiya and requested him to offer Sourav’s family all possible help. Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta, along with a BJP vice-president, Pratap Banerjee, went to the hospital. “Amitji had also offered to take Dada to Delhi in an air ambulance if the situation so demanded. He had asked Kailashji to convey the offer to the family,” a BJP source said. Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar also arrived at the hospital with his wife. On behalf of the CPM, Sujan Chakraborty, leader of the Left legislative party, visited the hospital. The hospital visits came at a time speculation has been rife about whether Sourav would take the political plunge, especially after he met the governor and shared a platform with Shah at a cricket body event to honour the late Arun Jaitley in Delhi recently. Trinamul politicians who visited the hospital included panchayat minister Subrata Mukherjee, public works department minister Arup Biswas, urban development minister Firhad Hakim and junior sports minister Laxmi Ratan Shukla, himself a former cricketer. Trinamul MLA Vaishali Dalmiya was also present at the hospital. Governor Dhankhar came out of the hospital with a smiling face and declared that he was relieved to see that the cricketer was all right. Last Sunday, Sourav had met Dhankhar at Raj Bhawan. Sourav had described the visit as a courtesy call, adding that he had invited Dhankhar to visit Eden Gardens. Wishes for Sourav’s speedy recovery have poured in on Twitter from across the world. “Just got to know about your ailment Sourav. Hope each passing day brings you closer to a full and speedy recovery! Get well soon,” cricketing legend and contemporary Sachin Tendulkar tweeted. “Praying for your speedy recovery. Get well soon @SGanguly99,” posted Indian skipper Virat Kohli. Jay Shah, home minister Shah’s son and BCCI secretary, tweeted: “I wish and pray for the speedy recovery of @SGanguly99. I’ve spoken to his family. Dada is stable and is responding well to the treatment.” Virendra Sehwag, who had played for Team India under Sourav’s captaincy, tweeted: “Dada, jaldi se theek hone ka. Praying for your quick and speedy recovery @SGanguly99.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-249
03-01-2021||West Bengal||Mishaps kill 4 youths, injure 2 leopards in Bengal||Three youths, including a minor, died in an accident on NH512 at South Dinajpur on New Year night, while another was fatally gored by a gaur in Alipurduar. A night service bus from Balurghat heading towards Cooch Behar instantly killed Sushanta Burman, 16, Partha Burman, 27, and Milan Burman, 18, who were on a bike and residents of Belkuria village, Bansihari police station. Pankaj Roy, 21, was gored by a gaur in Alipurduar district on Friday evening and later died in hospital. Pankaj, a resident of Kholta, was heading towards Jainti under Buxa Tiger Reserve on his motorcycle when the gaur jumped out of the forest and gored him. In a separate incident on Friday night, a speeding car rammed into two adult male leopards on NH31 in Jalpaiguri district, leaving the animals and five men in the car injured. An injured leopard managed to get inside the forest. The other was rescued by Banarhat police and Binnaguri wildlife squad and sent to the leopard rescue centre in Lataguri on the fringes of Gorumara National Park. Also, among the five persons, three with severe injuries were sent to a hospital in Jalpaiguri. The driver had lost control of the car near Gandrapara Tea Estate when the leopards were on the road, a source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-249
03-01-2021||West Bengal||Face morphed on smut clip: MLA||Trinamul’s Dinhata MLA Udayan Guha in Cooch Behar district has complained to the police of having fallen prey to a racket that involves morphed and obscene videos of people. “A few days back, I received a video call from a woman. After some days, she sent an obscene video to me with my face morphed. Since then, I have been receiving messages asking me for money with threats of political ruin if I do not meet their demand. I have told the police and hope they crack the case,” said Guha, who also chairs the West Bengal Forest Development Corporation. Recently, Cooch Behar police had alerted people not to take video calls from unknown numbers. “Those involved in the racket instantly use the video clip of the call to morph the person’s face into videos for money or threaten exposure on social media,” said a police officer. Guha told the media that people should not take video calls from unknown numbers. The MLA added that he was not ready to pay money and would take legal steps instead. “Though it appears to be a plan to extort money, I am not ruling out political rivalry,” he said.
The police officer said they had consulted cyber experts on the case. A bullet hit Altaf Ali, a vegetable vendor of Okrabari under Dinhata-I block of Cooch Behar, on his right hand when he chanced to come between two warring Trinamul groups late on Friday evening. Sources said the groups were attacking each other with firearms, bricks, stones and sticks over the formation of the party’s panchayat-level committee. Angry traders on Saturday closed the local market and blocked Dinhata-Gitaldaha road for four hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-249
03-01-2021||West Bengal||First vaccine dry run in Bengal, crowds expect jab||Amid reports of the Covid-19 vaccine’s rollout in the country soon, Bengal’s first dry run of the vaccination process was held at three places in North 24-Parganas on Saturday. At each of the three places, huge crowds had gathered, mistaking the dry run for actual immunisation. The state health department held the dry run or mock vaccination drill to examine infrastructure readiness that includes logistic support, uploading dummy beneficiary data, adherence to actual implementation protocol, side effects care and finding gaps, if any. The dry run was conducted at the Amdanga rural hospital, the urban primary health centre of Madhyamgram Municipality and the Duttabad primary health centre under Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation). At each of the three camps, 25 health workers earlier registered as “beneficiaries” through specific applications had to undergo mock vaccination in the presence of representatives of World Health Organisation, Unicef, and health officials of central and state governments. However, news of the dry run created confusion among a large number of people who turned up at the health care facilities “to get vaccinated”. It took health department officials time to clear the misconception and clear the centres of the massive crowds to carry out the mock drill. The eagerness among people to get vaccinated comes in the backdrop of the news that India’s drug regulatory expert panel on Friday recommended the emergency use of the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine against Covid-19. A district health official, who was involved in the dry run in Amdanga, said: “News spread among residents that the Covid vaccination had begun and they started to gather in large numbers. nly after we explained to them that it was a mock drill before the actual rollout did they go.” Amdanga villager Asadul Biswas said it wasn’t their fault. “People have been eagerly waiting for the Covid-19 vaccine. When we saw the camp at Amdanga hospital, we rushed there but was told that it was only a mock drill,” he said. Saturday’s dry run in Bengal was the second such exercise in the country under the guidance of the Union ministry of health. The first lot of mock drills was held on December 28-29 in Assam, Andhra Pradesh, Punjab and Gujarat. Chief medical officer of health of Barasat Tapas Kumar Roy said: “The trial run was held to examine the operational feasibility of vaccination as well as its planning and implementation of the Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network application in real environment. The entire process was smooth.” At each healthcare facility, health workers in queues maintained social distance. On entering the facility, their registered identity number was verified through the dedicated app. They were taken to a room where mock vaccination was done. Then, a text message was sent informing the person about the next date of vaccination. The beneficiary was taken to the third room, the observation centre, where a vaccination officer monitored the person for 30 minutes for “side effects”. In case of any side effect, a rapid response team will provide medical support, a health official said. Ananya Dutta, public health manager of Madhyamgram Municipality said: “We followed all the protocol, physically implementing it in the application on a real time basis. We are happy that no drawback in the mechanism was detected.” Swapna Ghosh, a health worker who took part in the dry run, said: “The experience was quite exciting and I am waiting for the jab that would help ward off Covid-19.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-249
03-01-2021||West Bengal||Bimal Gurung faction starts Rs 10 fundraiser||The Bimal Gurung camp of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha will launch a Rs-10 membership subscription drive, the decision taken during the party’s central committee meeting at Patlebas on Saturday indicating that the party is trying to shore up its organisational base in the hills. “We have decided to start a membership drive of Rs 10,” said Roshan Giri, general secretary of the Morcha’s Gurung camp, told the media. Gurung’s party has been out of power since 2017, after their elected sabhasads from Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) resigned from the hill body, and the state government appointed its rival Binay Tamang camp to head the GTA. With Gurung on the run from 2017 to October 2020, his faction of the Morcha suffered organisational setbacks, as many supporters left it. Giri tried to circumvent a question from The Telegraph when asked if the party was low on supporters and funds. “Membership drive has not been held since 2017...we also need party funds. A subscription of Rs 10 will help run the party,” said Giri. “We used to collect (the subscription) every year...Our source of party funds is through membership subscription. We have to submit an audited account to the Election Commision every year.” The faction also decided on a 51-member central committee instead of a huge 108-member one, and a “national committee” with representatives from different states, he said. More assistant secretaries, apart from Bimal Darjee and Binu Sundas, would be appointed apart from party spokespersons from various regions of the area. While the Morcha’s rival Binay Tamang’s youth wing is scheduled to hold a public meeting at Tukvar on Sunday, Gurung will travel to Kalimpong for a public meeting on January 7. Two days later, the Tamang camp is also likely to hold a meeting in Kalimpong.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-249
03-01-2021||West Bengal||New food unit in Nadia faces threat||Two women entrepreneurs from Calcutta have put on hold the construction of an export-oriented food processing and preservation unit on a 49-bigha plot adjacent to NH12 in Nadia’s Chakdah over alleged threats and scare tactics by extortionists. An official of the company — Delta Creation Private Limited — said in July last year they had been forced to shell out Rs 50,000 to buy peace when goons forced out private security guards from the site. Last week, goons made fresh demands for money when entrepreneurs Indrani Dutta and Laboni Dutta resumed construction that had been suspended for months because of the Covid situation. When the entrepreneurs refused to oblige, goons allegedly began stealing construction material and soil. “We initially tried to buy peace with Rs 50,000. But their demands appear to be unending. Since we have refused to oblige now, they have stolen construction materials and soil from the site,” said company’s managing director Arun Kumar Maity. Another official, who did not come on record, added that bombs were hurled at the site two days ago, forcing workers to flee. When Maity arrived at the site on Saturday, the goons allegedly said they would allow work only if their cash demand was met. “It is not possible for us to pay them every day. The goons have unleashed panic among our workers who stay at the site and are being threatened every day,” said Laboni Dutta, who is one of the directors of the company. Maity said he had apprised chief minister Mamata Banerjee, industries minister Partha Chatterjee and governor Jagdeep Dhankhar about the threat from extortionists, and demanded their intervention for work to go on, as well as lodged complaints with Chakdah police. “Cops are yet to begin a probe,” he said. Last year, entrepreneurs Indrani Dutta and Laboni Dutta bought 49 bighas of land to set up the export-oriented food processing-cum-preservation unit with technological support of a Singapore-based company. The project was aimed at procuring vegetables from farmers in bulk for export. “We are all set to implement a high-end technology that can preserve vegetables without chemicals for about 360 days. This area in Nadia is known for its vegetables and has huge potential for the food processing industry. We have tied up with about a few hundred farmers for the purpose. The project will also provide job opportunities to around 1,500 unskilled workers who can sort and clean vegetables,” said Maity. Maity said since the start of the construction, the project had been facing repeated threats from goons. The company has erected two sheds but a major part of the construction is incomplete, he added. State micro, small and medium enterprises minister and local MLA Ratna Ghosh, however, had a different take. She said there was a bone of contention between the company and villagers over a canal in the area. “There is around 100 bigha land around the project. During monsoon the land is flooded. A canal used to drain out the water, but it was filled up (plugged) by the company. But villagers are not against industries,” Ghosh said. District magistrate Nadia Partha Ghosh told The Telegraph: “I have heard about the incident (extortion demands) and instructed the police to initiate necessary action so that the work can resume.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-249
03-01-2021||West Bengal||Nadda rally in Birbhum next  Sunday||The BJP national president, J.P. Nadda, will visit Bengal on January 9 and 10, starting with a public rally in Birbhum, party sources have said. A BJP leader said as Mamata’s December 29 Bolpur rally in Birbhum was a far bigger show than that of Shah on December 20, the saffron party decided to focus on the district. Multiple BJP sources said the party’s central leadership wasn’t happy with the organisation in Birbhum. Hence, within a month of Union home minister Amit Shah’s roadshow in Birbhum, comes Nadda’s rally in the same district but its venue is yet to be decided. The BJP plans to be aggressive in its rallies now, insiders said. “We will not stop with a single rally at one place. There will be multiple rallies in each constituency,” a BJP office-bearer said. BJP sources also said that while Nadda would visit Birbhum, Shah might visit the Matua bastion of Thakurnagar in Bongaon, North 24-Parganas, on January 30. If Shah visits Thakurnagur, it would be significant because the BJP has been facing unrest in the state’s Matua-dominated areas over the Centre’s delay in rolling out the contentious Citizenship Amendment Act. BJP’s Bongaon MP and the chief of the All India Matua Mahasangha Shantanu Thakur had voiced the community’s anguish over the delay in the implementation of the laws, and the party leadership had reached out to him in order to keep its Matua support base intact. Following a meeting with senior party leaders, Thakur had said earlier this week that Shah might visit his constituency on January 19 or 20. However, BJP sources said that Shah’s visit might actually happen on January 30.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-249
03-01-2021||West Bengal||863 new Covid cases in 24 hours in Bengal||Bengal logged 863 Covid-19 infections during the 24-hour window ending Saturday 9am, 1,443 recoveries and 28 deaths, including eight from Calcutta. The day’s number of new infections was the lowest in months but tests were also fewer on Saturday at 28,275. Bengal also reported a drop in total active cases for the 68th consecutive day from 37,190 on Vijaya Dashami, October 26, to 11,008 now. Bengal’s recovery rate has risen for 72 consecutive days by nearly 9 per cent since October 22 to 96.25 now, above the national rate of 96.13 per cent. “Our year-end stellar spell has apparently stayed with us  in the start of the New Year. We have undone six months of damage and hope we can continue on this path,” said a minister. “If so we will be well-placed for the vaccination phase,” he added. Since Dashami, the state reported over 2.23 lakh recoveries and 2 lakh new infections. The state’s Covid-19 total of 5.54 lakh cases includes over 5.33 lakh recoveries and 9,766 deaths. Bengal’s mortality rate is now 1.76, compared to the 1.44 per cent nationally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-250
