04-01-2021||West Bengal||Sovan Chatterjee skips BJP roadshow in Calcutta||BJP's Calcutta zone observer and former city mayor Sovan Chatterjee on Monday skipped a party roadshow that he was scheduled to lead in the metropolis. Chatterjee could not attend the rally due to the sudden illness of his friend Baisakhi Banerjee, BJP sources said. The roadshow, led by senior BJP leaders Kailash Vijayvargiya, Mukul Roy and Arjun Singh, came face-to-face with a TMC street-corner meeting near Kidderpore. The BJP alleged that TMC activists hurled shoes towards the convoy of the saffron party leaders' cars and chairs at the party workers. The police, which gave verbal permission for the rally, prevented a flare-up by stopping some activists of the BJP's youth wing Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) from approaching towards the TMC members. Around 100 motorcycles and a flower-decked truck were part of the rally that began on Watgunj Road and passed through Alipore before culminating at the BJP's election office in Hastings. It was originally scheduled to end at the party's state headquarters in central Kolkata. BJP leader Mukul Roy said the roadshow was against the "misrule" of the TMC government. Party spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said every leader and activist is part of the people's movement to dislodge the TMC from power in the state and it is not an individual show. Dismissing the BJP's allegations that TMC activists hurled shoes and chairs at its members, Urban Development and Municipal Affairs Minister and Calcutta Mayor Firhad Hakim said, "We are not bothered if the BJP takes out a rally as we have other important work to do."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-248
04-01-2021||West Bengal||Sourav Ganguly likely to be discharged on Wednesday||BCCI president and former India captain Sourav Ganguly will have to undergo another angioplasty in a "few days or weeks" but can, for now, be discharged from hospital as his condition is "stable", the CEO of the medical facility said on Monday. A nine-member board of senior doctors discussed Ganguly's condition and reached a consensus that though necessary, angioplasty can be deferred to a later date as he is stable, Woodlands Hospital MD and CEO Dr Rupali Basu said. Renowned cardiologists Dr Devi Shetty and Dr R K Panda participated in the discussion through a virtual platform while another expert from the US was part of the discussion over the phone, she said. "The angioplasty will take place for sure in a few days or weeks. He will be discharged most probably the day after tomorrow," she said. Treating doctors will keep a constant watch on his condition and take appropriate measures at his home after he is discharged, said Dr Basu said, a member of the medical board. Dr Devi Shetty is likely to visit Ganguly on Tuesday and have another meeting with doctors about the next course of treatment. "The medical board came to a consensus that deferring angioplasty for now is a safer option as Mr Ganguly is stable, does not have chest pain and is on optimal management," she noted. The stylish left-handed former India batsman had suffered a "mild" heart attack on Saturday. He was diagnosed with three blocked coronary arteries, following which a stent was inserted in one to remove the blockage. Meanwhile, Union Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur, also a former president of the BCCI, visited the hospital to see Ganguly and expressed hope he will soon return to his normal life. BCCI secretary Jay Shah also met Ganguly. "Dada is a hero of the country. He has seen a lot of ups and downs in cricket and defeated his opponents numerous times. He will do the same this time. "Sourav was smiling when I met him today. He appeared fine and I know he will be back to his normal life soon and will play an important role in taking Indian cricket to the next level. He has to play a very vital role, first in the BCCI and then in several other fields for the country," Thakur added. There has been speculation about Ganguly joining the BJP ahead of the West Bengal assembly elections, and Thakur's comment about his playing a vital role in "other fields" may appear to be hinting at that. Ganguly has, however, not made his intention clear about taking the political plunge yet. His close friend and CPI-M leader Ashok Bhattacharya had Sunday said Ganguly was "under pressure" to join politics. "Some people wanted to use Ganguly politically. That probably exerted pressure on him. He is not a political element. He should be known as Sourav the sporting icon," Bhattacharya, a long-time family friend, said. "We should not create pressure on him (for joining politics). I had told Sourav last week he should not join politics and he did not oppose my views," Bhattacharya who visited Ganguly at the hospital said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-248
04-01-2021||West Bengal||BJP leader's car shot at in Asansol||BJP's West Bengal state committee member Krishnendu Mukherjee on Monday alleged that some "TMC goons" opened fire on his car in Asansol in Paschim Barddhaman district but he was saved by a whisker as the assailants failed to open the vehicle's doors. The ruling party in the state, however, dismissed his allegation and said the incident might be a fallout of Mukherjee's old rivalries. "As I was returning home in Asansol's Hirapur from Kolkata on Sunday night, three unidentified persons, whom I suspect to be TMC goons, stopped my car near my house and tried to open the doors, failing which they opened indiscriminate fire on the vehicle. "The driver shouted for help and I repeatedly honked the horn to grab the locals' attention, following which the assailants fled the spot," Mukherjee said. He alleged that the TMC was behind the incident and he has informed senior BJP leaders about the incident. A complaint has been received from Mukherjee and CCTV footages in the area are being scrutinised, an officer at Hirapur police station said. Dismissing the charges, TMC's Asansol Dakshin MLA Tapas Banerjee alleged that Mukherjee is accused in several extortions, smuggling and even murder cases and was absconding for a long time and the incident might be a fallout of his old rivalries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-248
04-01-2021||West Bengal||Rabindranath’s surname was Tagore and not Thakur:  Gaurav Bhatia||The BJP’s attempts to establish its Bengal connect suffered another jolt when party national spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia rebuked a co-panellist during a TV debate, telling him Rabindranath’s surname was Tagore and not Thakur. The comment adds to the list of BJP leaders’ gaffes about things Bengal and Bengali in the run-up to the Assembly polls, from mentioning Visva-Bharati as Tagore's birthplace to mistaking a statue to an unknown tribal hunter for a sculpture of freedom fighter Birsa Munda. An 11-second video clip shows Bhatia, a Supreme Court advocate who has joined the BJP from the Samajwadi Party, saying: “They can’t even pronounce the name of Rabindranath Tagore properly.... He (a co-panellist) was saying ‘Rabindranath Thakur’ in your channel. Please rewind and show....” The BJP seemed to realise the seriousness of the blooper this time, with state unit president Dilip Ghosh, known to brazenly defend his party colleagues' blunders, acknowledging Bhatia’s mistake. “There is some confusion regarding the pronunciation of ‘Thakur’ and ‘Tagore’ among the leaders in Delhi. But, he (Bhatia) should have come informed,” Ghosh told The Telegraph. “Our leaders from Delhi have learnt about Rabindranath by reading English translations and hence this confusion persists. I’m sure this will be rectified soon.” Descendants of the poet confirmed that Tagore family members use two surnames in two languages — Thakur in Bengali and Tagore in English. They expressed surprise at the BJP spokesperson's ignorance of what is common knowledge in Bengal. "One grows up with a given identity, a name and a surname. These are part of one's identity," said Sudripta Tagore, a Tagore family member who lives in Santiniketan and is a teacher by profession. "My forefathers were (known by the surname) 'Kushari'. I have come to learn that in the 18th century we became Thakur in Bengali and Tagore in English. That's how it has been since then. So I write Thakur in Bengali and Tagore in English -- this is my identity." Author and Tagore researcher Amitra Sudan Bhattacharya said that Rabindranath's ancestors originally used the surnames Bandyopadhyay or Kushari depending on the branch of the family. "When they came to Calcutta from what is now Bangladesh in the eighteenth century, commoners began addressing them as Thakur out of respect and courtesy," Bhattacharya said. "So, Thakur is the actual surname and Tagore is nothing but the British pronunciation, which the Tagore family members adopted when they wrote their names in English." The BJP's desperation to prove its Bengali credentials ahead of next summer's election has repeatedly led to howlers in the absence of proper homework, allowing a gleeful Trinamul to beat the party with the "bahiragawto" (outsider) stick. Trinamul spokesperson and minister Bratya Basu iterated the point, saying the Tagore-Thakur confusion was proof of the BJP's disconnect from Bengali culture. "This is why we call them outsiders. They don't even understand Bengal," Basu said. Calls and messages to Bhatia's phone remained unanswered. The BJP has been hungry to appropriate Tagore, with Union home minister Amit Shah visiting Santiniketan and party president J.P. Nadda scheduled to visit Birbhum soon. However, the mission has been blighted by errors. In November, the state unit's social media cell tweeted that Tagore was born in Visva-Bharati and attributed it to Nadda, who was touring Bengal at the time. A month on, during Shah's trip to Bolpur and Santiniketan, posters and banners with images of the home minister above Tagore's were erected in and around the Visva-Bharati campus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-248
04-01-2021||West Bengal||‘Time for Left to re-imagine class, populism’ ||The CPIML Liberation leader’s stand seems addressed to the situation in West Bengal, and I do not know if he has something more fundamental and general in mind. But I have no doubt that this will open a new chapter in the struggle for radical social democracy in the country. At one level it is a call for a united front. But there are two prerequisites which need to be fulfilled in order to achieve a critical understanding of the political question of the united front in the current moment of history. First, we must have a clear idea of the classes involved, for which the old class analysis will not suffice. Several old class formations have dissolved in the wake of neoliberal globalisation, and in their places we have a vast sea of amorphous, petty producing and self-producing sections, wandering groups of labourers, workers in gig industry and extractive operations, and accumulation through the operation of supply chains and through virtual modes, and an informal labouring force in close link with the formal world of production. This turn in the political economy has given rise to populist rule in the states, by which I mean populists who are on the “left of centre” or at least are against neoliberal globalisation, and who carry the popular mandate. Yes, Right-wing populists are there, but the Right-wing populists quickly turn into hard authoritarians and have little in common with the populists I am speaking of. Second, and this follows from the first, the politics of a united front must address the problematic nature of populism, and thus decide the vexed question of who to ally with now, and why to ally with the populists. The main worry is not whether the CPM’s firm or intransigent position will affect the outcome of the elections in West Bengal, but what will happen to the party as a consequence of its position. Of course, the TMC has a tough task at hand. And as with populist destinies, populist politics will go up and down. But if the history of postcolonial capitalism is any guide, “people” as a category of politics will continue giving birth to new populisms. The TMC may be defeated by the Right, yet their work on protection of the petty producers and informal sections of the working people and their entire economic theology built around the protection of the poor will stay on as a permanent feature of Bengal politics. Make no mistake, a social war is being fought between capital and the subaltern classes who are behind the populists – the party of the punitive forces of the rich and the party of the populists. This is the matrix of all power struggles today and the social war of our time. Therefore I shall reframe the question: What will be the impact on the Left because of its inability to grasp the nature of the social war of our time? I do not know if this is a clear and candid political stand, nor am I saying this is mere semantic quibbling. What I know is that this indicates great confusion among the leaders of the Left about the nature of populism. Apart from the fact that this pairing of the BJP and Trinamul tells us about their mad rush for Nabanna by any means, and therefore their conjuring of convoluted arguments, the fundamental root of this confusion is the inability of the CPM to come to terms with the phenomenon called populism. They cannot call the TMC fascists; they cannot also swallow the fact that the TMC has incorporated many issues of their agenda, and has gone several steps forward in terms of the protection of the poorer sections of society, and are unabashedly welfare-oriented in nature and are against neoliberal globalisation. Parties like the CPM are caught between two destinies. They belong to a nowhere condition. They neither have a national vision, by which I mean an idea about how to develop an all-India perspective of struggle based on the various popular political forces and existences, nor do they have a local vision, by which I mean an idea of a path to develop at the state level ---where opportunities arrive at regular intervals – an alternative mode of governance, alternative political experiments, and an alternative way to connect the national and the popular. In India, what Antonio Gramsci had termed the “national-popular” has been actualised under historically concrete circumstances in local milieus – the milieus of the states – where language, culture, anti-caste movements, democratic politics, the presence of the lower classes in the public political arena and an anti-colonial legacy have combined to produce the “national-popular”. Dipankar Bhattacharya’s statement attests to the realisation attained by a section of the Left of the prevailing conundrum. Perhaps the Bihar elections led to this welcome development. In any case, it is good, it makes sense. However, the logic has to be pushed further. It is not a mere question of electoral opposition or alliance. It is a question of reconceptualising the people, the popular, and reimagining class through people and vice versa. This will lead to a reconfiguring of the tension between the national and the local. The tension is productive. But, finally, if this indispensible reconceptualising does not take place at the local and national levels as a result of an ingrained myopic attitude, we should really feel worried about the Left’s future — is it not hurtling down the path of self-destruction?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-248
04-01-2021||West Bengal||Owaisi keeps stirring pot||All India MajliseIttehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Sunday met cleric Abbasuddin Siddiqui and said his party would contest Assembly polls under his leadership. Owaisi, who has already declared his intent to field AIMIM candidates in the fray for Bengal, said: “We will go forward under the leadership of Peerzada Abbas Siddiqui in Bengal.” “We will stand by him. Whatever he decides, we will support,” he added. “We are a political party and we will establish our presence in Bengal and contest elections here.” Siqqidui, a cleric at the holy shrine of Furfura Sharif in Hooghly, is considered a key voice in the minority community — there are at least 137 seats out of the 294 Assembly seats in the state, where Muslims are a decisive electorate. Recently, Siddiqui declared his intent to float his own party and contest elections in Bengal, where one out of every three votes belongs to minorities. The Left Congress combine had been trying to woo Siddiqui prior to this. Owaisi, reacting to Mamata Banerjee’s allegations |that his party was a B team of the BJP, said it was instead her turn to introspect how the BJP achieved unprecedented success in Bengal in the Lok Sabha elections of 2019. “It should also analyse why its people have been deserting it,” he said. Another Furfura Sharif cleric Toha Siddiqui, however, dismissed the possibility of the shrine or the people of Bengal endorsing a “communal force”. The BJP has said that in a multiparty democracy, Owaisi, too, has the right to field candidates here if he so desires. “It is only because of the possibility of a split in the only votebank Mamata Banerjee relies on for her victories that she is so averse to the idea of AIMIM coming here…. Irrespective of who comes or goes though, the next government here will be formed by the BJP,” said the BJP’s Hooghly MP Locket Chatterjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-248
04-01-2021||West Bengal||Vow to take farm protests to capitals||Peasant unions from Bengal which will attend the seventh round of talks on the Centre’s agriculture laws on Monday in Delhi have vowed to “intensify” their movement if core issues, including a legal guarantee for “minimum support price”, are not solved. Sources said a fresh round of protests, backed by countrywide farmers’ unions, would begin on January 6 and would be followed up on January 26 with a nationwide “Kisan Parade” in all state capitals. “The farm laws need to be rolled back unconditionally,” former MP and peasant wing leader Hannan Mollah said at a convention organised on Sunday in Barrackpore in preparation of the talks. Mollah, however, added he was “not confident” about a positive outcome in the current week. “It appears the Centre is not in a position to repeal the acts owing to its compulsions and obligations to corporate houses.” “The movement will no longer remain restricted to Delhi, rather we will spread it across the country with the participation of more farmers and common people. We have chosen January 26 as the special day when farmers will march peacefully in all state capitals along with tractors, bulls, ploughers and whatever they have.” A few hundred members of Bengal’s culture clan joined the convention to express solidarity with the fight to repeal the three controversial acts. The convention was organised by the Barrackpore-based Platform for Education-Theatre-Culture, in association with Pather Panchali and Sanskriti Samanway. Sources said various local organisations and individuals in total contributed nearly Rs. 4 lakh to the movement. Delivering an ultimatum to the Centre in his speech, Mollah reiterated that the time had come for “decisive” action claiming the Centre was not actually eager to listen to the farmers properly. “The Centre claims the acts will deliver goods for farmers, but in real terms, they are planning to change the character of our farming culture with dependence on the corporate sector. The Centre forced farmers to become desperate and we will never compromise until and unless the three acts are repealed,” the elderly peasant leader said. Mollah said prior to Kisan Parades in all state capitals, the fresh phase of decisive “struggle” pan-India would begin from January 21, when farmers in 700 districts of the country would organise protest rallies. “Later, during January 23-25, farmers will gherao the governors’ houses in all state capitals which will be followed by the Republic Day’s Kisan Parade.” Bengal Congress leader Abdul Mannan, CPM leader Mohammed Salim, theatre personality Koushik Sen and playwright Chandan Sen, who is the president of the platform that organised the convention, also spoke at the programme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-248
04-01-2021||West Bengal||896 more contract Covid and 26 die||Bengal on Sunday logged 1,432 Covid-19 recoveries, 896 infections and 26 deaths, aiding the drop in its total of active cases for the 69th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami on October 26. In these 69 days, the total of active cases has fallen from 37,190 to 10,446, an improvement of nearly 72 per cent. The recovery rate has risen for 73 consecutive days, by nearly nine per cent, to 96.35. The national rate is now 96.16 per cent. “We are likely to achieve less than 10,000 active cases within the next couple of days. This is a very good situation to be in, at this stage of the pandemic, with the vaccination processes about to take off,” said a minister. Since the end of Durga Puja, the state has reported over 2.24 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 2.01 lakh new infections detected. The state’s Covid-19 total of 5.54 lakh cases include over 5.34 lakh recoveries and 9,792 deaths. The 26 deaths reported included eight from the city. The state attributed 8,208 (83.8 per cent) of the total toll to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate is now 1.76, compared to 1.44 per cent nationally. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.7 per cent now, having improved steadily from 8.27 per cent on November 20. “Besides the falling total of active cases and allied parameters, the shrinking positive confirmation rate is also a key indicator. This definitely suggests a steady reduction in the spread of the outbreak in Bengal,” said the minister. With 32,256 tests on Sunday, the state’s total test count went past 72.1 lakh, at 80,112 tests per million people. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. The numbers of infections from the festivals in October and November have shown that the court’s instructions were effective. Last week, a similar set of instructions came from the high court, to ensure the outbreak does not worsen over the New Year celebrations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-248
04-01-2021||West Bengal||Bengal aims health cards for all before poll ||The Mamata Banerjee government has decided to enhance the capacity of printing Swasthya Sathi cards to cover all people in Bengal under the state-sponsored health insurance scheme ahead of the Assembly polls and also to empanel more healthcare facilities in rural districts to ensure that the benefits are available even in remote areas. The move, sources said, has been initiated considering people’s interest in registering for the scheme. So far, more than 1.5 crore people have registered for various government services at the camps set up under the Duare Sarkar programme and out of them, 70 per cent want their names to be included in the Swasthya Sathi scheme. “Right now, we have the capacity to print 1 lakh cards every day. We are trying to enhance the capacity to 1.25 lakh a day so that all applicants can get the cards in the next two months. For this, we will hire more printing agencies,” said a senior state official. According to the sources, the state has set a target of bringing 2.5 crore people — at present outside the purview of the scheme that gives a coverage of Rs 5 lakh to each family — as 7.5 crore people are already registered under the scheme. “According to the plan, the state government needs to print about 50 lakh cards considering a family consists of five persons on an average. So, with the existing printing capacity, we could have completed printing of all the cards within two months. But we are trying to enhance the capacity as many people are applying after getting separated from the family or seeking replacement of their old cards,” said another official. The sources said the ruling establishment was desperate to hand over the Swasthya Sathi cards to all the beneficiaries ahead of the polls as Trinamul Congress leaders consider the scheme as an answer to the Centre’s Ayushman Bharat scheme. “The BJP is alleging we did not allow the central scheme in Bengal. We want to counter the allegation with the Swasthya Sathi scheme, where the beneficiaries don’t have to pay any premium but would get the same facilities offered by the central scheme. For this, we have to ensure that all beneficiaries get the cards ahead of polls,” said a minister. The state government was not only providing the cards to the beneficiaries but also trying to ensure a better service to the beneficiaries across the state. “We will try to bring all private nursing homes and healthcare establishments under the scheme so that people in the remote corners also get the benefit of getting treated at private hospitals. For this, the district magistrates would soon hold meetings with the private healthcare establishments to persuade them to get empanelled under the scheme,” said a source. If small nursing homes and private healthcare facilities in the districts get empanelled, it would help the state in many ways. First, this will ease the pressure on the government hospitals. Second, the small nursing homes would be able to enhance their infrastructure as they would get more patients. Third, lesser number of patients would be referred to Calcutta, which would result in decongestion of healthcare services in the city. “If things go as planned, the state’s overall healthcare facilities would be improved gradually. The state already gives free treatment at all state-run hospitals. Now, the new plan would make treatment of majority ailments free in private hospitals too,” said a Trinamul insider. A section of the officials, however, said if the state wanted to bring more private hospitals under the scheme, the government has to review its existing rates. “For example, the state government-approved rate for excision of lumps from chest — a surgery to get rid of lumps from chest — is Rs 10,000. But only a handful of private hospitals would accept the rate while majority charge for surgery between Rs 25,000 to Rs 1 lakh,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-249
04-01-2021||West Bengal||Asok feels Sourav was ‘under pressure’||Acute mental stress over whether to walk into an uncharted territory may have been one of the reasons behind the sudden deterioration in the health condition of former Indian skipper and BCCI president Sourav Ganguly, said Asok Bhattacharya, CPM MLA of Siliguri, after meeting him on Sunday. “I suspect that he (Ganguly) is under mental pressure…. There is speculation in the media that he might join politics, which might have had played a role in the sudden deterioration of his health condition,” said Bhattacharya, who reached Calcutta on Sunday and called on Sourav at the hospital. Bhattacharya has known Ganguly, who calls him kaku (uncle), for years and has access to his family. The MLA, while talking about Sourav, told The Telegraph about what he felt about the pressure on the former Indian skipper. “I feel he is quite happy in his known territory because these responsibilities might be stressful but these pertain to cricket, which is his known turf. I think there might have been some pressure on him, which left him disturbed as unlike a seasoned politician, he can’t handle these things because politics is an uncharted territory for him.” In the morning, Prime Minister Narendra Modi called up Ganguly and enquired about his health. Sources said BJP leader Anurag Thakur and Union home minister Amit Shah’s son and BCCI official Jay Shah might visit Ganguly on Monday. Bhattacharya had met the cricketer at his residence in Behala here on Thursday. He posted pictures of the meeting on Facebook and wrote that he had advised Ganguly to stay away from politics. “Cricket has taken him to the heights of popularity. The people of this country want it to be that way,” Bhattacharya had posted. The former minister said on Sunday that even Ganguly wanted to remain in his own space. “I can tell you that he hasn’t contradicted my suggestions,” Bhattacharya said. Bhattacharya took CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury to the hospital in the evening. Yechury said: “Ganguly is a national asset and it is our collective responsibility to keep him well.” The murmurs around Ganguly’s political future intensified after he met governor Jagdeep Dhankhar at Raj Bhawan last week and then a day later shared a platform with Union home minister Amit Shah at a cricket body event in Delhi. Some BJP insiders said the manner in which some of the central leaders, especially Shah, reacted after Ganguly’s illness bore hints about their proximity to the cricketer. Kailash Vijayvargiya, the party’s minder for Bengal, said Union home minister told him to contact Ganguly’s wife Dona and offer all sorts of assistance. Sources also said that Shah had offered to fly Ganguly to Delhi in an air-ambulance. Immediately after Ganguly’s hospitalisation, two important party members — Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta and state vice-president Pratap Banerjee — went to the hospital on Saturday. On Sunday, Keshav Prasad Maurya, deputy chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, accompanied by state general secretary Sanjay Singh, visited the hospital. “When we went to the hospital, Sourav was sleeping. We met the doctors and Dona Ganguly,” Singh told The Telegraph. Apart from Bhattacharya and representatives of the BJP, state ministers Arup Roy, Tapas Roy, Trinamul MLA Vaishali Dalmiya and Congress MP Pradip Bhattacharya also went to see Ganguly at the hospital on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-249
04-01-2021||West Bengal||Bridges keep BJP and Trinamul apart||Borodoba, an otherwise nondescript village in the Falakata block of Alipurduar district, has emerged as a unique but stark example of political division. Supporters of the Trinamul Congress and the BJP who otherwise live peacefully with each other use different “shanko” or bamboo walk bridges when it comes to crossing the Mujnai, a stream that skirts the village. The reason: one of the walk bridges, that is around 120 metres long, has been built by the BJP and has been named as “Modir Setu” (Modi’s bridge) while the other of a similar length that lies parallel to it, is known as “Didir Setu (Didi’s bridge) as it has been built by Trinamul supporters. Locals mentioned that for years now, they had been demanding a permanent bridge over the stream but the state is yet to come up with the structure that can connect Borodoba village with other parts of Falakata block. Around 7,000 people reside in the village that is 46km from the district headquarter. “Usually, we trudge through knee deep water to cross the stream. During monsoon months, we had to stay back at home unless the water levels recede,” said a villager. Last month, the local BJP workers took the initiative to build a bamboo bridge so that people can cross the stream by foot and even on two wheelers. They named it as “Modir Setu” after the Prime Minister’s name. “On one hand, BJP tried to reach out to the villagers by providing a sort of temporary connectivity to the other hand. On the other hand, they tried to prove that despite being in power for about a decade now, Trinamul has not taken any step to build a bridge that can connect the village,” said a senior political leader in Falakata. As the bridge was opened, the villagers started using it. Every day, around 2,000 people of Borodoba that is under Guabarnagar panchayat of Falakata block, cross the stream to go to other places. However, after a day or two, the Trinamul workers who are active in the village had to face scoffs from the BJP supporters. “They started passing remarks at us, saying that we are using a bridge that has been made by BJP and also questioned as why we could not get a bridge for the village,” a Trinamul supporter said. This left them disappointed and within a gap of seven days, the Trinamul supporters decided to build a parallel bridge 30 feet apart from the other bridge. The new bridge – a similar structure like the other one – was named as “Didir Setu”, as chief minister Mamata Banerjee is popularly known. It created an additional option for common villagers who can use either of the bridges now. “However, ardent party followers, whether of BJP or Trinamul, do not step into the bridge made by the other party. It is an interesting situation our here in our village,” said a resident. Ranjit Burman, a district committee member of BJP who is from the village, said the Trinamul government has simply neglected their demand for a bridge because out of the three panchayat seats of the village, two have been won by BJP. “The ruling party has intentionally remained silent about the demand. Seeing peoples’ inconveniences, we have taken the task to build a temporary bridge,” said Burman. Subhash Roy, the Falakata block president of Trinamul who is also from the village, however, has accused BJP of resorting to cheap politics. “The manner in which they used to pass comments at our men for using the temporary bridge indicates their narrow mind set. That is why we came up with the second bridge. Also, a proposal has already been sent to the north Bengal development for construction of a concrete bridge on Mujnai. We hope it will be approved soon,” the Trinamul leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-249
04-01-2021||West Bengal||BJP worker’s right palm chopped off||The right palm of a BJP activist was lopped off by a group of miscreants with suspected Trinamul links in the Shimurali area of Nadia’s Chakdah on Saturday night. Victim Ratan Burman, 38, a resident of BT College Para, is a booth committee president of the BJP. The bizarre incident occurred near his home when he was returning around 11pm. Police and local sources said Burman, a fish trader, suffered multiple injuries to his head and eyes as the miscreants attacked him with a sharp weapon before chopping off his right hand wrist upwards. Local residents found him lying in a pool of blood and rushed him to JNM Hospital in Kalyani. Hospital sources said his condition was quite critical and was unconscious. Sources added the victim’s hand could not be found. Nadia BJP leadership on Sunday alleged Trinamul hand behind the attack. The police began a probe on the basis of a complaint by the victim’s wife and prima facie indicated “nonpolitical” reasons behind the attack. Angry BJP supporters blocked Shimurali station road demanding the arrest of the culprit for an hour on Sunday morning. Smriti Burman, wife of the victim, said, “My husband is an active BJP activist and heads a booth in the area. But, it is not yet clear who attacked him. Before he became unconscious he told me that miscreants attacked him from behind when he was entering our gate. Miscreants injured him in the eyes with their fingers and then dragged him a little way away where they attacked him with sharp weapons and chopped off his right hand. I am not sure whether he was attacked for political reasons.” Pankaj Ghosh, vice president of BJP’s Nadia south organizing committee, however, claimed Trinamul’s role in the attack. “The ruling party has engaged its loyal miscreants to unleash fear among our party activists as part of its strategy to weaken our organisation. Ratan is an active worker of our party and earned the wrath of the local Trinamul leadership.” Trinamul’s Nadia zilla parishad member, Tibrajyoti Das, rejected allegations of his party’s involvement in the incident. “We don’t believe in such heinous acts for settling political differences. We fight politically, but the BJP blames us for reaping political benefit out of such a bizarre incident.” “We have begun a probe and are examining all possible angles. Preliminary investigations indicate the victim had personal enmity with the assailants. However, nothing can be conclusively said until his health improves and we are able to question him,” an investigating officer of Chakdah police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-249
