05-01-2021||West Bengal||Political battle over Shukla's resignation erupts in Bengal||The ruling Trinamool Congress on Tuesday said that the resignation of Laxmi Ratan Shukla as West Bengal minister of state for youth services and sports is unfortunate but it will not affect the party, while the BJP said that the former cricketer is welcome to join the saffron camp. Shukla's resignation came months before the assembly election in the state and almost a fortnight after transport minister Suvendu Adhikari left the party and joined the BJP. The Congress claimed that TMC is collapsing and party supremo and state Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has no remedy for it, while the CPI(M) asked her to explain why the state's ministers one after another are losing faith in her. "Mamata Banerjee had given Shukla due respect and even made him a minister. He was inducted as part of our policy to give prominence to people from different walks of life. It is unfortunate if he quit his post, but it won't affect the party," TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said. Describing Shukla as a good party member, senior TMC MP Sougata Ray expressed hope that he will reconsider his decision. BJP spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said that if Shukla wants to join his party, he is welcome. "The Trinamool Congres has no political ideology, no direction. It was established on anti-CPI(M) plank which is no more relevant now. People at the grassroot level are aware that the TMC's days are numbered. Just wait for some more time," he told reporters. Bhattacharya did not comment on whether the party had been in touch with Shukla. BJP leader and Union minister Babul Supriyo urged Shukla to leave the TMC and join the BJP. State Congress president Adhir Ranjan Choudhury claimed the TMC is collapsing and Banerjee does not know how to prevent it. "We will not ask Shukla to join the party. But our door is open for those who want to be part of the Congress family, those who can't be with the BJP for ideological reasons," said Choudhury who is also the leader of the Congress in Lok Sabha. Senior CPI(M) leader Sujan Chakraborty said that Shukla was a sportsman who was made an MLA by the TMC. "It is not for us to comment on why he resigned as minister. He and his party supremo can explain it better. But the CM should explain why his ministers one after another are losing faith in her," Chakraborty said. Shukla, a former captain of Bengal Ranji Trophy team, sent his resignation letter to the chief minister and a copy of it to Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar. Assembly elections in West Bengal are due in April-May this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-246
05-01-2021||West Bengal||Laxmi Ratan Shukla resigns from Bengal sports minister's post||Bengal Minister of State for Youth Services and Sports Laxmi Ratan Shukla resigned from his post on Tuesday, sources in the state secretariat said. Shukla sent his resignation letter to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and a copy of it to Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, they said. The former cricketer's resignation came almost a fortnight after state transport minister Suvendu Adhikari had left the party and joined BJP. Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee accepted the resignation of Laxmi Ratan Shukla and forwarded the letter to Governor Jagdeep Dhankar. Banerjee, who is also the supremo of the ruling TMC, wished Shukla good luck in the future. "Laxmi can resign, it does not matter. He is a good boy. It's okay that he left to rejoin cricket. In his letter, he has not written of resigning from the ministry but has expressed his wish to retire from all forms of politics and concentrate on sports and give more time to it," Banerjee told reporters at the secretariat. The chief minister said that in the resignation letter Shukla, who represents Howrah (Uttar), has written that he will continue as an MLA till the end of the present term of the Assembly. "He (Shukla) has asked to be relieved from all other responsibilities. So I have recommended the governor to accept his resignation. I wish him to good luck and there is no misunderstanding between us," she added. Former captain of the Bengal Ranji team, 39-year-old Shukla, MLA of Howrah (Uttar), in his resignation letter to Banerjee expressed his willingness to "retire" from politics, the officials said. Shukla, who was looking after the TMC affairs in Howrah district, however, has not given up his post as an MLA, they added. Repeated calls to Shukla's mobile number went unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-246
05-01-2021||West Bengal||Mamata stands in queue to collect health scheme card||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday stood in a queue along with other locals in Kalighat area here to collect her 'Swasthya Sathi' smart card from a Kolkata Municipal Corporation distribution centre. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh, however, dubbed the move as "pure drama". The TMC chief, accompanied by urban development minister Firhad Hakim and other government officials, arrived at Joy Hind Bhavan, close to her residence on Harish Chatterjee Street, around 11.45 am, to collect the card. Swasthya Sathi, a flagship scheme launched by the TMC government, provides health cover of up to Rs 5 lakh per annum to a family for secondary and tertiary care. Hakim, while talking to reporters, said that the chief minister stood in the queue like any ordinary person to collect the card. "It goes on to show that she is one among the people of the state," he stated. The CM had on Monday urged all ministers of her government to collect the card. "I will keep this card in my archive. I urge other ministers, too, to join the scheme," she had said. The state government has been providing 'Swasthya Sathi' smart cards to people, as part of her 'Duare Sarkar' initiative -- a mass outreach programme for doorstep delivery of welfare scheme benefits. State chief secretary Alapan Bandopadyay had said that over one crore people have enrolled themselves for the scheme so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-246
05-01-2021||West Bengal||BJP minority leader shot at ||A BJP leader from the minority community was shot at in Kumarganj area of Pukhuria police station on Sunday night. Sadek Ali, who took two bullets on his left elbow, is admitted to the Malda Medical College and Hospital. The BJP accused Trinamul of orchestrating the attack. Trinamul denied the charges. Ali told his party colleagues that he was returning home after attending a party event in Samsi when a truck blocked his car. When he got off his car, some persons led by the husband and son of Selina Bibi, the head of the Trinamulrun Kumarganj panchayat, fired at him, alleged a BJP leader, quoting Ali. “The first two bullets missed him but two others hit him on the (left) elbow.” On Monday, a BJP delegation led by Malda North MP Khagen Murmu went to the hospital and spoke to Ali. Sayantan Basu, state BJP generalsecretary, also met Ali and told the media that the attack indicated that Trinamul was “scared” that people from minority communities were joining the BJP. Malda district Trinamul chief Mausam Noor blamed “acute infighting in the BJP across Malda” for the firing. “We have spoken to residents who said BJP’s camp squabbling led to the firing. Trinamul has no link with the incident,” she said. The BJP will launch a movement across the district if no arrests are made within next 48 hours, its leaders said. Police visited the spot, met Ali and started a probe, said Gautam Choudhury, the officerincharge of Pukhuria police station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-246
05-01-2021||West Bengal||State to celebrate ‘secular Netaji’||Mamata Banerjee will launch the yearlong quasquicentennial anniversary celebration of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on January 23, the day the Prime Minister is likely to be in Bengal. “The core idea is to make sure that once again Netaji’s ideas and everything he stood for are spread far and wide…. A truly national, global icon, who rose from Bengal,” said the chief minister on Monday. In a meeting with the elite committee comprising eminent members of the civil society tasked with planning the celebration, Mamata took suggestions on Monday to make Netaji’s ideals more relevant to the youth. Nobel laureate economists Amartya Sen and Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee, part of the committee, asked Mamata to ensure that Netaji’s uncompromisingly inclusive, secular worldview was highlighted. While Banerjee joined the meeting virtually, Sugata Bose, Netaji’s grandnephew, presented Sen’s suggestions and explained that the Nobel laureate had “an 11hour time lag with India now”. Mamata was appreciative, sources said. “He (Sen) asked the state government to try and foster awareness on Netaji’s ideals of unity and equality among youths. He stressed the need for attention to Netaji’s unifying philosophy, important as he was against narrowmindedness in any form and was firmly opposed to communalism,” said Bose at the meeting. “Not only was he uncompromisingly secular but also firmly stood by the poor,” he added, quoting Sen. “If we truly want to celebrate his life, we should work towards bringing together all kinds of opinions, faiths, even creative work,” said Banerjee. A minister said Mamata will use the occasion to lambaste the saffron camp’s attempts at deifying “controversial” figures such as Vinayak Damodar Savarkar, Syama Prasad Mookerjee and Deendayal Upadhyaya. Modi, likely to participate in Netaji-centric events in Bengal on January 23, has often lauded Netaji, but according to critics with the intent to undermine Jawaharlal Nehru. “Modi is the ideological descendant of Syama Prasad Mookerjee…It is no secret that Bose was a fierce critic of Mookerjee and the Hindu Mahasabha...This will be highlighted,” said a Trinamul MP. The elite committee includes poet Shankha Ghosh, scholars and Netaji kin Sugata Bose and Sumantra Bose, finance minister and Netaji kin Amit Mitra, authors Shirshendu Mukhopadhyay and Abul Bashar, thespians Rudraprasad Sengupta and Manoj Mitra, artists Jogen Chowdhury and Suvaprasanna, poet Subodh Sarkar, danseuseactor Mamata Shankar, and author and activist Manoranjan Byapari, senior government officials and many vicechancellors. Mamata said henceforth, Bengal would celebrate January 23 — Netaji was born on that date in 1897 — as Deshonayak Diwas, to be launched this time with a mega rally from the base of his statue at Shyambazar to that on Red Road. At 12.15pm, the time of his birth, sirens would be sounded across the state. In educational institutions, cells of the Jai Hind Vahini akin to the NCC would be set up. “Besides, we must have a special Azad Hind Fauj monument, a national university in Netaji’s name…. Personally, I believe as a nation we have not done enough to honour the global hero. We are yet to declare his birthday as a national holiday,” said the Trinamul chief, in a jibe at the Centre. Mamata also reiterated her demand for bringing to light the “whole truth” about Netaji’s end.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-246
05-01-2021||West Bengal||Cong panel for Left talks||The Congress central leadership on Monday constituted a four member committee headed by state chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury to hold talks with Left parties on seat sharing and chalk out plans to hold joint political programmes. The development comes within a week of the Congress high command giving the state unit its “formal approval” to fight the Bengal polls in alliance with the Left Front. Apart from Chowdhury, leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Abdul Mannan, MP Pradip Bhattacharya and MLA from Baghmundi in Purulia, Nepal Mahato, are members of the committee. “The following committee has been constituted to hold talks with the Left parties regarding seat sharing and joint programmes for the West Bengal assembly election,” the notification issued by Bengal’s Congress minder Jitin Prasada states. Chowdhury said on Monday: “We have already started talks with the Left parties and the high command has formed a specific committee to take forward the proposed pact with the Left Front.” Sources said the formation of the committee led to confusion among a section of state Congress leaders who had already been tasked to hold talks with Left by Chowdhury. “A few party leaders were working on the issue on the advice of Chowdhury. Now the question is whether the talks held so far will count after formation of the new committee?” said a senior Congress leader. Bhattacharya, who is also part of the new committee, said he had met Left Front chairperson Biman Basu on Sunday and discussed issues related to the alliance. Chowdhury, however, said: “It is not an issue at all as there was no specific committee and the leaders were holding talks with the Left parties on my behalf. Now, the newly formed committee will take forward the talks, while other leaders can place their suggestions.” The state Congress unit has sent an invitation to the office of former party president Rahul Gandhi requesting him to visit Bengal to hold political programmes. However, the state leaders are yet to get any nod from Rahul’s office. “We have invited him (Gandhi). However, we are yet to get his green signal,” said Chowdhury. On the other hand, the Left Front is planning to hold a mega rally at Brigade Parade ground in February where CPM leaders want to show their strength jointly with Congress in presence of senior Congress leaders like Rahul Gandhi. “However, the plan for the rally at Brigade is yet to be finalised,” said a source in CPM. CPM candidates The CPM state committee has in principle decided to reserve 60 per cent seats for candidates below the age of 40 years in the polls. “It was decided that more young people need to be brought to forefront and hence CPM would give tickets to people below 40 years of age at 60 per cent of the seats,” a CPM leader present at the state committee meeting said. Sources said the decision was pushed by leaders like former minister Kanti Ganguly and CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury. “Yechury gave his own example and said that since CPM is the party of future and the only alternative, someone of his age cannot be the face of the party,” a source said. The decision came in the backdrop of growing unemployment and lack of educational facilities in the country. "These are issues only the youth can identify with and hence the decision," the source added. Twelve Left student and youth organisations have given a call to march to the state secretariat at Nabanna on February 11.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-246
05-01-2021||West Bengal||Hill music stampede kills two||Two women died and four were injured in a stampede when the entrance door to a musical event in Kalimpong was suddenly opened by the organisers on Sunday night. The event organised by a group of people under the banner Mad Dog had popular rapper from Nepal, Ashish Rana aka Laure, performing at the Mela Ground, along with other artistes in the region. “Because of instant swelling of the crowd at Gandhi gate ticket counter, a stampede occurred around 7pm on Sunday,” said Hari Krishna Pai, the superintendent of police, Kalimpong. The deceased were Anita Chhetri, 40 and Banita Gurung, 46, both from Chandraloke in Kalimpong. Both died at hospital. The injured are Parima Rai, 18, Pratiksha Chettri, 14, Marsang Subba, 20 and Anita Subba, 31. Marsang has been referred to North Bengal Medical College and Hospital, Siliguri, while the rest are being treated at Kalimpong district hospital. The Mela Ground has a capacity to hold around 20,000 people and even though the footfall was not as large, the flash point was the rush to enter the venue. A descending staircase connects Kalimpong Motor Stand with the ground where the event was held. Parima, an injured, said they had gathered in front of the Gandhi gate to enter the ground. “The police waved their batons and sent us to another entrance. However, people at the other entrance sent us back to the Gandhi gate.” It was then, according to Parima, that the organisers opened the gate and the crowd behind rushed on them. “The crowd at the entrance was not properly managed in the sense that there were no proper queues,” said Parima. The Kalimpong motor stand has a relative wide space for the crowd to have been spaced out. Sources said few hundred people had jostled with each other and many of them had fallen on the staircase. The injured were taken to hospital by the police, volunteers and local people. The Kalimpong police chief said cases would be registered against the organisers and an investigation was on. No arrests have been made. Pai said the police had tried to push the crowd away from the choke point. “In fact, pushing away from the choke point helped save many lives.” The musical soiree began around 7.30pm and it was stopped by the police after one hour. The police said around 15,00 people had come to watch the show. None of the organisers could be contacted by this correspondent to know their version. Darjeeling MP Raju Bista on Monday wrote to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, alleging that negligence on the part of Kalimpong administration had triggered the stampede and seeking judicial investigation into the incident. “Since it was the West Bengal government officials who granted permission for the event, the state government must pay all the treatment and hospital bills for those injured and appropriate financial compensation must be paid to the families of those who lost their lives,” wrote Bista.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-247
05-01-2021||West Bengal||Total active Covid cases fall below 10,000||Bengal on Monday lowered total active Covid19 cases to less than 10,000 as the state recorded a drop in the count for 70 consecutive days since Vijaya Dashami on October 26. The active cases at present are 9,671 — almost back to the figure 146 days ago on July 11. In these 70 days, the total of active cases has improved by 74 per cent, from 37,190 on October 26. “This is a moment of pride for us. Getting back to a four digit total in active cases is a stellar achievement at this stage of the pandemic,” said a minister. Bengal has fallen to the sixth place — from third, a few weeks ago — on the list of states with the most active cases. The state now has around 4.2 per cent of the national total of active cases, down from over seven, weeks ago. On Monday, the state logged 597 infections — the lowest tally in months. There were also 1,347 recoveries and 25 deaths. The 597 new cases were detected from 25,256 tests, considerably less than the 42,00045,000 swab samples tests now conducted daily –The recovery rate has risen for 74 consecutive days, by over nine per cent, to 96.49. The national rate is now 96.29 per cent. “We will stretch our lead to two per cent by the end of the month,” said the minister. Since the end of Durga Puja, the state has reported nearly 2.26 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 2.01 lakh new infections detected. The state’s total 5.55 lakh Covid cases include over 5.36 lakh recoveries and 9,817 deaths. Monday’s 25 deaths included eight recorded in Calcutta. The state attributed 8,232 deaths (83.9 per cent of the toll) to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate is now 1.76, compared to the 1.44 per cent nationally. The state’s current positive confirmation rate is 7.68 per cent, which is a steady improvement from 8.27 per cent on November 20. The state’s total test count went past 72.35 lakh, at 80,393 tests per million people. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. The numbers of infections from the festivals in October and November has shown that the court’s instructions were effective. Last week, a similar set of instructions came from the high court, to ensure the outbreak does not worsen over the New Year celebrations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-247
05-01-2021||West Bengal||Ready to verify central farm dole pleas: CM||Mamata Banerjee on Monday said she had written a letter to Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, informing him that the state government would verify 21.79 lakh farmers’ applications for the Centre’s PM-Kisan scheme. The move, bureaucrats said, is a significant development as this gives a hint that the state is ready to implement the scheme, which was so far being rejected since it was launched in December, 2018. The scheme ensures a financial support of Rs 6,000 annually for farmers across the country. “The Union agriculture minister had written a letter on November 6 last year asking us to verify the applications of 21.79 lakh farmers, who had applied for the scheme through the Centre’s portal. I have urged him to send the list of farmers and we will verify the applicants,” the chief minister said at Nabanna on Monday. Mamata made it clear that her government did not want the farmers to be deprived of any benefits offered by the Centre. She insisted that her objection was to the manner in which the Centre wanted to implement the scheme. “I had called up the Union agriculture minister and urged him to transfer money to the state’s treasury. We will transfer the money to the farmers immediately. But he said the Centre wanted to send benefits directly to the farmers. This shows the Centre wants to bypass the state,” said the chief minister. “As we don’t want to deprive any of the farmers of any benefit, we have asked the Centre to send the list so that we can verify them,” the chief minister added. Bengal was opposing the scheme citing it did not give benefit to all the farmers and the state-sponsored scheme — Krishak Bandu — was far more inclusive as it was offering Rs 5,000 per acre annually, besides a sum of Rs 2 lakh in case of a farmer’s death. “Our scheme is for 72 lakh farmers in the state, but the Centre’s scheme would give benefit to a maximum of 21 lakh to 22 lakh farmers,” the chief minister said. So far, a total of 47 lakh farmers have registered for the state’s scheme and another 2 lakh farmers have applied through the Duare Sarkar camps. Trinamul insiders said the move by the chief minister was a smart one as it would counter the BJP’s campaign that the state government had deprived the farmers of the state of financial assistance under the central scheme by not implementing it. “Now the BJP would not be able to raise the issue to attack the chief minister. But on the other hand, the chief minister would be able to catch the BJP on the wrong foot by saying only one third of the state’s farmers are eligible for the scheme,” said a Trinamul MLA. Sources in Nabanna said that according to the guideline of Krishak Bandu, the farmers could avail themselves of both the schemes as the state’s scheme didn’t prevent anybody from getting the benefits even if a farmer was getting assistance under a similar scheme from any other agency. House motion Mamata said her government would get a resolution passed in the Assembly against the three new farm laws enacted by the Centre. “We will hold an Assembly session of two to three days where the resolution will be passed. I hope that all parties, except the BJP, would support the move,” said the chief minister. Recently, the Left and the Congress had written to the chief minister urging her to convene an Assembly session to discuss the contentious farm laws. Many states have already got similar motions passed in their respective Assembles against the agriculture laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-247
05-01-2021||West Bengal||Tea prices reap lockdown blessing in disguise  ||Tea prices soared in 2020, fuelled by supply constraints linked to the pandemic-induced lockdown. Unlike previous years when tea prices stayed more or less stagnant, rates soared particularly from June onwards. Sources said the supply chain was affected because many gardens could not get trucks to transport the tea stocks. The Tea Board of India recently came out with data on prices that teas fetched in auction centres in the first 11 months — till November 2020. According to the data, the average price fetched by a kilo of tea in north Indian auctions till November was Rs 207.59. In 2019, it was Rs 152.84. In south India, the average price fetched last year (till November) was Rs 130 per kilo of tea while it was Rs 101.04 in 2019. The all-India average rate was Rs 187.91 in 2020, considerably higher than Rs 141.03 in 2019. The notable rise, stakeholders in the tea industry said, was in north India, specifically from June to September. “During these months, the average auction price of a kilo of tea increased by as much as Rs 130 vis-à-vis the average price of 2019,” said a planter. He said that in June 2020, the average price was Rs 238.40, around Rs 132 higher than the price of a kilo of tea in the corresponding month in 2019, Rs 166.97. The highest average tea price in north India was in August, Rs 284.44. Tea planters, however, spoke about the dip in tea production in 2020. Planters said the Tea Board data hints that in 2020, India’s annual tea production was less by around 150 million kilos compared to 2019. In 2019, 1,390.08 million kilos of tea was produced in India while till November 2020, the total production stood at 1,181.67 million kilos. “Around 65 million kilos are usually produced in December in India. Even if it remains the same in 2020 (December figures are not yet released), we are staring at a shortfall of around 150 million kilos,” said a planter, explaining that main tea growers in Assam and Bengal produced around 100 and 40 million kilos less in 2000 than 2019. Sumit Ghosh, secretary of the Tea Association of India, north Bengal branch, explained reasons for the dip: “Because of the nationwide lockdown (in March-end), the industry suffered a jolt when production was supposed to start in full swing. Then came the monsoon months, when many gardens saw floods.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-247
05-01-2021||West Bengal||Free cataract surgeries and spectacles||The Mamata Banerjee government will enable 20 lakh cataract surgeries and distribute 8.25 lakh spectacles, both free of cost, in the next five years under the new Chokher Alo scheme that aims to provide eye health for all in Bengal. “We are launching a new initiative — Chokher Alo — from tomorrow (Tuesday) for a period of five years. During this period, we will conduct 20 lakh cataract surgeries and distribute 8.25 lakh spectacles free of cost. This will help us eradicate vision impairment in the state,” said Mamata at Nabanna on Monday. The chief minister also announced that students of all schools and colleges would undergo free eye check-up under the scheme and 4 lakh spectacles in all would be distributed to them in the course of the next five years. Chokher Alo starts from Tuesday in 1,200 gram panchayats and 120 urban health centres, Mamata said, and eye camps will be held in these areas with more than 300 ophthalmologists working in tandem. Roughly, some 11 per cent people are blind and over 4 per cent have low vision from among 18 lakh specially abled persons in Bengal. “The number of persons with low vision must be much higher as elderly people from remote areas hardly have money and resources to visit an ophthalmologist,” said a senior health official. The scheme, sources said, would benefit the poor and aged especially from remote areas as the state will set up camps in their localities. “People who visit camps would first undergo a vision test. Those with severe vision problems would be checked for the reason. If it is cataract, the state government will organise surgery for them. People from financially weaker sections will get preference for the free surgery,” said a source. If the reason for low vision is something else, the person concerned would be referred to nearby hospitals. “As all people in Bengal would have Swasthya Sathi (state government sponsored health insurance) cards by the next few months, patients referred to nearby hospitals would not face much trouble in getting treatment,” said an official. Some officials said the initiative was taken when people’s enthusiasm to register under state government schemes at Duare Sarkar camps became visible. A Trinamul insider said the chief minister was leaving no stone unturned to reach out to those in remote areas ahead of the 2021 polls. “The BJP is campaigning that the state government deprived people by not implementing Ayushman Bharat, a medical insurance scheme of the Centre. We are countering that through Swasthya Sathi. But eye check-up camps at gram panchayat level would help us ahead of the polls,” said a ruling party MLA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-247
05-01-2021||West Bengal||Leopard dead, hind leg missing ||A leopard carcass was found near Baradighi tea estate on fringes of Gorumara National Park in Matialli block of Jalpaiguri district on Monday morning. The animal, foresters said, died of infighting, but after its death, some people seemed to have chopped off a hind leg. Foresters engaged the department’s sniffer dog Orlando to help trace the culprits. A forest officer said they suspected poaching initially as on December 27, the carcass of another leopard was recovered from Kurti, a tea estate in Nagrakata block, with one of its legs missing. In this case, when vets conducted the post-mortem, they confirmed that the leopard had died from infighting. “We suspect some people chopped off one of the legs and took it away after they spotted the carcass. This is the second such incident in a week,” the officer added. Suicide A 21-year-old accused of stealing a goat and confined to a room at Barobisha market of Alipurduar on Monday afternoon was found hanging some time later, allegedly committing suicide out of humiliation. Police sources said Chiranjit Ramayan, 21, of Kamandanga village, had been to the market when some people intercepted him and accused him of stealing a goat. They beat him up and took him to a room in the market where he was tied with rope and locked in. As news spread, his family rushed to the spot and asked traders to let him go. The traders refused. The family called up the police but soon got the news that Chiranjit was found hanging inside the room. Police recovered the body and started a probe. Additional reporting by our Alipurduar correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-247
05-01-2021||West Bengal||Mamata launches trauma care facility||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee virtually inaugurated a level II trauma care facility in North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH) on Monday. Mamata, who inaugurated the facility from state secretariat Nabanna, said it would help accident patients from across north Bengal. State tourism minister Gautam Deb, senior officials and faculty members of the hospital were present at NBMCH during the inauguration. The new unit, built at a cost of Rs 10 crore, has 20 beds, two operation theatres, two operating tables and a recovery room with 10 beds. Specialist doctors will man the unit that will also have orthopaedic and neurosurgery departments. “Earlier, we had built a level I trauma care unit in Calcutta where around Rs 100 crore was spent. This new unit also has all the facilities. Accident patients would no longer have to come to Calcutta for treatment,” Mamata added. Covid advisory The state health department has come up with guidelines for those who recovered from Covid-19. “They must be examined on the 14th and 28th day after discharge and once a month for next one year for complications,” said an official of the Darjeeling district health department. At NBMCH, a designated facility would be ready for such patients. Post-Covid complications can include breathing problems, chest pain, headaches, neurocognitive problems, muscle pain and weakness, gastrointestinal upsets, rashes, metabolic disruption, thromboembolic conditions and depression.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-247
05-01-2021||West Bengal||Brothers clash over land, 10 hurt||At least 10 persons got injured as two brothers and their associates clashed with each other over the possession of a piece of land at Nayargach village under Chopra police station of North Dinajpur on Monday. Police rushed to the spot and brought the situation under control. All the injured were taken to a local health centre in Dalua. Later, two with serious injuries were sent to North Bengal Medical College & Hospital. Sources said four brothers were having problems over the sharing of an ancestral plot measuring around four bighas for a while. Recently, Ashimuddin alleged that his brother Kashimuddin got the entire plot registered in the latter’s name by convincing their father. This further intensified the dispute among them. On Monday, the brothers got involved in an altercation over land and soon attacked each other. Their associates joined in and the assault intensified, prompting other villagers to inform the police. “The situation is under control now. Our officers are investigating the case. No arrests have been made so far,” said a police officer. In another incident, Baishnabnagar police in Malda district arrested a youth from 16th Mile area on Sunday and seized Rs 96,000 of fake Indian currency notes (FICN) in denominations of Rs 500 from him. An improvised firearm and one round of live cartridge were also found on him. The police, who have withheld his name, are interrogating him to know where he obtained the FICN and the weapons.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-247
05-01-2021||West Bengal||Stones hit BJP road show||A scuffle broke out between supporters of the BJP and the Trinamul Congress in Calcutta on Monday afternoon after a BJP road show was attacked with stones and shoes. The BJP alleged that Trinamul supporters who were holding a street corner meeting at Watgunj had stoned the road show which was being led by Kailash Vijayvargiya, Mukul Roy and MP Arjun Singh. The rally started from Orphangunje at Alipore and ended in front of the BJP office at Hastings. The stones and the shoes were hurled at the vehicle carrying the BJP leaders, but they missed the target. Soon, the BJP processionists and alleged Trinamul members got into a scuffle. “Police intervened just in time and the matter ended with stone and shoe pelting and mild skirmishes,” said a BJP insider. “Since Trinamul has started falling apart, its supporters are venting out their despair through such unruliness,” Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh said. “Just see the law and order in the state. But they cannot stop us like this,” Ghosh added. The BJP had announced that Trinamul turncoat and former Calcutta mayor Sovan Chatterjee and his associate Baisakhi Banerjee would lead the road show, but they didn’t show up. The stone throwing and the skirmishes helped the BJP divert attention from a major loss of face. “Thanks to the clash, we can downplay Sovanda and Baisakhi’s absence. The party will create a narrative about how our leaders were manhandled by Trinamul goons to avoid talking about the two,” a BJP state officebearer told this correspondent. A source said Vijayvargiya had taken Roy and MP Singh to the rally as a last minute substitute. “Mukulda was supposed to stay at Hastings office today and was not scheduled to turn up for the event. Since, the two people who were supposed to be the focus of the road show didn’t turn up, Kailashji dragged him and Arjunda to the rally,” the BJP source said. Roy said he had no idea why Chatterjee and Banerjee had stayed away from the rally. “I’ve no idea why they didn’t come,” Roy said. Chatterjee was recently named the observer for the BJP’s Calcutta zone, while Banerjee has been designated as a coconvenor. Monday’s rally was set to be the first public program of the two leaders since they joined the BJP in August 2019. The party had planned the event as a mega road show. However, Banerjee had apparently refused to participate in the rally citing personal reasons. Immediately, state BJP leaders changed the event’s agenda in a bid to find a way out of the embarrassment. “This event wasn’t about one or two leaders. It was a campaign rally with our anti-Trinamul slogan Aar noye awnyay (no more injustice),” a BJP leader said. According to sources, Banerjee was called from the party’s call centre on Monday morning and was invited to participate in the rally. “The caller had referred to the event as Sovan Chatterjee’s rally which didn’t go down well with Baisakhi and hence she refused to turn up,” a source close to the two leaders said. As soon as it was confirmed that Banerjee would not participate in the rally, BJP leaders were sure that Chatterjee would follow suit. “The party has its own disciplinary action committee which will look into the matter,” Ghosh said reacting to the absence of the two leaders. Black flags at Anurag Left Front supporters showed black flags to Union minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur as he was on his way to the GST office at Kasba in Calcutta on Monday. The protest was organised by the CPM’s Haltu area committee. “We don’t want the rioter Anurag Thakur in our state, in our city,” a participant in the demonstration said. The CPM has maintained that some of Thakur’s comments had added to the communal flareup in Delhi last year. Thakur visited former Indian skipper Sourav Ganguly who was admitted to a city hospital to enquire about his health. He also took a jibe at Trinamul’s attempt to tag the BJP as a party of outsiders. “If a minister of the central government is tagged as an outsider, then who is an insider?” Thakur told journalists on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-247
05-01-2021||West Bengal||Covid test must for pilgrims||The Bengal government on Monday urged pilgrims, who wish to visit Gangasagar Mela this year, to get tested for Covid19 before leaving their respective states. The state government has also decided to set up 13 Covid19 testing centres at various entry points of Sagar Island in addition to five such centres in Calcutta. The state government’s move comes on a day a public interest litigation (PIL) was filed before Calcutta High Court seeking cancellation of Gangasagar Mela, which will be held between January 8 and 16 at Sagar Island in South 24Parganas, to stem the further spread of Covid19 in Bengal. A division bench headed by Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan will hear the petition filed by advocate Ajoy De on Tuesday. Sources said when the issue would come up for hearing on Tuesday, the state’s advocate general would inform the bench about the steps the government had taken in view of the pandemic. Moving the petition, De said: “It is the second largest religious mela in India and lakhs of pilgrims from all the parts of country assemble at Sagar Island. In the midst of a pandemic, when there is a bar on gathering, how can government grant permission to the event?” The lawyer pleaded that the court direct the government to declare Sagar Island as containment zone to bar such a large gathering this year. In October last year, De had in a similar move got the court to declare Durga Puja pandals as containment zones. The order had helped the government avoid large gatherings that happens during Durga Puja every year. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday met senior officials to chalk out plans to carry out Covid tests on pilgrims before they enter the Island. Mamata urged pilgrims from Bengal to avoid visiting Gangasagar this year as the state was trying to organise the fair with fewer visitors in the backdrop of the pandemic. At the meeting held in Nabanna, Mamata said a dedicated team of 800 people would be deployed at the island to ensure that everybody followed Covid protocol. The government said a 600 bed Covid hospital, in addition to isolation centres and safe homes, would be arranged at Gangasagar. In addition, there would be two air ambulances, the official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-247
