06-01-2021||West Bengal||Theatre owners ask Mamata to lift cap on cinema hall occupancy||Single-screen theatre owners in Bengal wrote to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday urging her to allow full occupancy, while citing huge losses in business and “no instance of the spread of Covid-19 through cinema halls”. In the letter shot off to Mamata on Tuesday evening, said that they have suffered huge losses while complying with the rule of 50 per cent occupancy in cinemas since the reopening of the establishments in the third week of October. “There has been no report on the spread of the pandemic by way of screening of films in cinema halls in and around the country since the time the halls reopened,” the letter signed by Eastern India Motion Pictures Association (EIMPA) president Piya Sengupta read. She said theatre owners are suffering huge losses as no new Hindi or Bengali films are being released due to the occupancy restrictions. “If the occupancy restrictions are relaxed, several Bengali and Hindi movies waiting in the pipeline will be released and exhibitors may be benefited and get a chance to survive,” she said in the letter. The letter referred to a notification issued by the Tamil Nadu government, which allowed full occupancy in cinemas with adherence to the Covid-19 protocol. The Palaniswami government’s decision came a day before the letter was issued. Ajanta theatre owner and EIMPA office-bearer Ratan Saha had earlier said that many cinema hall owners are regretting their decision to reopen theatres in October last year as several releases since Durga Puja and the passage of Christmas-New Year season have failed to draw the audience. Arijit Dutta, the owner of Priya Cinema, had said that the iconic theatre did not witness more than five per cent occupancy during the Christmas-New Year season. Striking a different note, Navina Cinema owner Navin Chokhani, however, said, “I will welcome the increase of theatre occupancy to 100 per cent only when I am sure that it won't affect the safety of our audience and employees.” The Tamil Nadu government on Monday issued a notification allowing hundred per cent occupancy in movie halls, after getting requests from film stars who urged the state to do so ahead of Pongal. However, the Centre on Wednesday asked the government to revoke the decision, giving the state a reminder that the Home Ministry has issued its guidelines till January 31. “State/UT governments shall not dilute these guidelines... in any manner and shall strictly enforce the same,” the letter, as quoted by NDTV, read, referring to the guidelines. “In view of the above, the GoTN (Government of Tamil Nadu) is requested to immediately issue necessary orders to bring their guidelines in line with the MHA guidelines dated 28th December 2020 and inform compliance to this ministry,” it further said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-245
06-01-2021||West Bengal||Sourav fit, to be discharged tomorrow||BCCI chief and former Team India captain Sourav Ganguly, who underwent angioplasty following a mild heart attack, is now stable and will be discharged from the hospital on Thursday, an official at the facility where he is admitted said. The former India skipper was supposed to be discharged from the hospital on Wednesday, but he expressed the desire to stay there for one more day, the official said. Sources close to the cricket icon said Ganguly wanted to avoid the crowds gathered outside the hospital and his residence at Behala. "Mr Ganguly is clinically fit. He slept well and had his meal. He wanted to stay in the hospital for one more day. So he will go home tomorrow. It is his personal decision," Woodlands Hospital MD and CEO Dr Rupali Basu told reporters. Hospital sources said the necessary formalities to discharge Ganguly were completed, and he and his family members were briefed about the medicines which he needs to take after returning home. "He is fine and has no chest pain or any other complications. Our team of doctors monitored his health condition thoroughly this morning," a senior official of the facility said. Ganguly was diagnosed with three blocked coronary arteries on Saturday last week, following which a stent was inserted in one to remove the blockage. Doctors at the private hospital had on Monday reached a consensus that 48-year-old Ganguly, who has been diagnosed with 'Triple vessel disease', would be discharged on Wednesday, and the second angioplasty, which he might have to undergo, could be performed at a "later stage". Noted cardiologist Dr Devi Shetty, who had joined the team of doctors attending to the BCCI president, said on Tuesday that Ganguly is an "asset" to the nation, and the mild heart attack that he experienced did not cause any damage to his health.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-245
06-01-2021||West Bengal||CPM, Congress take out joint motorcycle rally||The CPM and the Congress jointly took out a motorcycle rally that covered 105km and nine gram panchayats of Bolpur-Sriniketan to campaign for the farmers’ movement on Delhi borders to demand a repeal of the farm laws. The rally was taken out a day after the Congress high command formed a four-member committee headed by its state president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury for talks with the Left Front to share seats and chalk out joint political programmes for Bengal polls. Around 150 motorbikes went around the villages and campaigned against the BJP’s alleged anti-farmer policies. “The areas we covered are rural pockets as we wanted to reach out to the farmers on the issue of farm laws,” said CPM state committee member Gautam Ghosh. President of the Bolpur unit of the Congress, Tapan Saha, said: “We kicked off the campaign to inform people about our poll alliance too.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-245
06-01-2021||West Bengal||Teachers back Binay, rally on Sunday||A number of teachers’ organisations, most of them affiliated to Binay Tamang-Anit Thapa camp of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, announced that they would hold a rally and public meeting at the motor stand in Darjeeling on Sunday. The announcement is significant at a time hill politics is in a flux with Bimal Gurung’s faction of the Morcha dumping the BJP and aligning with Trinamul. Anil Sharma, president of the teachers’ outfit Sanjukta Madhyamik Sikshak Sangathan, said it was time for “intellectuals” to give direction in the present political situation. “Many hill people are in a state of confusion and deliberating who is right and wrong (in hill politics). At this moment, if intellectuals cannot provide the right direction, we suspect that all of us will suffer,” said Sharma. “We want to give direction to the confused people of the hills.” Gurung decided to join hands with Trinamul in October 2020 for the Bengal elections. The Binay-Anit camp has been an ally of Trinamul since September 2017. Since Gurung resurfaced in the hills last month, after a gap of more than three-and-half years, each rival Morcha factions is trying to outwit the other, either by holding public meetings or forming new units. Gurung’s party held public meetings in Kurseong, Siliguri, Darjeeling and Sitong so far. The Binay-Anit camp held rallies at the same venues within the next two to three days to assert their presence. However, the decision to bring teachers on the street seems to be a new strategy. “Teachers are looked up by society and have a relatively good image. The Binay-Anit camp is probably looking at reaching out to the ‘intellectual’ lot by bringing teachers on the streets to create a new narrative and perspective,” said a hill observer. Tamang camp spokesperson Keshav Raj Pokhrel, however, said that though some teachers’ organisations were affiliated to the faction, the decision to organise the public meeting was not directed by his party leadership. “It is their (teachers’) decision. They will probably not use our party flag during the event and may only bring their associations’ flags,” said Pokhrel. Sanjukta Madhyamik Sikshak Sangathan president Sharma said through the rally they wanted to send out a message not just to people of the region but also to political parties. “This is because education is also affected by the politics of the region,” he said. Gurung on Tuesday tried to reach out to the Gorkha population of Siliguri. He met people in Pradhannagar area and lambasted the BJP for failing to meet its promises. He told the media that during his tenure in the GTA, he did not have a proper relationship with chief minister Mamata Banerjee. “But during the past three years, I noticed she keeps her commitments, unlike Prime Minister Narendra Modi. I decided to reach out to people and tell them why they should vote for Trinamul,” he said. State compensation State tourism minister Gautam Deb and chairman of the board of administrators of GTA Anit Thapa on Tuesday reached Kalimpong to hand over compensation of Rs 2 lakh each provided by the state government to family members of Anita Chhetri,40, and Banita Gurung,46, residents of Chandraloke who died during a stampede at a musical event at Kalimpong on Sunday evening. The two leaders also paid their last respects to the deceased. Additional reporting by Bireswar Banerjee in Siliguri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-245
06-01-2021||West Bengal||Eateries near tourism hub raided||A group of 50 youths carrying firearms, sharp weapons, iron roads and sticks rampaged through an area outside Mamata Banerjee’s pet tourism project “Bhorer Alo” at Gajoldoba in Jalpaiguri district on Monday night, vandalising eight-10 eateries, assaulting the owners and robbing them of cash. The raid was a sequel to an altercation between around 10 drunk youths and a horse cart owner near the tourism hub spread across 208 acres near the Teesta Barrage. Sources said 10 youths who were suspected to be drunk had taken a ride on a horse cart at Gajoldoba on Monday evening. After the ride, there was a quarrel between the group and the horse cart owner over the fare. “The youths assaulted him and barged into roadside food stalls. They also abused local women verbally. The stall owners and local people chased the youths away,” said a source. The youths were from a place which is around 25km away from Gajoldoba in Rajganj block. After sometime, four-five vehicles screeched to a halt at Gajoldoba and around 50 men got off. They were carrying firearms, sharp weapons, iron rods and sticks. “The youths ransacked our eateries and whoever went to stop them were assaulted. The attackers took away whatever cash we had at our shops,” said Bibhuti Biswas, a shop owner. Another eatery owner said: “The attackers claimed they were Trinamul Congress workers. They claimed to be associates of Krishna Das, the Jalpaiguri district president of Trinamul’s SC, ST and OBC Cell, and dared us to stop them. We are feeling insecure and have filed a police complaint.” Bhorer Alo is located between the Baikunthapur forest and the Teesta and is around 25km from Siliguri. The 373-crore project had been inaugurated by chief minister Mamata Banerjee in October 2018. BJP leaders, including Jalpaiguri MP Jayanta Roy, visited Gajoldoba on Tuesday morning and raised a road blockade, along with the affected shop owners and local people. After sometime, they lifted the blockade on the road that connects the tourism hub with Siliguri and the Dooars. Most of the shops remained shut in the area on Tuesday. “Anti-socials backed by Trinamul are responsible for the incident. The state government should give compensation to the affected traders and take action against the vandals,” said Roy. The police have detained two persons while searches are on to round up others. Krishna Das has brushed aside the charges. “The BJP is trying to malign me my by falsely dragging my name to the vandalism. None of my associates was involved in the incident,” Das, who is away in Chennai for medical treatment, said over the phone. Tour operators said the government should take steps to ensure that such incidents didn’t recur near tourism sites. “Otherwise, tourists will keep away from destinations,” said a tour operator.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-245
06-01-2021||West Bengal||Two held with banned cough syrup, Rs 14 lakh||Two men were arrested allegedly with 100 bottles of banned cough syrup which was suspected to be set for Bangladesh and over Rs 14 lakh in cash in North Dinajpur on Monday night. Sources said Karandighi police had received a tip-off and accordingly intercepted a car near the bus stand at Tungidighi. “There were three people, including a woman, in the vehicle. The woman managed to escape, but the police arrested two men,” a source said on Tuesday. The arrested were Rabiul Islam, a resident of Kamartor in Karandighi, and Mobaraq Sheikh from Mojampur near Kaliachak in the neighbouring Malda district. “We searched the vehicle and found 100 bottles of a banned cough syrup and Rs 14,43,870 in cash. We suspect they are members of a racket that was planning to smuggle the bottles into Bangladesh. The vehicle has been seized,” said a police officer. The police produced Islam and Sheikh in a court here on Tuesday and pleaded for their custody for five days. The police are in search of the woman. The source said the cough syrup laced with codeine had a high demand in Bangladesh where it was consumed in large quantities. “This has made the smuggling of syrup a lucrative option for rackets involved in illegal activities along the India-Bangladesh border,” said the source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-245
06-01-2021||West Bengal||Six die after speeding truck rams pick-up van on NH12||Six members of a family from Nadia’s Ranaghat, on their way to a picnic at Hazarduari, were killed when a speeding truck rammed into their pick-up van on NH12 in Rejinagar, Murshidabad before daybreak on Tuesday. Samir Malakar, a pandal-maker, who lost both his son and wife in the accident, had organised the picnic for 14 members, said sources. The family had hired the pick-up van and covered it with tarpaulin to protect themselves against cold. They left their Ranaghat home around 1am on Tuesday and reached Rejinagar-Dadpur village on NH-12 around 5am when the driver of the pick-up van took a break to relieve himself. With the van parked along the highway shrouded in fog, visibility was poor. The speeding Berhampur-bound truck could not see the parked pick-up van and rammed into the vehicle from behind, killing four persons on the spot, police said. Two others of the family succumbed to their injuries later at the Murshidabad Medical College and Hospital in Berhampore. Eight other injured members are undergoing treatment at the hospital. Rejinagar police have seized the truck but the driver remains absconding. The six deceased have been identified as Shilpi Mandal, 40, Ila Sarkar, 50, Soma Malakar, 35, Suraj Malakar, 13, Shila Das, 52, and Samir Das, 28. All the victims are close relatives and resided at Ainshtala and adjacent areas of Ranaghat town. Murshidabad’s superintendent of police K. Sabari Rajkumar said: “Preliminary investigation indicates that fog-induced poor visibility led to the accident. A search has been launched to nab the absconding truck driver.” Basudeb Sil, a neighbour of the Malakar family, said they were all shocked at the news. “The family had planned a family get together in Hazarduari and were scheduled to return late tonight (Tuesday). I was shocked to receive a call from the police around 5.30am informing me about the accident,” Sil said. Residents of Rejinagar-Dadpur village said the stretch of NH12 near their locality was too narrow and had thus become accident-prone. They said widening of the stretch into a four-lane road was yet to be taken up even though the widening work between Nadia’s Bahadurpur and Berhampur had been completed. An officer of Rejinagar police said that many drivers often fail to control their speeding once they enter the narrow stretch. Speaking on this particular accident, he said: “It could have been averted had the driver parked the pick-up van a little away from the highway. There was heavy fog cover on the road and the pick-up van did not even have tail lights (to alert other vehicles of its presence).” Ranaghat panchayat samity president Tapas Ghosh said they had all learnt about the accident from Murshidabad police. “We later took up the matter through our district administration and requested the police to hand over the bodies soon after post-mortem to the relatives of the deceased,” Ghosh added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-245
06-01-2021||West Bengal||CBI calls 6 cops, kin of Vinay for questioning||The CBI on Tuesday summoned for questioning six Bengal police officers and a few family members of the Trinamul Congress’s youth wing leader, Vinay Mishra, in connection with its probe into alleged smuggling of coal and cattle. They were all asked to appear before CBI officers in Calcutta this week, said an investigator who refused to speak further on the summoning. Trinamul said the summons were politically motivated. “Several police officers who were earlier posted across Murshidabad and Hooghly districts have been summoned since it appears smuggled coal and cattle used to travel down parts of national highways of these two districts with their support,” said a source. Among the summoned are police superintendent of Hooghly, a former deputy commissioner of police of the Chandernagore police commissionerate, a former deputy inspector general of police of the Murshidabad range and a former additional police superintendent of Murshidabad. Besides, a deputy commissioner of police with the Asansol-Durgapur police commissionerate has been summoned. A circle inspector of Bankura police and an inspector-in-charge of a police station in Purulia were also summoned. Trinamul dubbed the summons as an extension of the “politically drafted probe” that was aimed at maligning the ruling party in Bengal ahead of the Assembly elections. “We expect more summons to follow in the following weeks from the CBI. A plot has been drawn up and the central agency is merely trying to fill in the blanks at the behest of the government at the Centre,” said a senior Trinamul leader in south Calcutta. The CBI had earlier carried out raids and searches at three homes of Mishra in Alipore and Rashbehari in Calcutta and Lake Town and seized several documents, pen drives and laptops. Mishra, however, was not to be found. The CBI believes he is in the Gulf.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-245
06-01-2021||West Bengal||HC seeks CBI affidavit on Narada chargesheet||Calcutta High Court on Tuesday awarded two weeks to the CBI for filing an affidavit before it, stating why the central investigation agency was yet to file a chargesheet in the Narada “sting” operation case despite the completion of its probe. The division bench headed by Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan issued the order on a petition by Congress leader Amitabha Chakraborti who requested the court to ask the CBI to file the chargesheet immediately. In the sting operation made public before the 2016 Assembly polls, people resembling Trinamul leaders were seen accepting wads of cash from a journalist who posed as a businessman. Moving the petition on behalf of Chakraborti, CPM Rajya Sabha member and senior lawyer Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharyya told the bench on Tuesday: “After completion of its probe in the matter, the CBI had claimed that since some MPs were the accused in the case, it had sought permission from the Lok Sabha Speaker for proceeding.” “But, as a matter of fact, the Speaker (Om Birla) is yet to give his permission. Why is the Speaker mum on the issue?” asked the former Calcutta mayor. Bhattacharyya said his client, Chakraborti, was apprehensive of Speaker Birla’s action being “politically motivated”. “The common people want to know the truth,” said Bhattacharyya. Chakraborti, the petitioner, accused the BJP of trying to influence the probe by making Speaker Birla withhold his approval as some of the key accused in the Narada case — such as Mukul Roy, Suvendu Adhikari and Sovan Chatterjee — had deserted Trinamul to join the BJP. The counsel appearing for the CBI said he was yet to obtain instruction from his client and the court should give him time. The bench then granted the CBI’s prayer and fixed the matter for hearing after two weeks, when the agency would have to file a chargesheet informing the court about the progress. Bhattacharyya later told this newspaper that he had personally met Speaker Birla in Delhi and urged him to give approval to the CBI. “It was on the basis of my petition that the Supreme Court had handed over the Narada probe to the CBI in 2016. In five years, the CBI did precious little. But we want to know the truth,” said Chakraborti. “The BJP is trying to manipulate this, to protect Trinamul turncoats,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-245
06-01-2021||West Bengal||Tagore-era Samity row||Members of Alapini Mahila Samity on Tuesday accused Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty and his administration of trying to destroy the socio-cultural women’s organisation set up at Rabindranath Tagore’s behest in 1916. The varsity on January 1 sealed its office on the campus after an “arbitrary notice” asking the Samity to vacate the space. On Tuesday, Samity members protested against a meeting called by the varsity on Monday to break the “impasse”, saying office-bearers had not been invited. Samity president Aparna Das Mahapatra called it a “dirty game”. Varsity authorities said they had no intention to exclude anyone. The varsity’s Karmi Parishad claimed on Monday that it held a meeting with a “few members of Alapini Mahila Samity” and adopted four resolutions. People considered close to the VC and the varsity administration took part in the meeting, sources said. Visva-Bharati officiating public relations officer Anirban Sircar posted the resolution of the meeting with names of 36 people, including those of varsity teachers, Karmi Parishad members and a “few members of the Samity”. A furious Das Mahapatra, 86, said: “We had no information about the meeting and learnt only one of our members took part in it where the varsity authorities adopted four resolutions. This is a blatant attempt by the VC and his administration to form a separate committee...We could never imagine that they would resort to such a dirty game.” Karmi Parishad members, however, claimed that they had no plan to exclude the present Alapini committee. “It was a primary meeting. Only a few members of the Alapini Mahila Samity took part in it. We respect the organisation as it is associated with Santiniketan since the time of Tagore. We hope the dispute is resolved soon,” said Kishore Bhattacharya, joint secretary of Karmi Parishad. Samity members suspect that varsity authorities plan to form a new committee and register it under the Societies Registration Act, 1860, and exclude present members opposed to the “whims” of varsity authorities. Samity members plan a protest rally from Amartya Sen’s house to the VC office on January 8 to protest the “conspiracy to demolish the culture of Santiniketan”. “We have already requested all women’s organisations and cultural outfits connected with Santiniketan to join our protest. We demand a meeting with the VC and want to question him about his intention regarding our organisation,” said Manisha Banerjee, an executive committee member of Alapini Mahila Samity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-245
06-01-2021||West Bengal||Day’s new infections 812, active cases 9,293||Bengal on Tuesday logged 1,166 Covid-19 recoveries, 812 new infections and a toll of 24, including four from Calcutta, leading to a drop in total active cases for the 71st consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami on October 26. The total active cases is 9,293 now, having improved by over 75 per cent from 37,190 on October 26. With 4.09 per cent of the country’s active cases, Bengal is now sixth among states with the most active cases. That’s an improvement from a month ago when Bengal had 7 per cent of active cases and ranked third among states with the most active cases. “We are looking to drop out of the top 10, within this month. We will be very well placed by the time the vaccination process takes off,” said a minister. Bengal’s Covid-19 recovery rate has risen for 75 consecutive days, by over 9 per cent, to 96.56. The national rate is now 96.32 per cent. Calcutta High Court had intervened with directives to prevent crowding and a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath, the fewer number of infections during and after the festivities proving the instructions were effective. Before New Year, the court gave a similar set of instructions to ensure the outbreak did not worsen over revelries. Since Dashami, the state reported over 2.27 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 2.02 lakh new infections detected. The state’s Covid-19 total of 5.56 lakh cases includes over 5.37 lakh recoveries and 9,841 deaths. Bengal’s mortality rate is now 1.76, behind the 1.44 per cent nationally. The state government attributed 8,254 (83.9 per cent) deaths of the total toll to comorbidities. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.66 per cent now, having improved steadily from the 8.27 of November 20. The state’s total test count went past 72.66 lakh, at 80,734 tests per million people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-246
06-01-2021||West Bengal||An innings ends, Howrah games go on ||Laxmi Ratan Shukla on Tuesday stepped down as the Bengal minister of state for sports and the Trinamul Congress chief of Howrah (Sadar), fuelling speculation on his political future and bringing to the fore  again the problems within the bitterly divided ruling party in Howrah. The development came amid the BJP’s whisper campaign on the possibility of several leaders deserting Trinamul when Union home minister Amit Shah would be in Calcutta later this month. In a letter to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, the 39-year-old retired cricketer urged her to relieve him of his responsibilities, although he expressed his willingness to complete his term as the Howrah North MLA, as a gesture of respect to the 2016 mandate. Shukla did not issue a statement, but Mamata lauded him, attributing the decision to his wish to devote more time to sports. “He wrote to me and said he wanted to devote more time to sports and would like to step away from politics for the sake of sports…. There is nothing else to this. There is no misunderstanding… he is a good boy. I wish him all success for his future,” said the Trinamul chief in the afternoon. However, others Trinamul leaders were not as kind towards the former Bengal captain in their interactions with the media. Shukla, known in the Bengal cricket fraternity as “Bittu”, was a right-handed batsman and a right-arm medium pacer who represented not only Bengal in first class cricket but also Kolkata Knight Riders, Delhi Daredevils and Sunrisers Hyderabad in the IPL. He also represented India in three ODIs. Sources close to Shukla said he had been “very displeased” for some time with both the internal dynamics of Trinamul’s politics in Howrah and the lack of actual importance of his portfolio. “What the chief minister said is not true. Laxmi does not want to focus on sports. He retired from all forms of the game years ago. He doesn’t want to start anything new in that arena, as of now,” said a source. “He had been a minister for over four-and-a-half years. Not one file ever reached his office, seeking his approval. He never got any opportunity to work there…. Also, his life had been made hell by Trinamul’s intensely vicious internal rivalry in Howrah,” he added. The source said Shukla remained undecided on his immediate future. Trinamul Bally MLA Baishali Dalmiya  issued a stern statement in support of Shukla, urging the leadership to wake up before “termites” destroy the party from within. Agri-marketing minister Arup Roy, the chairman of the party’s Howrah unit that many are allegedly opposed to, was critical of Shukla. “This is akin to desertion by a general just before a war,” he said. The BJP was publicly ebullient with the developments. “It is evident that these people are being suffocated in Trinamul and are hence looking for an alternative. We have given them that. We will think about it if and when they want to join us,” BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh said on Shukla.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-246
06-01-2021||West Bengal||Kerala painter gifts colour to tribal kids ||Paintings by tribal children of a village 5km from Santiniketan were exhibited on the foundation day of the local club on Tuesday, thanks to the efforts of painter and Kala Bhavana alumnus Anoop M. Gopi. Sona Murmu, secretary of the Bidyadharpur Adibasi Bikash Kendra — the club at Bidyadharpur village set up in 1998 — said they never expected their children would “paint even a bird”. “Every year, we celebrate the foundation day of our club but it is special this year because of the exhibition of paintings by our boys and girls,” a proud Murmu said. Around 30 paintings painted by tribal children aged between six and 14 depicted the rural landscape, trees, birds and pet animals. Murmu said the credit for this went solely to their “Anoopda”. “Anoopda taught 35 tribal boys and girls how to paint during the lockdown,” Murmu said. Anoop, 36, who received the prestigious Lalit Kala Akademi award from President Ram Nath Kovind,in March last year, said it happened by chance. “I travel to tribal hamlets to catch various moods of tribal life and culture, and paint sitting on the ground. One day in July this year, three or four boys and girls from this village asked me if I could teach them how to paint. I could not refuse them,” said Anoop. A junior fellow under the Union ministry of culture, Anoop, who hails from Thrissur in Kerala, came to Santiniketan in 2007 to pursue his masters’ degree in fine arts. After completing his two-year degree, he refused to leave Santiniketan and confessed to have fallen in love with Rabindranath Tagore, Baul songs and the life and culture of tribal people here. The bearded, Bengali-speaking youth from Kerala whizzing by on an old motorbike is a familiar sight in Santiniketan and Bolpur now. His free drawing class for tribal children has been a relevation, he said. “On the first day of class, I discovered that the tribal children were full of temperament and talent but it was financially impossible for them to buy papers or colours,” he said. He started buying papers and colours for them from his own pocket, curbing other costs from his monthly scholarship of Rs 10,000. “I gave them my crayons, and papers too when I found out that they had a lot of ideas in their heads. There were only five students when I started the class and now there are 35. It gives me immense pleasure to know that I reached out to first generation painters,” said Anoop. Rabindranath Murmu, a Class IX student of a local high school who painted a landscape for this exhibition, was so excited that the whole village would see it that he spent a “sleepless night”. “Anoopda taught me how to paint and sketch a portrait or landscape. I was so excited when I first painted a tree. I’ll never miss any of his classes,” said Rabindranath. Nowadays, children like Rabindranath literally “chase” Anoop when he reaches Bidyadharpur on his bike and waits till he hands them drawing sheets and colours. “I have financial limitations but I am still happy to teach a group of boys and girls how to paint,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-246
06-01-2021||West Bengal||Tanker rate rift sucks north Bengal pumps dry||Over 200 petrol pumps in north Bengal have run dry and fuel supply to parts of neighbouring Nepal and Bhutan is severely hit as oil tankers have not been able to move out of the Indian Oil Corporation Ltd (IOCL) terminal in New Jalpaiguri for three days with protesters blocking the terminal gate. The trigger behind the impasse is a disagreement among tanker owners and drivers with IOCL authorities over the “low rates” that oil tankers are paid per kilometre to ferry fuel. With Trinamul’s labour arm Inttuc (Indian National Trinamool Trade Union Congress) throwing its weight behind the protesting tanker owners and drivers at the gate, no tanker could move out of the terminal in three days. Though no one said this on record, sources the gate was blocked in view of a rift among tanker owners and drivers. Some among them wanted to ply the tankers, but the protesters stopped them. Prasenjit Roy, an Inttuc leader in New Jalpaiguri who led the protests, blamed the IOCL. According to Roy, the IOCL had floated tenders for tanker services for the period of 2015-20. Then, a rate of Rs 3.46 per kilometre had been fixed, and accordingly, private tankers had been providing services across north Bengal based on that rate, he said. The problem started, he said, when recently, after five years, the authorities decided to float a fresh tender. “We have come to know that the rate per kilometre in the new tender is Rs 2.81. Logically, the rate should have been higher as costs of every kind have increased during the past five years. Besides, the new rate, which is lower, would remain in force for the next five years. We are supporting tanker owners and drivers because the IOCL is not handling the matter of rates fairly,” said Roy. Against this backdrop, tanker services from the terminal have come to a halt across north Bengal and to some locations of Nepal and Bhutan too. Throughout the day, negotiations continued between the striking tanker owners and drivers and IOCL authorities, with spurts of skirmishes in the terminal area as a section of the protesters agreed to IOCL terms but others protested. There was no consensus. “The owners and drivers will hold a meeting with IOCL authorities on Wednesday afternoon too and take a final call on their next course of action,” said a source. “We all are waiting for Wednesday’s meeting where a final decision would be made. The tanker service should continue or else, the fuel-supply situation would turn critical. Already, a large number of pumps are closed without fuel supply,” said a petrol pump owner-based in Siliguri. IOCL authorities could not be contacted by this reporter to confirm the new “lower” rate as alleged by Roy. “The situation is already alarming,” said a senior state government official. “We need a speedy resolution as panic buying of fuel is being reported from parts of north Bengal,” he added. Bikash Agarwal, general secretary of North Bengal Petrol Dealers’ Association, said there were around 490 petrol pumps in the region, with 250 being IOCL outlets. “Because of this disruption, some 90 per cent of the IOCL outlets have gone dry. Even the HPCL pumps are facing problems as they get their supplies from the IOCL terminal,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-246
