07-01-2021||West Bengal||Sourav Ganguly discharged from hospital||BCCI president and former India captain Sourav Ganguly was on Thursday morning discharged from a hospital in Calcutta, five days after suffering a "mild heart attack". The 48-year-old cricket icon, who had to undergo a stent insertion, was declared stable and clinically fit by doctors. "I am absolutely fine," Ganguly said before boarding his private vehicle to return home. "I thank all the doctors, the nurses and everybody in the hospital for treating me," he added. The former Indian cricket captain was hospitalised on Saturday after he suffered a heart attack while working out on a treadmill. He had a stent implanted in the right coronary artery on Saturday afternoon. Sourav, 48, was scheduled to be discharged from the hospital on Wednesday after the doctors treating him concluded that he was fit to go home. Doctors and officials said the formalities for discharge were complete in the morning and the car to take Sourav home had arrived at Woodlands. However, at the last moment, Sourav told doctors that he wanted to stay at the hospital for one more day. “Ganguly will be discharged tomorrow (Thursday) as he wanted to stay back one more day,” Rupali Basu, the CEO of Woodlands, had said on Wednesday. “All his parameters are normal but since he wanted to stay back, we agreed. There are many patients who often defer discharge,” said an official of the hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-244
07-01-2021||West Bengal||Rajbanshi outfits float forum, back Didi||Rajbanshi outfits in north Bengal have come together to float a common platform to support the Trinamul regime and raise their key demands, which include separate statehood and inclusion of Rajbanshi language in the eighth schedule of the Indian Constitution. “The state government has done a lot for different communities of north Bengal but the Centre has ignored us. Whether it is the Kamtapuris (Rajbanshis) or the Gorkhas, the central government has not met any of our demands. That is why we have floated a common forum. We are with Mamata Banerjee,” said Atul Roy, president, Kamtapur Progressive Party. The forum, he said, has been named as Bhumiputra Aikya Mancha. On Wednesday, Roy, who is a joint secretary of the Mancha, reached here with hundreds of supporters and submitted to the Jalpaiguri district magistrate’s office separate memoranda addressed to the Prime Minister and the chief minister. Such a move by the Rajbanshis, who can determine poll results in almost half of the 54 Assembly seats in north Bengal, has come as a fresh challenge for the BJP, which suffered a jolt after Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Gurung severed ties with the saffron camp. The problems for the BJP may compound as the Rajbanshis have invited the Gorkhas to join their forum. “In the Lok Sabha elections of 2019, the BJP had the support of a considerable section of Rajbanshis and the Bimal Gurung faction of the Morcha. If Gurung and the Rajbanshis join hands, it will be definitely a concern for the BJP that has been eyeing a majority of north Bengal seats,” said a political observer. Trinamul, he said, has taken a series of initiatives to woo the Rajbanshi community in the past few months, which include constitution of separate welfare and development board and language academies. Even on Tuesday, the state Cabinet decided to work on the proposal to grant recognition to around 200 informal schools in north Bengal where Rajbanshi language is used as a medium of instruction. That the Rajbanshi leaders are unhappy with the BJP was evident from the KPP leader’s remarks. “Time and again, we were assured that our language would be included in the eighth schedule and we supported the BJP. I have spoken with Bimal Gurung and he is also aggrieved with the BJP. Both Rajbanshis and Gorkhas have been used as vote banks by the saffron party,” said Roy. Bangshibadan Burman of the Greater Cooch Behar People’s Association is in the Mancha. An outfit of Rajbanshi Muslims also joined the Mancha. In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, Trinamul could not win any of the eight seats in north Bengal and was ahead only in 12 Assembly segments. “While the BJP will have to toil hard to retain its support base, both factions of the Morcha and Rajbanshi organisations will surely give an extra edge to Mamata Banerjee’s party,” said an analyst.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-244
07-01-2021||West Bengal||CM's take on provincialism and political parachutists||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee told industrialists on Wednesday that she always considered people from Rajasthan, Gujarat and other parts of the country settled in Bengal as children of the soil, making a clear distinction between them and political parachutists. “You are all Bengali. I don’t call you outsiders.… We have got so much support from you. Those who suddenly come here before the polls, I call them outsiders,” Mamata said during her first interaction with industrialists in the state since Covid-19 struck the country. “Please don’t get bothered about this debate on outsiders…. I refer to the invaders, who come with the objective of creating riots and division among people, as outsiders,” the chief minister said during a 90-minute interaction. “Please don’t misunderstand me.… I know that you all are more than Bengali,” Mamata added, drawing a huge round of applause. Trying to establish that she was above narrow provincialism, Mamata called out the names of top civil and police administration officials and asked them about their states of origin. “Did I ever ask anyone about their surnames? I only ask whether the work is done,” she said. The West Bengal Industrial Development Corporation had organised the interaction at an auditorium near Nabanna. Seventy-five business leaders from across the state participated. Sources close to the chief minister said that since the objective was to broad-base the interaction, the list of invitees included not just the known faces from Calcutta but also businesspeople from north Bengal and remote areas like Purulia. The meet-and-greet session began with the chief minister outlining the growing business opportunities in Bengal because of the Deocha-Panchami coal block in Birbhum, oil and gas reserves at Ashoknagar in North 24-Parganas, deep-sea port at Tajpur in East Midnapore, Silicon Valley at Newtown in Rajarhat, and the leather complex at Bantala in South 24-Parganas. The predominant takeaway from the interaction was, however, Mamata’s assurance that came against the backdrop of her hanging the “outsider” tag on BJP leaders hotfooting to Bengal from elsewhere, often betraying their lack of familiarity with local sensibilities and culture. “We are all the same, the only difference is that we speak different languages. Some people coming from outside are trying to create divisions among us,” she said. “Some people from Gujarat will come before the election, go to Bhowanipore and tell people not to vote for me. I don’t mind, but I have a sister-brother relation with you and that relationship should remain intact,” Mamata added, making it clear she wanted the support of non-Bengalis in the Assembly elections. The chief minister used the session to prod the business leaders to invest in the state before gauging their perceptions about the debate on outsiders, the state of industry in Bengal and the problems they encountered in pursuing their projects. All the business leaders who got an opportunity to speak told Mamata they had never felt discriminated against in Bengal although they were originally from states like Rajasthan or Gujarat. Seeking to explain why the Trinamul government was business-friendly, Mamata reminded the business leaders of the problems they had had to face because of measures like the demonetisation. Referring to one of the business community’s pet peeves, the chief minister said: “I never disturb you, but I know they disturb you with ED (Enforcement Directorate), CBI or income-tax raids. I know people have to pay every month.… I never asked for money from you.” Sources close to Mamata said the interaction was significant in the context of the shrill exchange on “outsiders” between the BJP and Trinamul. Over the past month or so, several BJP leaders have accused Mamata of defying the spirit of the Constitution by bringing up the issue of “outsiders”. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar waded into the debate on Wednesday, saying it was unfortunate that some people were describing those coming from other states as “outsiders”. He said this was “against the idea of the Constitution”. Mamata went to Raj Bhavan in the evening on what sources said was a courtesy call. Before that, she had accused Dhankhar of parroting the BJP line. “Even today, the governor said that I call everyone an ‘outsider’…. How can someone holding a constitutional post make a comment like that?” she asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-244
07-01-2021||West Bengal||Official: Bengal can store 6 crore vaccines||The Bengal health department on Wednesday said the state had the capacity to store around six crore Covid-19 vaccine ampules at 941 cold-chain points across the state and six lakh health care providers would be given jabs in the first phase. A senior health official said while several states did not have adequate infrastructure, Bengal was well equipped to implement the vaccination programme. “We have sufficient cold chains and there is no scarcity of infrastructure. We can store six crore vaccines at 941 cold chain points at a time,” said the senior health official posted in Calcutta adding that the Centre had promised to send adequate equipment like freezers before the vaccination process began. According to him, six lakh health care providers will be vaccinated against Covid-19 in the first phase. The Union health ministry had earlier said the country was equipped and ready to start vaccination with around 29,000 cold-chain points across the country. Sources said six states, including Maharashtra, Karnataka and Gujarat, had together around 13,900 cold-chain points — that was more than half the existing infrastructure in the country. Another official of the state health department said the vaccination could start as early as next week. In keeping with the directive of the Centre, he said, dry runs for the vaccine roll-out would be conducted in all districts of Bengal on January 8. “The health department has chosen three centres in each district to carry out the dry run. At the three centres in Birbhum, the entire process for vaccination will be followed,” said Jayanta Sukul, a deputy chief medical officer of health in Birbhum. The sources said training of vaccinators had started at around 1,000 points chosen as vaccination centres in each district. Asked how the process would begin, health officials said those selected for vaccination would be informed about their venue and date. The officials added that a police officer would be the first “vaccination officer” at a vaccination centre. The cop would check the individual’s identity and clear him for the next step. “It is a central directive to post police personnel to man entrances to vaccination centres. The cop will have hard copies of the list of beneficiaries and enlisted persons will be required to carry identity proof when they come to the vaccination centre,” said a health official. Other than the cop, there will be four vaccination officers, including a vaccinator, at every centre. After verifying the beneficiaries online, the vaccinator will administer the first dose. The beneficiary will then have to wait for 30 minutes in a dedicated room to monitor if the person was having any adverse reaction following the vaccination, the official added. “We have primarily decided to vaccinate 100 persons at a centre every day,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-244
07-01-2021||West Bengal||Animal alert for trains||Officials of the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) are working on a proposal to install sophisticated sensors along the Dooars rail route to curb accidental deaths of wild animals on tracks. The 158-km-long route starts from Siliguri Junction and ends at Alipurduar Junction, moving through stretches of reserve forests, including the Buxa Tiger Reserve. V. K. Yadav, principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife) of the state, welcomed the move to install sensors. “This railway route is a risk for wild animals. Many animals, including elephants and leopards, have been mowed down by trains while crossing tracks. We have time and again taken up the issue with the railways, and it is good that finally they have come up with a plan to install sensors that would enable the railways to alert the loco pilots to reduce the speed of trains and avert collisions with wild animals,” he said. On Tuesday, senior railway officials, including Anshul Gupta, NFR general manager, and state forest department officials held a meeting at the Chapramari Wildlife Sanctuary of Jalpaiguri on the sensor project. According to railway sources, there are reserve forests along 82km of the route, which include animal crossing zones. Under the proposed plan, sensors, which work through optical fibres, will be installed alongside the tracks. In case any animal comes near the sensors, a signal would be sent to the control room of the nearest railway station and also to the drivers of trains moving along the tracks. “The sensors would alert the control room and drivers concerned and the trains would run more slowly so that the wild animal does not get hit,” said a source. The proposal has been sent to the railway ministry and is likely to be approved soon, said an official. “There is a plan to take up a pilot project for the installation of the sensors from the next fiscal year,” he said. Wildlife conservationists in north Bengal have pointed out that these tracks became more risky for wild animals since 2004, when the route was converted to a broad gauge from a metre gauge. “To the best of my knowledge, over 70 elephants, leopards, gaurs and even pythons died on these tracks in the past few years. There are specific instructions on speeding from courts, including the Supreme Court, but train hits keep happening. We hope the new sensor plan mooted by the railways will work effectively,” said Animesh Bose, a wildlife conservationist based in Siliguri. A railway official, however, said over 100 train collisions with wild animals could be avoided in the past few years “as drivers were alert”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-244
07-01-2021||West Bengal||Bengal’s active cases dip below 9,000||Bengal’s number of total active Covid-19 cases fell below 9,000 on Wednesday — to 8,868 —  back almost to where it was 150 days ago on July 9. With 1,271 recoveries, 868 new infections and 22 deaths, including six from Calcutta, on Wednesday, the state has seen a drop without a break — in total active cases since Dashami on October 26, an improvement by over 76 per cent from 37,190 over these 72 days. Since Dashami, Bengal logged over 2.28 lakh recoveries and 2.03 lakh new infections. Bengal has 3.95 per cent of India’s active cases, down from over 7 per cent in a month. “At this rate, we may get our total active cases below 5,000 by the time vaccination properly takes off. During Durga Puja, if anybody had told us we would reduce by over three-fourths our total active cases in 10 weeks, we would not have believed it,” said a minister. “This almost-impossible turnaround will probably be a subject for research eventually,” he added. Bengal’s recovery rate rose for 76 consecutive days by over 9 per cent to 96.64, ahead of the national rate by around 0.3 per cent on Wednesday. As of now, the state’s Covid-19 total of 5.57 lakh cases include over 5.38 lakh recoveries and 9,863 deaths. The state government attributed 8,275 deaths or 83.9 per cent of the total toll to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate is now 1.76, compared to 1.44 per cent nationally. “Reduction of mortality rate, despite the drastically reduced daily toll over the past few days, is the only area where we have not been able to achieve our targets on time,” the minister added. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.63 per cent now, having improved steadily from the 8.27 of November 20. Total test count went past 73 lakh, at 81,113 tests per million people. Calcutta High Court’s instructions against crowding, among others, over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath, and before New Year, seemed to have worked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-244
07-01-2021||West Bengal||Turtles in trucks||Police seized 3,396 Indian softshell turtles, apparently meant to be smuggled to Bangladesh, from two mini-trucks at two spots under the Barrackpore police commissionerate on Wednesday. Titagarh police recovered 1,559  turtles hidden under potato sacks from a mini-truck at Chiria More on BT Road. Belgharia police found 1,837 more while checking a vehicle on Neelganj Feeder Road. Four persons — two in each case — were arrested. Probe is on. Both vehicles have Uttar Pradesh registrations. “A probe has begun, but it is not yet clear where the turtles were scheduled to be supplied,” Mitra said. A Barrackpore Commissionerate official said that prima facie it appeared that the turtles were going to be handed over to members of a smuggling racket before heading to Bangladesh. All the turtles were handed over to the state forest department. However, 278 turtles were found dead. Barasat divisional forest officer Niranjita Mitra told The Telegraph that the Indian softshell turtle group is included under Schedule 1 of Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. The International Union for Conservation of Nature’s (IUCN) Red List also considers the Indian softshell turtle vulnerable because of the threats it faces such as shrinking habitat, poaching and illegal trade. However, smugglers find turtle trade lucrative as they are considered a delicacy in Bengal and Bangladesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-244
07-01-2021||West Bengal||Train kills boys glued to games||Two Class XII boys died and another was critically injured when a train hit them while they were playing mobile games sitting on railway tracks at Thakurnagar in North 24-Parganas on Wednesday evening. Atanu Biswas, 17, Subhojit Pal, 18, and Joy Dey, 18, were playing games on their mobile phones with earphones on, oblivious that a Bongaon-bound train was approaching fast. GRP sources said Atanu and Subhojit, who were scheduled to appear in the higher secondary examination this year, had died on the spot. Local sources said Joy, who is also scheduled to take the HS exam this year, was rushed to Chandpara rural hospital. He was later shifted to a hospital in Calcutta. The sources said the boys did not notice the fast approaching train and when they tried to move away, it was too late. “They used to play games sitting on the tracks. We had told them many times not to play mobile games while sitting on the tracks, but they cared little. Today, they could not even hear the sound of the approaching train as they were wearing earphones. We tried to alert them but failed to draw their attention,” said Sudip Mandal, a resident of Simultala in Thakurnagar where the two boys lived.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-244
07-01-2021||West Bengal||Few tankers move, fuel supply erratic||A few tankers started ferrying petro fuels from the IOCL terminal of New Jalpaiguri from Tuesday night, their numbers increasing on Wednesday as talks between the oil company and tanker owners and drivers somewhat eased the deadlock over transport rates, but fuel supply was far from normal. Although supply is limping back — a fourth of the 350-odd tankers are moving as of Wednesday — as IOCL authorities held talks with protesting tanker owners and drivers and promised to look into their transport rate demands, 150-odd pumps in north Bengal are still dry, owners said. Petrol dealers have now threatened to go on strike. “We have written to IOCL authorities, saying that if fresh supplies do not reach these pumps latest by tomorrow (Thursday), all IOCL pumps (dealers) of north Bengal will observe a two-day strike from Friday. Also, if the situation does not become normal even then, all pumps across the region will go for another two-day strike, starting January 10,” said Bikash Agarwal, general secretary, North Bengal Petrol Dealers’ Association. “We heard that supply resumed but it seems erratic as hardly 50-odd pumps received fuel.” “The IOCL authorities should ensure that equal supply reaches all pumps at the earliest,” Agarwal added. In all, north Bengal has around 490 petrol pumps, among which around 250 are IOCL pumps. Of these, around 200 pumps of IOCL went dry with the sudden halt in supply when many tanker owners and drivers stopped carrying fuels as they did not see eye to eye with IOCL authorities over the rate the oil company pays private tankers per kilometre to transport fuels. Trinamul’s workers’ union front Inttuc backed the protesters. However, some tanker owners and drivers had sided with IOCL, which intensified the rift and led to protests on Tuesday. In New Jalpaiguri, where the terminal is located, authorities of the fuel company held a meeting with tanker owners and drivers. “At the meeting, officials told us they would look into our demand of paying us the earlier rate fixed in 2014 instead of the new proposed rate that is less. They will speak with their senior officials. The tankers are again moving and we hope the situation gets normal soon,” said Inttuc leader Prasenjit Roy, who is at the forefront of the protests. The dispute, sources said, cropped up after IOCL authorities floated a tender for tanker services, offering Rs 2.81 per kilometre, lower than the old rate of Rs 3.46 per kilometre. On Tuesday, differences cropped up among drivers and owners. While some of them, backed by Inttuc, insisted on the old and higher rate, others agreed to work at lower rate. Both sides attacked each other with bricks and stones. Police had to rush to the spot to bring the situation under control. To protest the attack, Inttuc, under the banner of an association of tanker drivers and cleaners, held a march on Wednesday from Netaji More of New Jalpaiguri to the terminal. The BJP blamed Trinamul for the impasse. BJP leader Jaydeep Nandi alleged some Trinamul leaders were trying to ensure dominance over the area. “They unnecessarily created a situation that disrupted fuel supply from the terminal. After Tuesday’s violence, people in nearby areas are panicky,” he said. Police have been deployed at the terminal area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-245
07-01-2021||West Bengal||Push for Rajbanshi school recognition||Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday said the school education department would inspect 200 informal schools, where education was imparted through Rajbanshi language, to find out whether those could be converted into formal schools. “We received requests from various corners to convert these schools into formal ones. The school education department would carry out inspections at these schools,” said the chief minister after a cabinet meeting at Nabanna on Tuesday. Sources said those schools were located in some districts in north Bengal and the state cabinet had agreed to allow inspections at the schools accepting the local demands. In north Bengal, Rajbanshis form a considerable portion of the population. For years now, the demand to introduce the Rajbanshi language as a medium of instruction in primary classes has been raised by the community. “There were reports that a number of informal schools have been opened by some Rajbanshi organisations. It seems the state intends to regularise these institutions now,” said an observer. Mamata also said that there were requests to carry out inspections at some informal schools where education is imparted through Kamtapuri language. “But they are yet to fix a curriculum like the Rajbanshi informal schools already did. The education department would carry out inspections at two such schools within a year as it would take a few months to prepare the curriculum,” she added. Kamtapuri is a variant of the Rajbanshi language and in north Bengal, a section of the Rajbanshi community introduces themselves as Kamtapuri. This has made the state announce separate language academies — even though both are believed to be the same language — and allot funds to these bodies and instruct the office-bearers to prepare syllabus and schoolbooks so that the languages could be introduced at primary schools. The chief minister has further taken the initiative to name the university of Cooch Behar in the name of Panchanan Burma, the most revered statesman of Rajbanshis, announce a second campus of the varsity in his name and renovation of his ancestral house. Land for ONGC The state cabinet also approved a proposal to hand over 13.49 acres of land at Ashoknagar in North 24-Parganas to the ONGC as the utility has found an oil reserve. “They (ONGC) wanted to pay Rs 6.5 crore for the land. But we are giving the land at Re 1 as it would serve the state’s interest. I will pay Re 1 on behalf of the agency,” said the chief minister. The state cabinet on Tuesday also agreed to give clearance to 28 leather units to function at the Bantala Leather Complex. Moreover, the cabinet agreed to the proposal of regularising more than 230 refugee colonies set up on central government or private land. “We have already regularised 94 such colonies set up on state government land and the residents have been given free hold land rights,” Mamata said. “Remaining colonies set up on either central government land or private land would also be regularised. Work is on to regularise 119 colonies on central government or private land. The rest would be taken up soon,” added the chief minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-245
