08-01-2021||West Bengal||Mamata says ‘yes’ to 100 per cent occupancy in theatres||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday announced that cinema halls in the state can now operate with full occupancy with adherence to Covid-safety guidelines. The Chief Minister announced her decision as she virtually inaugurated the 26th Kolkata International Film Festival (KIFF), which was also attended by Bollywood superstar and Bengal’s brand ambassador Shah Rukh Khan through a video conference from Mumbai. Mamata, while delivering her inaugural address from state secretariat Nabanna, asked the cinema hall owners to maintain all safety protocols including regular sanitisation of the theatres. She asked Chief Secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay to issue a notification raising the occupancy limit of theatres from 50 to 100 per cent. The occupancy limit was restricted to ensure physical distancing inside the theatres. Citing lesser revenues since the reopening of theatres in October last year and no known instance of the spread of Covid-19 through cinema halls, the theatre owners had recently written a letter to the chief minister requesting her to allow full occupancy of the establishments. The Chief Minister said apart from issuing e-passes for seeing films in state-run auditoriums in Nandan-Rabindra Sadan and Rabindra Okakura Bhavan, organisers should spare some thought for people who are not well-versed with technology and suggested if some films could be screened at the open-air theatre in Nandan. “Despite the pandemic situation, the Bengal government has hosted the 26th KIFF on a smaller scale at a time when many organisers of other film festivals have cancelled their events,” she said. Legendary filmmaker Satyajit Ray’s classic Apur Sansar will be the inaugural film of the festival in which 131 movies from 45 countries will be screened till January 13. Mamata paid tributes to legendary actor Soumitra Chatterjee, who died due to post-Covid complications last year, and other luminaries and said a section will be dedicated to their works. She invited Khan to visit the state during Raksha Bandhan and next year’s KIFF, to which he replied in affirmative. The actor has been attending the film festival since 2011 but could not visit Calcutta this year due to the pandemic situation. Several renowned actors were present in Nandan during the inauguration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-242
08-01-2021||West Bengal||Cong-Left meeting minus seat talks||A meeting between the Left Front and the Congress on Thursday evening, billed “crucial”, however ended without a formal discussion on seat-sharing between the alliance partners for the forthcoming Bengal polls. There were murmurs in both camps that Pradesh Congress Committee president Adhir Chowdhury’s absence in the meeting was the reason why nothing was spoken on seat-sharing, widely considered the most important issue on the table in the poll season. “We had thought that there would be some discussion on seat sharing, but it could not be done as Adhirda was not present (in the meeting),” a source in the Congress told The Telegraph. Forward Bloc state general secretary Naren Chatterjee also confirmed there was no discussion on seat sharing. Several Left and Congress leaders said this delay in reaching an agreement on seats could cost the alliance dear in the upcoming polls for 294 Assembly seats, scheduled in another three-and-a-half months. “Earlier also, we have had to pay a price for the lackadaisical approach in firming up the alliance...It would be unfortunate if the same happens this time,” said a Left leader said, referring to the Left-Congress debacle in the 2016 Assembly polls. The main rivals of the Left-Congress alliance — Trinamul and BJP — have already started campaigning for the polls. At the meeting, the Congress side was represented by MP Pradip Bhattacharya and leader of the Opposition in the state Assembly Abdul Mannan because as Chowdhury and Baghmundi MLA Nepal Mahato didn’t turn up. The Left sent Front chairman Biman Bose and CPM state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra for the meeting. Congress MP Bhattacharya, however, said Thursday’s meeting was primarily convened to discuss the future course of action for the alliance. “We discussed several joint programmes that we will undertake in the future,” Bhattacharya said. He had earlier said that Chowdhury would skip Thursday’s meeting because of a prior commitment. Addressing the media after the meeting, Left Front chairman Biman Bose said that they had decided to hold a series of joint programmes across the state, including two massive rallies in Calcutta later this month. One will be held to mark the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on January 23. The other rally on January 30 will mark the day Mahatma Gandhi was assassinated in 1948, he said. Thursday’s meeting also took up the issue of a joint rally at Brigade Parade Ground in February-end or early March but no date has been finalised yet, Bose said. In 2016, the Bengal Assembly polls had tested if the alliance between the Left Front, led by the CPM, and the Congress, could uproot the Trinamul government in Bengal, but the electoral experiment had failed. The combine had bagged only 76 seats, with the Congress winning 44 seats and the Left 32 seats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-242
08-01-2021||West Bengal||Kurmis seek ST status||Thousands from the Kurmi community blocked roads at 50 places in four Jungle Mahal districts on Thursday, demanding re-inclusion in the Scheduled Tribe category and inclusion of their mother languages Kurmali and Mundari in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution, among others. The Kurmi Samanway Mancha, a joint platform of five outfits, prepared a charter of 24 demands including these two main ones. “It has been our demand since past seven decades to re-include us in the ST category. Despite repeated appeals to both state and central governments, no one heeded our plea,” said Rajesh Mahata, a leader of the joint platform and state president of Kurmi Samaj. Members of the Kurmi community claimed they were registered as Schedule Tribe till 1931 and after Independence excluded from the list for “unknown reasons”. They were included in the OBC list but deserved facilities of the ST community, they asserted. “We blame central and state governments for not registering us as ST despite appeals. We want the state to start the process and the Centre to pass a bill in Parliament to fulfil our demand,” said Biplab Mahata, a leader of the joint platform. Members of the community claimed that the state government had in 2017 sent a proposal to re-include the Kurmi community as ST to the Centre but it was rejected. “We request the state government to send the proposal to the Centre again and the Centre to accept it,” said Rajesh Mahata, president of Kurmi Samaj. Among the 50 places where Kurmi protesters blocked roads were Khemashuli in West Midnapore, College More in Jhargram, Manbazar in Purulia and Simlapal in Bankura. The protest led to closure of shops and disruption of private bus services in protest zones. Many roads in Jungle Mahal districts faced traffic snarls because of roadblocks. Sources said there were around 50 lakh Kurmi people in Bengal and their votes play a key role in around 35 Assembly seats in four Jungle Mahal districts — West Midnapore, Jhargram, Bankura and Purulia. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, many Kurmi votes shifted to the BJP from Trinamul which helped the saffron camp bag bagged five of the six Lok Sabha seats. The Assembly constituency-wise break-up of votes showed Trinamul lagged behind the BJP in 31 of 40 seats. But unrest within Kurmis may become a major headache for the BJP, which is banking on the community votes to repeat its Lok Sabha performance in the state polls. Trinamul and BJP have blamed each other for not taking steps to meet the demands of the Kurmis. “It is the duty of the state government first to send the proposal again. If the state sends it, we will request the Centre to take it up,” said Sukhamoy Satpati, president of the BJP’s Jhargram unit. Trinamul’s Jhargam president Dulal Murmu countered: “The matter depends on the Centre. Our state government had sent the proposal in 2017 but the Centre rejected it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-243
08-01-2021||West Bengal||Plea for full staff attendance in Bengal||Senior officers of several departments in the Mamata Banerjee government have requested the Nabanna top brass to allow them to work with cent per cent employees as the departments are facing trouble to complete pending work with half of the staff strength. “Senior officers of a number of departments, particularly those which are implementing development projects at the ground level, have urged the finance department to reconsider the order in which government departments were allowed to function with 50 per cent employees in a given day in office. The departments have requested the top brass to reconsider the order as they are facing trouble to complete the pending work with half of their employee strength,” said a senior government official. Sources said the departments were facing scarcity of employees after the state government launched “Duare Sarkar” — a two-month long programme to reach out people left out of government schemes — on December 1. More than 1.5 crore people have visited the camps set up under the programme across the state and majority of them wished to get included in the list of beneficiaries of several government schemes, including Swasthya Sathai, Krsihask Bandu, caste certificates, pension schemes and job cards under 100 days’ work scheme. “The state government wants to ensure benefits to all eligible applicants by February end. But it is getting difficult to complete the work with half of the employee strength,” said a secretary of a department. The department secretaries are also worried about the scarcity of employees further as the state government has taken up another programme, paray samadhan, from January. According to senior officials, the finance department had issued an order asking the departments to function with 50 per cent employee strength when nearly 4,000 Covid-19 cases were being reported daily. “But the situation has changed in the past one month as only 800-odd positive cases are being reported now. So, the state government should reconsider the decision in the changed circumstances,” said a source. According to sources aware of the development, any final decision in this regard would be taken by the chief minister as she is handling Covid-19-related affairs from Day 1. “The chief minister is worried about the spread of the novel coronavirus in government offices, which would leave the departments in trouble. She would consider all factors before taking a decision,” said a source. According to the sources, the demand for the presence of all employees in offices is gaining momentum as the majority of the employees were unable to work from home. “Either they are saying that they don’t have computers at homes or the required software was not installed. So, it’s better that they come to office with proper safety measures and work,” said another secretary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-243
08-01-2021||West Bengal||Data show Covid dip, Delhi sees spike||The Union health ministry on Thursday asked opposition-ruled Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Kerala and Maharashtra to take steps to curb a spike in their daily novel coronavirus cases, but the Centre’s own data show a steady decline in Bengal. Weekly average new cases have seen a significant rise in Maharashtra over the past two weeks, but Kerala has seen a marginal rise, and Chhattisgarh has seen a marginal decline. But the ministry said the states “are reporting an upsurge in the number of daily new cases in recent days,” and asked them to check the rise flagging concerns about the emergence of the fast-spreading UK variant in India. Bengal’s minister of state for health Chandrima Bhattacharya said on Thursday night that she was yet to be informed of such a letter and would comment when she actually went through it. Trinamul Congress vice-president Saugata Roy, however, said the letter would be yet another instance of the BJP-led Centre allegedly trying to rub states ruled by parties opposed to the BJP the wrong way. “This has always been the approach of this Centre, singling out states opposed to them, not pulling up states friendly to them,” said Roy, the Dum Dum MP. “It obviously smacks of political vendetta or opportunism, whatever we choose to call it,” he added. BJP state chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya dismissed the allegation. “There should not be any divisive politics over the Covid-19 pandemic. There has not been any political vendetta in any of the Centre’s actions in the pandemic,” said Bhattacharya. The health ministry’s datasets show that Bengal’s seven-day moving average for daily new cases has declined every day at least in the past two weeks — from 2,023 new cases on December 22, 1,928 on December 23, 1,835 on December 24 and so on to fall to 1,014 on January 4, 953 on January 5, and 908 on January 6. The seven-day moving average is viewed as a superior measure of trends because it takes into account day-to-day variations that might occur because of any rise and fall in numbers of tests done on account of holidays or other factors. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan has asked the states to analyse the surge at the district and sub-district levels to understand the reasons for the rise. Bengal on Thursday reported 921 new infections, 1,295 recoveries and 18 deaths, aiding a drop in its total of active cases for the 73rd consecutive day (since Vijaya Dashami on October 26). The total of active cases is 8,476 now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-243
08-01-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati axe on ‘anti-VC’ professor ||Visva-Bharati on Thursday evening suspended Sudipta Bhattacharyya, an economics professor and president of Visva-Bharati Faculty Association, amid murmurs that the popular teacher was penalised for the role he played in bringing to the fore how vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty had insulted Nobel laureate economist Amartya Sen. According to a letter issued by the varsity, Bhattacharyya was suspended as the Visva-Bharati executive council found him guilty of “misconduct by mass circulating a complaint and derogatory/defamatory/ baseless remarks against a fellow employee and providing the copies of the same to high dignitaries by email”. Sources said Bhattacharyya recently lodged a complaint with Prime Minister and varsity chancellor Narendra Modi, varsity’s visitor and President Ram Nath Kovind and other senior officials questioning the appointment of the principal of one of the varsity’s schools. Later, the principal had lodged a complaint with the varsity administration. Many colleagues of Bhattacharyya questioned if a person could be suspended for lodging a complaint over an appointment. A source said the reason cited for suspension “is just an eyewash. “Everyone here knows he was the target of the present administration, especially the VC, as he always raised his voice against the misdeeds of authorities.” “The authorities were livid with him for some time...Recently, when the teachers’ association, especially Bhattacharya, brought to the fore how VC Chakraborty had made some false claims about his telephonic conversation with Amartya Sen, which the Nobel laureate later described it as ‘completely imagined conversation,’ the authorities probably decided to go after him. This is very sad,” said a source in Visva-Bharati. Bhattacharyya and his teachers’ association had protested when varsity authorities organised a lecture on the Citizenship Amendment Act by Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta. “Sudiptada (Bhattacharyya) was marked...when he started protesting against the VC’s saffronisation agenda... He was earlier showcaused and committees were formed to harass him,” said a source. Bhattacharyya could not be reached for comments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-243
08-01-2021||West Bengal||TMC Nandigram show of strength||This year’s Shahid Diwas in East Midnapore’s Nandigram on Thursday — held on January 7 every year in memory of the first loss of lives during the 2007 land agitations — turned out to be a show of strength for Trinamul. The party, wary of the impact of Suvendu Adhikari’s defection to the BJP, got a boost with most Trinamul leaders of the region turning up. The turnout — on the dais and the ground — gave Trinamul leaders Subrata Bakshi and Partha Chatterjee the confidence to announce that the party would “gather two lakh supporters” on January 18 for chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s rally in Nandigram’s Tekhali. “Lakhs will turn up to hear to our leader Mamata Banerjee,” said zila parishad deputy chief Sheikh Sufian, who shared the dais with leaders Abu Taher, Sudip Khara and Piyush Bhunia. Till Suvendu joined the BJP on December 19, the trio of Taher, Khara and Bhunia were always seen with him. Mamata was to address the martyrs’ day rally on Thursday but postponed it after Ramnagar MLA Akhil Giri tested Covid positive late last month. Trinamul leaders, including Bakshi and Chatterjee, made the event also about “betrayer Suvendu” and assessed the party’s cohesion in the aftermath of his joining the BJP. “Nandigram is and will always be with Trinamul and Mamata,” said Bakshi . “Suvendu is a traitor,” added Taher, once Suvendu’s close confidant. “He may have played an important part (in the anti-land acquisition agitations), but he can’t usurp the narrative. We all know who did what,” Taher added. In a sudden change of plan, Suvendu reached Shahid Bedi or martyrs’ column after Thursday midnight to pay his tribute, possibly to avert tension between the two parties as Trinamul had decided to offer tribute at the Shahid Bedi early in the morning, sources said. “...I am here as family, not politician,” said Suvendu. “They said they wouldn’t allow me to pay my respect, but I am a fighter,” added Suvendu who will hold a “mega rally” in the town on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-243
08-01-2021||West Bengal||I will never support BJP: Gurung ||Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Gurung on Thursday said the BJP had betrayed hill people and he would never accept that party again even if he had to sacrifice his life. The assertion is a change from Gurung’s oft-repeated stance that he would support the Trinamul Congress in the upcoming Bengal Assembly polls, but would back any party that accepted Gorkhaland in the 2024 general election. “The BJP has betrayed us…..I will not accept the BJP even if my life goes,” Gurung told a public meeting at the Mela Ground in Kalimpong. He had supported the BJP for 12 years before dumping it for Trinamul recently. In his address, Gurung even praised the Congress for setting up the Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council and the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration and including Nepali language in the 8th schedule of the Constitution. Gurung alleged that the BJP had been trying to centre its hill politics on the premise that he would be unable to return to Darjeeling because of the police cases slapped on him by the Bengal government during the 2017 violent Gorkhaland agitation. “The BJP’s politics was to keep me away from the hills. They were doing nothing for the hill people but they told me that I was being provided with security or else, I would be finished. Did I wait for three years to hear this? I walked out to finish them through the ballot,” said Gurung. The Gurung camp of the Morcha that vowed support for Trinamul said at the Kalimpong public meeting that it would field candidates in seven Assembly seats in north Bengal. “We will have our candidates in Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Kurseong, Matigara, Malbazar, Madarihat and Kalchini. We will not vote for Trinamul in these seats. But Trinamul will vote for us,” said Anil Lopchan, a senior youth leader of the Gurung faction. “In other 11 seats (of north Bengal), we will vote for Trinamul,” Lopchan added. Even though no final decision on seat sharing has taken place, many believe the Gurung faction is trying to send a strong signal about the seats it is eyeing. Binay Tamang and Anit Thapa, who lead Gurung’s rival faction in the Morcha, have been sending a subtle message on their intent to field candidates in the hills. “We were told to support Trinamul in the last Lok Sabha election with an understanding that we would field our candidates in the hills in the Assembly elections,” said a senior leader of the Binay Tamang camp. Gurung’s rally drew an impressive crowd in Kalimpong and he tried to send out a message that he had “arrived” to voice local concerns. He raised the issue of a shopping complex  coming up in “the Girls High School area” (in Kalimpong) and lack of voice for people allegedly affected by hydro and railway projects in Kalimpong district. The Morcha leader also announced that he would hire “90 social media” workers who had helped the party during the agitation and would later adjust them in various jobs. “I am the one (to come to power soon). Don’t worry. It’s just a matter of time,” said Gurung. The Tamang camp alleged that Gurung’s supporters had vandalised their office in Kalimpong during early hours of Thursday and filed an FIR against Gurung and senior leaders in his faction. Bijay Sundas, a leader of the Gurung camp, rejected the allegations and in turn accused the Tamang camp of staging a drama.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-243
08-01-2021||West Bengal||Cooch Behar TMC chief in a spot||Infighting in Trinamul again came to fore in Cooch Behar as a number of party functionaries and leaders started voicing their grievances against party’s district chief Partha Pratim Roy and some of his aides for decisions, including the “arbitrary” formation of committees at different tiers of the party. Khokon Mian, a district general secretary of the party, who was here to attend an event, labelled Roy an “incompetent teenager.” “Committees at different tiers of the party have been formed in the district, but no discussion was done with most district leaders. Because of such decisions, people have started revolting within the party. I want to make it clear that an inexperienced and incompetent teenager cannot run the party. He is trying to play with fire. If required, steps should be taken against him,” said Mian on the side lines of the inauguration of the industrial fair at MJN Stadium. Such remarks came a day after district Trinamul chief Roy announced committees of different tiers, right from the block level. Bhusan Singh, another senior party leader and the immediate past chairman of the local civic body, on Wednesday announced he was stepping down from the post of the vice-president of Cooch Behar Town Block Trinamul committee. His allegations were the same, no discussions were held over committee fornation. “Many sincere leaders and workers have been left out of committees,” he had alleged. Singh, who is now the chairperson of the board of administrators at Cooch Behar municipality has decided not to go by the district president’s decision and form a new town block committee. “The district president ignored our suggestions and formed the committees on his own. We are not ready to accept it and will announce a new committee soon,” he said. He is not alone. According to party sources, though Roy announced panchayat level committees, Dhaneswar Burman, the president of Tufanganj-II block, announced parallel committees in 11 panchayats of his block. Roy’s announcement also triggered protests in Cooch Behar-I (A) block committee of the party and on Thursday, 10 persons, including office bearers and members, have tendered their resignations from the posts. Rabindranath Ghosh, the NB development minister and seen as the tallest leader of the party in the district, sounded critical that discussions had not been done. He had been district president for 22 years and such problems never came up then, sources said. In Cooch Behar, Trinamul infighting is seen as one of the key reasons of the emergence of the saffron brigade. State leaders, including party supremo Mamata Banerjee time and again intervened to try and end such infighting and instructed the district leaders to sort it out amicably. The problem, however, seems to be far from ending. “We had always consulted with elected representatives and leaders. It is unfortunate that such problems are cropping up within the party ahead of the Assembly elections. I have spoken with some leaders and we want the problems to be resolved at the earliest,” he said.Roy, the district Trinamul chief, denied commenting on the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-243
08-01-2021||West Bengal||Four PG courses in new varsity||Alipurduar University, recently constituted by the state government, has earned the approval of the state higher education department to introduce postgraduate courses in four subjects. These are physics, chemistry, history and English. Mahendranath Roy, the first vice-chancellor of the varsity who took charge last month, said on Thursday that he had sent a request to the principal secretary of the department, seeking approval for introducing the subjects. “On Wednesday evening, we received approval for the four subjects. From today (Thursday), we started working on the admission policy and we hope that within a week, the process will be over. We will then start the admission process and hope to start new classes from February first week,” vice-chancellor Roy said. Usually, for any new university, science subjects are not initially approved. However, in this case, the education department took the decision to allow physics and chemistry courses after verification of the faculty strength and the quality of science labs in Alipurduar College from where the varsity started functioning in the district. Roy added that they planned to introduce more subjects at the varsity for which they would soon send the department a proposal. Subjects under consideration are tea management, tea science, tea technology, wood management, food technology and physical education, and faculty members have been asked to prepare details of the courses, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-243
08-01-2021||West Bengal||Two people killed in head-on collision in Malda ||Two persons died and three were injured when an e-rickshaw and a pick-up van collided head on at Samsi under Pukhuria police station jurisdiction in Malda district on Thursday morning. One deceased person has been identified as Irfan Ali, 65, a resident of Ruimari in the Ratua block of the district. The other person is yet to be identified. Police sources said the e-rickshaw was going to Gobindapara, a locality in Samsi, with four passengers when the van rammed into it. Local people took the injured to a local hospital. Doctors pronounced two passengers dead, while the remaining three have been referred to Malda Medical College and Hospital. Police have seized the van but the driver has escaped. At Par-Patiram in the Balurghat block of South Dinajpur district, violence broke out near the Atrayee river bridge on Thursday after a truck mowed down a local resident on NH512. Local people raised a road blockade and torched the truck. As police reached the spot, the demonstrators threw stones at them and also attacked two police vehicles and a police ambulance. The deceased, police said, has been identified as Haripada Sarkar, 45, a resident of Colonypara in Patiram. He was a hawker. Bangladeshis arrested Kaliachak police in Malda arrested two Bangladeshi nationals from Mosimpur village on Wednesday night. The police have also arrested a man for letting the foreigners stay at his house. The police said Ebrahim Ali and Firoj Hossain had infiltrated into India on January 3. Since then, they had been staying at the house of Batasu Sheikh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-243
08-01-2021||West Bengal||Binay writes to Modi on past treaties||Binay Tamang on Thursday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, referring to past treaties with neighbouring countries, which involve the Darjeeling hills, Dooars and the Terai, and demanding that those regions be brought under the Union ministry for north eastern states. The Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader has marked a copy to chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Sources close to Tamang said he had raised the issues with the purpose of ensuring development of the Darjeeling hills, Terai and the Dooars. The treaties highlighted by Tamang include those with Bhutan and Nepal and the manner in which the Darjeeling hills, Dooars and the Terai were “absorbed” into and not technically incorporated in Bengal. “If we go by the history of Darjeeling and Kalimpong it shows the land east of Teesta (which includes Kalimpong district and Dooars)…..was ceded to the British government by Bhutan through the Treaty of Sinchula signed on November 11, 1865,” Tamang wrote. The British government issued a proclamation regarding “annexation” of the Dooars on July 4, 1866, he said. The hill leader said the three regions had only been “absorbed in West Bengal” under the Absorbed Areas Act, 1954. “Undoubtedly, these areas are not included or annexed in Indian Territory legally and constitutionally, only absorption has been done. This is a great matter of concern for the nation’s security, integrity and sovereignty,” reads the letter. In the past too, various Darjeeling leaders had highlighted these treaties and absorption act to claim that the hills were not part of Bengal. “The state government might not be too happy with the new complexities that Tamang is bringing about but he must be doing this to trigger a new debate in hill politics just before Assembly elections,” said an observer. “A lot is at stake for the Tamang camp of the Morcha in the elections.” The other demand raised by Tamang is cancellation of the Indo-Nepal Peace and Friendship Treaty 1950, which allows for free movement of people from both the countries in each other’s territories. Tamang has said that the letter has been written to seek “constitutional justice” for the Gorkhas not just in the region but across India. He has, however, not explicitly explained what he means by “constitutional justice”. The hill leader, however, is clear on his demand for inclusion of the region in the ministry for north eastern states. “…regions should be brought under the Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER) under the Articles of 2, 3 and 4 of North East Council Act of 1971,” Tamang has stated and justified his demand on the ground that the people of the hills, Dooars and the Terai are facing “the same vagaries of nature and difficulties of life” as people in north eastern states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-243
08-01-2021||West Bengal||Abhishek plays nationalism card in north Bengal ||Youth Trinamul chief and MP Abhishek Banerjee on Thursday said Trinamul wasn’t ready to take “lessons of nationalism from the BJP”. Referring to last year’s standoff between Indian and Chinese troops at Galwan Valley in Ladakh, Abhishek who spoke at a rally in Gangarampur, South Dinajpur, said: “We are not ready to take lessons of nationalism from the BJP. The Prime Minister should answer people on steps the Centre has taken against China after the Galwan incident. They make tall talks…….people should know what the government has done to foil attempts to encroach on our nation’s land,” Abhishek said in his first public meeting of 2021. Abhishek also tried to drive home the point that if BJP was voted to power, “outsiders” would control Bengal. “I want to reassert that Kailash Vijayvargiya is an outsider and so are some other BJP leaders who are behaving as if their party will come to power in Bengal tomorrow. We want to make it clear that we will never allow outsiders or Delhi to control our state. People of north Bengal districts will never want it,” he said. Abhishek launched a diatribe against former Trinamul heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari, who defected to the BJP last month and has since lambasted Abhishek for alleged extortion. “People like him are asymptomatic traitors. He has been claiming that the lotus (BJP’s symbol) will bloom across the state and I asked him to first ensure that it blooms at his home. This made him get one of his brothers on board,” said Abhishek. Abhishek’s visit to north Bengal is significant as the BJP won seven of eight Lok Sabha seats of the region in 2019 and has set a target of 50 of the 54 Assembly seats. Trinamul had suffered setbacks in Lok Sabha polls in South Dinajpur too. Abhishek urged Trinamul leaders to put all efforts to ensure “not a single lotus blooms in north Bengal”. “I will be in South Dinajpur again. I will visit all Assembly constituencies and will act on your guidance. But you have to prepare the ground to ensure that not a single lotus blooms here on in north Bengal,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-244
08-01-2021||West Bengal||Birbhum farmers start protest||Nearly 250 farmers led by social outfit Bangla Sanskriti Mancha took out a protest march and vowed an “indefinite” demonstration in Birbhum’s Rampurhat on Thursday to demand the scrapping of the Centre’s controversial farm laws. A group of teachers and social workers also joined the protest to pledge “support to farmers”. The organisers built a permanent pandal at Panch Matha More in the heart of Rampurhat town, to continue the movement “from an epicentre”, and claimed that this “indefinite protest” was a first for farmers in the area. The farmers here said they would continue the protest till the Centre withdrew the farm laws, and to “show their full solidarity” to farmers protesting on Delhi borders since November “while braving bitter winter and rain”. According to their plan, at least 50-60 farmers will sit in protests round the clock and continue it till the laws are scrapped. Samirul Islam, president of Bangla Sanskriti Mancha, wondered aloud why the Narendra Modi government was not scrapping the new laws despite the ongoing protests of lakhs of farmers for over 40 days. “We will campaign on the impact the farm laws will have among the farmers of Bengal. They should know how the BJP-led government is trying to harm farmers,” he said. “We plan to send a team to Delhi to support the movement of the farmers there.” Sources said organisers started campaigns among farmers in remote villages of Birbhum, requesting them to participate in the protest by citing the impact of the farm laws by the Centre. “It is nothing but a plan to bring private players into agriculture to ruin the future of farmers. We condemn it as it will never help farmers. We are not ready to allow private players to make profits by using us,” Sudip Das, a farmer from Uttar-Narayanpur village of Rampurhat who was at the protest. The farmers also plan to take out a long march if the Centre did not scrap the farm laws within Republic Day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-244
