09-01-2021||West Bengal||TMC calls BJP's empathy for farmers a hoax||The Trinamool Congress on Saturday said that BJP's concern for farmers of the state is a sham as its leaders do not bother about those protesting within the striking distance of Delhi. Speaking to reporters, senior TMC leader and state minister Chandrima Bhattacharya said BJP leaders have time to travel across the country and "shed crocodile tears" for farmers but not pay any heed to those protesting against the farm laws. "BJP leaders are coming to Bengal and going to other places. But they don't listen to the farmers who are protesting outside Delhi. The BJP's concern for the farmers is a pure sham," she added. BJP president JP Nadda, who is on a day-long visit to the state, attacked the Trinamool Congress government over the PM-Kisan scheme, saying it agreed to implement the welfare programme only after realising that the party was fast losing ground among the farmers in the state. Nadda also launched the 'Krishok Surokkha Abhijan' to woo farmers in the state ahead of the assembly elections. Bhattacharya said the Trinamool Congress has a genuine commitment towards the small and marginal farmers. She said 92 per cent of the farmers in West Bengal are covered under the Kisan Credit Card (KCC) scheme, besides getting Rs 5,000 per hectare. Also, the state government provides a job to the family in case of the death of a farmer, she said. "Our party have been with the farmers and will continue to be so," the minister added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-241
09-01-2021||West Bengal||Nadda in Bengal to woo farmers||BJP president J P Nadda arrived in West Bengal on Saturday to launch his party's door-to-door rice collection programme aimed at wooing farmers, amid the ongoing protest in Delhi over the contentious agriculture laws. He will reach out to the farmers of a village here during his day-long visit to the state. This is Nadda's first visit to West Bengal after the attack on his convoy during his journey to Diamond Harbour from Kolkata on December 10. Nadda arrived at Andal airport at around 11.45 am and took a helicopter ride from there to reach Jagdanandpur village in Purba Bardhaman district, where he will first offer puja at a temple and then meet the farmers. An elaborate security arrangement has been put in place across the district to prevent untoward incidents. Nadda, in a bid to blunt opposition camp's "anti- farmer" allegations against the BJP-led central government, will float 'Ek Muthi Chawal' (a fistful of rice), a programme under which he would collect rice from farmers' homes and brief them about the benefits of three new farm laws. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at Delhi borders for over a month against the three laws. The BJP chief will hold a roadshow from Clock Tower to Lord Curzon Gate in Burdwan and address a press conference too. His address at "Krishok Surokkha Gram Sabha" (farmers' security meeting at village) in Jagadanandpur will mark the beginning of 40,000 such meetings to be held by the BJP across West Bengal before the assembly elections. "After the launch of the campaign by our party president, our cadres will reach out to 48,000 villages of the state, where they will be visiting farmer households to collect rice and brief them about the new agriculture laws," a senior state BJP leader said. Nadda will have lunch at a farmer's residence and hold a gram sabha meeting during the day. There are 71.23 lakh farmers' families in West Bengal, 96 per cent of them small and marginal. The saffron party has launched an aggressive campaign in West Bengal in its bid to end Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's 10-year-old reign in the state. With Banerjee, also the head of the Trinamool Congress, backing the farmers who are protesting against the three agriculture laws, the BJP has gone all out to convince them about the "benefits" of these Acts. Elections to the 294-member West Bengal Assembly are due in April-May.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-241
09-01-2021||West Bengal||Two-day session of Bengal Assembly against farm laws||A two-day special session of the Bengal Assembly will begin on January 27 when the state government will table a resolution against the Centre's new farm laws and discuss the issue of agitating farmers. State Parliamentary Affairs Minister Partha Chatterjee told reporters on Friday evening that a letter has been sent to Speaker Biman Bandyopadhyay, urging him for convening the special session. Issues related to GST will also be taken up during the session, he said. Chatterjee said a draft of the resolution will also be sent to the Left and Congress for a united fight against the Centre's farm laws. The Left parties and the Congress had on January 1 urged Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for a session of the assembly over the farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-241
09-01-2021||West Bengal||Boy killed, finger at classmate’s family||A 13-year-old schoolboy abducted on Thursday evening was found dead in an abandoned house at Paranpur village under Pukhuria police station a few hours later the same night. Family members of Anik Das, a Class VIII student, filed a complaint with police in the case. Police investigating the case have so far detained four persons of a family in Paranpur. The police suspect that Anik had been strangled with an electric wire as he had come to know “unpleasant information” about the family of one of his classmates. The “unpleasant information” relates to the accused family selling cannabis. Anik’s family had apparently ticked off the family for the illegal trade that had angered them. So far, two of Anik’s classmates are under the scanner. Ashis Kumar Das, Anik’s father, said his son was invited for a badminton match on Thursday afternoon and did not return home. “When my wife and other family members started searching for him, they found a letter on our doorstep that said my son was abducted. Around 9.30pm, we found his body in an abandoned house. An electric wire was dangling from his neck,” he said. Anik’s family alleged that family members of one of his classmates was behind the crime. “That family was involved in illegal sale of cannabis and we had warned them. We believe that this might have enraged them and kill the boy,” said a relative. Shashthi Das, the head of Paranpur panchayat, agreed with the accusations but said the police should find out the truth. Police officers said they had detained four members of the family, including two women. “We are on the verge of cracking the case. The details cannot be disclosed right now in the interest of the probe. But things are likely to be clear in next 24 hours,” said Goutam Choudhury, officer-in-charge of Pukhuria police station. Arrest A cousin of Gazole MLA Dipali Biswas was arrested by police over an old case of misappropriation of funds on Friday. Police sources identified the accused as Mrityunjoy Goldar. Last month, Biswas left Trinamul for BJP. In 2016, she was elected on a CPM ticket but joined Trinamul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-241
09-01-2021||West Bengal||Warmer January, thanks to cloud cover||January 2021 so far has been warmer than usual in the hills and on the plains. Reason — a western disturbance leading to the formation of clouds during evening and night hours has halted the mercury free fall across north Bengal for past few days. Maximum and minimum temperatures are many notches higher than the average normal in January. “Western disturbance has created a cloud cover in most of the areas. During night hours, the earth releases heat that brings down the temperature. The clouds are acting as a blanket and thus the temperature is not coming down like the other years,” said Gopinath Raha, the head of the regional meteorological centre in Gangtok. During daytime, clear and sunny skies are raising the temperature, pointed out Raha. The data available with the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) show that in the hill town of Darjeeling, the maximum and minimum temperatures during past 24 hours were 14.6°C and 5°C, which are higher by around four and three degrees, respectively, from the normal average. Similarly, in Gangtok, the maximum temperature recorded in the past 24 hours was 15.9°C while the minimum was 6.7°C. Both are higher by three degrees from the normal average. “There is a chilly feel in the hills in the evening and night hours but that is comparatively less intense than any other year,” said a Darjeeling resident. In the plains, the maximum temperature even crosses the 26°C mark. The minimum is around 13.1°C. “It seems like a sudden return of autumn after the short cold spell that characterised the end of December,” said a resident. The IMD data also shows that in each place of north Bengal, the maximum temperature is on an average higher by five to six degrees from other years. “This is why the chilly feeling is missing throughout the day. Unless the western disturbance weakens and the cold north-westerly winds get in, weather conditions are likely to remain the same. We believe there might be some changes after another five days or so. There is also a forecast of light rainfall in some places that can bring down the mercury,” Raha said. While many residents are surprised at the “untimely autumn”, those associated with the travel and tourism industry are elated for now. “The temperatures might be slightly on the higher side but tourists are enjoying the more comfortable climate,” said a travel house owner in Siliguri. It is only during the past few weeks that hundreds of tourists have started flocking in the hills to enjoy the winter, he added. Travel and tourism stakeholders said last year, the losses from the Covid-19-induced lockdown had impacted thousands of livelihoods in the region. However, some tourism stakeholders are looking forward to snow in Darjeeling. “There had been some snowfall earlier in upper reaches of Sikkim. We hope Darjeeling hills and Sikkim see snow in the coming weeks. That will bring more tourists to the hills,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-241
09-01-2021||West Bengal||TMC leader, Bhusan Singh, defies district chief’s list ||Bhusan Singh, a district Trinamul leader of Cooch Behar who chairs the board of administrators of the civic body, on Friday announced parallel names of presidents of party committees for all 20 wards of Cooch Behar. During past 48 hours, this is Singh’s second move against Partha Pratim Roy, the district Trinamul chief. On Wednesday, Roy announced names of ward committee presidents and office bearers of block and panchayat level committees, with Singh named as vice-president of the Cooch Behar Town Block committee. Singh immediately announced he was stepping down from the post as Roy had not discussed the names. “Most ward presidents named by the district president are incompetent and do not know their own ward. We had given a list to Partha Pratim Roy but he picked up other names. That is why we held a meeting today and announced names of new ward presidents,” said Singh. He added he did not need any post in the party and would continue to function as a common worker. In past two days, Cooch Behar has seen Trinamul’s rift widen. Many block level leaders have tendered resignations from posts and expressed disappointment with Roy. However, Udayan Guha, the Trinamul MLA of Dinhata, on Friday backed Roy. “The district president is doing his best. If anybody has a problem, he should sit and discuss them with him. Instead, they are resorting to childish activites,” said Guha. Nadiram Mondal, 63, a Trinamul supporter at Baburhat village of Cooch Behar–II block, was found dead near his home with a sharp weapon nearby on Thursday evening. Trinamul leaders suspected murder and accused the BJP. BJP leaders denied the charges. Sources said residents spotted his body in a deserted place. Teams from Pundibari police station and Baneswar police outpost reached the spot and recovered the body and the weapon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-241
09-01-2021||West Bengal||Bimal push for peace committees||Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Gurung underscored the need to form “peace committees” involving political parties and administration at police station levels, his demand possibly aimed at bolstering his image before the Bengal polls as skirmishes and acrimonious speeches have occurred in the hills ever since he resurfaced in October last year after three-and-half-years. “There must be peace in the hills. In every thana, there must be a peace committee involving our party, other parties and the administration,” said Gurung. There are precedents of the administration forming such committees especially during a major law and order situation and elections. The two factions of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, one headed by Gurung and the other by Binay Tamang-Anit Thapa, are bitter rivals despite both being Trinamul allies. A clash between two Morcha factions at Banersbeg tea garden was reported recently, followed by alleged attempts to capture Binay Tamang’s party office at Lebong. On Thursday, Gurung supporters allegedly ransacked Tamang’s party office in Kalimpong, hours before Gurung addressed his first public meeting in the town after 2017. Many observers believe Gurung is trying to soften his tone as the Tamang camp is making some inroads with their slogan “naya sooch, naya bichar (new thoughts, new ideas)”. Anit Thapa, also GTA chairman, seems to be carving out a separate identity through his measured speeches. “The Bimal Gurung camp is probably realising that Anit Thapa’s decision to refrain from direct attacks and his stress on the need for peace is getting some takers. There is no doubt that people in the hills want peace,” said an observer. “It seems that Gurung wants to create a similar narrative, which is probably why he is stressing on a peace committee.” The upcoming Bengal poll holds importance for both Morcha factions with both hinting they would pit their candidates against each other despite being Trinamul allies. In Siliguri, senior CPM leaders criticised chief minister Mamata Banerjee and her party for forging “an understanding” with Gurung. “It is another attempt to cheat the residents of Darjeeling hills. They are simply following the same trick like the BJP,” said Siliguri MLA Asok Bhattacharya. The Left leaders demanded Mamata should clarify how Gurung, a named accused in many cases related to violence during the Gorkhaland agitation, is roaming around freely in the region. Roshan Giri, general secretary of the Morcha’s Gurung faction, said on Friday that they would send a delegation to Delhi to show solidarity with farmers on Delhi borders protesting against the Centre’s new farm laws. “We will send a 15-member delegation to Delhi to express our solidarity with farmers who are protesting for more than 40 days now. The Centre’s farm laws are anti-farmer and favour industrialists. We are against them,” said Giri. Additional reporting by Bireswar Banerjee in Siliguri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-241
09-01-2021||West Bengal||Court for e-bathing at Gangasagar Mela||Calcutta High Court on Friday asked the Bengal government to lay emphasis on “e-snan (virtual bathing)” to avoid mass bathing at Gangasagar Mela at Sagar Island this year. A division bench of Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan and Justice Arijit Banerjee in an interim order said: “State Government is directed to consider whether special incentives could be given to pilgrims, who would opt for e-snan.” The bench passed its interim order in response to a public interest litigation filed by advocate Ajoy Das, who had pleaded that Sagar Island be declared a containment zone to prevent mass bathing during the Gangasagar Mela this year. The plea was made in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic. Explaining the concept of e-snan, a state health department officer said: “The state government has decided to keep Sagar water in small containers for pilgrims at the Mela venue and will ask them to take bath with it instead of going to Gangasagar in view of the pandemic.” The officer said e-snan water would be distributed through state-managed kiosks at the Gangasagar Mela free of cost. The Gangasagar Mela, which draws lakhs of pilgrims, would be held from January 12 to 16 this year. The health department had suggested that only e-bathing for pilgrims could keep the situation under control. The bench said the matter would come up for the court’s scanning on January 13. On that day, the state would file an affidavit about its plan and preparations. Only after verifying the affidavit, the bench will pass its final order. Makar Sankranti falls on January 14. The maximum congregation of pilgrims takes place at Sagar Island on January 14. During the course of hearing, the Chief Justice expressed concern over the negligence on the part of people in Calcutta who “are seen moving without masks” in a pandemic situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-241
09-01-2021||West Bengal||House session on farm laws||The Mamata Banerjee government has convened a special session of the Bengal Assembly on January 27 and 28 to get a resolution passed against the controversial farm laws enacted by the Narendra Modi dispensation at the Centre. Bengal parliamentary affairs minister Partha Chatterjee, who is also Trinamul Congress secretary-general, on Friday urged the Congress and the Left to endorse the Assembly motion in solidarity with the agitating farmers. He said the special session would also have a discussion on the goods and services tax (GST), in which the state wanted a five per cent hike. “The special session, in keeping with chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s public announcement, will include a resolution against the central farm laws,” said Chatterjee. Both the Congress and the Left, in an alliance for Bengal, had demanded such an exercise, especially after the Kerala Assembly had passed a similar resolution. Chatterjee said he would send a letter to both the legislature parties of the Left and the Congress, asking for their support for the resolution. “We believe they would support the issue as it is for farmers and they have also been on the same page,” said the minister. Mamata had on Monday said at a news conference that her government would soon convene a session for the resolution against the farm laws. Several Assemblies have so far passed such resolutions. Farmers have been protesting at borders Delhi since November 26 against the three newly laws. Several rounds of dialogue with the Centre have failed to yield a breakthrough. The Trinamul chief has been firmly supportive of the movement and has repeatedly been reaching out to the agitating farmers, seeing in the core issue an opportunity to push the BJP on the back foot with months remaining for the Assembly polls. “She senses the possibility of a historic retreat by the BJP, in this case. Which, she believes, would be pivotal in not only national politics but also Bengal,” said a Trinamul MP. Sources in the ruling dispensation said the exercise in the Assembly would be carried out in a bid to politically corner the BJP in the state over the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-241
09-01-2021||West Bengal||BSF jawan accused of slapping women||A jawan of the Border Security Force (BSF) guarding the India-Bangladesh border at Karandighi block in North Dinajpur was accused of slapping two women of a village near the border on Thursday afternoon. The women, sources said, were cycling on a border road to their children’s high school to collect textbooks. The husband of one of the women said that a BSF jawan of Kadergach border outpost, Karandighi, stopped them and asked them to return. When they told him villagers do use the border road during the day, he abused them verbally, slapped and punched them. He added one of the punches on his wife’s ear was so hard that her hearing got impaired. Monodeb Sinha, Trinamul MLA of Karandighi, said: “They (BSF personnel) cannot assault villagers in such a manner without reason.” The women have filed a complaint with Karandighi police. “We will speak with BSF officers,” said Sumit Kumar, North Dinajpur SP. BSF authorities could not be contacted by the paper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-242
09-01-2021||West Bengal||Dais damper at Suvendu Adhikari rally||The Suvendu Adhikari-led BJP rally in East Midnapore’s Nandigram on Friday afternoon fetched “over 1 lakh” attendees, but apparently failed in its avowed purpose of inducting members as not a single Trinamul leader was seen on the dais accepting saffron colours. Originally scheduled by Trinamul turncoat Suvendu as a rejoinder to Mamata Banerjee’s January 7 “mega rally” — that got postponed to January 18 owing to MLA Akhil Giri’s Covid diagnosis — the BJP rally on Friday was attended by state party president Dilip Ghosh, party minder for Bengal Kailash Vijayvargiya and another Trinamul turncoat Mukul Roy, but no prominent 2007 land agitation leader was seen. The BJP rally came a day after Shahid Diwas was observed in Nandigram where most of Suvendu’s aides attended the Trinamul Karmi Sabha or workers’ meeting addressed by state party president Subrata Bakshi and minister Partha Chatterjee. Around 4pm on Friday, Suvendu and Ghosh were seen on stage acknowledging “roughly 1,000” new inductees into the party who they said could not be invited on the dais owing to “social distancing” protocols. A BJP leader present on the dais said Suvendu was heard instructing Ghosh not to read out the list of names and simply to send party flags to inductees in the crowd, following which BJP Tamluk district unit president Nabarun Nayak pleaded with his state party chief to announce the names. Ghosh then went up to the mike and “formally welcomed” the supposed inductees into the party in his “capacity of state president” without reading out the list. Trinamul leaders dubbed the event a failure. “The BJP’s Yogdaan Mela, as they termed it, was a damp squib as no one joined their ranks,” said a local Trinamul leader later on Friday, reinforcing Trinamul’s claims on Thursday that the ruling party stood united in Nandigram. The BJP mass induction “fiasco” was preceded by speeches that sought to shift the focus back to the 2007 land agitations in Nandigram. Setting the pitch for the land agitation narrative, Vijayvargiya said: “Mamata cheated the people of Nandigram despite being elected to power on the strength of its soil.” Vijayvargiya had to briefly stop his speech as stones were pelted at those taking part in the rally. Police personnel shielded the leaders from physical harm. BJP leaders slammed Trinamul for its “cowardly act” of attacking BJP supporters. Suvendu said the incident was the ruling party’s new contribution to the political culture of the state. Speaking at the rally, Trinamul turncoat Mukul Roy broadened the spectrum to include the Singur agitations, saying: “The Tatas will soon come back to Singur. We will make a request to the PM (to bring back the Tatas), winds of change are afoot.” A Trinamul leader later said Roy’s statement smacked of “hypocrisy” as he had been Mamata’s most trusted lieutenant during the land agitation that had culminated in the Left Front losing power in 2011 after 34 years in Bengal. Speaking at the rally, Suvendu announced that he would hold another mega rally on January 19 as a counter to Mamata’s January 18 public meeting at Tekhali. To hide the party’s embarrassment for not being able to produce any new public recruits on Friday, Ghosh claimed that Trinamul “had engaged state police to contain those who wanted to switch over to the BJP”. “They are using their usual violent tactics, preventing many people from joining us,” Ghosh added. Trinamul local leader Sheikh Sufian said the turnout at the BJP rally had “proven Trinamul’s supremacy in Nandigram”. “The failure of BJP’s Yogdaan Mela shows that the people in Nandigram are with Mamata. The crowd at the BJP rally had been brought in buses from outside as Nandigram refused to bite the BJP bait,” Sufian added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-242
09-01-2021||West Bengal||BJP’s bid to win over farmers with fistful of rice||BJP national president J.P. Nadda will visit the homes of five farmers at a remote village in East Burdwan on Saturday to collect ‘ek mutho chaal (a fistful of rice)’ and kick off the party’s drive to reach out to cultivators in Bengal. The move is aimed at countering the narrative spun by the BJP’s rivals that the Narendra Modi government’s three news agriculture laws would be harmful to farmers. According to the plan, BJP workers across the state will visit villages to collect a fistful of rice from farmers’ families over the next few months in a symbolic campaign to show that the saffron party cares about cultivators. “Our national president will kick off the drive and our workers will carry it on across the state from Sunday... We will organise feasts with the collected grains from the farmers at each village,” said Krishna Ghosh, president of BJP’s Katwa organisational district, where Nadda will launch the campaign. The village to kick off the drive was chosen in East Burdwan as the district is known as “rice bowl” of Bengal as it produces 28 lakh metric ton of rice out of state’s total production of 150 lakh metric ton. Multiple sources in the state unit of the BJP said the plan to launch such a programme from East Burdwan was aimed at endearing the party to over 72-lakh farmers in the state at a time non-BJP parties were attacking the saffron camp over the ongoing protests in the national capital region against the new farm laws. “In our campaign, we will highlight how the Mamata Banerjee government has denied farmers the benefits of the PM Kisan scheme by not signing up for the central scheme... This unique initiative will supplement that campaign,” said a BJP source. The state government has, however, recently informed New Delhi that it will verify the applications of those who registered for the central scheme. Before collecting rice from five farmers at Musthul village, 8 km from Katwa, Nadda will address the farmers at a rally outside the village and have his lunch at the home of Mathura Mondal, a farmer. Later, Nadda will attend a road show in Burdwan town, to be followed by a news conference. BJP leaders said the Saturday rally would launch a series of similar programmes —named Krishak Suraksha Sabha — across the state. Senior BJP leaders said the party had realised that winning over the farmers would be critical in Bengal, an agrarian state. “The approach will be like a beggar who comes at your door to seek a handful of grains. It will show the respect the party has for those producing food grains for us,” said a BJP leader. While the BJP is banking on the initiative to connect with farmers, both the ruling Trinamul and the CPM said people of Bengal would call the BJP’s bluff. “This is the party that has given such a raw deal to farmers with the new farm bills.... The BJP leadership does not care about the farmers protesting in extreme weather conditions in Delhi. People of Bengal will not be swayed by this drama and call their bluff,” said CPM leader and All India Krishak Sabha leader Amal Haldar. Birbhum Trinamul president Anubrata Mondal echoed Haldar and said the BJP’s attempt to connect with farmers would fall flat as the farmers were aware of the party’s priorities. “Our chief minister Mamata Banerjee knows the real pains of farmers and she has always fought for their rights... People will never forget how she fought for farmers in Singur and Nandigram,” he said. The BJP’s attempt to bill it as a “unique campaign” and claim that it would put them in an advantageous position in rural Bengal was also contested by some researchers on rural culture and tradition. “The practice of donating a fistful of rice is an old tradition in Bengal... In rural areas, women always give alms by providing a fistful of rice. At many villages, social get-togethers are organised by collecting a fistful of rice from all the homes throughout the year,” said Aditya Mukhopadhyay, a researcher in rural culture and author of several books. Several CPM leaders in East Burdwan accused the BJP of copying them as they had launched a similar initiative in 2015 by collecting a fistful of rice from farmers’ homes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-242
09-01-2021||West Bengal||Students, teachers, staff and alumni mull movement against the 'whims' of Visva-Bharati administration||Over two dozen teaching and non-teaching staff of Visva-Bharati have been suspended or terminated during the two-year-plus tenure of vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty, prompting some students, teachers, staff and alumni to mull a movement against the “whims” of the varsity administration. Many teachers said Thursday’s suspension of economics professor Sudipta Bhattacharyya, a whistle-blower against Chakrabarty’s decisions, on Thursday showed how “the VC has clamped an atmosphere of revenge on the campus”. Bhattacharyya was suspended on Thursday for filing a complaint over the appointment of a principal of one of the varsity’s schools. But many of his colleagues said he had been targeted for protesting against VC Chakrabarty’s bid to “saffronise the campus”. “The present administration has crossed all limits. Most of those punished by the VC protested against his decisions or held views contrary to his beliefs. So, time has come for all stakeholders to join hands and launch a protest,” said Somnath Sow, a UG student of economics at Visva-Bharati and SFI leader. Before Bhattacharyya, the secretary of the varsity’s employees’ association or Karmi Sabha, Bidyut Sarkar, had been suspended and transferred to Calcutta. “The grudge against Sarkar was that he led a movement to gherao the VC for the unjustified transfer of an employee whose mother was critically ill. The present administration will punish anyone who dares to question...The gag order by the varsity in January last year also intended to suppress protests,” said a professor. Varsity officials said since Chakrabarty took over as VC in November 2018, at least 24 employees, including 10 senior teachers and a joint registrar, were suspended or terminated on various grounds though there was “room for alternative action” in the Visva-Bharati rulebook. Even an official close to BJP said the administration ran on the whims of “one person”, indicating the VC. “Many joint registrars have no work and spend time on irrelevant issues and controversies...We have already informed the party’s higher-ups about the situation on campus,” said the senior varsity official, adding that the “harsh steps” (suspension or sacking) had been taken to send a message that the varsity would not tolerate any opposition...” A major fallout of these “harsh steps” is the rise in the number of cases filed to question the varsity’s decisions. Former VC Sabuj Koli Sen, terminated on charges of “tampering with the minutes of the executive council meeting” during her tenure, moved court after being denied retirement benefits by the varsity. “A dozen cases have been filed during the tenure of the present VC and this is draining varsity funds. This is unwanted when the administration is crying for funds and has even asked teachers and staff to contribute,” said an official. Many teachers associated with Adhyapak Sabha, a body deemed close to the administration, said off the record that they felt all was not well with the varsity but preferred staying mum fearing punitive action. Varsity’s officiating public relations officer Anirban Sircar did not take this paper’s calls. Members of Alapini Mahila Samity and their well-wishers took out a march from Pratichi — the house of Amartya Sen — to central administrative office of Visva-Bharati in Santiniketan on Friday morning to protest against the decision of the varsity to drive them out of their office and allegedly attack them by using the Visva-Bharati Karmi Parishad. Around 60 people, including office-bearers of the women’s organisation that had been set up in 1916 on the instruction of Rabindranath Tagore, covered a 3km stretch to protest against the varsity’s decision. Visva-Bharati had sealed the organisation’s office on January 1 as its members had refused to vacate the room used by them since 1956. The members of Alapini Mahila Samity said they would continue their movement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-242
09-01-2021||West Bengal||21 more die of Covid, active cases drop further in Bengal||Bengal on Friday logged 1,136 Covid-19 recoveries, 926 infections and 21 deaths, aiding a drop in its total of active cases for the 74th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami on October 26. In this period, the total of active cases has improved by nearly 78 per cent, from 37,190 to 8,245. Bengal now has 3.7 per cent of the national total of active cases, down from over seven per cent in about a month. “We had never even thought that holding this trend of turnaround for so long, for around 11 weeks, would be possible. Now that we have achieved it, I think it would not be audaciously ambitious to assume that we will be able to sustain this for a few more weeks, thereby undoing a few more months of damage,” said a Bengal minister. The recovery rate has risen for 78 consecutive days, by over nine per cent, to 96.75. The national rate now is 96.38 per cent. Since the end of Durga Puja, the state has reported over 2.3 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 2.05 lakh new infections detected. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.58 per cent now, having improved steadily from the 8.27 of November 20. “The continuous reduction in the positive confirmation rate is a huge plus, it shows the fewer new cases are not because fewer tests are being conducted. There are enough indications of the spread of Covid-19 shrinking in Bengal, largely because of the excellent pandemic management here,” said the minister. Bengal’s total test count — including 36,135 tests on Friday — went past 73.72 lakh, at 81,913 tests per million people. The state’s Covid-19 total of 5.59 lakh cases include 5.4 lakh recoveries and 9,902 deaths. The 21 deaths reported on Friday included nine from Calcutta. The state attributed 8,307 (83.9 per cent) of the total deaths count to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate is now 1.77, compared to the 1.44 per cent nationally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-242
09-01-2021||West Bengal||Union minister scan on tea and tourism sectors||Prahlad Singh Patel, the Union minister of state for tourism and culture, reached here and went to the Darjeeling hills on Friday on a three-day visit aimed at reaching out to stakeholders of tea and tourism industries. The visit — first by a central minister to the hills  in the last year or so — is significant ahead of Assembly elections, particularly because the saffron brigade no longer has the support of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, the largest political force in the hills on which the BJP has piggybacked to win Parliament elections thrice since 2009. In his official twitter account, Patel said he would visit Darjeeling from January 8 to 10. Darjeeling MP Raju Bista is accompanying him. “During the visit, we will be meeting and interacting with stakeholders of the tourism industry, tea industry and people associated with local art and culture. We will also be meeting with BJP karyakartas, alliance partners and holding organisational meetings with party workers from Darjeeling and Kalimpong,” Bista has written in a social media post. Sources in the BJP said the visit would be politically significant for the party at a time it was forced to redraw its strategy after Bimal Gurung had severed his ties with the saffron camp in October last year and extended support to Mamata Banerjee and her party. Gurung had been an ally of the BJP since 2009. This made the BJP try to get most of the other hill-based parties on board. Leaders of a number of parties like the GNLF, ABGL and the CPRM went to Delhi and held talks with the BJP. “After Gurung’s defection, it was the first move of the BJP to get other parties, each of which has some support base in the hills, on board. Now, the minister’s visit seems to be the second move of the saffron camp that intends to draw support from hill residents who are associated with tea and tourism. These are the two sectors which engage the maximum number of people in the hills,” pointed out a veteran in hill politics. Altogether, around five lakh people in the hills are dependent on tea and tourism sectors directly or indirectly. The expert also mentioned that the minister may announce some financial relief to those associated with tea and tourism as they suffered heavy losses in the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown. A senior hotelier in Darjeeling said from both the sectors, demands were raised before the central government for financial packages, subsidies and other benefits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-242
