10-01-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu Adhikari accuses TMC govt of appropriating central schemes||Senior BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari on Sunday accused the Mamata Banerjee dispensation of appropriating central projects. He said that only three to four people in the state government call the shots, with the rest functioning as rubber stamps. Giving credit to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for already stating that three crore health workers and 27 crore people above the age of 50 years will be administered the vaccine for free across the country, Adhikari claimed that Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, despite the centre’s announcement, has written to Covid warriors and stated that her government would be inoculating free of charge. Earlier in the day, Banerjee had said that arrangements were being made to provide Covid-19 vaccines for free to all the people of Bengal, and not just the COVID-19 warriors. She also clarified that frontline workers would be given priority over others. Alleging that the TMC government was changing names of central projects to claim those to be its own, the former state minister said, “The name of Centre’s Swachh Bharat Abhiyan project has been changed to Nirmal Bangla mission.” Adhikari, during a public meeting here, also contended that natural resources of Purulia, including coal and other minerals, were being looted by organised gangs, with the state government doing nothing about it. During his speech at an adivasi- dominated district, Adhikari further said that the ‘Ol Chiki’ language of Santhalis was given recognition in the eighth schedule of the Constitution by former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, but the TMC government did not provide any book or teaching facility to promote it. He also claimed that the TMC has ceased being a political party and functions as a private limited company, with “three or four persons from south Kolkata running the government with 20 of 30 departments in their hands”. Asserting that the rural areas of the state have long been neglected by the TMC leadership, he said that the “fight is between the villages and a few privileged persons from south Kolkata”. He also said that the district-level service commissions for recruitment of school teachers have been replaced by a centralised system based in Kolkata, thereby reducing job opportunities for youths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-239
10-01-2021||West Bengal||Bengal making arrangements for free Covid vaccination: Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has said that the state government is making arrangements to provide free vaccines for Covid-19 to all the people of the state. In an open letter, Mamata said that the Covid ‘warriors’, including police, home guards, civil defence volunteers, correctional home and disaster management employees, will be administered the vaccine on a priority basis. “I am happy to inform that our government is making arrangements for reaching the vaccine to all people of the state free of any charge,” the chief minister said in the letter addressed to the Covid-19 frontline workers. Banerjee expressed her gratitude to all the Covid warriors for their selfless service to the people of Bengal. India is set to launch its Covid-19 vaccination drive from January 16 with priority to be given to nearly three crore healthcare and frontline workers across the country. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to meet all chief ministers of states and Union Territories to discuss the Covid-19 vaccination rollout process, his office said on Friday. The PM will also discuss the pandemic situation in each state. The chief minister’s announcement of free vaccination for everyone comes months ahead of the assembly elections, which are likely to be held in April-May. Earlier, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had made a similar announcement. The southern state will also go to polls along with Bengal. The Bihar government has also given the cabinet nod to provide free vaccine to every citizen of the state, a promise the BJP made in its manifesto for the assembly elections held in October-November.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-240
10-01-2021||West Bengal||Kamtapuri Bhasa Academy curriculum ‘ready’ ||Representatives of Kamtapuri Bhasa Academy on Saturday clarified that they had submitted schoolbooks and curriculum for introduction of Kamtapuri language as a medium of instruction in state-aided primary schools. “Recently, the chief minister said we have not yet readied the curriculum which made some Kamtapuri people disgruntled. We want to clarify that on November 26 last year we submitted 37 schoolbooks and the curriculum for pre-primary to class V to the member secretary of our academy. He had submitted those at Nabanna on November 29. We hope the state government will consider our demand to introduce the language in primary classes,” said Bajle Rehman, chairman of the academy. On January 5, Mamata Banerjee said that there were requests to carry out inspections in some informal schools where education is imparted through Kamtapuri, a variant of Rajbanshi language. “But they are yet to fix a curriculum like the Rajbanshi informal schools already did,” she had said. “The education department would carry out inspections in two such schools within a year as it would take a few months to set the curriculum,” Mamata had added. Kamtapuri Bhasa Academy is one of the language academies formed by the state for Rajbanshi population. “We are not criticising the chief minister but have just furnished the facts to clear misunderstandings of people,” Rehman added. During the past couple of years, Trinamul has been focusing on the Rajbanshi population of north Bengal as their votes matter in almost half of the 54 Assembly seats of the region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-240
10-01-2021||West Bengal||Prahlad Singh Patel flags off poll mode||The BJP virtually flagged off its election campaign in the hills pitching Prahlad Singh Patel, the Union minister of state for tourism and culture. The saffron camp’s strategy to send a central minister to the hills to drum up support drew flak from Trinamul. A sense of Patel’s mission was palpable on his arrival on Friday evening as BJP’s alliance partner in the hills Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF) lined up party supporters in Darjeeling to welcome the minister. “I am here on a three-day tour. There was a lot of enthusiasm in the way. I was welcomed by our party supporters as well as supporters of our alliance partner,” said Patel. Tourism and tea are two major industries in the hills and Patel lost no time to accuse the state government of neglecting both these sectors. “During the day, I interacted with tourism stakeholders…social organisations, people associated with various cultural activities and leaders of the tea workers’ union,” said Patel, who said he would continue to visit the region. BJP currently represents Darjeeling Assembly constituency after Neeraj Zimba, a GNLF leader who had won the seat in a BJP ticket in 2019, defeated Binay Tamang of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, who was backed by Trinamul. In 2019, Bimal Gurung’s Morcha was with the BJP but recently joined hands with Trinamul, alleging that BJP had betrayed their promise to the hill people. The BJP promised a permanent political solution for the hills and tribal status to 11 hill communities. “There is no reason to doubt our commitment made in the Sankalp Patra,” said a confident Patel. He said BJP would focus on Darjeeling hills on issues like culture and tourism in their vision document for the Bengal elections. Trinamul leaders scoffed at Patel and Raju Bista, the BJP MP of Darjeeling. “Weather in the hills is excellent and tourists are visiting the area. The central minister is also touring the area like any other tourist and so is the MP, who stayed away from his constituency during the critical period (of lockdown),” said Ranjan Sarkar, president, Darjeeling (plains) district Trinamul. Anit Thapa, leader of the Tamang faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, on Saturday said in Kalimpong that his party slogan for the Bengal elections would be “hamro ghar, afnai bhar”, which loosely translates to building a house on one’s might.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-240
10-01-2021||West Bengal||Two arrested in schoolboy murder case||Two youths have been arrested in connection with the January 7 kidnap and murder of 13-year-old schoolboy Anik Das at Paranpur village. Abir Das and his friend Sagar Kaibartya, both jobless, confessed to the crime and were sent to police custody by a local court where they were produced on Saturday. “Both planned to abduct Anik and demand a ransom of Rs 60 lakhs from his wealthy father, and use the money and open a cell phone shop,” said a police officer. “But later they killed the boy thinking he would reveal their identity on release.” Cops had earlier suspected a family trading in cannabis before cracking the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-240
10-01-2021||West Bengal||Bengal groundwork for PM-Kisan||The Mamata Banerjee government started groundwork to verify farmers who have applied for the Centre’s PM-Kisan scheme to ensure Bengal farmers get central financial aid at the earliest. Trinamul insiders said Mamata is keen on completing the state verification of applicants fast to put pressure on the BJP-led Centre and counter its campaign that the Bengal government was depriving farmers of central aid. “If we verify applicants on time and the Centre fails to transfer funds to farmers’ accounts ahead of polls, we can use it against the BJP...We will also highlight that while the state scheme is for all farmers, the central one is selective in nature,” said a minister. BJP national president J. P. Nadda in Katwa on Saturday claimed the Bengal government agreed to implement PM-Kisan scheme in the state only recently as the chief minister realised that her party is losing the farmers' support base here. So far, the state has been told by the Centre that 21.79 lakh farmers applied for the PM-Kisan scheme. Sources said the state government will match the list of applicants under the central scheme with the state’s own Krishak Bandhu scheme as soon as it gets the applicant list from the Centre. Sources in Nabanna said 47 lakh farmers of Bengal’s total 72 lakh farmers — according to the 2015 agriculture census  — had registered under Krishak Bandhu. Another 2 lakh farmers applied for Krishak Bandhu through camps under Duare Sarkar. “Those who get aid under the state’s scheme will automatically qualify for the Centre’s one,” said an official. “In case there are applicants not enrolled under Krishak Bandhu, a verification process has to be undertaken by asking them to submit their land holding records. But I am sure the number of such applicants would be minimal,” said another official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-240
10-01-2021||West Bengal||BJP continues its missteps about celebrated figures in Bengal||Essential lesson for the next BJP leader parachuting into Bengal: Jekhane bagher bhoy, shekhanei shondhye hoy. Disaster always strikes at the worst time and place, the Bengali saying means. Had BJP national president J.P. Nadda been aware of the sage advice, he would not have described on Saturday a temple as the holy site of Chaitanya Mahaprabhu’s deeksha (initiation). The temple in Katwa in East Burdwan was built in 1839. Mahaprabhu, a paragon of the Bhakti movement and Vaishnavism, breathed his last at the age of 48 in 1534 or 305 years before the temple took shape. Missteps about celebrated figures in Bengal -- ranging from Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar and Birsa Munda to Rabindranath Tagore -- are becoming a habit with visiting BJP leaders who try too hard to display their connect with the local culture and counter the bohiragawto (outsider) label ahead of the Assembly polls. On Saturday, after visiting the temple at Jagadanandapur village in Katwa, 140km from Calcutta, Nadda said: “Mitron, aaj main Radha Govindji ke puratan mandir mei gaya, jahan Chaitanya Mahaprabhu ney diksha li thi (Friends, today I went to an old temple of Radha Govind, where Chaitanya Mahaprabhu received initiation).” The initiation of Mahaprabhu, extolled frequently by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, took place in 1510 --- that is, 329 years before the Jagadanandapur temple came up, according to several accounts. The Jagadanandapur temple authorities said it had no connection to the initiation of Mahaprabhu. “Ours is an old Vaishnav temple set up by a local zamindar, Radhamohan Ghosh Chowdhury, in 1839. Chaitanya Mahaprabhu, obviously, could not have been initiated here,” said Nimai Das, the temple-in-charge. Some residents of Katwa said Nadda had probably confused the Jagadanandapur temple with the Shri Shri Gouranga Temple, around 10km away. Centuries older, the Gouranga temple was the one Mahaprabhu purportedly visited in 1510. “Chaitanya Mahaprabhu came to Katwa from Nadia’s Nabadwip and was initiated by Keshav Bharati in 1510,” said Swapan Kumar Thakur, who researches local history and culture in Katwa. BJP leaders said the mistake was the result of miscommunication, adding that Nadda was supposed to visit the Gouranga temple. “The plan was changed for security arrangements, basically because of the unavailability of a proper spot to build a helipad for his landing. I think he was not told that the temple he had actually visited was not the one he had expected to. It was not his fault, of course,” said Krishna Ghosh, the BJP’s Katwa unit chief. Trinamul Congress vice-president Saugata Roy said: “You cannot learn the history, culture, tradition, language and heritage of such a glorious state overnight…. In their hurry to appropriate Bengal icons, they are making mistake after mistake…. Primarily because they are essentially bohiragawto, in mind and spirit.” On his part, Nadda did strive to fit in. Instead of sticking to Lord Ram alone, the BJP chief tried his hand at new slogans hailing Durga and Kali.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-240
10-01-2021||West Bengal||Centre’s panel for Netaji skips his party ||Names of an 85-member committee formed by the central government to celebrate the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, have been made public. But the absence of anyone from the Forward Bloc, a party founded by Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose in 1939, raised eyebrows. “The central government was either afraid that we might refuse to be a part of this committee since it is headed by a PM who belongs to a communal party or they are scared of the questions we might raise in case we are included,” said Naren Chatterjee, FB state general secretary. Chatterjee added that Netaji stood for a secular India and his life’s work represented his determination to put in place a people’s government. “The BJP is a communal party. It is also trying snatch away the rights of the common man and empower the corporate sector. They don’t have any right to celebrate Netaji,” he added. Modi apart, 10 Union ministers, including Amit Shah, Board of Control for Cricket in India boss Sourav Ganguly, Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and six other chief of states, former Bengal CM Buddhedeb Bhattacharjee, former Prime Ministers Manmohan Singh and H.D. Deve Gowda, BJP Bengal chief Dilip Ghosh, Trinamul turncoats Suvendu Adhikari and Sunil Mondol, actors Mithun Chakraborty and Kajol, music composer A.R. Rahman and filmmaker Kaushik Ganguli are among those who feature on the list. Several Bengal politicians, including those from the BJP that this paper spoke to said including Trinamul turncoats meant that the panel was formed with a political aim. A state BJP leader said that the list called Suvendu an MLA though he resigned as a legislator before switching over to the BJP. “Even if I consider that Suvenduda’s name was included as an MLA, what wrong did the MLAs who had originally won on a BJP ticket do?” this person asked, underlining the existing inner feud between BJP old-timers and Trinamul turncoats. The issue brought arch-rivals CPM and Trinamul on the same page, with representatives from both criticising the omission of Forward Bloc. “It was important to have representation from the party Netaji had himself founded, in a committee set up to commemorate his birth anniversary,” said Left legislative party leader and CPM MLA Sujan Chakraborty. Trinamul MP Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said that the absence of any representation of the FB in the committee only showed that BJP central leaders were unaware of Bengal’s history. “They earlier said that Rabindranath Tagore was born in Visva-Bharati. To not include FB in this committee is a punishable offence,” Roy said. As the state government recently unveiled mega plants to celebrate Netaji's birthday, it was not clear whether Mamata would accept the offer to be a member of the committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-240
10-01-2021||West Bengal||‘BJP poster boy’ finger at Visva-Bharati VC||Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty took part in an hour-long sit-in on Saturday to demand the control over a 2.9km road that the state government had taken away from the university on January 1, his protest purportedly endorsed by the BJP by way of posters by its youth wing Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha pledging to “fight under the VC’s leadership” and urging people to join his “movement”. An embarrassed university administration had to order the removal of the posters, but not before it sparked off a political row, prompting the BJP to smell a conspiracy. BJP national secretary Anupam Hazra said the posters were a “conspiracy” to defame his party and the VC. “During the visit of Amit Shah last month, Trinamul goons tried to malign us by putting up posters across Santiniketan and Bolpur that had Rabindranath Tagore’s picture placed below that of the Union home minister. Today (Saturday) was another conspiracy to defame the BJP and the VC,” Hazra said. But for many others, the posters validated what Mamata had said at her Bolpur rally on December 29: “I don't have any individual grudge against the VC. Didn’t they find anyone else for the post of the VC? They had to get someone who has a stamp of BJP.” Trinamul’s Birbhum chief Anubrata Mondal said: “Our supremo Mamata Banerjee has already said that the VC was actually a BJP leader. These posters go on to prove our charge (as correct).” “The posters prove beyond doubt that the VC is working at the behest of the BJP,” said a senior official of Visva-Bharati on condition of anonymity because of the existing gag order on varsity employees. The university administration headed by Chakrabarty has been at loggerheads with the state government for the past few days over the ownership of the 2.9km long road connecting Santiniketan to Sriniketan. The road originally belonged to the state’s public works department and the charge of maintaining the stretch was handed over to the university authority in 2017. Following appeals to the chief minister by residents who raised objections to the varsity imposing an embargo on the movement of vehicles on the road, Mamata issued an instruction to take back the road during an administrative review meeting in Bolpur on December 28. Around 9am on Saturday, some 300 varsity teaching and non-teaching staff joined Chakraborty at the protest at Chhatimtala. A petition signed by 380 members of the Visva-Bharati family has also been sent to Mamata requesting her to return the road to the varsity. The letter stated that if the varsity did not get back control of the road, heavy vehicles on the stretch “will shake the foundations” of the architectural and cultural insignias on either side of the road. Some varsity students also held a demonstration demanding the immediate scrapping of suspension of economics professor and Visva-Bharati Faculty Association president Sudipta Bhattacharyya. He was suspended earlier this week for his complaint against the appointment of a principal of a school under the varsity, but many held the view that he was punished for going against the VC’s attempt to saffronise the campus. “The VC is demanding rights to the road. But he will have to answer us why so many people are being suspended from the varsity. We are here to demand those answers,” said SFI leader Somnath Sow, who led the protest. In another show of protest, a group of traders also demonstrated against the VC demanding the return of money that the varsity had collected from them as security deposit for Pous Mela in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-240
10-01-2021||West Bengal||‘BJP poster boy’ finger at Visva-Bharati VC||Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty took part in an hour-long sit-in on Saturday to demand the control over a 2.9km road that the state government had taken away from the university on January 1, his protest purportedly endorsed by the BJP by way of posters by its youth wing Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha pledging to “fight under the VC’s leadership” and urging people to join his “movement”. An embarrassed university administration had to order the removal of the posters, but not before it sparked off a political row, prompting the BJP to smell a conspiracy. BJP national secretary Anupam Hazra said the posters were a “conspiracy” to defame his party and the VC. “During the visit of Amit Shah last month, Trinamul goons tried to malign us by putting up posters across Santiniketan and Bolpur that had Rabindranath Tagore’s picture placed below that of the Union home minister. Today (Saturday) was another conspiracy to defame the BJP and the VC,” Hazra said. But for many others, the posters validated what Mamata had said at her Bolpur rally on December 29: “I don't have any individual grudge against the VC. Didn’t they find anyone else for the post of the VC? They had to get someone who has a stamp of BJP.” Trinamul’s Birbhum chief Anubrata Mondal said: “Our supremo Mamata Banerjee has already said that the VC was actually a BJP leader. These posters go on to prove our charge (as correct).” “The posters prove beyond doubt that the VC is working at the behest of the BJP,” said a senior official of Visva-Bharati on condition of anonymity because of the existing gag order on varsity employees. The university administration headed by Chakrabarty has been at loggerheads with the state government for the past few days over the ownership of the 2.9km long road connecting Santiniketan to Sriniketan. The road originally belonged to the state’s public works department and the charge of maintaining the stretch was handed over to the university authority in 2017. Following appeals to the chief minister by residents who raised objections to the varsity imposing an embargo on the movement of vehicles on the road, Mamata issued an instruction to take back the road during an administrative review meeting in Bolpur on December 28. Around 9am on Saturday, some 300 varsity teaching and non-teaching staff joined Chakraborty at the protest at Chhatimtala. A petition signed by 380 members of the Visva-Bharati family has also been sent to Mamata requesting her to return the road to the varsity. The letter stated that if the varsity did not get back control of the road, heavy vehicles on the stretch “will shake the foundations” of the architectural and cultural insignias on either side of the road. Some varsity students also held a demonstration demanding the immediate scrapping of suspension of economics professor and Visva-Bharati Faculty Association president Sudipta Bhattacharyya. He was suspended earlier this week for his complaint against the appointment of a principal of a school under the varsity, but many held the view that he was punished for going against the VC’s attempt to saffronise the campus. “The VC is demanding rights to the road. But he will have to answer us why so many people are being suspended from the varsity. We are here to demand those answers,” said SFI leader Somnath Sow, who led the protest. In another show of protest, a group of traders also demonstrated against the VC demanding the return of money that the varsity had collected from them as security deposit for Pous Mela in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-240
10-01-2021||West Bengal||Active Covid cases 8,034 in Bengal||Bengal on Saturday reported a drop in its total active Covid-19 cases for the 75th consecutive day, since Vijaya Dashami on October 26, with the total cases falling from 37,190 to 8,034, improving by over 78 per cent. The state logged 978 recoveries, 787 new infections and 20 deaths on Saturday, including five from Calcutta, in the 24-hour window ending 9am. Bengal now has around 3.6 per cent of the nation’s active cases, down from over 7 per cent in about a month. Bengal’s recovery rate has risen for 79 consecutive days, by over 9 per cent, to 96.79. The national rate now is 96.4 per cent. “We will go past 98 in recovery rate and fall below 5,000 in total active cases by the time vaccination takes off,” said a minister, adding Bengal “was doing exemplarily well, given the size and density of our population”. Since Durga Puja-end, Bengal reported nearly 2.32 lakh recoveries and 2.06 lakh new infections. Calcutta High Court intervened to prevent crowding and worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. A similar set of instructions came from the high court before New Year celebrations. The numbers of infections from the festivals in October and November, and so far in 2021, showed that the court’s instructions were effective. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.56 per cent now, having improved steadily from the 8.27 of November 20. Bengal’s total test count — including 34,221 tests on Saturday — went past 74.06 lakh, at 82,293 tests per million people. The state’s Covid-19 total of 5.59 lakh cases includes nearly 5.42 lakh recoveries and 9,922 deaths. Bengal’s mortality rate is now 1.77, compared to the 1.44 per cent nationally. The state government attributed 8,327 deaths or 83.9 per cent of the total toll to comorbidities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-240
10-01-2021||West Bengal||Farm laws for freedom: Nadda to farmers||BJP national president J.P Nadda on Saturday collected “ek mutho chaal” (a fistful of rice) from farmers to launch a party event to woo the peasantry in Bengal with an eye on the Assembly polls amid the ongoing farmer protests in Delhi against the Centre’s farm laws. Launching the farmers’ outreach programme, Nadda defended the farm laws saying that they were aimed at ensuring “freedom for the farmers” before explaining the “ek mutho chaal” event at a public rally at Katwa in East Burdwan. He held a well-attended roadshow in Burdwan later in the day. “BJP workers will visit farmers’ houses, ask for a fistful of rice and take a pledge to protect their interest…. The programme will continue till January 24. BJP workers will visit 40,000 villages in Bengal. After this, BJP workers will observe “Krishak Bhoj’ (lunch with farmers) till January 31 and tell them what injustice is being done to farmers in Bengal,” said Nadda making it clear that the BJP was trying to win over the 72-lakh-odd farmers in Bengal. He also used the occasion to launch an attack on the Mamata Banerjee government for delaying the rollout of the PM-Kisan scheme in Bengal. Many insiders in the BJP said the launch of the event in Bengal’s rice bowl East Burdwan was planned to woo the farming community that has backed Mamata since her Singur and Nandigram movements against forcible land acquisition. However, some of the five farmers, whose homes he visited to collect rice, were unaware of the “benefits” Nadda spoke of. “I had to ask him how the government can help us get a better price for our crops,” said Nitai Mondal, a farmer who owns five acres and whose home was one that Nadda visited to collect rice. Another farmer Mathura Mondal looked equally lost when asked if he had any idea about the benefits Nadda spoke of. “He gave me a leaflet and pasted a sticker on the wall of our house,” Mathura said, adding he was yet to learn what the BJP wanted to do for farmers. Many at the rally returned home with the same confusion. “I own no land but I love Modi. I am holding this placard to support farm laws as I love Modi,” said Bishu Pradhan, a farmer from Gourdanaga village of Katwa. Nadda used every minute of his speech and a news meet later to convince the farming community in Bengal the need to “embrace the BJP” and “throw out Mamata” for the farm sector's benefit. On the Delhi protests, he stressed the Centre was continuing its dialogue with the farmers to find a resolution to the impasse. “Your presence in huge numbers is proving that Mamata’s departure is certain,” said Nadda at the rally. At the news meet, he said that the people’s spontaneous support for the party was proof that the BJP would sweep the polls. “The people of Bengal have made up their mind to reject Mamata.” At the news meet, he said the BJP was committed to the implementation of the Citizenship Amendment Act. “The home ministry is drawing up the rules… We are committed to the implementation of the act in letter and spirit,” he said. In his first visit to Bengal after his convoy was attacked on its way to Diamond Harbour last month, he said the manner in which he faced the attack and later “abused by the chief minister” and her party did not gel with Bengal’s culture. “The language used by the chief minister against me or our Prime Minister does not reflect Bengal’s culture. We represent the true culture of Bengal… Don’t forget that Syama Prasad Mookerjee, a Bengali, was the founder of Jana Sangh,” he said, before stressing that Bengal’s people didn’t approve the outsider tag Trinamul leaders were putting on BJP leaders. Nadda, married to a Bengali, also stressed he has “lived” the Bengali culture. The BJP seemed to have flagged off its election campaign in the hills through Prahlad Singh Patel, the Union minister of state for tourism and culture. BJP ally in the hills GNLF lined up party supporters in Darjeeling to welcome the minister on Friday. Trinamul said Patel had gone as a tourist.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-241
