11-01-2021||West Bengal||Bengal luminaries’ ideal and BJP’s vision a mismatch||On Monday, ruling party of West Bengal, TMC stated that BJP’s attempts to evoke Bengal’s icons, such as Sri Ramakrishna and Swami Vivekananda, for political gains is “ironical”, as the ideals of these luminaries do not match with the saffron party’s vision and objectives. Speaking to reporters here, on the eve of Swami Vivekananda’s birthday, senior TMC leader and a state minister, Bratya Basu recalled that Sri Ramakrishna had once said “jato mat, tato path”, which means multiple views lead to multiple avenues ‑ in short, pluralism – “something that the saffron camp does not subscribe to”. “BJP talking about them is ironical as the party does not believe in Ramakrishna’s way of thinking. Even Swami Vivekananda had said ‘those who love humanity serve the God’,” Basu. The minister maintained that TMC supremo and chief minister Mamata Banerjee has paid tribute to these eminent personalities by restoring their residences, and making arrangements to honour them on several occasions. The CM, however, was thwarted from delivering speeches at Oxford Union and Chicago, “for reasons which are not known to us”, he said. The Oxford Union had in December 2020 postponed Banerjee’s virtual address at the eleventh hour, citing unforeseen circumstances. The TMC leadership, infuriated over the development, had claimed that “political pressure” could have forced the organizers to to take such a call. In 2018, Mamata’s scheduled programme at Chicago on the occasion of Swami Vivekananda’s birth anniversary had also been cancelled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-238
11-01-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Cooch Behar rift deepens||Infighting within Trinamul in Cooch Behar took a new turn with party leaders close to district party chief Partha Pratim Roy slamming party colleagues critical of Roy and demanding stringent steps against the critics. Recently, leaders like former civic chief Bhusan Singh, district general secretary Khokon Mian, party leader from Cooch Behar-II block Parimal Burman have fumed against Roy’s “arbitrary” decisions in naming office-bearers, “bias” and “incompetence”. District party spokesperson Shibapada Pal known to be close to Roy asked Trinamul state leadership to act against Roy’s critics for “indiscipline”, which he said was harming the party. “These leaders have openly resorted to criticism and are raising baseless charges against the district president who was nominated by the state leadership. Activities of these leaders are affecting the party’s image in Cooch Behar. We want the state leaders to take stringent steps against them for indiscipline,” Pal said. Other Trinamul leaders like Rahul Roy and Niranjan Dutta said they would wait for seven days to see if the state leadership would take steps against these leaders. “Otherwise, we will launch a movement across the district with the demand to remove them from all the posts they hold. They activities are detrimental to the party's interest and we can’t let it happen,” said Rahul Roy, a party district secretary. District party chief Roy has abstained from any counter statement. “We are in constant touch with state leaders and are acting according to their instructions,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-238
11-01-2021||West Bengal||Son with rotting mom body in North Dinajpur||The decomposing body of an 80-year-old woman was found at her home in Subhashnagar in Chopra block of North Dinajpur on Sunday, four days after her death, her 55-year-old son telling police he did not know how to do her last rites. Sources said the old woman Kusum Chakraborty stayed with her son Ramkrishna. Ramkrishna is suspected to be mentally challenged. Kusum did all the chores. Her body has been sent for autopsy. Neighbours suspected something amiss when they did not see Kusum for some days, and discovered a foul smell coming from her house. Then, they informed the police. “We spoke to her son who said that as he was alone could not find any option as to how to conduct the last rites and that he was living with the body for four days. We are waiting for post mortem reports to know the cause of her death,” said a police officer. Angry residents of Dumradangi village under Karandighi police station of North Dinajpur ransacked and torched the car of a resident on Sunday evening alleging that he was a drug peddler. Police brought the situation under control. Sources said the Saturday suicide of local youth and alleged drug addict Ranjan Kundu, 27, had made people angry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-238
11-01-2021||West Bengal||Malda mom drowns two daughters||A homemaker from a village in Chanchal police station drowned her two minor daughters at a pond on Sunday morning, sending ripples of shock in the area. Police called it an “unprecedented act” while a psychiatrist in Malda town said the mother must have “complicated mental issues”. Anupnagar villagers said the woman, Mumpi Mondal, took her daughters Madhuri, 10, and Jayashree, 8, to a pond and shoved them deliberately. Chanchal, her husband and a daily wage earner, and other villagers rushed to the spot. The girls were taken out of the pond but doctors at a local hospital pronounced them dead. Chanchal said that late on Saturday, he had a fight with Mumpi over serving of food. “However, we eventually went to bed and I had no inkling that she would do something so drastic to avenge the quarrel,” said the bereaved man. Sukumar Ghosh, the inspector-in-charge of Chanchal police station, said it was “one of the rarest incidents” he had seen in his career as a cop. “We have heard of incidents when a mother, after killing her children, tries to take her own life. But in this case, the information we have is that she did not try to take any such step and stood on the spot. I suspect she some complicated mental issues,” said Parnasha Gupta Roy, a psychiatrist in Malda. Two persons died in a road accident at Malda Bypass on the outskirts of Malda town on Sunday afternoon. Deceased Mozahar Ali, 30, and Rumpi Deb Sharma, 19, both residents of Kaliyaganj police station area, North Dinajpur district, were among the occupants of an SUV that collided with a dump truck on the bypass. The three injured are being treated at Malda Medical College and Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-238
11-01-2021||West Bengal||Mamata rally today to woo Matuas||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee will hold a public meeting at Ranaghat in Nadia district on Monday morning as part of her continuing efforts to win over Matuas ahead of the Assembly polls. The Trinamul Congress chief will address the meeting at the Habibpur Chhatimtala grounds under Ranaghat Lok Sabha constituency, a stronghold of Matuas. Monday’s rally comes at a time senior Matua leaders loyal to the BJP are making statements about the implementation of the Citizenship Amendment Act by February. Although Mamata has reiterated that Matuas are Indian citizens and has disputed the legislation’s purported attempts to deny their Indian identity, a large section of the community has reportedly remained unconvinced and is leaning towards the BJP for its citizenship legislation. Trinamul insiders claimed that Mamata would raise her voice against the BJP’s citizenship thrusts at the Monday rally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-239
11-01-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul tom-toms farmers’ ‘U-turn’||Trinamul Congresson Sunday paraded four of five farmers from East Burdwan’s Katwa whose homes BJP national chief J.P. Nadda visited a day before, who claimed loyalty to Mamata Banerjee. Four farmers swore allegiance to Trinamul at a news meet at the party’s Katwa office in front of MLA Rabindranath Chatterjee, and said the saffron camp misled them. “We were told the BJP chief will beg for alms from us. It is our rural culture to give alms to anyone asking for it,” said Nitai Mondal, one of the farmers. They went ahead to proclaim they were Trinamul loyalists and would stay so. On Saturday, Nadda started the Krishak Surakkha Abhijaan in Katwa in support of the three contentious central farm laws. Under this outreach programme, he went to homes of five farmers asking from each a fistful of rice, and lunched at a farmer’s house. “These poor farmers...told us that if they had known the true intentions of BJP, they would’ve never allowed them entry,” Chatterjee said. Arun Bhattacharya, the chief priest of Sarbamangala temple in Burdwan, where Nadda had offered prayers before his Saturday roadshow, also said on Sunday that priests were obliged to Mamata as she gave them stipends. “He (Nadda) had come to offer his prayers and we helped him in it like we would do for any devotee,” the priest said. “As far as I know, the entire community of priests is obliged to our chief minister because she has given us stipends, medical and other benefits. We will be with her always,” he added. This was not the first instance when people handpicked by the BJP to meet or lunch with their central leaders like Nadda or Amit Shah were shown to be loyal to Mamata by Trinamul — Shah’s lunch hosts Bibhishan Hansda of Bankura and Basudeb Das Baul of Birbhum being cases in point. BJP’s state general secretary and MP Locket Chatterjee blamed the U-turn on Trinamul’s “politics of fear”. “There is no development in the state and when people started aligning with us Trinamul is forcing them to speak for their party,” she said. Her party alleged “Trinamul goons” had been attacking their supporters and party offices since Saturday night, and eight BJP supporters were injured at a clash in Shaktigarh. On Sunday, Trinamul held a 3km rally to counter Nadda’s 1.2km one in Burdwan town. The rally led by Trinamul youth leader and actor Soham covered the 3km from town hall to Golapbagh, compared to Nadda’s 1.2km from Birhata to Curzon gate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-239
11-01-2021||West Bengal||Jabs fly over Cooch Behar airport||The Trinamul Congress and the BJP have pointed fingers at each other over a stark contrast in air connectivity in districts on the Bengal-Assam border. While the longstanding demand of residents to resume flights from Cooch Behar airport in Bengal remains unfulfilled for over 25 years, authorities have readied the aerodrome at Rupsi in Kokrajhar district of Assam to restart services after three decades. The Cooch Behar and Kokrajhar districts are contiguous to each other. “The Airports Authority of India is working for resumption of flights from Rupsi, while it has decided not to renew the licence for the Cooch Behar airport. Such moves show the central government’s bias against Bengal and for Assam where the BJP is in power,” said Bengal backward classes’ welfare minister and Trinamul Congress leader Binoy Krishna Burman who hails from Cooch Behar. The Cooch Behar airport had been developed by erstwhile local royals and the flights were available till 1995. In July 2019, a nine-seater aircraft had landed at the Cooch Behar airport for a trial run. Local BJP MP Nisith Pramanik, who was on board the flight, declared that the service would resume soon. But there was an impasse between the central and state governments and the flights didn’t take off. The absence of flights prompted the AAI to decide that it would not apply with the Director General of Civil Aviation for the renewal of the airport’s licence that is valid till January 27 this year. The move was to curb expenses. The scene is completely different at Rupsi, located around 70km from Cooch Behar. The AAI that had initiated the work in February 2019 developed a terminal of 3,500 square metres. It has 10 check-in counters and can handle 200 passengers in an hour. The runway that has also been revamped can handle ATR-72 type aircraft. There is also a parking area for around 100 cars at the airport. Initially, there are plans to operate flights connecting Rupsi with Calcutta and Guwahati from February, said sources. BJP leaders alleged that the Mamata Banerjee dispensation’s non-co-operation had emerged as a stumbling block in the way of resuming flights from Cooch Behar, the farthest district from Calcutta. “People of Cooch Behar are well aware of my initiative. But the Trinamul government withdrew security, fire services and other facilities which it was supposed to provide at the airport. The Assam government, on the other hand, has extended all possible help and that is why Rupsi is ready to start flights,” said MP Pramanik.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-239
11-01-2021||West Bengal||Chorus of support for suspended Visva-Bharati professor||Over 500 academics from institutions across the country and abroad have signed an online petition to protest Visva-Bharati’s “arbitrary decision” to suspend a professor for speaking up against the alleged misdeeds of vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty and his administration. Among the signatories to the statement are economists Prabhat Patnaik and Amiya Kumar Bagchi and political scientist Zoya Hasan. Anustup Basu, an associate professor at the University of Illinois, said the suspension of economics professor Sudipta Bhattacharyya went against the “principle of natural justice and freedom of expression”. “This seems to be the latest example of how universities are increasingly being run in an authoritarian manner in this country,” the statement said. “Universities as critical spaces of academic inquiry need to preserve the freedom of raising questions. Any curbing of these basic rights and freedoms amounts to dismantling the foundational principles of a university,” added the statement, signed by 561 teachers and scholars. “It is indeed of great irony that a university inspired by the life and work of an internationally acclaimed poet like Rabindranath Tagore has chosen to revoke the right to ask questions,” it said, with an appeal to the authorities to revoke the suspension. Bhattacharyya was suspended on January 7, triggering suspicion that he had been penalised for his role in foregrounding an alleged attempt by some within the varsity administration to portray economist Amartya Sen in a poor light over a land rights issue. Visva-Bharati insists that the professor was suspended because the varsity’s executive council had found him guilty of “misconduct by mass circulating a complaint and derogatory/ defamatory/ baseless remarks against a fellow employee and providing the copies of the same to high dignitaries by email”. Many among Bhattacharyya’s colleagues have asked whether this was sufficient reason for suspension. The professor had lodged a complaint with the Prime Minister and Visva-Bharati chancellor Narendra Modi, the varsity’s visitor and President Ram Nath Kovind and other senior officials, questioning the appointment of the principal of one of the varsity’s schools. Apart from individual academics, several teachers’ bodies, including the Federation of Central Universities Teachers’ Association (Fedcuta), have condemned the suspension and demanded its revocation. “The suspension was apparently over a complaint filed by him over a principal’s appointment and for ‘mass circulating it’…. Professor Bhattacharyya has been consistently raising issues of irregularities in the university as an office-bearer of his association and in the process strengthening the association itself by establishing it as a responsible watchdog of the university’s functioning,” the statement released by Fedcuta on Sunday read. Bhattacharyya is president of the Visva-Bharati University Faculty Association. “We demand that the suspension of the Visva-Bharati professor be immediately revoked. We also appeal to democratic forces to rally around to protest against this latest attack on the fundamental right of freedom of association by the growing authoritarian administration in the universities,” added Rajib Ray, Fedcuta president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-239
11-01-2021||West Bengal||BSF rolls out friendship rally in Mujib’s memory||BSF on Sunday morning kicked off a 4,097km, 66-day bicycle rally with 13 jawans as a mark of respect to Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman for his birth anniversary on March 17, and for “better relations across the border”. The Maitri (Friendship) Cycle Rally was flagged off at the Panitor border outpost near Basirhat in North 24-Parganas by former chief of army staff of Indian Army Shankar Roy Chowdhury to foster a “strong bond of friendship” between the custodians of borders of the two countries. For 66 days, the 13 BSF jawans will cycle along border roads of Bengal, Assam, Tripura, Manipur and Meghalaya before ending the journey at Silkore border outpost in Mizoram on March 17 to coincide with the birth anniversary of Rahman, known in Bangladesh as the “Father of the Nation” or simply “Mujib”. The cycle rally will cover around 90km each day with night halts at outposts along the international border. “It is a tribute to the great statesman of Bangladesh by the BSF. He was a great friend of India and took initiative to develop a bond between the two countries,” said a BSF spokesperson. “So, for his birth anniversary we launched this Maitri rally to renew that bond and to create awareness among residents along the border on certain issues.” “Apart from promoting the bond, the objective of this bicycle rally is to create a sense of security and awareness on crime and smuggling among the people along the border, while strengthening the bond of friendship with the BGB (Border Guard Bangladesh),” a BSF official said. Inaugurating the rally, retired General Roy Chowdhury said: “Mujibur Rahman was a friend of Bengal. If the two border nations remain on good terms, their people will also remain on good terms and develop a strong bonding.” Rahman was the first President and later the Prime Minister of Bangladesh. He was assassinated on August 15, 1975.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-239
11-01-2021||West Bengal||Rivals Deb, Asok reach out to people ||Trinamul’s Gautam Deb and CPM’s Asok Bhattacharya, two prominent political faces of north Bengal, had a busy Sunday. State tourism minister Deb played the development card to drum up support for Trinamul, while Siliguri MLA Bhattacharya reached out to his voters with a weeklong public interaction campaign. In the morning, Deb went near the Bengal Safari Park on Siliguri outskirts and laid the foundation stone of “Karma Tirtha”, a proposed two-storey building that will have 10 stalls where local handicraft and other items would be displayed for sale by the self-help groups. For this building, the state will spend Rs 81 lakh . “Every day, Safari Park gets visitors by hundreds. Karma Tirtha will provide visitors an opportunity to buy local handicraft and other items and it will help self-help groups run by women,” said Deb. Tourism minister Deb also distributed land rights to 67 residents of Dabgram-Fulbari, his Assembly constituency. On his part, Bhattacharya, along with a group of CPM workers, visited a number of wards of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC), met people to know their grievances and expectations from the civic body as he chairs the board of administrators at the SMC, and also handed over leaflets comprising the issues that the CPM wants to flag ahead of the Bengal Assembly elections. “We will continue the drive for seven days to know peoples’ opinion on various issues. Simultaneously, we will apprise them about our stand on the issues and ask for their support,” the senior CPM leader said. In north Bengal, Siliguri Assembly constituency, an important seat owing to its location, is one that Trinamul could win only once in 2011. “On the whole, Trinamul has failed to win seats in Lok Sabha and Assembly elections in Darjeeling district. Even in local body polls, Trinamul could win only in Mirik Municipality so far while the Left won in back-to-back elections of local bodies in Siliguri sub-division in 2015. It is evident that the Left will put all efforts to retain the Assembly seat and also local bodies,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-239
11-01-2021||West Bengal||Active Covid cases drop below 8,000 in Bengal||Bengal’s active Covid-19 cases fell to below 8,000 on Sunday, to 7,881, as the state reported a drop in the total number of existing patients for the 76th consecutive day, since Vijaya Dashami on October 26. With 957 recoveries, 823 infections and 19 deaths logged on Sunday, the state’s total of active cases improved — since 37,190 on October 26 — by nearly 79 per cent. Bengal now has around 3.5 per cent of total active cases at the national level, half of over seven per cent it had about a month ago. “On November 10, the total active cases were 33,444. On December 10, it was 23,451. Today (Sunday), it is 7,881…. There has been a quantum leap forward in the past few months. The total now is back almost to where it was on July 8, over six months ago,” said a minister. Since the end of Puja, the state reported nearly 2.33 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 2.06 lakh new infections. The recovery rate has risen for 80 consecutive days, by over nine per cent, to 96.82. The national rate now is 96.4 per cent. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.53 per cent now, improving from 8.27 per cent on November 20. Bengal’s total test count — including 35,123 examinations recorded on Sunday — went past 74.41 lakh, at 82,683 tests per million people. The state’s total of 5.6 lakh cases include nearly 5.43 lakh recoveries and 9,941 deaths. The 19 deaths reported on Sunday included three from Calcutta. The state attributed 8,343 (83.9 per cent) of the total deaths to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate is now 1.77, compared to the 1.44 per cent nationally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-239
11-01-2021||West Bengal||Vulture saviours seek ban on 3 medicines||Authorities of the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) working for vulture conservation have asked the Centre to ban the use of three painkillers on cattle that are fatal for vultures who later feed on cattle carcasses. Vibhu Prakash, the deputy director of BNHS who was at the Rajabhatkhawa Vulture Breeding Centre at Buxa Tiger Reserve in Alipurduar to witness the release of eight vultures — two white-backed and six Himalayan griffons — on Saturday, said medicines aceclofenac, ketoprofen and nimesulide were fatal for vultures. “We have written to the Centre, seeking a ban on use of aceclofenac, ketoprofen and nimesulide on cattle. Earlier, we had found that use of diclofenac on cattle was causing vulture deaths and it was banned on cattle in 2006. Now, these three medicines should also be banned to conserve vultures,” Prakash said. In the 1990s, India’s vulture population was dwindling, which prompted ornithologists, the BNHS, and the UK-based Royal Society for Protection of Birds to take up vulture conservation in earnest. Under the project, two vulture captive breeding centres were readied in Pinjore (Haryana) and Rajabhatkhawa. “The captive breeding project worked and now we have started reintroducing vultures in nature in a phased manner. At this point, it is necessary that these three drugs on cattle are banned,” Prakash added. Rajabhatkhawa has 140 vultures. Of these, 76 were born in captivity since 2006. The eight vultures were released with wing tags for identification. Two white-backed ones also have PTTDs (platform terminal transmitter devices) to track their locations. “Another flock will be released from here on February 18. We plan a vulture census across Bengal next month,” said V.K. Yadav, the PCCF (wildlife). Yadav also said they planned to open two more aviaries in Rajabhatkhawa and open the first captive breeding centre for Asian King Vulture. The Asian King Vulture or the red-headed vulture, sources said, is a critically endangered species. As of now, there are hardly 1,000 Asian King Vulture left in the world, said foresters. Carcass of a female adult wild elephant was found at the Damanpur forest range area of Buxa Tiger Reserve on Saturday. Foresters suspect poison or infectious disease and are awaiting post mortem report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-239
11-01-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul seeks to court Rajbanshi group||The Trinamul Congress leadership in north Bengal has launched an initiative to woo Rajbanshi Muslims at a time the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) was planning to field candidates in some Assembly seats. Omprakash Mishra, a Trinamul leader who had been camping here for the past few days and holding talks with party leaders and different organisations, urged the Nasya Sheikh community (Rajbanshi Muslims) to stand in support of Mamata Banerjee and her party to prevent the AIMIM from dividing the minority votes. “The AIMIM has planned to contest the Assembly elections. The party has a tacit understanding with the BJP and the RSS. The Muslims of Bengal will have to realise it and all of us will have to take necessary steps in this regard. The chief minister has done a lot for Muslims and we have to apprise them of the developmental initiatives taken by the state government,” said Mishra. He was speaking at a meeting of the Jalpaiguri district committee of Uttarbanga Nasya Sheikh Unnayan Mancha. Ever since AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi has announced that his party will field candidates in Bengal, Trinamul has started drawing strategies to retain the support of minorities that has helped the party win in a number of elections over the years. Earlier, Trinamul had strengthened its minority cell in districts like Malda, North Dinajpur and Jalpaiguri but this is the first time that leaders of the party have started reaching out to organisations representing Muslims. In his speech, Mishra also blamed the Left Front and the Congress for the BJP’s emergence in the state. “In the Lok Sabha elections (of 2019), BJP managed to increase its vote share from 10 per cent to 40 per cent. This is because votes from the Left and Congress went to the BJP. A few months are left for the Assembly elections and it is time that we take all steps to prevent erosion of minority votes,” the Trinamul leader said. At the meeting, Mishra reiterated that soon, the Nasya Sheikh community would have a development board of its own. A few weeks back, when chief minister Mamata Banerjee was in Cooch Behar, she had promised that the state would look into the demand raised by them. In the Rajbanshi-dominated belts of north Bengal, Nasya Sheikhs comprise around 30 per cent of the total population. Political observers said it was obvious that Trinamul did not want to take any chance, particularly because a substantial portion of the Rajbanshi votes had gone to the BJP in the 2019 general election.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-239
11-01-2021||West Bengal||Rally against ‘divisive forces’ in Bengal||The Murshidabad unit of the All India Imam-Muezzin and Social Welfare Organisation on Sunday held a general meeting here and emphasised the need to elect a “secular and competent” party in Bengal in order to do away with “divisive forces in the country”. The meeting that was touted to guide the community in favour the Trinamul Congress was attended by 650 representatives, including state library services minister Siddiqullah Chowdhury, Maulana Qari Fazlur Rahman, Maulana Shafeeq Qasmi and former Trinamul Congress Rajya Sabha member Ahmed Hassan Imran. Although the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen led by Asaduddin Owaisi or Furfura Sharif cleric Abbasuddin Siddiqui were not named, the exercise was largely to mitigate their influence as they attempt putting together a minority alliance for Bengal, which is likely to help the BJP by cutting into Muslim electoral support for the Trinamul Congress. “Can the CPM or the Congress form a government? No,” said minister Siddiqullah Chowdhury, adding that the responsibility of “acting as community leaders to stem divisive forces” fell on imams at their respective villages. “The need of the hour is such that religious leaders need to guide their electorate to the right choice, but it needs to be done tactfully,” he added. Youth leader Oyazul Haque from the Bangiya Sankhalagu Buddhijibi Manch went a step further, saying even “Masjid mic systems could be used to spread the word ahead of the Assembly elections”. The meeting held at Behrampore Rabindra Sadan acted as a shot in the arm for Trinamul’s image leading up to the polls, in the wake of significant challenges it has faced in the last few months in the form of BJP road shows in districts as well as the defection of its leaders. “As Muslims, we do not have any opportunity to be divided amongst ourselves. This year is too significant for that. Or else, we, too, will be beaten like our brothers in Uttar and Madhya Pradesh and our mosques, too, will be stormed,” said Imran. “Communal forces need to be struck down strongly, and that will only happen if we unite behind the secular force,” added Maulana Qazmi, the imam of Calcutta’s Nakhoda Masjid. The unilateral meeting held ostensibly in favour of the current ruling party capped an incremental trend for the state’s minority voters, who until 2006 — as reported by the Sachar Committee — were notably unconsolidated in their voting patterns under the CPM rule. In 2006, minority MLAs numbered 43 in the Assembly, whereas the number rose to 57 in Trinamul’s first term, long before they were attacked by opponents for allegedly playing to the minority “vote bank”. The number of minority MLAs rose to 59 in Trinamul’s current term at government, of which 32 were from their own party. According to the 2011 census, Muslims constitute about a third of the state’s electorate. In districts such as Murshidabad, Malda and North Dinajpur, the minority community holds the decisive sway over electoral outcomes. The districts of Birbhum, South 24-Parganas and Nadia also pose significant numbers as of the last count, with minority voter percentages being pegged at approximately 37, 35 and 26 per cent, respectively. Approximately 90-100 Assembly seats, out of the state’s 294 have significant minority electors, and 63 comprise more than 30 per cent minority electors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-239
11-01-2021||West Bengal||Leadership qualities on display as flustered BJP state boss blusters||Morning-after lesson for BJP leaders wondering how to reconcile the irreconcilable:  insist that the boss is always right. “What I am saying is right,” insisted BJP Bengal unit chief Dilip Ghosh on Sunday when reporters peppered him with questions on a temple visited by his party’s national president J.P. Nadda on Saturday. Nadda had described the temple as the shrine where Chaitanya Mahaprabhu had received his deeksha (initiation). Later, the temple authorities and some Katwa residents said the temple was built in 1839. Chaitanya had passed away at the age of 48 in 1534. After a statue in Bankura was erroneously identified during Amit Shah’s visit in November as that of tribal demigod Birsa Munda, Ghosh had claimed that after the Union minister said so everyone had to accept it as fact. On Sunday, Ghosh, who had gone with Nadda to Katwa and stayed there overnight, was seen in a video interacting with journalists. The video offers a telling  insight into how some leaders respond when  inconvenient questions are asked. In sharp contrast, BJP Katwa unit chief Krishna Ghosh had offered a more plausible explanation without losing his cool: a probable and very human miscommunication, because of which Nadda could not be debriefed that the temple he was visiting was not the one that was originally handpicked for him. It is believed that Chaitanya received deeksha at that temple, 10km away from the one Nadda visited, in 1510. Excerpts from Ghosh’s interaction with multiple journalists follow: Journalist: Yesterday, J.P. Nadda described a Radha-Govind temple as the deekshasthal (site of initiation) of Chaitanya. What do you have to say? Ghosh (nodding): Everyone says Chaitanya went there. Journalist: Chaitanya came to Gouranga Bari in Katwa town (10km away) and there is no link with that temple (that Nadda visited). Ghosh (smiling): Chaitanya jonmechheyn char jaygay, erokom boley (Chaitanya was born in four different places, such things are said). Journalist: But this temple (that Nadda visited) was set up 200 years ago and Chaitanya lived 500 years ago. Ghosh: Yeah, so there is a notion there that Chaitanya visited the place. Journalist: He (Chaitanya) did not visit Jagadanandapur and he was not initiated there. It is not an old enough temple and it is only about 200 years old. Ghosh: It is the faith of local people that Chaitanya visited the place…. It is over, enough, done. Journalist: No, Chaitanya did not go there… what will you say about it? Chaitanya did not go there, he was not initiated there. Ghosh (losing his cool): Were you around (centuries ago) to see it? Journalist: Huh? History has this to say… Ghosh (aggressively): It is the faith of local people that he went there. Journalist: No, that is not the faith of local people. Ghosh: Are you from Katwa? Journalist: Yes, I am. Ghosh: Here are a thousand people from Katwa. Journalist: But none of them will agree (with the BJP’s claim)... the temple, after all, is only 200-odd years old. Ghosh: Your claim does not make it so. What I am saying is right. Journalist: Is that so? What you are saying has to be correct? Ghosh: Of course. Journalist: He (Chaitanya) was not initiated at the Gouranga temple? Ghosh (gesticulating): Go ask this to others. BJP state chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya, refused to react, saying he was not aware of the developments. Trinamul Congress vice-president and MP Saugata Roy said: “Arrogance is the best reply from fools and the ignorant.  What better is to be expected of a Dilip Ghosh? They do not know history, nor science… anything they want, they will make up, declare in public, then defend shamelessly.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-240
