12-01-2021||West Bengal||First consignment of 6.89 lakh vaccines arrives in Bengal||The first consignment of around 6.89 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines arrived here on Tuesday in a special flight from Pune, a senior official of the West Bengal health department said. "The first consignment of Covid-19 vaccines from Pune reached the city at around 1.40 pm. There are around 6.89 lakh doses of the vaccines," he told PTI. The consignment will be transported in two insulated vans from the city airport to a state-owned store at Baghbazar, the official said. The vaccines will be dispatched from the depot to various districts on Wednesday. Five walk-in-coolers and four walk-in-freezers have been installed in the Baghbazar store to keep the vaccines, he said. India will launch its Covid-19 vaccination drive from January 16 with priority to be given to nearly three crore healthcare and frontline workers. The country had recently granted emergency use authorisation to two vaccines, Oxford's Covishield being manufactured by Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-237
12-01-2021||West Bengal||TMC's Sisir Adhikari removed as development agency chairman||Senior Trinamul Congress MP Sisir Adhikari was removed as the chairman of the Digha Shankarpur Development Authority (DSDA), which is responsible for development works in the beach town in West Bengal's Purba Medinipur district, as per an official notification. Adhikari, the father of BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari, was replaced with MLA Akhil Giri, known to be his detractor in the Trinamool Congress. "He did not do anything as the chairman of the DSDA. So he has been removed," Giri told reporters on Tuesday. Adhikari is at present the district president of the TMC in Purba Medinipur. Trinamool Congress spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said Adhikari was not being able to perform as the chairman of the agency. "Sisir-da is a veteran leader. Maybe he was unwell. But we were pained when he did not utter any word against his sons Suevndu and Soumendu who had been constantly attacking the TMC after switching over to the BJP," he said. Adhikari, however, remained unfazed with the development. "They can do whatever they want. I am not bothered," he said. Suvendu switched over to the BJP last month and later helped his brother Soumendu change sides after he was removed as administrator of the Kanthi Municipality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-237
12-01-2021||West Bengal||Shrikant Mohta gets bail ||Film producer Shrikant Mohta was granted bail by the Supreme Court on Monday, almost two years after he had been arrested from his office in Calcutta in connection with a Rose Valley default case. The court granted the bail on medical grounds, considering that Mohta had suffered two strokes for which he was being treated initially at the SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack and later at AIIMS, Bhubaneswar. Mohta had been lodged in Bhubaneswar jail since his arrest by the CBI in January 2019. His bail petitions had been rejected several times until Monday. Co-owner of the Shree Venkatesh Films, Mohta is expected to reach Calcutta either on Tuesday or Wednesday. “We had complete faith in India’s judicial system and hoped for the best. We did not lose hope and always worked towards it. Finally, we got the good news. We, his family, friends and employees are elated on this news,” co-founder and director of SVF Mahendra Soni told The Telegraph sometime after Mohta was granted bail on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-237
12-01-2021||West Bengal||Mamata poser to PM on vaccines’ scientific nod||Mamata Banerjee asked whether “adequate scientific confirmation” was available in favour of two Covid-19 vaccines (Covishield and Covaxin) being offered by the Centre during her video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday afternoon. The question assumes significance at a time several scientists have also raised similar questions. “The chief minister wondered whether adequate scientific confirmation was available in favour of the two vaccines which will be administered in the first phase,” said a source. During the meeting, the Bengal chief minister also asked why the states were left with no option of choosing from among the candidate vaccines before wondering whether the vaccines were fast tracked, a senior official aware of the discussions held at the meeting told this correspondent. Mamata was one of the handful of speakers in the video conference between the chief ministers of all states and the Prime Minister, sources said. “The chief minister argued that optimal number of trials and fool-proof studies through such trials were needed,” said a source. Sources at Nabanna said professor Vinod K. Paul, member of Niti Ayog, responded to the chief minister’s worries and assured her that both the vaccines were completely safe based on scientific evidence. “He told the chief minister that there was no evidence of serious side-effects,” said a source. The chief minister then assured the Prime Minister that Bengal was fully prepared with 44,000 vaccinators and 4,000 vaccine administration centres. Mamata also asked Modi what the Centre’s policy on providing Covid-19 vaccines to the remaining 127 crore population in the country would be. The question was raised after he had made it clear that the Centre would provide free vaccines to 3 crore health workers and frontline workers, who would be administered vaccines in the first two phases. “She requested him to roll out a detailed roadmap regarding vaccination of people at large… She also wanted the Centre to make it clear whether the states need to procure vaccines for the rest of the population (beyond the prioritised categories),” said an official. In his reply, the Prime Minister told Mamata that the issue would be discussed with the states on completion of the first two phases of vaccines, the sources said. “The chief minister made it clear that the state is ready to procure vaccines for the larger section of the society and in that case the centre should provide necessary guidance in procuring vaccines,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-237
12-01-2021||West Bengal||Bagdogra taxis to stay off road||Around 1,200 taxis which ferry passengers from Bagdogra airport will stay off the road for an indefinite period from Tuesday to demand revision of fare among others. The Bagdogra Airport All Taxi Association (BAATA) — a joint forum of seven taxi associations, including trade unions like the Citu, Intuc and the Inttuc — has called the strike at a time tourists are pouring into the region. The fare was revised last in 2008. Siraj Bhowmik, the president of the Bagdogra Taxi Owners’ Welfare Association — a constituent of the forum — said they had been demanding revision of the fare for years. “A number of memoranda have been submitted to different quarters and on December 17 last year, we had even sent a memorandum to chief minister Mamata Banerjee through the state tourism minister. However, there has been no response. These days, it is not possible for us to run our vehicles at old rates. That is why we have decided to stop our services at the airport,” said Bhowmik. The Siliguri Luxury Drivers’ Union extend support to the agitation and declared a one-day strike on Tuesday. “Altogether, over 3,000 taxis will remain off the roads on Tuesday. Many other associations have extended support to us and have hinted that if there is no move from the state’s side, they would eventually join the strike,” said a BAATA representative. Transporters claimed that around 25,000 light vehicles run in Darjeeling, Kalimpong and in some parts of the neighbouring Jalpaiguri districts. “Altogether, the state earns around Rs 350 crore as tax from these vehicles. We believe the government should think of providing some relief to us and also come up with a revised fare chart,” said a transporter. Those associated with the tourism sector are keeping fingers crossed. “After a long gap, tourists have started pouring into the Darjeeling hills and the Dooars. If cabs are not available at the airport and luxury taxis also go off the roads, we don’t know how to ferry tourists to a destination from Bagdogra or vice-versa,” said a tour operator of the city. State tourism minister Gautam Deb said that the state government would surely look into the demands. “But taxi owners should refrain from taking any step that can cause inconvenience to people,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-237
12-01-2021||West Bengal||939 more cured, total Covid cases drop further||Bengal on Monday logged 939 Covid-19 recoveries, 612 infections and 16 deaths as total of active cases fell for the 77th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami on October 26. The total active cases on Monday was 7,538, having improved by nearly 80 per cent from 37,190 on October 26. Bengal now has around 3.5 per cent of the national total of active cases, half of the seven per cent it had about a month ago. It is now eighth on the list of states with the most active cases, having improved from the third place in barely a month’s time. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. The numbers of infections from the festivals in October and November showed that the court’s instructions were effective. A similar set of instructions came from the high court to ensure the outbreak did not worsen over the New Year celebrations. “Monday was Day 10 for someone who got infected on January 2…. We have been monitoring the data and trends closely. There are enough indicators by now to suggest that even the Christmas-New Year spell of revelry passed without worsening of the outbreak,” said a minister. It is between days six and 10 of the infection that most cases get detected. Since the end of Durga Puja, the state has reported nearly 2.34 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 2.07 lakh new infections detected. The recovery rate has risen for 81 consecutive days, from 87.44, to 96.88 per cent. The national rate now is 96.47 per cent. “We are looking at completing a 100-day streak of continuous rise in the recovery rate by the end of this month, by which time we ought to surpass the 98 per cent mark,” said the minister. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.523 per cent, having improved steadily from the 8.27 of November 20. Bengal’s total test count — including 23,313 tests on Monday — went past 74.64 lakh, at 82,942 tests per million people. The state’s Covid-19 total of 5.61 lakh cases includes nearly 5.44 lakh recoveries and 9,957 deaths. The 16 deaths reported on Monday included three from the city. The state attributed 8,356 (83.9 per cent) of the total casualty count to co-morbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate is now 1.77, compared to the 1.44 per cent nationally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-237
12-01-2021||West Bengal||Now, priests vex BJP with flex on Chaitanya: ‘Will you forgive them?’||A Trinamul Congress-backed outfit of Hindu priests put up around  100 flexes in and around East Burdwan’s Katwa on Monday asking people whether they would forgive those who had distorted facts regarding Chaitanya Mahaprabhu’s temple of initiation. The posters by the West Bengal State Sanatan Brahman Trust refer to BJP national president J.P. Nadda’s faux pas when he claimed at a rally in Katwa on Saturday that he had offered prayers at the Jagadanandapur temple where Chaitanya Mahaprabhu had received initiation. “Mitron, aaj main Radha Govindji ke puratan mandir mei gaya, jahan Chaitanya Mahaprabhu ney diksha li thi (Friends, today I went to an old temple of Radha Govind, where Chaitanya Mahaprabhu received initiation),” Nadda said, oblivious to the fact that the initiation of the saint had taken place in 1510, which is 329 years before the Jagadanandapur temple came up. If Nadda had on Saturday handed over ammunition to Trinamul, which has been attacking the BJP for its lack of connect with Bengal’s culture, the saffron party’s Bengal chief Dilip Ghosh caused further damage on Sunday by asserting that Chaitanya received initiation at the Jagadanandapur temple because “he” said it and so it was right. “BJP-r sarba Bharatiya sabhapati JP Nadda bollen, Jagadanandapurer Radha Govinda mandir shri Chaitanyadev er diksha sthal. ‘Apni bolle hobe na, ami bolchi otai thik’ sangbadikder bollen BJP-r rajya sabhapati Dilip Ghosh. Mahaprabhu Shri Chaitanyadev ke niye opobyakshakarider apnara ki khoma korben? (BJP national president JP Nadda said that the Radha Govinda temple was the site of initiation of Shri Chaitanyadev. BJP’s state president told the journalists ‘Your claim does not make it so. What I am saying is right’. Will you forgive those who have distorted facts about Shri Chaitanyadev?),” the flex reads. “We have already put up 100 such large size flexes in and around Katwa town. We have ordered more than thousand flexes to put them up at nearby villages. We can’t accept that the national leader of the BJP will distort facts and their leader in the state will force us to agree to what is wrong. It has hurt the sentiments of the people of Katwa and those who love Chaitanya Mahaprabhu,” said Alok Banerjee, Katwa unit secretary of the priests’ outfit. Sources said an instruction from Trinamul had already reached the party leadership in Katwa and East Burdwan to take the campaign on the distortion of facts about Chaitanya to the people. “The priests’ outfit have set up flexes and we will hold small rallies at villages to let people know how the BJP is distorting fact about Chaitanya,” said Rabindranath Chatterjee, the Trinamul MLA from Katwa. Sources said Trinamul would soon hold a protest rally on the issue in Katwa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-237
12-01-2021||West Bengal||CM: CAA will put Matuas in trouble||Mamata Banerjee on Monday said the Citizenship Amendment Act would put Matuas in deep trouble as the altered law would force those who had already become Indians to apply for citizenship afresh. The chief minister’s interpretation of the CAA was aimed at driving a wedge between the BJP and the Matuas, lower caste Hindus, most of whom were believed to have supported the saffron party in the 2019 general election. “Many of you have been living here for over 50 years...You are all naturally Indian citizens. How can they offer you citizenship through the act?” the Trinamul Congress chief asked at a rally in Habibpur, which is considered as a Matua stronghold in Nadia. “Once you apply for citizenship, you will become a foreigner,” she added during her half an hour address. It was clear that Mamata’s visit to Habibpur was aimed at wooing the Matuas back to the Trinamul fold at a time the delay in the implementation of the CAA created discontent in the community. In her mission to drill holes into the BJP’s narrative that the CAA would solve all the problems that the immigrant community was facing, the chief minister tried her best to explain her version of the new act. “The BJP has brought this act which will ask you the date of birth of your grandparents and unless you submit papers, they will drive you out of the country,” she said. After explaining what the implementation of the new act may meant for the Matuas, the chief minister promised that whoever had come to Bengal and lived here for years had become Indian citizens naturally and nobody could drive them out. “I as the chief minister of Bengal assure you that no one can drive you out of this state,” said Mamata to a thunderous applause. The chief minister also said her government was determined to give free-hold land rights to the residents of 300-odd refugee colonies in the state soon to ensure that they didn’t face any question over their citizenship. “Residents of 96 refugee colonies have already got the land rights. A process has begun to provide free hold deeds to 213 more colonies which will ensure your rights,” she said. Sources in the state administration said the chief minister was keen to resolve the practical problems the Matuas were facing. “It becomes difficult for many from the community to get a passport as they cannot produce proper documents to establish their address. They are often denied bank loans because of the same problem. The chief minister wanted to solve the problem the Matuas are facing by giving them a proper address,” said an official. Trinamul insiders said the move was a smart one as it would help them convince the Matuas that they didn’t need to depend on the BJP for implementing the CAA as they would get land records in their names to get rid of their perennial problems ahead of the Assembly polls. “The prime target is to convince the Matuas that they don’t need an Act to be citizens. The chief minister was eager to send a message before Amit Shah visits Bongaon later this month to address the Matuas on the implementation of the CAA,” said a Trinamul MLA from North 24-Parganas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-237
12-01-2021||West Bengal||March against professor suspension||Over 200 students, teachers and academics owing allegiance to the Left Front took out a march in Bolpur on Monday to protest against the suspension of Visva-Bharati professor Sudipta Bhattacharyya by vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty and his alleged bid to “saffronise” the varsity. The procession was held a day after over 500 academics from across the globe had signed an online petition to protest the economics professor’s suspension. Monday’s rally was held under the banner of the Right to Education Forum — a Left-wing platform for teachers and students. Along with the forum’s members, supporters of the SFI, DYFI and a few senior CPM leaders assembled at the Fire Brigade More in Bolpur on Monday morning for a demonstration. “The present VC and his administration have snatched away the right to freedom of expression from varsity teachers and employees. The suspension of professor Sudipta Bhattacharyya goes to show that the VC is working to implement the agenda of the BJP on the campus. The VC is out to take revenge as the varsity teacher had exposed the his false claim about a conversation with Nobel laureate Amartya Sen,” said Wasif Iqbal, the Birbhum secretary of the SFI. A section of the protesters, including former varsity teachers, claimed that there were at least a dozen examples to show that the VC and his administration were trying to saffronise the campus and ruin the tradition and culture of the institution founded by Rabindranath Tagore. “The saffronisation programme of the VC became evident when the BJP’s youth wing publicly supported Chakrabarty’s protest show demanding control of the road that linked Santiniketan to Sriniketan,” said a former teacher who attended the demonstration. After the demonstration, the protesters took out a rally that covered a distance of 1.5km and culminated near the VC’s office on the campus. A section of teachers said the Visva-Bharati’s public relations officer Anirban Sircar had circulated an online petition among the employees to show solidarity with the principal whose appointment Bhattacharyya had questioned. A group of students started a signature campaign to counter the “propaganda” of the VC, said a varsity student. Bengal’s teaching community, led by the Left-affiliated West Bengal College and University Teachers’ Association (WBCUTA), has decided to take the protest against the “autocratic” and “anarchist” style of functioning of the Visva-Bharati administration to the varsity’s office in Calcutta. A protest rally has been convened outside the Visva-Bharati’s Calcutta office on Wednesday afternoon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-237
12-01-2021||West Bengal||Protest halts forest safari||The jeep safari into the Chilapara forest of Alipurduar district — a popular tourist destination in eastern Dooars — has come to a halt for around six days because of a demonstration that has been launched by a section of villagers in front of a range office of the state forest department in protest against an alleged anomaly over recruitment of contractual workers in the department. Last year, the department decided to recruit “Ban Sahayaks” (contractual workers for forest management and protection). However, as the recruitment started, a section of villagers dwelling on the fringes of Chilapata raised questions and alleged that instead of locals, the department is engaging people who are associated with Trinamul and also relatives and acquaintances of forest employees. Last week, some of them walked up to the range office in Chilapata – the same office from where permits are issued for the jeep safari, locked it down and launched an indefinite demonstration. In a similar manner, range offices of East Rajabhatkhawa and Damanpur of Buxa Tiger Reserve and the Madarihat range office of Jaldapara wildlife division were also closed by foresters. While on one hand official works at these offices got affected due to such closure, the tourism sector was also hit in Chilapata as cab owners who take tourists on the safari, could not manage to obtain the permits. Those associated with tourism in and around Chilapata said every day around 200 tourists enter the forest in safari. “In Chilapata, jeep safari is the prime attraction for tourists. Now that tourists could not enjoy the safari, many of them are cancelling their trips. The cab owners, resort owners and many others are bearing losses. It is unfortunate that at a time when tourists have started pouring into the region, we have to face such a situation,” said Ganesh Sha, secretary, Chilapata Lodge Owners’ Association. According to him, around 1,500 people are directly or indirectly associated with tourism in Chilapata. As the villagers continued their demonstration, the cab owners, who ferry tourists to the forests, raised a token road blockade for an hour along the Chilapata-Sonapur Road on Monday. A section of them appealed to forest officials to open the range office. The latter, however, made it clear that unless the demonstrators move away, they cannot open the office. “We are also local residents. Why should we suffer for another protest? The state forest department and the district administration should look into the issue,” said a cab owner. A forest official, when asked about the impasse, said they have passed the information to their senior officers. “We understand the situation. But unless there is any specific instruction from higher levels, we cannot make a move,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-237
12-01-2021||West Bengal||Hunt for plots for Kamtapuri schools||The state education department has instructed the Jalpaiguri district administration to find vacant plots at two locations for setting up primary schools where students will be taught in Kamtapuri language. Last week, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had announced that the state government would check out the infrastructure of 200-odd informal schools where the medium of instruction is Rajbanshi language and was mulling over the proposal to regularise such institutions. “We have received a letter from the state education department to find out land for opening two schools where students would be taught in Kamtapuri (a variant of Rajbanshi) language. Our officers have started collecting details about such land in different locations of the district,” said Moumita Godara Basu, the district magistrate. The Kamtapuri Bhasa Academy welcomed the decision to look for the plots. “We thank the chief minister for the decision. We will soon meet her and the state education minister and urge them to start classes in the language on a temporary basis at some Bengali-medium primary schools where vacant classrooms are available. Also, we would seek the approval of some more Kamtapuri-medium schools,” said Atul Roy, the vice-chairman of the academy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-238
12-01-2021||West Bengal||Thapa seeks teacher recruit body for hills||GTA head Anit Thapa has batted for the establishment of a School Service Commission (SSC) exclusively for the Darjeeling hills. “Most systems have collapsed in the hills. We must have a system to recruit teachers. We must have a School Service Commission. I have had a word with chief minister Mamata Banerjee in this regard,” Thapa said while addressing a public meeting organised by various teachers’ organisations in Darjeeling on Monday. He is the chairman of the board of administrators constituted by the state government to run the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration. The SSC issue has had a roller coaster ride in the hills and many believe the best candidates have not landed the teachers job here because of the absence of a proper teacher recruitment policy. In 1997, the government had conducted an SSC test for teacher recruitment which was cleared by 182 candidates from the hills. The examination was conducted by Malda regional centre. The then hill body, Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council (DGHC), did not allow the candidates to join work and demanded that a separate zone be formed for the hills. In 1999, the state government did form the hill zone and an SSC examination was also conducted. Forty candidates passed the test, but the DGHC once again stalled their appointment and raised a fresh demand for handing over the SSC (hill zone) to the DGHC. The state government then stated that a bill would be placed in the Assembly to hand over the SSC to the DGHC but the GNLF, which was in power, stated that it would not accept the SSC as almost all hill school were “linguistic minorities” and argued that minorities schools were out of the SSC’s ambit. On September 5, 2003, the state government directed the secretary, SSC (hill zone), to keep the office “under suspension” and asked the official “to lock the office and hand its custody to the district magistrate.” The DGHC continued recruiting “ad-hoc” teachers — there were allegations of political nepotism in appointment — providing them with a meagre remuneration. Many hill institutions also appointed “voluntary teachers” whose remuneration was not fixed to fill up vacant space. Over the years, there have been constant demands for regularisation of jobs of the ad-hoc and voluntary teachers. Many of these teachers were made permanent in the past two years but there are many who are still raising regularisation demand. The 220-odd candidates who had cleared the SSC examination finally landed jobs through court verdict many years later. “In the past few years, many teachers have had their job regularised and they were thanking me today but I do not deserve this gratitude,” said Thapa. Speaking upfront, he said: “I know how teachers had to run from one leader’s house to another, run from one court to another to get their job.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-238
12-01-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul worker body in canal||A Trinamul Congress worker was found dead with multiple injuries in a canal near Tapan in South Dinajpur on Monday morning. Police suspect Milan Biswas, 24, a fish seller, was murdered with a sharp weapons. Sources said Biswas used to ride to the wholesale fish market at Gangarampur on his motorcycle every morning. Later in the day, he would sell fish at the market in Nababnagar. “He left for Gangarampur on his motorcycle this morning but did not return home. After some hours, his body was found in a canal near his house. We suspect he has been murdered. Gold ornaments which he was wearing and around Rs 15,000 with him are missing,” said a police officer. Raju Das, a Trinamul leader at Tapan, said the party suspected that the BJP had a hand in Biswas’s murder. The BJP rejected the charge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-238
12-01-2021||West Bengal||Delhi blamed for growth pangs||State tourism minister Gautam Deb on Monday alleged that it was because of the Centre that the Bagdogra airport’s expansion was delayed and traffic snarls along a stretch of NH31 near Darjeeling More, the principal entry point to Siliguri, couldn’t be ended. “The Union ministry of civil aviation had decided to pay Rs 25 crore as compensation for the land that the state government had arranged for the expansion of the Bagdogra airport. The money hasn’t, however, reached the state government. So, the process of providing the land to the Airports Authority of India has not yet ended…… eventually, the expansion of the airport is getting delayed,” Deb told newspersons at Mainak Tourist Lodge complex here. The minister pointed out that it was because of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s decision to waive the surcharge on Aviation Turbine Fuel (ATF) that flights had increased at Bagdogra and led to a steady surge in the number of passengers in the past few years. “We are well aware that the existing infrastructure at the airport is inadequate to handle the rush of passengers. It needs an expansion immediately,” he added. The minister said the central government had taken a similar “negligent” approach to address the issue of traffic congestion at Darjeeling More — the junction of NH 31 and NH 55. “To reduce the congestion to some extent, we have thought of installing a temporary bailey bridge over the rail track that moves through the area. Earlier, tall talks were made by central ministers and MPs that the two-lane highway would be expanded to a four-lane or a six-lane road but no initiative has been taken so far. Land is also available for the project,” said Deb.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-238
