13-01-2021||West Bengal||HC allows holding of Gangasagar Mela, stresses on need for e-bathing||The Calcutta High Court on Wednesday emphasised on the need for ‘e-snan’ (e-bathing) at the Gangasagar Mela, as it allowed the festival to be held amid the coronavirus pandemic. The HC said it was important that people go for e-bathing in order to avoid crowding for the holy dip at the confluence of the Ganga and the Bay of Bengal, in view of the pandemic. A division bench comprising Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan and Justice Arijit Banerjee asked the Bengal government to provide ‘e-snan’ kits -- a small container with the holy water of Gangasagar -- to pilgrims at the fair site in Sagar Island for free. It asked the government to provide the kits for a nominal fee to people who order for it from other places. The state administration already announced that such an arrangement has been made. The government also informed the court that the number of pilgrims who have arrived this year is much less than that in other years. It told the division bench that all health protocols are being maintained in the fair which attracts lakhs of pilgrims every year. In a report submitted to the High Court, the state’s Director of Health Services (DHS) said that the risk of Covid-19 transmission through bathing in flowing water like a river or saline water in a sea is extremely low. “However, as a measure of abundant precaution, pilgrims are allowed to go for a dip in a staggered manner maintaining safe distance between one another,” the report by the DHS said. The Calcutta High Court on January 8 had directed the Bengal government to file a report on Wednesday regarding the arrangements made for organising the Gangasagar Mela, based on which it would decide whether or not to allow the annual fair this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-235
13-01-2021||West Bengal||Sisir Adhikari now divested from East Midnapore district president's post||Nearly a month after West Bengal's political heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari joined the BJP, his father and TMC Lok Sabha MP Sisir Adhikari was on Wednesday removed as East Midnapore district president, party sources said. Senior TMC minister Soumen Mahapatra, a known detractor of the Adhikari family, replaced Sisir Adhikari, who was made chairman of the core committee of the party's district unit, a less important post. The decision came a day after Sisir Adhikari was removed from the post of chairman of Digha-Shankarpur Development Authority (DSDA). TMC MLA Akhil Giri, also a detractor of the Adhikari family, replaced Sishir Adhikari as the chief of DSDA, which is responsible for the upkeep and development of the beach town in East Midnapore. Sisir — along with his sons Dibyendu and Soumendu — is perceived to have snubbed the Trinamul Congress as they did not attend major rallies organised by the party in East Midnapore in November and December in the midst of rumours about Suvendu switching over to the BJP. Although Sisir was in Calcutta, his son and Trinamul MP Dibyendu kept himself away from the worker’s meeting of the party held in Tamluk on Tuesday in preparation of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s January 18 mega rally in Nandigram.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-235
13-01-2021||West Bengal||If it’s icon-worship, it must be polls||Zealous attempts were visible from both the Trinamul Congress and the BJP to observe the birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda on Tuesday and the rival parties accused each other of political opportunism in seeking refuge in the legacy of one of Bengal’s foremost icons. The day began with tweets from Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, lauding the 19th century monk instrumental in popularising Vedantic and Yogic philosophies in the Occident. As the day progressed, it became increasingly clear that Trinamul’s focus was on Vivekananda’s inclusive, global humanism, while the BJP was more attentive towards his role in the Hindu revivalism at the peak of the British Raj. While Trinamul’s campaign was led largely by youth wing chief Abhishek Banerjee, 33, the BJP fielded its latest acquisition from Mamata’s stable, Suvendu Adhikari, 50, both of who visited Vivevkananda’s residence in north Calcutta. Trinamul’s de facto Number Two Abhishek derided the saffron camp over its attempts to appropriate Vivekananda, among other Bengal icons this poll season, while asserting that this soil would never endorse its politics of “hatred” and “division”. The BJP, said the Diamond Harbour MP, had no right to celebrate the icon’s birthday, weaving in the bohiragawto (outsider) angle. “Bengal, the birthplace of Swami Vivekananda, has no place for politics of hatred imported from Gujarat,” said Abhishek, who led a Gol Park-Hazra rally in honour of the most renowned disciple of Ramakrishna Paramahamsa. Some of the participants were carrying national flags. “They claim to be followers of Lord Ram, but they are not. They are followers of (Mahatma Gandhi’s assassin) Nathuram (Godse)… followers of politics of division…. I would like to inform the BJP that Swamiji never, not once, spoke in favour of hatred or communalism, which form the ideological bedrock of your politics,” added Mamata’s nephew. Abhishek went on to remind the saffron camp that all the major Bengal icons it had been trying to appropriate, in order to shed its “outsider” tag, such as Vivekananda, Rabindranath Tagore, Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar and Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose were firmly opposed to the idea of pitting one religion against another, especially in politics. Abhishek also lambasted Modi for not correcting US President Donald Trump who mispronounced the name of Swami Vivekananda during the “Namaste Trump” tour last year. “Tell us, what happened on February 24, 2020? He (Modi) brought Donald Trump to India…. He (Trump) couldn’t even pronounce Swamiji’s name correctly — called him “Vivekamundan” — right next to a man who is the self-proclaimed largest dharok (bearer) and bahok (carrier) of Hindus… who sat there, clapping,” said Abhishek. “What can be more shameful for Bengalis? Did you find even one BJP leader protest?” “If the Prime Minister was truly a follower of Swamiji, he would have snatched the mic from Trump and told him to first pronounce his name correctly…. Can any of them deny it? Not even a year ago. He (Modi) just sat there, next to him (Trump), clapping away.” Earlier in the day, Adhikari went to Vivekananda’s residence with the BJP’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya, Union tourism minister Prahlad Singh Patel and Uttar Pradesh’s deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. The BJP’s Bengal chief Dilip Ghosh participated in a Shyambazar-Simla rally along with Trinamul turncoats Mukul Roy and Saumitra Khan. Ostensibly, participants in their rally were seen brandishing saffron flags with “Om”. Asked if Bengal icons, including Vivekananda, were being politicised by the two camps in the run-up to the polls, Ghosh said: “Everything is politicised in Bengal. If somebody like Swamiji is now an issue in politics here, it is a good thing.” Even on Tuesday, Trinamul claimed insult to Vivekananda over an allegedly tone deaf campaign teaser from the BJP. In a video uploaded on BJP Bengal’s Twitter handle Modi was described as “Ghorer Chele Naren”, which loosely translates to “Naren, the son of our home”. “It seems that BJP has forgotten that the people of Bengal consider only one Naren (who is popularly known as Swami Vivekananda) to be the ‘son of Bengal’,” said Trinamul in a statement. In her tweet, Mamata said: “Remembering the great leader Swami Vivekananda on his birth anniversary. I bow down to Swamiji's teachings. His message of peace & universal brotherhood is of utmost relevance today & inspires all of us to strive hard in safeguarding these ideals in our beloved nation.” Modi’s post on the microblogging site read: “This Vivekananda Jayanti, there’s a creative effort on the NaMo App that lets you share his thoughts and a personalised message. Let us spread Swami Vivekananda’s dynamic thoughts and ideals far and wide!”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-235
13-01-2021||West Bengal||Webcast monitoring for Covid jab centres||The state government on Tuesday evening asked district health officials across the state to arrange webcasting at the Covid-19 vaccination centres in districts so that the vaccination process, which is set to start in Bengal from January 16, could be centrally monitored. The webcasting decision was conveyed to chief medical officers (health) of all districts during a videoconference by state health secretary N.S. Nigam after the first consignment of 6.89 lakh Covishield vaccines arrived in Calcutta from Pune on Tuesday. The state government told district officials that vaccine vials would reach districts in three days. “Primarily, health officials in districts have been asked to arrange webcasting at vaccination centres where infrastructure is available. After a meeting tomorrow (Wednesday), a detailed action plan will be given. Webcasting will help monitor the vaccination process because the staff will handle Covid vaccines for the first time. If a centre faces a problem during vaccination, webcasting will help us intervene,” said a senior health official. “It will be better if all vaccination centres are covered by webcasting at least for the first two or three days,” he added. Sources said chief minister Mamata Banerjee might take part in the vaccination process via webcasting. A senior government official said around 5.8 lakh health workers and doctors in private and government healthcare establishments would be vaccinated in the first phase. “The state is ready with 44,000 vaccinators to carry out the process at Bengal’s 4,000 vaccination centres. We have done a dry run of the vaccination process successfully in all districts,” said a senior government official. Sources said Bengal has 741 cold chains that can store around six crore vaccines at a time. Officials said vaccines would be distributed across districts in the first phase according to need. “Each district has sent a list of health workers for vaccination in the first phase. Distribution will be made accordingly. We are expecting the second lot of vaccines to reach us by month-end,” said a health official. The state government has asked all districts, including north Bengal, to send their representatives with adequate police security to receive their quota of vaccines. Health officials in districts this paper spoke to said they would not use all existing vaccination centres and cold chain points in the first phase of vaccination as only health officials and staff would get the jab.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-236
13-01-2021||West Bengal||‘Phone thieves’ make hay at BJP rally ||Mobile phones of BJP MP S.S. Ahluwalia’s son and at least 47 others allegedly got stolen during the saffron party’s roadshow on Tuesday evening. “In all, 48 mobile phones of our party workers, including that of Ramanjit Ahluwalia, the son of the BJP’s Burdwan-Durgapur MP, were stolen during the rally, so were wallets of some party workers,” said Amitabha Banerjee, a BJP leader in Durgapur. The BJP held an induction fair (Yogdaan Mela) at the town’s Benachity, followed by the 4km rally from Prantika to Bhiringi. Ahluwalia and his son Ramanjit apart, Union minister Babul Supriyo, Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari and MPs Sunil Mondal and Arjun Singh took part in the rally of over 5,000 people. BJP leaders claimed the police knew about pickpockets at the rally but did nothing. Protesting against “police negligence” outside Durgapur A Zone police outpost, Banerjee said: “How can the police be so negligent about surveillance during a rally attended by a Union minister and three MPs? It is clear that a large group of pickpockets was present.” The police have disclaimed any prior knowledge. Trinamul leaders mocked the BJP. “It was a BJP rally, only their party workers were there. Who else but those in the rally would steal phones? We will tell people to be alert of BJP workers,” said Trinamul’s Uttam Mukherjee. Supriyo had a similar experience during BJP leader Arun Jaitley’s funeral at Delhi’s Nigambodh Ghat in August 2019. Supriyo had then tweeted about his phone getting stolen at the funeral.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-236
13-01-2021||West Bengal||Sisir Adhikari removed from Digha board||State urban development department on Tuesday removed Trinamul Congress MP Sisir Adhikari as the chairman of the Digha-Sankarpur Development Authority in East Midnapore. The 79-year-old Contai MP is the father of Suvendu Adhikari who had left Trinamul and joined the BJP in December last year. “I have done no action in this regard so I have no reaction,” Sisir, who was reportedly in Calcutta for a cataract operation, told The Telegraph over the phone. Ramnagar MLA and Sisir’s deputy in the development authority, Akhil Giri, was elevated to the post of the chairperson. Tarun Jana has been appointed the vice-chairman0. Sisir — along with his sons Dibyendu and Soumendu — is perceived to have snubbed the Trinamul Congress as they did not attend major rallies organised by the party in East Midnapore in November and December in the midst of rumours about Suvendu switching over to the BJP. “The state government has taken the right decision. Sisir babu had not been executing his duties properly, that too in the run up to a crucial election,” said Trinamul leader Sheikh Sufian on the removal. “He seemed to have become a reluctant leader ever since his son Suvendu left our party. His role has been disappointing for us,” Sufian added. MLA Akhil Giri said he “was not aware” of the reasons behind Adhikari’s removal. “All I know is a lot of work is pending and I will execute it to my best capability. We have not had a meeting in a long time,” said Giri. Although Sisir was in Calcutta, his son and Trinamul MP Dibyendu kept himself away from the worker’s meeting of the party held in Tamluk on Tuesday in preparation of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s January 18 mega rally in Nandigram. Two administrators in Tamluk and Egra were replaced on Tuesday for their perceived closeness to the Adhikaris. Rabindranath Sen in Tamluk was replaced by Dipendranarayan Ray and Sankar Bera in Egra by Swapan Nayak.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-236
13-01-2021||West Bengal||Rajbanshi Muslims set terms to support TMC||Senior leaders of the Nasya Sheikh Unnayan Parishad, an apex body of Rajbanshi Muslims, have asserted that they would support Mamata Banerjee and her party Trinamul in the Bengal elections only if the state forms a separate development board for the community. At a public meeting in Paharpur on Jalpaiguri outskirts, Parishad’s central committee secretary Aminal Haque said: “In north Bengal, around 42 lakh people belong to the Nasya Sheikh community. We want to make it clear that if the state forms a development board for us ahead of the polls, we will support Mamata Banerjee. If the chief minister does not meet our demand, we will not support her.” The assertion comes within a couple of days after state Trinamul leader Omprakash Mishra sought their support. Farid Akhtar Ghazi, the Jalpaiguri district secretary of the Parishad, said the state government should also take initiative to recognise Rajbanshi Muslims as sons of the soil. “This is because BJP leaders have hinted that the Citizenship Amendment Act would be implemented in Bengal. We are also apprehensive that the NRC (National Register of Citizens) may also be taken up here. Many people in our community are worried about probable consequences. We want the state to provide us a protective cover by recognising us as sons of the soil so that none of us faces any problem over our nationality,” Ghazi said. They also sought 30 per cent reservation for the community at the new Narayani battalion of the state police to be headquartered in Cooch Behar. The demand for a development board, an observer said, is an attempt to mount pressure on Trinamul ahead of the crucial state polls. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, many Rajbanshi votes had gone to the BJP. The Parishad, leaders said, will continue to press their demands. “We will have a public meeting in Cooch Behar on January 21. Meetings have been planned in both Dinajpurs (North and South) too where we will elaborate on our demands,” said a member.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-236
13-01-2021||West Bengal||Recoveries continue to outpace infections||Bengal on Tuesday reported a drop in total active Covid-19 cases for the 78th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami. The number of current patients are 7,392, which is an improvement by over 80 per cent. The count is almost back to where it was 158 days ago, on July 7 last year. The state logged 879 recoveries, 751 new infections and 18 deaths on Tuesday. Bengal now has barely 3.4 per cent of the active cases in India, half of the seven per cent it had about a month ago. The recovery rate has risen for 82 consecutive days, from 87.44, to 96.91 per cent. The current national rate is 96.48 per cent. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.5 per cent now, having improved steadily from 8.27 on November 20. Bengal’s total count of sample examinations, including 33,024 logged on Tuesday, went past 74.97 lakh, at 83,309 tests per million people. The state’s total 5.62 lakh cases include nearly 5.45 lakh recoveries and 9,975 deaths. “It is time to deduce that we were able to see off the winter spell of festivals without damage to our position in the pandemic. Tuesday was Day 10 for someone who got infected on January 3,” said a minister. It is between days six and 10 of the infection that most cases get detected. Since the end of Durga Puja on October 26, the state reported nearly 2.35 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 2.08 lakh new infections detected during the same period. The 18 deaths reported on Tuesday included 10 from the city. The state attributed 8,359 (83.9 per cent) of the total deaths to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate is now 1.77, compared to 1.44 per cent at the national level. “This is the sole area where our targets remain unmet. But we have been able to lower the daily death count drastically, from over 50-60 to less than 20-30, for some time now. That will start showing in the mortality rate,” said the minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-236
13-01-2021||West Bengal||BJP embarks on hill drive||Hundreds, including some prominent names of Darjeeling politics, joined the BJP on Tuesday amid speculations that the saffron party, so far piggybacking on regional parties to win elections, has decided to expand its own organisation in the hills. The event at Champasari in Siliguri — the first of its kind for the BJP — marked a significant change as until recently, the BJP did not even have full-fledged district committees for Darjeeling (hills) and Kalimpong. “It’s clear that the BJP wants its own presence in the hills. And the joinings today (Tuesday) suggest that they want to expand using the known Gorkha faces,” said an observer. Both the Bimal Gurung and Binay Tamang factions of the Morcha suffered losses as the BJP got leaders from the two camps in its first major induction programme. The list of leaders who swung to the BJP included L.M. Lama, former organisational secretary of the Morcha and Sawan Rai, central committee leader of the Morcha (both from the Tamang camp), B.P. Bajgain, former spokesman Morcha, Shankar Adhikari, former Morcha president (Terai), Kumar Chamling, secretary, (Kalimpong subdivision committee) of the Morcha, all from Bimal Gurung’s camp, and Swaraj Thapa, former political advisor to Gurung,  as well as retired government officials, writers and lawyers. “The induction has clearly given a fillip to BJP’s plan to expand its party on its own capacity,” said a hill observer. The BJP won the 2009 and 2014 Lok Sabha election with Bimal Gurung’s support. In 2019, they won both Lok Sabha and Darjeeling Assembly bypoll seat with support from Gurung’s Morcha and other hill parties like Gorkha National Liberation Front, Communist Party of Revolutionary Marxists, Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League and Gorkhaland Rajya Nirman Morcha among others. While Gurung severed ties with the BJP, other hill parties are part of the NDA fold. Darjeeling MP from the BJP Raju Bista also criticised Gurung at the event. “Earlier, I thought daju (Bimal Gurung) would take care of the place and I would focus on Delhi,” said Bista. “He (Gurung) showed me the right direction but he took the wrong route.” He dismissed Gurung’s taking credit for his (Bista’s) win. “No single party or person was responsible for my win. People ensured my victory,” said Bista. On Gurung demanding Bista’s resignation, the latter said: “I will not resign.” He added it was because of hill politicians that Gorkha issues were unresolved till date. Bista said he was committed to resolve “identity” issues of Gorkhas and added that the BJP would fulfil the promises of granting tribal status to 11 hill communities and finding a permanent political solutionto the region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-236
13-01-2021||West Bengal||Deadlock ends, jeep safari starts||The popular jeep safari at Chilapata forest in Alipurduar district resumed on Tuesday afternoon after a gap of seven days, much to the elation of tourists and stakeholders associated with the sector. The safari was closed since last week as some villagers had locked the forest range office to protest the alleged anomalies in the recruitment of contract workers by the state forest department. “It is the same range office from where permits are issued for the (jeep) safari. As it was closed, the safari, which is the main attraction for tourists visiting Chilapata, had also stopped,” said a resort owner of the area. The villagers who locked the range office — some other forest range offices in the Dooars have also been locked up by aggrieved residents on the same issue — had also resorted to an indefinite demonstration. They alleged that instead of engaging local youths as contract workers, the department was engaging outsiders. These protests had kept forest employees away from the office. As the impasse continued and people running accommodations and cabs in the area continued faced losses, a delegation of them held a meeting with protesting villagers. In all, around 1,500 people in the area are associated with the tourism sector, directly and indirectly. “We told villagers that keeping the range office closed is harming everyone. Half of the revenue collected by the forest department (from the safari) is provided to the forest protection committees and eventually spent on development of nearby villages. Also, we told them that many residents from villages depended on the tourism sector and their earnings were hit,” said Ganesh Sha, secretary, Chilapata Lodge Owners’ Association. The meeting was positive because on Tuesday morning, the villagers went to the range office and unlocked it. After opening the office, villagers said they realised that by locking the office they have realised the problems faced by those associated with tourism. “Many local youths are waiters, cab drivers and guides. Many shops depend on tourists. That is why we decided to reopen the office,” said Ravi Rava, a resident of Andu, an adjoining village. “As far as our demand is concerned, the divisional forest officer (of Jaldapara wildlife division) has communicated with us and will meet us on January 15 on the issue,” Rava added. As the news spread, foresters posted at the range joined the office. They also issued permits for the safari conducted in the afternoon hours. “It is a huge relief for us. Tourists are flocking to north Bengal, both in the hills and in the Dooars. These past few days, many groups have left early or cancelled their bookings after knowing they cannot avail the safari. We believe that now the situation will start improving from Wednesday,” said a cab owner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-236
13-01-2021||West Bengal||Promise of talks defers taxi strike||In a last-minute decision, associations of taxi owners and drivers of Bagdogra and Siliguri on Tuesday deferred their decision of indefinite strike, a relief to tourists and tourism stakeholders. On Monday, associations in Bagdogra had announced that from Tuesday, they would start an indefinite strike over a series of demands, including fare hike. Since 2008, fares had not been revised by the state government. A number of other associations in Siliguri supported the decision and decided on a day’s strike. In all, around 3,000 cabs, including luxury taxis, were to stay off roads on Tuesday. As officials of Darjeeling district administration learnt about the decision, they quickly decided to hold talks with the associations. Accordingly, Sonam Tshering Lepcha, the regional transport officer (RTO) of Darjeeling, was sent to Bagdogra where he held a meeting with representatives of the associations on Monday night. The meeting ended almost at midnight and associations decided to defer the strike as Lepcha gave a written assurance that the administration would hold a meeting with them on January 14. “The RTO’s written assurance and request to defer the strike till the January 14 meeting is over made us reconsider. We hope the talks will yield positive results,” Siraj Bhowmik, president of Bagdogra Taxi Owners’ Welfare Association. He hinted that if no decision was made on the revision of fares and other issues at the meeting, they might announce the indefinite strike again. Though the strike was deferred, there were fewer cabs at the airport as many cab owners came to know about the decision late on Tuesday. Many luxury taxis were off roads. “As the decision was made late on Monday night, many members had no information about it. Thus, they did not ply their vehicles. We hope the situation is normal on Wednesday,” said Bhowmik. A hotel owner of the city said as tourist flow was steady these days, they all hoped for a positive decision is made at the January 14 meeting so that there are no taxi strikes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-236
13-01-2021||West Bengal||Five ‘Rohingya infiltrators’ held||Acting on a tip-off, the Government Railway Police (GRP) of New Jalpaiguri police station arrested five suspected Rohingya infiltrators on Tuesday. The five were identified as Abdul Malik, Sophia Begum, Inayat Rehman, Mohammad Hasan and Samsira Begum. According to police sources, they fled from Kutupalong camp in Cox’s Bazar district of Bangladesh and infiltrated India. From Agartala, they booked tickets under fake names and boarded a train on January 10 to reach Delhi. In another incident, a team of Balurghat police in South Dinajpur arrested 12 persons, suspected to be members of a robbery gang, including five Bangladeshis from Naogaon district, on Sunday night. Debarshi Dutta, the district police chief, said on Tuesday that the accused were arrested from Law College More of Balurghat town. Last week, the Bangladeshis had infiltrated India and with seven others planned a robbery in Balurghat. All the 12 were produced at a local court on Monday. The court sent three to three-day police custody and others to judicial custody. The police, Dutta said, seized sharp weapons, Bangladeshi currency and a vehicle from them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-236
13-01-2021||West Bengal||EC scan on voter list on Jan 13||Deputy election commissioner Sudeep Jain will hold meetings with senior Bengal government officials, district magistrates and superintendents of police on Wednesday with the focus of the discussions expected to be on the steps taken for the error-free revision of electoral roll. “The deputy election commissioner will be holding the meetings just two days before the electoral roll is published after revision. Earlier, the Election Commission had issued a series of guidelines for preparing an error-free electoral roll and it seems he will check whether the guidelines were followed,” said a senior government official. According to officials aware of the development, Jain is likely to check with the district authorities whether they took all required steps while carrying out the revision of the electoral roll, which started from December 18. The electoral roll is scheduled to be published on January 15. According to sources, the EC had laid stress on taking extra care while deleting names from the voter lists after Opposition parties, mainly the CPM and the Congress, expressed apprehensions saying names of eligible voters could be deleted by the ruling party suspecting they would not vote in its favour. Anybody can apply to delete a voter’s name from the list citing that he/she does not live in the given address for more than six months. The district authorities can delete the voter’s name from the list if the complaint is found true, said the sources. “It is important that the district authorities conduct a thorough inquiry and visit the address of the voter before deleting the name from the list. The voter should also be given enough chance to present his or her case before the authorities,” said a source. The EC had made it clear a few weeks ago that the district authorities should send block development officers or joint BDOs to the address of the voter to inquire before initiating the process of deleting his or her name from the list. “The deputy election commissioner is also expected to take stock of the law and order in the districts. It seems Jain’s visit is the prelude to the arrival of the full bench of the EC later in the month,” said a source. According to the sources, the EC had also asked for the deletion of the names of all those against whom non-bailable warrants had been pending for more than six months by carrying out required steps such as asking them to the hearing. “He (Jain) might also check how many such names were deleted. Also, he had earlier directed authorities to execute 50,000 non-bailable warrants. This time, he might ask the officers about the progress on this particular issue,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-236
