14-01-2021||West Bengal||Prayer before polls||Anubrata Mondal, the Birbhum district chief of the Trinamul Congress, organised a mega yajna at Kankalitala, a popular Kali temple, in Bolpur on Wednesday. Sources said the Trinamul Congress had spent over Rs 10 lakh to organise the yajna where around 1.5 quintals of logs were used. The yajna was followed by a lunch for around 4,000 people. Party insiders said the yajna was organised to pray for a “grand victory for Trinamul” in the coming Assembly polls. The event was also used as a platform to connect with Hindu priests and groups of kirtan (religious song) singers. Mondal had earlier organised a conference of priests and distributed drums and percussion instruments to 4,000 kirtan groups in the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-234
14-01-2021||West Bengal||Tokay gecko on way to Bangladesh seized||A tokay gecko weighing 350gm was seized late on Tuesday from two persons allegedly attempting to smuggle the coveted reptile into Bangladesh through Murshidabad’s Sagardighi. The reptile, estimated to fetch nearly Rs 1 crore in the black market, was set to be smuggled from Bangladesh to China, where it is in high demand as an ingredient of traditional medicines. Bishnu Sarkar, 25, and Chandan Adhikari, 28, both Samerganj residents, were arrested by plainclothes officers on a border road on Tuesday and were produced in the Jangipur chief judicial magistrate’s court on Wednesday. “The reptile was being transported in a cage wrapped in cloth,” said a source. “The arrested have admitted that they brought it from Jharkhand and would have sold it to smugglers in Bangladesh for Rs 1 crore,” said additional superintendent of police (Jangipur), Sandip Karra. Sarkar and Adhikari have been remanded in five days’ police custody by the court. In 2018, a larger gecko had been seized from smugglers in Farakka while they were trying to smuggle the reptile to Bangladesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-234
14-01-2021||West Bengal||Sourav is fine, says Asok after meeting||Senior CPM leader Asok Bhattacharya called on former Indian cricket captain Sourav Ganguly at his Behala residence in Calcutta on Wednesday to enquire about his health. Bhattacharya, who spent around 45 minutes with the BCCI president, said Ganguly was absolutely fine and that in due course, the former Indian cricketer would go for another angioplasty to get a couple of more stents implanted. “On Wednesday, I reached Calcutta to attend a meeting of the Assembly standing committee on industry. After the meeting, I called him (Ganguly) up and asked about his health. I also asked him if I could come over to his place. He agreed and then I went to his home and met him,” Bhattacharya said over the phone. Bhattacharya said both of them had only spoken about Ganguly’s health. “He has told me that he is doing fine and following the diet and other guidelines advised by doctors. He also told me that he would go for an implant of a couple of more stents but is yet to finalise the dates,” the CPM leader said. Bhattacharya posted on Facebook a dualfie of him and Ganguly that was clicked in front of the latter’s residence. “Sourav walked me up to the car,” the Siliguri mayor said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-234
14-01-2021||West Bengal||Acid attack cuffs on husband in North 24-Parganas||A 30-year-old woman suffered serious burn injuries after her husband allegedly threw acid on her apparently after a conjugal rift here on Wednesday. Police said the accused Dilip Majumdar, a daily wage earner, attacked the woman while she was cycling to her workplace in the Ashoknagar area. The victim has been admitted to the intensive care unit at Habra state general hospital. Hospital sources said the woman had suffered serious burns on her hands, back and abdomen. “She was trying to end the relationship as she was unable to bear frequent humiliation at her in-laws’ place. She recently joined a job to help her father and live an independent life. But her husband did not like this,” said a relative of the victim. The police have arrested Dilip following a complaint lodged by the victim’s father.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-234
14-01-2021||West Bengal||Free eye check-up camps a relief amid pandemic||The Bengal government’s “Chokher Alo” scheme, a programme that aims to eradicate vision impairment in the state, has come as a big help for people who depend on free eye check-up and operation camps that have been halted for the past 10 months because of the outbreak of Covid-19 and the lockdown that was clamped in March last year. The scheme, a brainchild of chief minister Mamata Banerjee, has also come handy for the state government that is eager to reach out to lakhs of people who need to undergo cataract operation or other eye check-ups in the months preceding the Assembly polls. The government has already reached out to over two crore people through its Duare Sarkar camps. The camps will treat people across Bengal for three months and the process has been set rolling on January 5. The camps have been planned on the Duare Sarkar model and will be held at all gram panchayats and municipalities. A health department official said at the camps doctors would screen patients for ophthalmological problems. If required, they would be provided spectacles and medicines free of cost. “Those who will require cataract or any other eye operation would be taken care of at government hospitals,” the official added. “Every year the government reaches out at least 15 lakh people ailing from eye-related problems. Due to Covid-19 outbreak it was not possible for NGOs to organise eye camps. So, the ‘Chokher Alo’ scheme will reach out to people suffering from eye illness in the camp mode,” he said. “The chief minister is so happy with the project that she has asked us to organise a mega camp at the end of January to provide free treatment to around 50,000 people across the state,” the official added. Health department sources said the government had conducted around 2.5 lakh cataract operations and checked over 15 lakh people free-of-cost between April 2019 and November 2020. Apart from this, there were many NGOs who independently provided free treatment through eye camps. Since the “Chokher Alo” scheme has been launched, around 90,000 people have been screened at the camps in the past seven days and 20,000 free spectacles distributed. Since January 5, at least 1,600 patients have undergone cataract operations under the scheme. “We suspect that there would be at least 20 lakh people who have been deprived of treating eye illness because of the pandemic,” said a senior official. The government officials said the drive was important as most people in the age group of 45-75 suffer from eye diseases. So, the government plans to reach out to these people with free treatment, spectacles and operation in the run up to the Assembly polls. “As per record, there are around 2.5 crore people in the state who are in age group 45-75 years. Apart from this age group, screening of children and others is being done at the camps,” said a health official in East Burdwan. “We have received fixed power spectacles to correct vision inaccuracies. But those who will need customised lens will be provided spectacles within 10 days of treatment,” said a health official. NGOs that organise free eye check-up camps and operations also admitted that they could not hold their programmes because of the pandemic. “Mass gatherings were prohibited since March last year. Every year we try to organise at least 100 free check-up and cataract operation camps. Due to Covid we could hold only 10 camps last year and most of those were organised in the first two months of 2020. Chokher Alo is a welcome move from the state government as it will help clear the huge backlog,” said Bhaskar Dev Mukherjee, an ophthalmologist and secretary general of Savior Holistic International Trust, an NGO that organises free eye camps across Bengal. Trinamul leaders said people in rural areas had problems consulting ophthalmologists after the outbreak of Covid-19. During the lockdown most people belonging to low-income groups spent their small savings to survive and had no money to consult doctors or buy spectacles, a Trinamul leader said and added that the eye scheme had come as a big help for them. “The project will help elderly people who have been coming to us with eye problems. Coming before the polls, the scheme, along with Duare Sarkar camps, will also help us politically,” said Sujoy Das, a Trinamul leader from Birbhum’s Muraroi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-235
14-01-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri dry port to start services||The Inland Container Depot (ICD) or the dry port developed by the Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development Authority (SJDA) — the first of its kind facility for domestic and international cargo movement in the region — is all set to be functional soon. Set up on a 29-acre-plot that has been taken on lease from the railways by the SJDA, the facility would be run by Pristine Hindustan Infraprojects Private Limited, a company that has been jointly floated by the Pristine Logistics and Hindustan Dockyard. “The necessary infrastructure is ready at the ICD and we are waiting for a final approval of the Customs which we believe, would be ready in another seven days. We have already conducted a trial run of domestic cargo via rail last month and look forward to develop the facility as a hub for movement of cargo within and beyond the country,” said Amit Kumar, the founder-director of Pristine Logistics. So far, maximum cargo movement in north Bengal was done via road. Also, cargo moving to northeast or to the neighbouring countries of Nepal and Bhutan and vice-versa, would mostly move via road through north Bengal and Siliguri. “But now that we have the facility here, cargo can be directly exported or imported from here via rail, which is a greener way of cargo movement. This would reduce the congestion in Calcutta and Haldia ports. Initially, we will develop the connectivity with these two ports,” added Kumar. He also mentioned that cargos coming to Nepal and Bhutan from any third country can be brought here via rail and can then be transported to the respective countries. The company, sources said, has primarily planned to handle around 600-odd containers in a month. “Usually, 45 containers are carried in a train, which means movement of around 10 to 12 trains in a month. We have laid a two-kilometre long track that connects the ICD with the main track near New Jalpaiguri station. Containers can be loaded and unloaded at the premises itself and can be carried to other places,” said a representative of the company. Along with two handling railway lines, there is a designated area to handle containers meant for export and import, a Customs warehouse, space for empty containers and a fleet of trailers and ancillary equipment. The facility can also contribute in export of teas, particularly because the Tea Park – another project by the SJDA – is next to the ICD. A number of tea packaging units are coming up at the site, the company representatives said. “In a container, around fourteen-and-half tons of tea can be transported. We believe that if commodities are moved via rail, it would reduce the transportation costs by at least 10 to 15 per cent,” they said. With the ICD getting operational – it was a longstanding demand of the region, members of the business fraternity said it would go in a long way to boost trade in north Bengal and would also encourage fresh investments. “The ICD would facilitate movement of cargo to any parts of the country and would be of help for the MSME sector, for the pharma sector of the neighbouring state of Sikkim, for the tea industry and also for the horticulture and agriculture sector of the region. Presence of such a logistic facility would surely encourage fresh industrial investments in north Bengal in the coming days,” said Sanjay Tibrewal, vice-chairman of the NB zonal council of Confederation of Indian Industry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-235
14-01-2021||West Bengal||Woman killed, 2 hurt in West Midnapore elephant rampage||One person was killed and two grievously injured when an elephant in West Midnapore’s Chandrakona and Anandapur went on a rampage of local paddy fields, and then the village, on Wednesday morning. Eyewitnesses said the deceased, Gita Ghosh, 45, had been working on a field in Anandapur’s Kharaberia around 8am when she was “ambushed” by the male elephant and tossed onto the ground “killing her on the spot”. “A group of villagers chased the tusker, but that enraged him even more. He stormed into the town area causing a panic and injured two persons seriously in addition to smashing several motorcycles,” said villager Abani Gyne. “Initially, the villagers were successful in chasing him away, but at one point the tusker made a turnaround and chased us,” Gyne added. Sources said Gajanan Das, 49, from Chandrakona’s Tukunia village was grievously injured after being “hurled by the trunk” like the deceased victim earlier in the day. Sources said the tusker was estimated to have roamed the two areas of West Midnapore for over 10 hours on Wednesday before being herded back into the forest. Gyne claimed that the forest department, who were contacted immediately, “enraged” the tusker with their tactics, causing him to storm the village. The forest department had tried to scare away the elephant by beating drums but the strategy had backfired, villagers said. Asked, forest department officials said the claim was “baseless” and that all protocol for an attack on humans had been followed. “The tusker reacted angrily and violently but we followed all the rules for containing an attacking elephant. The tusker has been returned to its wild habitat as of Wednesday evening. The death was definitely a tragedy,” said additional divisional forest officer (Midnapore) Bijoy Chakraborty. “The tusker is residential, and for some reason roamed 7km out of its habitat this morning. He also trampled several hundred acres of paddy first,” he added. Sources said the family of the deceased will receive Rs 3 lakh in compensation and that the two injured persons were being treated at hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-235
14-01-2021||West Bengal||CPM worker shot dead near home in North Dinajpur||A CPM worker was shot dead by two unidentified youths near his home near Dalkhola in North Dinajpur on Tuesday night. The CPM has alleged that political opponents were behind the murder of Guruchand Roy, 55, at Hasan village in Suryapur panchayat. Sources said Roy had been cooking food when two youths had arrived near his house and started calling him. “As informed by a relative, Roy came out. The youths walked up to him and fired at him from a close range. A bullet hit the head and Roy collapsed on the ground. Before others could raise an alert, the attackers fled,” said a police officer. The police took the body to the Raiganj Government Medical College and Hospital for post-mortem. Amrit Mondal, a relative of Roy, said the deceased used to resolve local disputes and hence, he had been popular. “We suspect the killers were disgruntled with him over some issues. The police should find out the truth,” Mondal said. Apuraba Pal, the CPM district secretary, demanded that the police round up the assailants immediately. He said the Trinamul Congress and the BJP were unhappy with Roy’s activities. The police said they were investigating the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-235
14-01-2021||West Bengal||KD Singh held for money laundering||The Enforcement Directorate on Wednesday arrested former Trinamul Congress Rajya Sabha member and industrialist Kanwar Deep Singh in connection with an alleged money-laundering case. The central agency did not issue any official statement on the former MP’s arrest. Sources said Singh was placed under arrest after he failed to explain certain transactions pertaining to the money-laundering case. “He was taken into custody on Tuesday night under sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) after he refused to cooperate in the ongoing investigation,” a source said. The former chairman of the Alchemist Group was produced in a court on Wednesday and has been remanded in ED’s custody till January 16. In September 2019, the ED had carried out searches on premises linked to Singh in Delhi and Chandigarh in connection with the probe into two PMLA cases. Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee had issued a statement as far back as March 2017 saying Singh had not been part of her party for some time and there was no contact with him — but he was to complete his term as its Rajya Sabha member, till April 2020. However, on Wednesday, the BJP appeared unwilling to miss out on the opportunity to politically corner her over the arrest. “Who is K.D. Singh? His principal identity is that he is a former MP of Trinamul. So there ought to be questioning of seniors in Trinamul to find the truth,” said Jay Prakash Majumdar, a state unit vice-president of the BJP. Singh, according to sources in Trinamul, was suspected to have played a role in planning and financing the Narada “sting” operation against the party to destabilise it just before the Assembly polls of 2016. Trinamul distanced itself from Singh and cited Mamata’s statement from four years ago. “Singh has not been associated with us, in any capacity whatsoever, for a really long time…. If he has committed crimes, the law should take its own course,” said Trinamul vice-president Saugata Roy. He said the demands for questioning Trinamul leaders was not only baseless but also politically motivated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-235
14-01-2021||West Bengal||Two unions cloud BJP prospects in tea belt ||Existence of two trade unions in the tea garden belt of north Bengal, one floated by a BJP MP and the other belonging to the party’s ideological parent, RSS, might harm the party’s poll prospects in the region, feel Sangh parivar leaders. The battling unions are Bharatiya Tea Workers’ Union (BTWU) floated by Alipurduar MP John Barla and the Bangiya Cha Mazdoor Sangh (BCMS) backed by the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS), the labour arm of the RSS. “Both the unions are competing to expand their reach among tea garden workers and the tussle is not good news for us as we are heading towards the Assembly polls,” said a BJP leader in Jalpaiguri. According to him, the objective of consolidating the support of tea garden workers cannot be met with two unions. The conflicting position of the two unions came out in the open earlier this week when the BCMS held a public meeting at Malbazar in Jalpaiguri. The BCMS said its leaders and workers would launch a comprehensive campaign on tea estates and highlight issues like non-fixing of minimum wages. The BCMS said the BTWU was not a force to be reckoned with. “BMS is the largest union of the country and people are aware of its activities. We are not concerned about any other union,” said Biswajit Guha, the state general secretary of the BCMS. Barla made it clear his outfit would continue to exist irrespective of any other trade union aligned to the BJP. “We are with the BJP but that does not mean that the BTWU and BCMS can’t work independently in the tea belt. We have been working for the tea workers for years and there is no point in suddenly calling off our activities,” said the Alipurduar MP who is also the chairman of the BTWU, referring to demands from a section to disband the trade union headed by him. A tea industry veteran has said Trinamul has at least four trade unions in the brew belt because of differences among leaders and it had gone against Bengal’s ruling party. Sources in the tea industry said as the BJP started gaining grounds in north Bengal, Barla floated BTWU to get tea workers on board. “A section of tea workers, who had started supporting BJP, but were clueless on whom to support joined Barla’s union... It is unlikely that he will disband his outfit,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-235
14-01-2021||West Bengal||EC asks officials to act against past poll trouble-mongers||Deputy election commissioner Sudeep Jain on Wednesday asked district magistrates and police superintendents to identify people who had allegedly created trouble during the 2016 Assembly polls and 2019 Lok Sabha polls and initiate action against them. “The Election Commission is very serious about holding Assembly polls peacefully. The deputy election commissioner has asked us to identify all trouble-mongers, including those who created troubles during the 2016 and 2019 polls, and initiate action against them,” said a district magistrate, who attended the meeting held at a Calcutta hotel. Sources also said Jain had asked the DMs and SPs to prepare a list of officers — who are considered to be inefficient or against whom complaints of bias had been lodged in the past — so that they could be transferred as soon as the election process started. “This gives an impression that the EC would leave no stone unturned to ensure a free and fair election. A total of 72 officers were transferred by the EC during the 2019 general election and it seems the list could become longer this time,” said another official. According to officials present at the meeting, Jain also laid emphasis on executing non-bailable warrants pending since December 1. “During his previous visit about a month ago, Jain had laid stress on executing NBWs to send a message to the trouble-mongers. This time also he raised the issue and asked the district officials to execute the NBWs with utmost importance,” said a source. Jain asked the officials to start election preparedness in full swing and assess requirement of gloves, masks and sanitiser during the entire poll process as these needed to be supplied to the officials in election duty in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic. “We have been asked to start procurement of Covid-19 essentials. Moreover, he asked us to prepare a detailed report of the total number of auxiliary booths that have to be set up for maintaining Covid-19 protocols,” said a district magistrate. This year, the EC has pointed out that each booth can have a maximum of 1,050 voters in the backdrop of the pandemic. Earlier, the number of maximum voters in a booth was 1,200. “This is why the number of booths in the state would go up from 78,000. This means the EC has to arrange more EVMs and manpower to conduct the polls. This is the reason why we have been asked to send a detailed list of auxiliary booths,” said another official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-235
14-01-2021||West Bengal||794 more recover, 18 die of Covid in Bengal||Bengal on Wednesday logged 794 Covid-19 recoveries, 723 infections and 18 deaths as the total of active cases dropped for the 79th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami on October 26 last year. The total number of active patients now are 7,303, having improved by over five times, from 37,190 on October 26. The recovery rate has risen for 83 consecutive days, from 87.44, to 96.93 per cent. The current national rate is 96.5. “Our total of active cases will be below 6,000 and the recovery rate ought to be above 98 by the end of this month. Our pandemic management has been exemplary,” said a minister. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.48 per cent now, having improved steadily over 54 days, from 8.27. Bengal’s total count of sample examination is now nearly 75.28 lakh, including 30,107 tests logged on Wednesday. The tests per million people are 83,644. The 18 deaths reported on Wednesday included five from the city. Since the end of Puja, the state reported nearly 2.35 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 2.08 lakh infections detected during the same period. “Wednesday was Day 10 for someone who got infected on January 4…. It is between days six and 10 of the infection that most cases get detected. We can deduce, with a fair bit of certainty now, that even the revelry of the Christmas-New Year period did not worsen the outbreak,” said the minister. Bengal’s Covid-19 total of 5.62 lakh cases include nearly 5.45 lakh recoveries and 9,993 deaths. The state attributed 8,384 (83.9 per cent) of the total deaths to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate is now 1.77, compared to 1.44 per cent at the national level.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-235
14-01-2021||West Bengal||Sisir loses Trinamul post ||Trinamul’s Contai MP Sisir Adhikari was on Wednesday replaced as East Midnapore’s district party president with Pingla MLA and minister Soumen Mahapatra, the move coming a day after he had been divested of the post of the chairperson of the Digha-Sankarpur Development Authority. Sisir’s son Suvendu Adhikari had joined the BJP in January last year. “The party has done what it thinks best, but perhaps they could have asked me about my version first. The chief minister has not reached out to me even once amid all this,” said Sisir, who was recovering from a cataract operation. Sources said the decision was taken by the party’s top brass and meant to send a message to the Adhikari clan. BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari on Wednesday filed a petition before Calcutta High Court, pleading that the state government be ordered to provide more security personnel for him during his meetings and road shows across the state. According to high court sources, the petition would be taken up in a couple of days. In his petition, Suvendu claimed that he had been receiving threats to his life regularly from unknown people. The Trinamul turncoat apprehended that he might be attacked by the “goons of a particular political party”. “Though I have been receiving protection from the central government, but for holding meetings and rallies inside West Bengal more state police protection is needed,” Suvendu’s petition reads. Contacted, a state government lawyer said: “We are yet to get a copy of the petition. The state will inform the court whatever it has to.” Suvendu has recently been shown black flags by Trinamul Congress workers while on his way to rallies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-235
