15-01-2021||West Bengal||MP Satabdi Roy voices discontent against TMC on social media||Birbhum MP Satabdi Roy voiced her discontent with the TMC, following which the party reached out to her to bring the situation under control amid an ongoing exodus from the party ahead of the assembly elections in Bengal. TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh held an hour-long meeting with the actor-turned-politician at her south Calcutta residence on Friday afternoon after she dropped hints of quitting the ruling party in the state. "Satabdi Roy is an old friend. I had come to meet my friend," Ghosh told reporters while leaving her residence, adding several other TMC leaders have spoken with her. "I have also come to know that BJP leader Mukul Roy had called her up and asked her to meet him during her visit to Delhi tomorrow," he said. Senior TMC leader and Dumdum MP Saugata Roy said the party will try to address her grievances and sort out the issues. Roy, in a Facebook post, had claimed that she is not being informed about party events in her constituency and this has caused "mental pain" to her. The three-time Birbhum MP had said she will inform the public at 2 pm on Saturday if she takes any "decision", causing ripples in the TMC. As per party sources, Roy is having differences with Birbhum district TMC chief Anubrata Mondal. "I have a close connection with this constituency. But recently many people have been asking me why I am missing from several party programmes. "I want to tell them that I want to attend all programmes. But I don't get to know about many programmes and if I am not even informed about events in my constituency, then how can I attend. I was mentally pained because of this," Roy's post in her fans' club page read. Roy said she has spent more time with the people of her constituency than her own family in the last 10 years and even her enemies can't discredit her on this account. "So, this year I am trying to take some decisions so that I can spend the entire time with you. I am grateful to you. You have been supporting me since 2009. Hope you will support me in the coming days too," the post read. "If I take any decision, will let you know on January 16, Saturday at 2 pm," it added. When contacted, Roy confirmed that the post was indeed made by her. "I have tried to reach out to the leadership but it has been of no use. If I am not able to work for the masses then what is the use of continuing in the post," she told reporters. Roy had twice given resignation from the Tarapith Unnayan Parishad but those were not accepted, sources close to the MP said. She is scheduled to visit Delhi on Saturday, they said. When asked whether there are chances of joining the BJP, she refused to reply. Responding to a query whether she will meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Roy said, "There are always chances of meeting people you know but there is no such possibility." Reacting to the development, Mondal said, "She is still in the party. If she takes any step, then I will say whatever I have to." Roy was seen with Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee during a roadshow in Bolpur on December 29. After a long and successful career in the Bengali film industry, Roy joined politics in the final years of the Left Front government in the state. She was part of the TMC's cultural brigade of celebrities with mass appeal in Mamata Banerjee's attempt to unseat the Left from power in the state. Roy had first contested and won the Birbhum seat on a TMC ticket in 2009. She went on to win the seat in 2014 and 2019. Not just Roy, another senior TMC leader and state minister Rajib Banerjee, who has been maintaining distance with the party, also said in a social media post that he will reveal his next step in a Facebook live on Saturday afternoon.
In the biggest single-day exodus from the TMC, political heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari, along with 35 party leaders including five MLAs and an MP, joined the BJP during Shah's rally in Medinipur on December 19, setting off a churning as several disgruntled leaders rallied behind him.
Since the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, when the BJP bagged 18 seats from the state, 14 legislators of the TMC, four from the Left Front and two from the Congress have joined the saffron party. None of them, however, have resigned from their posts. Elections to the 294-member state assembly are due in April-May.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-233
15-01-2021||West Bengal||Plan to showcase Siliguri as tourist destination||The Bengal tourism department has drawn up a plan to showcase Siliguri — the gateway to Northeast — as a single destination rather than a transit point as a number of attractions have up in and around the city in the past few years. “Till now, Siliguri has been a transit point for tourists travelling to the Darjeeling hills, Dooars, and the neighbouring countries of Nepal and Bhutan. However, during the past few years, a number of new attractions were developed in and around the city. We feel tourists can enjoy spending a couple of days in the city,” said state tourism minister Gautam Deb. Ever since Mamata Banerjee became the chief minister in 2011, her government has time and again laid emphasis on tourism, a sector that provides employment to over millions in the state, including north Bengal. Since 2011, new attractions like the Bengal Safari Park have come up off NH31, on the outskirts of the city. “Bhorer Alo,” a mega tourism hub, was also developed on the banks of the Teesta at Gajoldoba (located around 25km away) in Jalpaiguri district. Added to them are attractions like the Biswa Bangla Haat at Kawakhali — a display-cum-exhibition centre of handicrafts, the Iskcon temple in northwest of the city, the Mahananda Wildlife Sanctuary that is around 10km away and Sevoke, which is known for its scenic beauty. There are a number of Buddhist monasteries nearby. Sevoke is around 25km from Siliguri. “Altogether, these are some places which can draw tourists. If we can promote the city as a destination with varied options for entertainment, it would also give a boost to the tourism sector that has taken a beating during the past few months,” said Deb. Usually, tourists spend a few hours or maximum a night in the city during their trip to the region. Tour operators have welcomed the department’s plan for Siliguri. “The city definitely has the potential to emerge as a one or two-night destination for tourists. It is good that the state tourism minister is mulling on the proposal. But simultaneously, the stakeholders and agencies like the local civic body and the Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development Authority also have to take responsibilities for Siliguri’s development so that tourists are encouraged to plan a new itinerary and are provided with best hospitality and services,” said Samrat Sanyal, general secretary, Himalayan Hospitality & Tourism Development Network. Temple funds Tourism minister Gautam Deb has said a project has been taken up for the development of amenities on the premises of the Bhramri Devi Temple, an old shrine in Jalpaiguri district. He made the announcement during his visit to the temple at Bodaganj, on the fringes of the Baikunthapur forest, on Wednesday. “Our department has allotted Rs 3.67 crore for infrastructure development of the temple. There would be some renovation work and a new dining space and resting place for devotees. The new facilities would be inaugurated soon,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-233
15-01-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati suspends two student leaders who took part in Jan 9 protests||Visva-Bharati authorities on Thursday suspended two student leaders who took part in protests on January 9 to condemn the recent suspension of economics professor and faculty association president Sudipta Bhattacharyya. In the suspension notice issued by Visva-Bharati proctor Sankar Majumder to student leaders Somnath Sow and Phalguni Pan, the varsity accused them of “forcibly” breaking the “seal/ lock of the chamber of a particular faculty member in the Department of Economics & Politics, Visva-Bharati, on 09.01.2021”. The notice states that the decision to suspend the students had been taken by vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty and the suspension would continue till a detailed inquiry by the varsity, likely to take three months, is over. Sow, a leader of the SFI, and Pan are leading members of the outfit Visva-Bharati Students’ Unity that had been protesting against many moves of the VC that they termed were aimed at “saffronising the campus”. Both Sow and Pan are also first-year postgraduate students in the department of economics where Bhattacharyya,  widely perceived to be at loggerheads with the present varsity dispensation, taught. Several teachers and students of the university condemned Thursday’s suspension and said that it exposed the vengeful nature of the administration and VC. Condemning the “unjustified action that smacked of political vendetta”, a teacher considered close to the suspended students said they had been targeted for being the voices of dissent on the campus and “daring” to ask Bhattacharyya’s suspension order be revoked. Bhattacharyya had been suspended on January 7 for alleging irregularities in the appointment of the principal of one of the university’s schools. A teacher said that on Wednesday the VC had summoned teaching and non-teaching staff of the economics department and asked them to identify the students who took part in the protest against Bhattacharyya's suspension on January 9. “The duo earned the wrath of the varsity administration as they have been spearheading protests against the VC’s attempt to push the BJP’s agenda on the campus. Both Sow and Pan had been leading students on issues ranging from their opposition to the CAA seminar where the VC had invited BJP ideologue and MP Swapan Dasgupta to the recent decision to invite Union home minister Amit Shah to the campus,” he added. The two students had been put under “house arrest" in Bolpur on December 20, the day Shah visited Santiniketan. Justifying their suspension, the proctor’s letter states that the action against the student leaders have been taken because their “attempt to damage the public property of Visva-Bharati and to create disturbance on the campus” amounted to “gross indiscipline and misconduct on their part”. During their period of suspension, the two will “not be able to attend or participate in any class, lecture, conference, workshop, seminar, examination, viva-voce etc of the University”. Wasif Iqbal, the Birbhum secretary of the SFI, condemned the move. “The suspension of the two student leaders proves our claim that the VC is working to fulfil the RSS-BJP agenda to saffronise the varsity.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-233
15-01-2021||West Bengal||Vaccine supply doubt makes Bengal cautious||The Bengal government on Thursday decided to administer Covid-19 vaccine to a little over half of the six lakh health workers who had been shortlisted to get the jab in the first phase as there was no clarity on whether the next consignment of vials for the state would be of the same firm as the first lot. The Centre had sent to Bengal Covishield, the vaccine manufactured by Pune’s Serum Institute of India. “The Centre sent seven lakh vials, while we need at least 12 lakh doses to vaccinate six lakh health workers in the first phase. As a person will require two shots at a gap of 28 days and the vaccines cannot be interchanged, we will initially inoculate 3.4 lakh health workers and increase the numbers depending on the arrival of the second lot of vaccines,” said a senior health officer. The Centre shortlisted two Covid-19 vaccines — Pune-based Serum Institute of India’s Covishield and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin — for the vaccination drive. The first phase of the vaccination drive will begin on January 16. “The second shot of the vaccine should be the same as the first one. As the Centre hasn’t intimated that Bengal will receive Covishield in the second instalment, we have decided to stretch out the process by reducing the numbers of vaccination centres to 207 from the earlier planned 353,” the official said. “We had planned to hold 353 camps across the state from Saturday but we have brought it down to 207 to slow down the process. All the 353 camps will become functional after receiving the second lot of vaccines,” the official said and added doctors and health officials in the districts had been intimated about the new plan through a video-conference on Thursday. “Earlier, we had a plan to hold camps at 13 places. However, it has been reduced to seven only,” said Pranab Roy, the chief medical officer of health in East Burdwan. Similarly, the number of camps was reduced to seven from 13 in Birbhum health district and from 10 to 5 in Rampurhat health districts. The sources said 100 persons would be vaccinated at each camp on a day and total 20,700 individuals would be given the shots in Bengal on Saturday. Officials said all the districts had been asked to ensure webcasting at every camp for senior officials to monitor the programme online from Nabanna. “We are fully prepared for the vaccination drive and we have installed webcasting facilities at all seven camps. The vaccination on Saturday will start at 9am,” said Jayanta Sukul, the deputy chief medical officer of health in Birbhum. The curiosity over when the common man will get vaccines has become a problem for health department staff across the state as they are getting hundreds of enquiries over telephone during the day. “I have received a good number of enquiries from people who first wanted to know when they will get the vaccine and then how to register themselves for the process. I told them that the vaccine roll out for the common man was yet to begin,” said a state health official said in Nadia’s Krishnagar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-233
15-01-2021||West Bengal||Minister’s rift with colleague spills out||State tourism minister Gautam Deb on Thursday hit out at his cabinet colleague Rabindranath Ghosh, heading the north Bengal development department (NBDD), for the alleged lack of infrastructure development in the region, underlining another rift in the ruling Trinamul ahead of the Assembly  elections. At an event to lay the foundation of a road in his Assembly constituency Dabgram-Fulbari on Siliguri outskirts, Deb suddenly turned the heat on Ghosh, his successor in the NBDD in the Mamata Banerjee government’s second term. “When I was the NB development minister, hundreds of roads and drains were built by the department. It is unfortunate that during the past five-six years, no repair work has been carried out to maintain these roads. People in my Assembly seat are peeved at the existing conditions of these roads. I have sent over 100 letters to NBDD but for some unknown reason, those at the department have not acted on any of the letters,” Deb said. The state tourism minister also added that the NBDD’s alleged indifference had prompted him to seek chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s intervention. “I had to write to the chief minister, mentioning the details. The chief minister’s secretariat responded and I received a phone call on Wednesday. The state approved construction of some new roads and maintenance of a number of roads in Dabgram-Fulbari. Work (on these) would be taken up on a war footing,” added Deb. It is no secret in north Bengal that Deb and Ghosh do not see eye to eye on most issues as they belong to different camps in the ruling party. Deb has also held Ghosh responsible for his shift from the NBDD that he helmed for five years. Contacted by this paper for his reaction, Ghosh swatted away the charges. “The allegations made by the state tourism minister are incorrect. Whenever we have received any proposal from him, we have acted on those. In fact, our department has even carried out some unfinished projects in Dabgram-Fulbari which were initiated when he (Deb) was the NBDD minister,” said Ghosh. Deb’s remarks and Ghosh’s reactions have led to repercussions in the political arena of the region, including Trinamul inner circles. A party insider said that in 2017, about a year after Ghosh assumed the office of NB development minister, he had raised questions over the quality of work of some of the road projects taken up during Deb’s tenure. In fact, Ghosh’s department had served notices to as many as 18 construction firms on the issue. “There was always that tittle-tattle that both these ministers have differences. However, those never surfaced in such a blatant manner so far. Eventually, this (open criticism of one minister towards another)  is a loss of face for us (the party)…particularly as elections are ahead,” said a Trinamul insider. Political observers opined that Deb’s assertions indicated his desperation to retain support of people who voted for him twice in state elections. “However, many had supported BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. That is why it seems Deb has taken up a two-fold strategy of criticising a department of his own government and simultaneously playing the development card. It will be interesting to see how his party handles the situation,” said an observer. Additional reporting by our Cooch Behar correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-233
15-01-2021||West Bengal||State Covid deaths cross 10,000||Bengal on Thursday logged 694 Covid-19 recoveries, 680 infections and 17 deaths as the toll crossed 10,000 to touch 10,010. Since the first death from Covid-19 had been reported on March 23, the state took 297 days for the toll from the pandemic to cross 10,000. Bengal had logged 500 deaths on June 17, 1,000 on July 15, 2,000 on August 8, 3,000 on August 27, 4,000 on September 14, 5,000 on October 1, 6,000 on October 18, 7,000 on November 3, 8,000 on November 22, and 9,000 on December 12. “The latest 1,000 deaths occurred over 33 days, slower — hence, better — than the 16-20 days it had taken for the previous few thousands,” said a Bengal minister. The total of active cases dropped for the 80th consecutive day since October 26 last year, which was Vijaya Dashami. The total of active cases is now 7,272 having improved by over five times, from 37,190 on October 26. The recovery rate has risen for 84 consecutive days, from 87.44, to 96.93 per cent, leading the national rate by over 0.4 per cent. “The reduction of the mortality rate is the only area we still have some work to do,” said the minister. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent the worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. The numbers of infections from the festivals in October and November showed that the court’s instructions were effective. A similar set of instructions came from the high court to ensure that the outbreak didn’t worsen over the New Year celebrations. “Thursday was Day 10 for someone who got infected on January 5…. It is between days six and 10 of the infection that most cases get detected. We can deduce, with a fair bit of certainty now, that even the revelry of the Christmas-New Year period did not worsen the outbreak,” said the minister. The minister said reducing mortality in infected males was now a top priority. “We had managed to lower it to 1.98... then it kept rising again. Now it is 2.06. We are trying to ascertain the causes.” Another phenomenon the state was observing, he said, was the spike in deaths of patients with hypertension as a comorbidity. “Hypertension has, through the pandemic, been the biggest killer. But its share in the death count has suddenly spiked from a fourth to a third, rapidly. In both infected males and females. This also needs to be addressed immediately,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-233
15-01-2021||West Bengal||BJP workers lob cut money charge at leader||The district saffron camp suffered a loss of face as BJP workers in a number of villages under Manikchak block accused the head of a saffron party-run panchayat of demanding money from prospective beneficiaries of the 100-days work scheme. Workers, led by Pintu Goswami, a BJP leader of the block, alleged that Pampa Sarkar, the head of the BJP-run Nazirpur panchayat, was corrupt. A written complaint was filed with the district administration, they said. “The pradhan is asking for money from villagers in exchange for assurances of enrolment in the MGNREGS. We also know she embezzled funds sanctioned to the panchayat for the scheme. Such activities, we believe, have tarnished the image of our party and that is why we want both the administration and the party to take steps,” said Goswami. The allegations come at a time when BJP leaders across tiers are raising fingers at Trinamul over the culture of “cuts” in rural bodies. In public meetings, BJP representatives have accused elected representatives of Mamata Banerjee’s party functioning in rural bodies of taking cuts from people while assuring them of welfare scheme benefits. Such blatant accusation by BJP workers against an elected representative of the party has made district BJP leaders try and control the damage. “Our party will not stand by anyone if allegations are proven,” said Ajay Ganguly, district BJP spokesperson. “But the administration should look into the allegations made against rural bodies where Trinamul is in power.” District administration officials confirmed they received the complaint. “A probe has been ordered on veracity of the charges made against the Nazirpur panchayat chief,” said Rajarshi Mitra, Malda district magistrate. In Malda, residents also witnessed allegations and counter-allegations among BJP and Trinamul over Swasthya Sathi cards. In Kaliachak-II block, the BJP released a video purportedly showing the cards of the free health insurance scheme provided by the state strewn all around with papers, suspected to be application forms, in a deserted location. Authorities of a Trinamul-run panchayat did not distribute the cards to beneficiaries and instead tried to dispose of them, local BJP leaders alleged. Trinamul denied the charges. “The BJP is trying to create confusion by circulating a fake video,” said a leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-233
15-01-2021||West Bengal||Two arrested with a quintal of cannabis||Police on Wednesday night nabbed two persons with nearly a quintal of cannabis that they were allegedly smuggling to Assam from Cooch Behar. Also, in two separate raids on Thursday, the police destroyed cannabis plants on around 68 bighas of land in two locations of the district. Laltu Haldar, the additional superintendent of police of Cooch Behar, said on Wednesday, they got information that two persons were carrying cannabis harvested in the district to neighbouring Assam. “They were intercepted at Shungshugir Bazaar on town outskirts. Both were on a two-wheeler. Our team from Kotwali police station found around 94kg of the narcotic on them,” Haldar said. The arrested duo were identified as Sanjit Burman and Kamala Kanta Burman of Cooch Behar district. The seized narcotic was worth around Rs 12 lakh, police said. Teams of Kotwali and Sitalkuchi police stations destroyed illegal cannabis farms. In Sitalkuchi, the team moved into the dry bed of Mansai river to hack and set ablaze cannabis crops over 50 bighas. The police team from Kotwali went to Chandamari area and destroyed cannabis plants across 18 bighas. Those carrying out the illegal farming fled. During the past few years, cannabis farming has become a new trend in the district as it fetches a good price in the grey market. “There are reports that some farmers in some villages under Sahebganj, Mekhliganj, Kotwali and Sitalkuchi police stations are involved in this illegal practice,” said a cop.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-233
15-01-2021||West Bengal||EC full bench likely to visit state||The full bench of the Election Commission is likely to visit Bengal later this month to oversee preparations for Assembly polls, giving rise to speculations that the voting could be held in March-April, instead of the usual April-May schedule. The hint at the visit was given by deputy election commissioner Sudeep Jain on Thursday, according to senior Bengal government officials. He was on a two-day visit to Bengal. “He asked top government officials to ensure that all preparatory activities for holding Assembly polls are completed with utmost urgency… He made it clear that the full bench of the EC could visit later this month. Usually, election dates are declared within two weeks of the visit of the EC full bench to the state,” said a senior government official. On Thursday, Jain held meetings with state government officials, including home secretary, director general of police, health secretary and education secretary. He also convened a session with officials in the state chief electoral officer’s office. On Wednesday, he had held meetings with the district magistrates and police superintendents of all districts. Sources said Jain had asked the education secretary on Thursday how many schools had been damaged in the Cyclone Amphan and how many schools could be made available for setting up booths. “This year, there would be more booths as the maximum number of voters at a polling centre has been capped at 1,050, instead of 1,200, in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic. It is estimated that the total number of booths in the state would go up to about 1 lakh from 78,000-odd as more than 20,000 auxiliary booths would be increased because of the new norm,” said a source. As the number of booths would increase, the EC would require more polling officials and EVMs in this year’s election. “Jain has asked us to consider the issue seriously and make arrangements accordingly,” said an official. The EC would also allow people over 80 years of age, physically-challenged, Covid patients and those who will be in quarantine to cast their votes through postal ballots. “A detailed guideline in this would soon be issued,” said a source. Jain also held meetings with the officials of income tax, excise and customs to ensure that use of black money could be prevented in this year’s elections. “He instructed the officials of central agencies to keep a watch on financial transactions from now on. He directed them to file reports on the political personalities accused of interfering in the poll process,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-234
15-01-2021||West Bengal||Deb steps in, taxi owners defer strike||Taxi owners and drivers of Bagdogra and Siliguri, planning a strike earlier this week to demand revised fares, among others, decided to defer it for a fortnight after talks with state tourism minister Gautam Deb on Thursday. “We had a long discussion with the minister who assured us he will take up our demands with the chief minister. He also told us that within 15 days we will be apprised about the initiatives,” said Siraj Bhowmik, president of the Bagdogra Taxi Owners Welfare Association. Deb told the media that he thanked taxi owners for deferring the strike to help tourism and said they raised some valid points that he would discuss with Mamata Banerjee after he went to Calcutta on Friday. Earlier this week, taxi owners and drivers in Bagdogra airport — around 1,200 taxis ply from the airport — decided to go on an indefinite strike over demands that included immediate revision of fares last hiked by the state in 2008. This decision won support from some other transport outfits, including drivers of luxury taxis. In all, it was feared that 3,000-odd cabs would go off roads in and around Siliguri. This left the tourism stakeholders worried. Darjeeling district administration intervened and based on a meeting on January 11, taxi owners deferred the strike till Deb’s meeting with them on Thursday. On January 27, a meeting of the Regional Transport Authority would be held to discuss the revision of fares, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-234
15-01-2021||West Bengal||Pro-BJP Matuas to hold rally in Calcutta||The All India Matua Mahasangha, which is politically aligned to the BJP, has decided to hold a meeting at Behala in Calcutta on Friday. Mahasangha chief and BJP’s Bongaon MP Santanu Thakur will address the meeting. “Several meetings are being held in many districts to garner support for the public rally that Union home minister Amit Shah is scheduled to address at Thakurnagar on January 30. The first such meeting in Calcutta will be held on Friday,” said Mukutmani Adhikari, a member of the Mahasangha’s central committee. Sources said the other reason behind holding the meeting in Calcutta was to prevent Trinamul from wooing the Matuas. “We are aware that Mamata Banerjee’s reassurance that everyone is naturally an Indian citizen might work against us. That is why we don’t want any section of our community to be left out and hence, we have targeted the Matuas of Calcutta,” said a central committee member of the Mahasangha. Matuas are a community of lower-caste Hindu immigrants from Bangladesh, spread in several parts of North 24-Parganas and Nadia districts and some parts in north Bengal. A survey done by the Mahasangha has shown that in the 17 Assembly seats spread in and around Calcutta, there is an average SC-ST-OBC population of 5 per cent. Moreover, in Assembly seats like Kasba, Jadavpur, Behala East, Behala West and Tollygunje, several wards have a Matua population of over 30 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-234
15-01-2021||West Bengal||Vaccine sparks hill contest||Along with the Covid-19 vaccine, politics too is being rolled out in Darjeeling hills ahead of the polls. On Thursday, Anit Thapa, chairman of the board of administrators, Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA), and part of the Binay Tamamg faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, said he would go to Kalimpong on Saturday to be the “first person from the hills” to get vaccinated with Covishield. Raju Bisa, Darjeeling BJP MP, was also quick to issue “a note of thanks” to the Centre for its “amazing coordination”. The vaccination drive will touch every household and observers believe politicians in the hills are keen to be associated with the drive during this election season. “I will travel to Kalimpong to be the first person to be administered with Covishield from GTA region,” said Thapa. Thapa said he took this decision to build confidence among health workers and dispel vaccine related fears among people. Health workers will be the first to get Covishield, the vaccine developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca, and manufactured at Serum Institute of India in Pune. The GTA is involving senior officials in vaccination. Surendra Gupta, principal secretary of GTA, will get vaccinated with Thapa at Kalimpong. In Darjeeling, GTA secretary David Pradhan will be the first to get the jab. GTA health department executive director Samden Dukpa will get vaccinated in Kurseong. Thapa’s decision to travel to Kalimpong is also being seen as symbolic. The first Covid-19 related death from the region had been reported from Kalimpong on March 30, 2020. “Following the death of Sunita Devi Singh, the entire region had panicked. The GTA worked on a war-footing to contain the spread of the virus and together we were successful in containing the spread to an extent,” said Thapa, adding that the vaccination drive in the hills would be dedicated to Sunita. Thapa was one of the most visible hill leaders to be on ground zero during the pandemic along with Kalimpong municipality chairman Rabi Pradhan. “Many believe that Thapa’s image improved because of his proactive involvement during the pandemic. It seems that he is determined to be involved in the vaccination phase too and not let go the advantage,” said an observer. But the BJP’s Darjeeling MP Raju Bista was not to be left behind with fulsome praise for the BJP-led Centre. “Thanks to the amazing coordination of the Union health ministry, 123 vaccination facilities and 163 cold chain points have been developed in north Bengal,” said Bista, adding that 1,28,000 doses of vaccine had been allocated for north Bengal. GTA health executive Dukpa said that vaccination drive would be carried out in Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Kurseong hospitals in the hills. “On the first day, the vaccine will be administered to 100 people,” said Dukpa. Each will get 0.5ml of the vaccine, to be repeated after 28 days. While Darjeeling district received 18,000 doses, Cooch Behar has received 18,500, Alipurduar 12,500, Jalpaiguri,16,500, Kalimpong 3500, Malda 22,000, North Dinajpur 17,000 and South Dinajpur 20,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-234
