16-01-2021||West Bengal||Ram temple fundraising drive used for Bengal poll survey||Temple is meeting the temporal in Bengal as the Sangh parivar launched on Friday a fundraising drive for the construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya. Using the donation window, the parivar has begun a dipstick survey in Bengal to assess its support base and launch an outreach campaign ahead of the Assembly elections. As the donation drive, initiated by the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, began across the country, parivar officials revealed that the initiative in Bengal had a political objective too. “The fund collection programme is a bit different in Bengal. As elections are approaching here, we will collect the basic details of all the donors in the state during the drive,” said Krishnendu Guha, district spokesperson for the Vishwa Hindu Parishad in Jalpaiguri. On Friday, VHP and BJP activists were seen distributing wads of printed receipts — for donations of Rs 10, Rs 100 and Rs 1,000 — among the fund collectors. The foot soldiers were being instructed to start with the villages and municipal wards, and remember to collect the donors’ details. Sources in the VHP and the BJP said the effort would continue till February 28 and enable them to make a preliminary assessment of the BJP’s support base in the state. “This will act as a dipstick survey for us, for it’s unlikely that a donor or his family would not support us in the upcoming elections. The donor database is therefore also a supporter database for us,” a source said. He said the data would help the parivar to not just map the constituency-wise support for the BJP but also draw up an intensive outreach campaign ahead of the polls. “Specific campaign strategies for particular regions would be drawn up after analysing the database.... The data will also make it easier to communicate with the supporters ahead of the polls using their phone numbers,” a source said. The Supreme Court had in November 2019 handed the disputed plot in Ayodhya to Hindus and asked the government to form a trust to build the Ram temple. Following this, the nationwide fundraising drive was planned for the Rs 1,100-crore temple project. As it became clear on Friday that the fundraising effort would be used as an electoral tool in Bengal, Trinamul Congress leaders accused the Sangh parivar of using religion for politics. “As expected, the saffron ecosystem is trying to play the religion card for political gain. But such strategies will not work here,” said Trinamul’s district chief for Jalpaiguri, K.K. Kalyani. “People will choose Trinamul because of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s inclusive approach and the development carried out by her government.” Kalyani added: “We will keep an eye out to ensure that the fundraising drive doesn’t lead to any breach of peace.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-231
16-01-2021||West Bengal||PM and CM line up vaccine outreach||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Mamata Banerjee will use the webcasting platform to interact with health workers in poll-bound Bengal on the first day of the country-wide roll-out of the Covid-19 vaccination process on Saturday. During Modi’s address in the morning, he is likely to interact with health workers at two vaccination centres in Bengal — SSKM in Calcutta and North Bengal Medical College and Hospital in Siliguri — through the webcasting platform. Mamata, however, will interact with health workers at vaccination camps of her choice around 1pm and can reach out to any of the 204 centres across Bengal. “Two hospitals — SSKM in Calcutta and North Bengal Medical College and Hospital — have been chosen for interactive sessions with the Prime Minister though his office can connect to any centre. Similarly, all centres will be able to listen to the chief minister on Saturday afternoon and it will be up to her to decide which centres to interact with,” said a senior health official. Sources in the state health department said the Union health ministry had asked them to keep ready at least two vaccination centres at prime locations of the state to facilitate an interaction with the Prime Minister around 10.30 on Saturday morning. The two centres will be among at least 60 across the country where Modi will interact directly with the people connected with the vaccination. The sources said the chief minister was equally eager to ensure that the first day of the vaccination process went off smoothly and she would keep a watch on the proceedings through the webcasting facility from Nabanna. Mamata’s concern for a smooth roll-out of the vaccination process was evident during the virtual meeting that Modi had with chief ministers on January 11. The controversy about the safety and efficacy of the two vaccines had prompted Mamata to ask Modi whether “adequate scientific confirmation” had been taken by the Centre in favour of Covishield and Covaxin. However, she was assured by Niti Ayog member Vinod K. Paul that both the vaccines were based on scientific evidence and completely safe. Speaking about the preparedness for the drive, a senior health department official in Birbhum said that the first jab was expected to be given at 9am and the drive would continue till 4pm. Each centre will vaccinate 100 health workers on a day, the official added. “Saturday will be a very challenging day for us as we have to carry out the vaccination process throughout the day,” said a health official. “According to the directive, those who have been shortlisted for vaccination can turn up for the jab between 9am and 4pm. Although a text message will be sent to each of the beneficiaries, we are personally contacting them to avoid rush at the camps,” said an official in Birbhum. As a finishing touch to the preparations for Saturday’s roll-out, officials of Union health ministry took the final class of vaccinators through video-conference on Friday and advised them to follow the guidelines diligently. The sources said officials had been asked to request the enlisted persons to come for the jabs with Aadhaar cards. The identity proof would be required to register the beneficiaries on the portal set-up for the vaccination programme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-231
16-01-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati VC told to scrap suspension of students||A group of varsity students wrote to Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty on Friday seeking an unconditional repeal of Thursday’s order suspending two student leaders. Visva-Bharati’s proctor Sankar Majumder had on Thursday suspended student leaders Somnath Sow and Phalguni Pan after the varsity accused them of “forcibly” breaking a lock at faculty chambers on January 9. Pan and Sow, postgraduate economics students, had taken part in the students’ protest that day condemning the suspension of their professor and faculty association president Sudipta Bhattacharyya who had been critical of the VC’s alleged “saffron agenda”. The suspension of students came soon after noted academics signed a petition addressed to the VC demanding Bhattacharyya be reinstated. “The authorities led by the VC have proved that the campus won’t allow voices of dissent. Today (on Friday), we wrote to the VC and will launch a larger movement if the suspension of students is not revoked,” said Mainul Hasan, a student of English in Visva-Bharati and an SFI leader. Letter to VC apart, students on Friday also organised a street corner protest. A student protester added that the VC “got his chance to play out his whims” as there were no students on campus during the pandemic. “Had the campus been open, we would have shown him our power.” The SFI has also called a protest march in Santiniketan against the suspension of the two students — Sow happens to be its unit leader — on Saturday afternoon. CPM youth wing DYFI will also organise protests in all 19 blocks of Birbhum over this weekend. “First professor Bhattacharyya (was suspended) and now these two students — all three went against the VC’s move to saffronise the campus,” said Wasif Iqbal, SFI district secretary. “The VC proved how the BJP is desperately trying to kill the voice of protests.” Varsity sources said the VC and officials close to him were “aggressive in penalising the economics professor for the role he played in revealing how the VC had insulted Nobel laureate Amartya Sen”. A teacher said that on Wednesday the VC had summoned teaching and non-teaching staff of the economics department and asked them to identify the students who took part in the protests against Bhattacharyya's suspension. Sources in Visva-Bharati said that they were planning to suspend more students who had joined the protest against Bhattacharyya’s suspension. Authorities reportedly also sacked a temporary employee of economics department for not resisting students’ attempt to “forcibly breaking seal/lock of the chamber of a particular professor”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-232
16-01-2021||West Bengal||7,223 active cases on eve of jab day||Bengal on Friday reported a drop in total active cases for the 81st day on the trot since Vijaya Dashami, an improvement of nearly 81 per cent during this time, to 7,223. The state on Friday, the eve of the first phase of the nation-wide vaccination rollout, logged 656 Covid-19 recoveries, 623 new infections and 16 deaths, five from Calcutta. Bengal’s Covid recovery rate has risen for 85 days straight, from 87.44, to 96.94 per cent, leading the national rate by 0.43 per cent now. Calcutta High Court had intervened with instructions against crowding over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. A similar set of the court’s instructions came ahead of New Year celebrations. Both times, the number of infections showed that the court’s instructions were effective. “Friday was Day 10 for someone who got infected on January 6…We have managed to see off the Christmas-New Year spell of revelry without a worsening of the outbreak,” said a minister, calling the phase “incredible”. It is between days six and 10 of the infection that most cases get detected. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.43 per cent now, having improved steadily over 56 days, from 8.27. “That is a fairly definite indicator that the spread is shrinking in the state,” added the minister, crediting “excellent pandemic management”. In 81 days since Dashami on October 26, the state reported nearly 2.37 lakh recoveries and 2.1 lakh new infections. Overall, Bengal’s 5.64 lakh cases includes nearly 5.47 lakh recoveries and 10,026 deaths. The state attributed 8,411 deaths or 83.9 per cent of the toll to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate is now 1.77 compared to the 1.44 per cent nationally. Bengal’s total test count, including 30,560 tests on Friday, is over 75.91 lakh now, at 84,346 tests per million people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-232
16-01-2021||West Bengal||Talk it over with state: HC to Visva-Bharati on boundary wall issue||Calcutta High Court on Friday observed that Visva-Bharati authorities have the right to build any structure on its premises but if a dispute arose, the varsity should settle the issue by holding discussions with the state administration. The court made the observation while disposing of a PIL filed by advocate Ramprasad Sarkar relating to the construction of a controversial boundary wall on the varsity’s Pous mela ground in Santiniketan. The division bench headed by Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan observed: “If any dispute arises on any act of (the) university, the authorities concerned can easily settle the issue after discussion with the state administration. There is no need to spoil the time of the judiciary by filing PILs over the issue.” The court’s observation comes in the wake of a committee report filed in the wake of a clash over the wall last July. Many people, mainly local residents, allegedly ransacked the varsity campus and broke the main gateway to the university in protest, claiming that the wall was destroying Rabindranath’s Tagore’s idea of an open university. University authorities had to stop the construction. Later, following a PIL, the high court formed a three-member committee to visit the area, settle the dispute and file a report before the court. Friday’s high court observation was passed on the basis of the report. During the hearing, Chief Justice Radhakrishnan remarked: “What is the necessity of the government if the judiciary has to settle the dispute. Each and every such dispute should be settled by sitting with the state authorities.” Contempt case In response to a contempt petition filed by Visva-Bharati professor Shruti Bandyopadhyay in Calcutta High Court, the division bench of Justice Saugata Bhattacharyya and Justice Soumen Sen on Friday directed the university registrar to appear before court and clarify why authorities had failed to obey the court’s directive of paying the salary due to the petitioning teacher. Bandyopadhyay, Manipuri dance teacher of Sangit Bhavana, joined the varsity in 2014. In June 2020, she was told by the authorities that she had been erroneously paid over Rs 21,000 per month as increment and asked the teacher to refund the excess. When she moved court against the varsity’s decision, her salary was stopped. The high court in December last year directed the varsity to disburse her pending salary by December 31 and keep the “excess” in a separate bank account till the case was finally settled. Varsity authorities did not obey the court’s directive, leading the teacher to move a contempt petition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-232
16-01-2021||West Bengal||First jabs for grassroots health workers||Grassroots health-care facilitators have been given priority by various district administrations across the state while drawing up the list of beneficiaries of the first phase of the Covid-19 vaccination process that begins on Saturday. Even though there is no specific advisory from the Centre to give priority to these workers, except the advice to consider all frontline health workers as “first recipients”, district authorities have drawn up a plan to inoculate community health workers, including Accredited Social Health Activists (Asha), group D staff of rural hospitals and ICDS workers when the vaccination begins on Saturday. “We will vaccinate those health workers who work at the grassroots level, because they work directly at the rural level in close contact with the people,” said deputy CMOH-III of Basirhat, Shyamal Kumar Biswas. Sources in several districts indicated at most centres, around 50 per cent of the beneficiaries would be rural or ground-level health workers as they “have been on the frontlines of the war against Covid since March”. Welcoming the government’s move, an Asha worker in Nadia said: “For the past 10 months, we have been bravely working on the ground making people aware of Covid protocols, visiting containment zones and even taking care of the affected. It is good officials have realised our need.” In November, the Centre had advised the state to prepare a database of health workers who should receive the vaccine on a priority basis. In Bengal, district administrations have drawn up the lists and registered beneficiaries to include health workers at all levels in the first phase. Eventually, a majority of the districts decided to give precedence to the health workers at the grassroots level in the initial stage. “We have prepared the list of beneficiaries in such a way that Asha workers, ancillary nurses, midwives, and ICDS workers are vaccinated first. They will constitute more than 50 per cent of registered beneficiaries in the first phase,” Biswas added. Explaining the approach, a senior health official in South 24-Parganas said: “The objective is to build immunity among the health-care facilitators before the vaccination of those beyond frontline workers begins. Once they are vaccinated, the antibody response will develop in them and they will hopefully become immune to novel coronavirus. The success of our country’s mass immunisation plan for Covid largely depends on these community health workers,” a senior health official said. While the state fine-tuned the roll-out of the vaccination process on Friday, sources said in a few districts, a section of health workers, who had been registered as beneficiaries, were reluctant to take the jab in the first phase. “It appears these health workers are reluctant to take the vaccine fearing possible side-effects. According to the protocol, the vaccination is a matter of solicitation, so we cannot put pressure on them,” said a health department official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-232
16-01-2021||West Bengal||Wife of jailed Rose Valley boss arrested||The CBI on Friday arrested Subhra Kundu, a former actress and wife of jailed Rose Valley owner Gautam Kundu, amid murmurs that the central agency was trying to fast-track probe into several Ponzi scams in Bengal ahead of the state polls. The Rose Valley group has been under the scanner of central agencies for allegedly running multiple illegal deposit mobilisation schemes to cheat thousands of investors. Subhra’s arrest comes five years after the ED arrested Gautam in connection with its probe into the Rs 17,000 crore Rose Valley scam. She was arrested two days after former Trinamul Rajya Sabha member and businessman K.D. Singh in Delhi in connection with an alleged money laundering case involving his Alchemist Group. A CBI team reached Subhra’s south Calcutta condominium on Friday afternoon armed with a tip-off that she was back in Calcutta from Mumbai barely 48 hours ago. “She was requested to participate in a question-answer session and asked to share information on recent diversion of funds from different accounts of Rose Valley,” said a source. Subhra, who acted in some movies produced by Rose Valley, is the director of two sister companies of the Rose Valley group. Some CBI officers said they found evidence of recent transactions from accounts of these two companies, now shut. “The amount involved several hundreds of crores, and none of the staff of the two companies could give a proper explanation,” said a source. Subhra, CBI officers said, was arrested after a two-hour interrogation after she allegedly failed to provide any satisfactory answers. She was later brought to the CBI office in CGO Complex in Salt Lake and would be produced before a court in Bhubaneswar on Saturday. On her way to the CBI office, Subhra refused to reply to journalists on whether she had been framed. Trinamul questioned the timing of her arrest. “Why was she arrested now? Her husband was arrested several years back,” said Trinamul MP Saugata Roy. “The CBI is a caged parrot dancing to the tunes of the Centre.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-232
16-01-2021||West Bengal||Village in Mahananda Wildlife Sanctuary set to receive solar power||Residents of Laltongbusty, a tiny hamlet located on the lap of the Teesta and adjacent to the Mahananda Wildlife Sanctuary, are set to receive electricity for the first time. The West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (WBSEDCL) will use solar power to illuminate the village that was developed 30 years ago, said sources. The state-run power company has already conducted a survey for providing electricity to the village that is around 25km from here. The estimated cost of the project was around Rs 7.55 crore. “As implementation of the project was taking time, it has been decided that the WBSEDCL will install solar panels at Laltongbusty to provide power to households,” state tourism minister Gautam Deb said here on Friday. The village comes under Deb’s Assembly segment, Dabgram-Fulbari. According to him, WBSEDCL was facing difficulties to electrify the village as the employees have to reach the spot through the dense forest. “It was also planned that underground cables would be laid for the power supply. But for the project, approval was required from the state forest department. Altogether, there had been some delay and hence, the decision to install solar panels was taken. It will largely help in expediting the project now and we believe the villagers will soon have power supply at their homes,” the minister said. In total, there are 45 houses at the village that is considered as one of the remote forest villages in Jalpaiguri district. Laltongbusty is in the Dabgram 1 panchayat. The villagers eke out a living by selling dairy products in Siliguri. Champey Mukhia, a resident who has been staying at Laltongbusty since the eighties, has said elephant depredation and attacks by other wild animals is a common menace that the villagers often face. “The attacks have forced us to change our occupation from agriculture to dairy farming. Almost every hut has cattle and we have to commute to Salugara (located 15km away) and some other prominent sweet shops of Siliguri for supply of milk,” Mukhia said. “There was a similar initiative (installation of solar power) taken up with the help of private operators at the village about 10 years ago. But eventually, it did not work.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-232
16-01-2021||West Bengal||TMC joins wage-hike chorus||Trinamul leaders in the north Bengal tea belt on Friday held a seven-hour sit-in demonstration across most tea gardens of the region over demands, including immediate hike of workers’ wages and the salaries of the staff and sub-staff associated with the sector. The demonstration under the banner of Cha Bagan Trinamul Congress Mazdoor Union came on the heels of a public meeting by the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) — the trade union backed by the RSS — in the Dooars where it announced it had started foraying in the tea sector and intends to build its support base. “We demonstrated in almost every tea garden of the region. We urged tea companies to increase in the wages and salaries immediately and also fulfil some other demands like extending the retirement age from 58 to 60 years,” said Prabhat Mukherjee, vice-president of the union. As state elections draw near, all political parties and their trade union fronts are focussing on the tea sector of north Bengal. Each is trying to galvanise support in its own way by flagging pending issues of tea workers, which include wage revision. In north Bengal, votes of tea workers and their families decide the results of at least 15 Assembly seats. During the past few months, most trade unions other than the ones backed by Trinamul have intensified their activities over the wage and some other demands. A number of unions backed by other parties have flayed the Mamata Banerjee government for not being able to fix the minimum wage rate of tea workers — the daily wage rate is Rs 176 now — even though the initiative was taken six years back through formation of a committee. “Even though the state initiated a housing project for tea workers...wage revision is an issue that can turn tables in favour of any political party. It is evident that Trinamul does not want to lag behind other parties on this,” said a political observer on Friday’s protest. The state labour department has convened a tripartite meeting in Siliguri on January 20. “Representatives of tea trade unions and tea planters’ associations will be there at the meeting,” said Md Rizwan, the additional labour commissioner of north Bengal. Senior tea trade union leaders pointed out that it was unlikely that the state would be able to fix and announce the minimum wage rate before the elections. So most unions now want the state to act as a facilitator for wage revision through tripartite talks. “Each union wants to take the credit of flagging the issue and seek support for its political party from the tea population. Trinamul was silent so far on the issue and was playing the development card to draw support. However, it seems that trade union leaders of the party have realised the need to be vocal on the wage issue, because it is the planters and not the state who have to shell out the money for the hike,” the leader said. The demonstration that commenced at 8am, continued till 3pm. The agitation, however, did not affect the industry much because production has halted in gardens because of the lean season. Activities like irrigation and pruning got hit to an extent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-232
16-01-2021||West Bengal||Cops rescue women, find them jobs||A group of police officers here went beyond the call of duty and arranged jobs for two women who hail from a closed tea estate of the district and were headed to Dubai with an “agent”, suspected to be a trafficker, who had promised them jobs. This police initiative, taken at a time when the Mamata Banerjee government is trying to prove that there are job opportunities in Bengal and that people need not to migrate to other places, has earned appreciation from many. Sources said a police officer had received information on January 12 that the two women, both in their 20s and school dropouts, had contacted an agent who assured them of jobs in Dubai with hefty salaries. “Acting swiftly, the officer started gathering information on the situation. He learnt that the women would take a train, accompanied by the agent, for New Delhi from the neighbouring Jalpaiguri district on January 12 itself. He reached there with a team and rescued both the women. Milan Tamang, the agent who is suspected to be a trafficker, was arrested,” said a senior police officer. When the police personnel spoke to the duo, they admitted that they had been heading for Dubai where Tamang had promised them some jobs. “We realised that both the women are from very poor homes and were desperate to make some earnings for their families,” the officer added. Probe over, the police team could have withdrawn from the case. Instead, they immediately started scouting for possible jobs in the district for these two women so that they did not fall in similar traps in the future. Soon, the police team came to know of jobs at a private resort in the Alipurduar district. They contacted the resort owner who agreed to provide jobs to the women for a monthly salary of Rs 6,000 each. On Friday, both the women joined their new jobs as trainees in the hospitality sector. “We have heard their story and have decided to engage them. Both of them will be trained in hospitality management. They have also been provided with accommodation. We hope they will prove themselves in their new role,” said a resort representative. The proactive efforts of the police to help these women drew appreciation from the girls’ families and also from people in the area. “We want to stop human trafficking and will encourage private entrepreneurs of the region to reach out to the local population to offer them suitable employment,” said a senior police officer. “We are there to extend any possible help to them,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-232
16-01-2021||West Bengal||Dad killed over dinner argument||An argument over “what’s for dinner” turned fatal on Thursday night at a village in Falakata block of Alipurduar as a former CRPF jawan bludgeoned his septuagenarian father to death. Police sources said that around 10.30pm, former CRPF jawan Pankaj Hore argued with his father Subhash over the dinner menu at their home in Palashtali village under Falakata police station. While Subhash wanted fish for dinner, Pankaj insisted on chicken. As the fish-versus-chicken debate got more heated, Pankaj suddenly got furious. He picked up a wooden plank and hit his father on the head. Subhash fell on the ground. Neighbours rushed the old man to the super-specialty hospital in Falakata where he died soon after. Some other villagers in the meantime detained Pankaj and thrashed him. Some people had also informed the police, which arrived and arrested Pankaj. Later at night, Pankaj's brother Dipankar filed a complaint with the police, based on which a case was registered against him. On Friday morning, Pankaj was produced at a local court in Alipurduar and was sent to judicial custody for seven days. Brown sugar arrests In Malda, the Englishbazar police arrested two persons and seized 350 grams of brown sugar (a derivative of opium) and around Rs 11 lakh in cash from them from near Loton Mosque of Mahadipur on Thursday night. The duo was nabbed when they were waiting in an SUV with the cash to allegedly collect some more narcotic substances. They have been identified as Prasenjit Ghosh and Naserul Islam, both residents of villages located under Baishnabnagar police station of the district. Another person with them managed to scamper away, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-232
16-01-2021||West Bengal||Reshuffle in Malda district Trinamul||The Trinamul Congress leadership has brought about a number of significant changes in the party’s Malda district committee by inducting a number of old and new leaders. The move, observers said, is an attempt to pass a message of inclusiveness across the tiers of the party ahead of the Assembly elections and also try to strike a balance among rival lobbies. Sources in the party said Subrata Bakshi, the state Trinamul chief, and some other leaders had held a meeting with core committee members of Malda district Trinamul in Calcutta on Friday. Six of the eight core committee members were present at the meeting. During the talks, it was decided to put Krishnendu Narayan Choudhury, a former state minister, in the post of the chairman of the district committee, instead of Moazzem Hossain. Hossain, who is also a core committee member, has been offered the post of a vice-president. Nihar Ranjan Ghosh, the Englishbazar MLA who joined Trinamul four years ago and is an arch political rival of Choudhury, was included in the core committee. “The party has also decided to nominate Sabina Yeasmin, the MLA of Mothabari and Hemanta Sharma, a close aide to district party chief Mausam Noor as two new coordinators of district Trinamul. Their inclusion has increased the number of coordinators to five,” said a source. While talking to the state leaders, Noor, who is also a Rajya Sabha member, had reportedly told them that she intended to discontinue as the district president. “She was, however, asked to continue in the post until the Assembly elections are over,” the source added. So far, Trinamul’s performance in the Assembly polls has been poor in the district. Also, the surge in BJP’s support base in the past couple of years came up as yet another concern for the party. Till now, Mamata Banerjee’s party won only one Assembly seat (in 2011), and that too, with the Congress’s support. In the 2016 polls, the party could not win even one seat in the district even though Malda has over 50 per cent minority population, a vote bank that has always helped Trinamul. Although Choudhury, the former minister, remained reticent about his new responsibility and said the reshuffle-proposal would be confirmed by Mamata Banerjee, his arch rival Ghosh and his supporters thanked the chief minister for his inclusion in the core committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-232
16-01-2021||West Bengal||Research starts on tribes, their languages||The Centre for Studies in Local Languages & Cultures at North Bengal University has launched a project to carry out researches on some of the primitive tribes in the region and prepare monographs for the conservation of their language and cultural heritage. “We have planned to prepare monographs on different languages spoken by some communities, including a few primitive tribes in north Bengal. Some of these are endangered languages spoken by communities like Dhimal, Toto, Mech and Rajbanshi,” said Koushik Joardar, the director of the centre. Monographs are detailed documents which carry illustrative and other details of any language and culture. For this purpose, the varsity has planned to host workshops where faculty members and experts would congregate to provide inputs for the monographs. On Friday, a three-day workshop commenced at the centre to collect details of the language spoken by Dhimals, a community that dwells in the Naxalbari block of Siliguri. Linguists, researchers, faculty members from different departments and some members of the community are attending the workshop. “After the workshop, we will prepare a monograph on the Dhimal language and culture. It would be an important document for the community in future,” Joardar said. The experts will also visit respective localities where the communities live. “During the study, we will try to find out why these languages are endangered. There will be comparative studies, vis-à-vis, the status of other languages, along with geographical status and other details of each of these communities,” said a source. The initiative has been welcomed by members of the community. “We have been seeking the Scheduled Tribe status. The monograph, we feel, can act as an important document for us,” said Garjan Mallick, a senior member of the Dhimal community.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-233
16-01-2021||West Bengal||Musician who beat blindness dies||Paras Gazmer lost his eyesight and his face was distorted at the age of one-and-a-half-years after a bout of measles but it did not stop him from belting out super hit songs like Sajha ko Gham Dhubi Sakyo (the evening sun has set). The life journey of Gazmer set, never to rise again, in the early hours of Friday at Darjeeling district hospital but not before leaving an indelible mark in Nepali music. He was 58. Smita Sunuwar, niece of the musician, said Gazmer had been suffering from diabetes, thyroid and high blood pressure for long. “He complained of uneasiness last evening and we rushed him to the hospital,” said Smita. Gazmer, a musician, composer, lyricist and singer, all rolled in one, had told The Telegraph in 2002: “It is the anguish of being denied the gift of vision to see the wonders of the world that find expression in my songs.” The singer who was born at Tindharia was sent to Salvation Army (blind school) in Kalimpong at the age of seven and it was there he found inspiration to take music lessons from his seniors. He never took formal training in music. A guitar player, Gazmer took the music scene by storm with two successive albums — Sajha Ko Gham (the evening sun) in 1993 and Mero Bhagya (my destiny) — with the latter having been nominated for the best Nepali album in 1999 by the Grihalaxami Association, Darjeeling. Even though Gazmer would sing on stage, he did not record his songs in his own voice even though he would pen and compose them. “I’ve done everything in the albums but just could not sing songs which truly reflected my feelings,” he rued. Gazmer, however, found solace in the fact that he could bring in another blind singer, Iswar Kafley, from Kathmandu, to sing the title song of Mero Bhagya. “Only he could have felt the pain and bring out the pathos and passion in the songs,” Gazmer had earlier said. While on stage, his singing and lyrics would invariably bring tears to the audience and most of his songs spoke of the pains of the differently-abled and society at large. Paeans and condolences from a cross section of Nepali society scattered across the world flowed through the day. Darjeeling MP Raju Bista, MLA Neeraj Zimba, Anit Thapa, chairman, board of administrators, Gorkhaland Territorial Administration, leaders of both faction of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, Binay Tamang and Bimal Gurung, and host of celebrities remembered the singer. Gazmer’s funeral will be held at Darjeeling on Saturday noon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-233
