17-01-2021||West Bengal||Shiv Sena to contest in West Bengal assembly elections||The Shiv Sena has decided to contest the upcoming assembly elections in West Bengal, party MP Sanjay Raut said on Sunday. He said the decision to contest the polls has been taken after holding discussions with Maharashtra Chief Minister and Sena president Uddhav Thackeray. "So, here is the much-awaited update. After discussions with Party Chief Shri Uddhav Thackeray, Shiv Sena has decided to contest the West Bengal Assembly Elections. We are reaching Kolkata soon...!! Jai Hind, Jai Bangla!" Raut tweeted. He, however, didn't specify the number of seats the Sena will contest in West Bengal. Elections to the 294-member WB assembly are due in April-May this year. The Sena is in power in Maharashtra along with the NCP and Congress under the aegis of Maha Vikas Aghadi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-230
17-01-2021||West Bengal||On jab day, 609 fresh Covid infections||Bengal, on Day One of Covid-19 vaccination, logged 666 recoveries, 609 new infections and 15 deaths, including two from Calcutta. The numbers dragged the total of active cases down for the 82nd consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami on October 26 last year to 7,151 now from 37,190 82 days ago. In 82 days, the state reported over 2.37 lakh recoveries and 2.1 lakh new infections. Currently, Bengal has 3.4 per cent of the national total of active cases. Recovery rate has risen for 86 days straight, from 87.44, to 96.96 per cent, bettering the national rate by 0.42 per cent. Calcutta High Court’s instructions against crowding, which proved effective in preventing the pandemic from getting worse over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath, also reined in infections around New Year celebrations, a minister said. “Saturday was Day 10 for someone who got infected on January 7…There has been no spike in the corresponding period for the Christmas-New Year revelry. With vaccination taking off, we could be on the verge of being out of the woods,” he said. It is between days six and 10 of the infection that most cases get detected. The state’s Covid-19 total of 5.65 lakh cases includes nearly 5.48 lakh recoveries and 10,041 deaths. Bengal’s mortality rate is now 1.77, compared to the 1.44 per cent nationally. “Daily toll has come down drastically over the past month or so, down from 50-60 to 20 or less, but mortality rate has not improved as the number of new infections found daily has also reduced sharply,” said the minister. The state attributed 8,424 deaths or 83.9 per cent of the total toll to comorbidities.The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.41 per cent now, having improved steadily from the 8.27, 57 days ago. Bengal’s total test count — including 30,011 tests on Saturday — is over 76.21 lakh now, at 84,679 tests per million people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-230
17-01-2021||West Bengal||Varsity to state govt: Measure Sen’s land||Visva-Bharati on Saturday asked the Bengal government to measure the area of Pratichi, the family home of Nobel laureate economist Amartya Sen, to permanently resolve the land “controversy”. “It is true there is an allegation against Amartya Sen and several other persons over encroachment of land. We are not claiming anything now. But we will request the state government’s land department to intervene and resolve the controversy permanently. It will be clear if the land occupied by Amartya Sen is measured. In that case, we, on behalf of Visva-Bharati, and representatives of Sen will be present on the spot,” Ashok Mahato, the varsity’s officiating registrar, told a media conference. “If there is any additional land occupied by him (Sen), legal action will be taken,” added Mahato, who also looks after the estate department of the varsity. Mahato and a few other officials called the news meet on Saturday to clarify their stand on the ongoing controversy. “We calculated around 77 acres of the varsity’s 1,130 acres were illegally occupied by several persons,” he said. Asked to confirm if there was any encroachment by Sen’s family and quantify the size of land apparently encroached upon, Mahato said: “I can’t tell you right now... as there are some legal obligations. Sen’s lawyer has already sent us a letter and he might take legal measures.” He added that the varsity was yet to communicate with Sen on the issue. Many in Santiniketan questioned the varsity’s intentions. “This (intervention by the department) is a ridiculous suggestion as the land department never measures land till there is a specific complaint. It is surprising that the VC commented at a meeting and officials listed the name of Sen as an encroacher without informing him (the economist). The first information should have been sent to him,” said a senior varsity professor. Several residents of Santiniketan believe the varsity convened the media conference as vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty is under pressure because of Sen’s global standing. Visva-Bharati on Saturday claimed that economics professor Sudipta Bhattacharyya was suspended for launching a malicious “smear campaign” against one of his colleagues. Asked whether service rules prevented a teacher from carrying out a campaign on any issue, Mahato said: “I don’t have the details…. There will be a committee to probe the issue.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-231
17-01-2021||West Bengal||‘Best shot for someone with cancer’||Ranaghat subdivisional hospital head clerk Ashis Kumar Naha, 52, a patient of chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML), received his first shot of Covishield on Saturday as a frontline health worker in a designated Covid hospital. He told why it was a “big relief”. Excerpts: Frankly, Saturday came to me as a big relief when I stood in the queue to take the jab that is expected to protect us from Covid-19. Since 2016 I have been suffering from a special type of blood cancer and as a health worker the risk of contracting the infection is big for me as my immunity is already low. The lockdown and subsequent lack of transport were a problem for me as a road accident in 2010 had left me with 55 per cent physical disability. But as a health department worker at a designated Covid hospital, I have never shied away from my professional obligations despite my medical vulnerabilities because I am aware that there is a battle at hand. At the same time, aware of my already compromised immunity, I have all along been waiting and hoping for the arrival of a vaccine against Covid-19. There are colleagues who are reluctant to take the jab as they doubt the vaccine’s efficacy. For me, the jab is a big relief. I hope this is the beginning of the end of Covid.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-231
17-01-2021||West Bengal||‘Tense before but glad now’||Gynaecologist Keya Bagchi, 45, who received the Covishield jab on Saturday at the Bolpur subdivisional hospital, told that her vaccination followed “months of anxiety”. Excerpts: “I was worried ever since the Centre announced that doctors would be among the first recipients (of the jab). My husband, an anesthesiologist, I and our 13-year-old daughter deliberated whether to take the jabs. Last evening (Friday), I received a text confirming my vaccination on Saturday. We passed a sleepless night. This morning (Saturday), I was horrified to read that 23 recipients of a Covid vaccine in Norway died of complications. To allay my fears, I got in touch with my friends in the UK in the second phase of vaccination. Finally, I got my shot. The next 30 minutes were tense, but I was fine. I went to a staff lounge, where the mood was light, and I met other vaccinated colleagues. Now I am glad I took this step, as my colleagues thanked me for taking part in this vital step of our country.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-231
17-01-2021||West Bengal||Centre sent fewer vaccine vials: Mamata Banerjee||Mamata Banerjee on Saturday told frontline Covid warriors at 207 Covid-19 vaccination centres that the state government could not vaccinate all 5.8 lakh health workers in Bengal at one go as the Centre did not send enough Covishield vaccines for two doses. “The central government did not provide sufficient vaccines and I have requested them to send us the required consignment,” said the chief minister during a videoconference session where she spoke to those present in the vaccination centres on Saturday. Senior government officials later told The Telegraph that the state uploaded a list of 5.8 lakh health workers of both state-run and private healthcare establishments, who were to be administered vaccine in the first phase, on the Centre’s server. The Centre so far sent 6.89 lakh Covishield vaccines and directed the state to preserve the second dose of vaccines for those who get the first dose. “In this scenario, we will take up vaccination of 3.44 lakh healthcare workers with the available vaccines. That’s why the chief minister tried to explain why all 5.8 lakh health workers could not be vaccinated from the beginning,” said a senior government official. Another official explained that the state was expecting a supply of the next lot of vaccines by next week. On the Day One of the vaccination drive, Mamata stressed again that she felt all people in the state should get vaccines free of cost before adding the state would provide free vaccines if the Centre didn't. With elections nearing, the Mamata Banerjee government wants to carry out the vaccination drive in Bengal without a hitch. The performance on day one, however, was not as expected, said a source. In Bengal, it was planned that 20,700 health workers would be administered vaccines on the first day from 207 vaccination camps but primary reports pointed out that only around 15,500 persons received shots on Saturday. “The performance varied from district to district,” said a source before adding that the final count was likely to change as updates were still coming from districts. For instance, Birbhum had 12 camps where 1,200 health workers were supposed to be vaccinated, but only 658 turned up. “We think some health workers were fearing adverse side-effects,” said a health official of Birbhum. A senior state government official said if many health workers were reluctant to get the shot, they could be counselled. “Fear is common in the case of a new vaccine. I recall decades ago how we had to work hard to make people believe that polio drops did not cause trouble. The chief minister has also asked us to ensure that nobody spreads rumours during vaccination,” said an official. Next week, vaccination will be taken up on Monday, Tuesday, Friday and Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-231
17-01-2021||West Bengal||Ram temple funds minus VHP: TMC||Some Trinamul leaders in north Bengal said on Saturday that they too would contribute for the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya, but added that they would send money directly to the bank account of the temple trust. Their stand was aired a day after the Sangh parivar launched a fundraising campaign and suggested that the opportunity would be used to carry out an unofficial poll survey. Accusing the Sangh Parivar of using religion for political dividends, K.K. Kalyani, the district Trinamul president of Jalpaiguri, said: “We, too, want to donate for the temple... But there is no reason to pay the donation to Vishwa Hindu Parishad and some other outfits that have launched a so-called drive and intend to mix religion with politics.” The Trinamul leader’s assertion was seen as an attempt to prevent the saffron ecosystem from reaping political dividends from the temple fundraiser ahead of the crucial state polls. “The donation should be sent directly to the official bank account of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust formed by the Centre under the directives of the Supreme Court, and we would encourage people to do so," he added. On Friday, the temple trust launched the nationwide funds drive — asking for Rs 10 minimum and above from people as contribution for the temple’s construction, with coupons against cash — and the VHP is mandated to implement it to continue till February 27 or Magh Purnima. Several leaders of the saffron ecosystem had said they would use the fundraiser to assess the BJP’s poll prospects in Bengal besides an extensive outreach. In Bengal, with elections drawing near, the fundraiser was launched with specific directives to the Sangh parivar foot soldiers that they should collect basic information of the donors. A senior Trinamul leader in Siliguri said that they would not let the saffron ecosystem play the temple card. “It is a temple of the common people. Why should we allow the BJP and its associates take the credit for collecting funds for the temple? We will always encourage people to donate directly through bank transfer,” he said. Sources in Trinamul and political observers said that Bengal’s ruling party decided to take the stand primarily because of two reasons. On one hand, Trinamul is trying to prove that it is not against the Ram temple, said a source, and on the other hand, does not intend to let the saffron camp gain leverage from this fundraiser, an observer opined. VHP leaders, however, said that they would continue the fundraiser officially announced by the trust. “There are many people who find it convenient to pay in cash against coupons. That is why we have launched the drive and will continue it according to schedule,” said Krishnendu Guha, a spokesperson of the VHP in Jalpaiguri. Task force The Jalpaiguri district Trinamul unit has constituted a task force of doctors and prominent leaders of the party to look into cases where the Swasthya Sathi free health insurance card provided by the Mamata Banerjee government is not accepted by private nursing homes. “The task force will try to resolve the problems in consultation with the state health department,” said district Trinamul president Kalyani. Party insiders said the initiative was taken to thwart the BJP that dubbed the card “useless”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-231
17-01-2021||West Bengal||Rose Valley boss wife’s bail plea shot down||Subhra Kundu, wife of the jailed owner of Rose Valley group Gautam Kundu, was produced before a Bidhnanagar court on Saturday where bail plea was turned down, a day after her arrest by the CBI from her upscale south Calcutta condominium. Arrested in connection with the multi-crore Ponzi scam for which her husband had been arrested five years ago, Subhra was sent to Bhubaneswar jail on a two-day transit remand. A former actress, Subhra will be produced before a court in Bhubaneswar again after two days. Though many people cheated in the Rose Valley scam were from Bengal, the main case was started at Bhubaneswar by the CBI. Sources in the CBI said two more directors of the company and another member of the Kundu family also attached to the family business were under scanner and would soon be summoned for examination. CBI sleuths said they were trying to wrap up the case by completing the probe. “Though the case is old, it is pertinent to say that we are in the last leg of the probe. Some (company) directors who have not been examined properly will now be called very soon,” said a senior CBI officer. Two Trinamul MPs Sudip Bandopadhyay and Tapas Pal, were arrested by the CBI in 2017 in connection with the scam. The CBI also recently arrested former Trinamul Rajya Sabha member and industrialist K.D. Singh in connection with a separate money laundering case. The fact that the central agency, which had been probing these cases for the past few years, has swung into action recently has given rise to speculations that the activities are “politically motivated”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-231
17-01-2021||West Bengal||Two leaders in north Bengal drop out of the list of vaccinated people on Day One||Two prominent political leaders in north Bengal volunteered to drop out of the list of vaccinated people on the Day One of the drive citing they would get the jab when it is available for people at large. Anit Thapa, chairman of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) from the Binay Tamang faction of the Morcha, which has been a Trinamul ally since 2017, had recently announced he would be the first to take the vaccine in the hills. Thapa reached Kalimpong district hospital on Saturday but then announced that he would get vaccinated only when it becomes available for the public. “The doctors and medical experts told me that the vaccine was for health workers and there was no need to cast any doubt on the vaccine,” said Thapa, before explaining that he had earlier planned to be the first to take the shot to build confidence among health workers and dispel vaccine-related fears among the masses. On his change of heart, Thapa said: “Instead of me, one more health worker can get vaccinated. The vaccine has been approved by the WHO and by the government of India.” In Alipurduar, Trinamul MLA Sourav Chakraborty also declined to take the jab though he had been listed as the first person supposed to receive the shot in the district on Saturday. Alipurduar district health officials claimed that MLA Chakraborty had been included in the list as he was the chairman of Rogi Kalyan Samity. But some others said that his name was put on the list because he uses the prefix Dr. However, Chakraborty is not a physician but a PhD. Contacted, the MLA said he was in no mood to take the vaccine now. “I refused the vaccine. I will take it along with the common public,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-231
17-01-2021||West Bengal||TMC puts Biplab Mitra as chair of the district committee ahead of polls||The state Trinamul leadership put Biplab Mitra, a veteran party leader of South Dinajpur, as chair of the district committee ahead of polls. Mitra replaces another veteran Shankar Chakraborty, who has been inducted in the state committee as a vice-president, said sources. Mitra, Trinamul district party chief since 1998, was removed from the post in 2019 when BJP won the Balurghat Lok Sabha seat. He briefly joined the BJP then but returned to Trinamul in 2020. A party insider said Mitra’s strong organisational base would be of great help. “I will put in all efforts...Many (members) are inactive or have walked out of the party. My first task is to bring them in, give them new responsibilities and work together to secure Trinamul’s win in all six Assembly seats of the district,” said Mitra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-231
