18-01-2021||West Bengal||Stones hurled on BJP supporters in South Calcutta||Tension prevailed in south Calcutta on Monday evening after unidentified miscreants, carrying TMC flags, hurled bricks and stones at BJP activists when they were conducting a mega roadshow near Rashbehari Avenue and Charu Market area. The roadshow, which commenced at Tollygunge tram depot, was set to culminate at Rashbehari Avenue -- often referred to as the backyard of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. According to police sources, as the rally, led by state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh and senior leader Suvendu Adhikari, proceeded toward Charu Market, miscreants threw bricks and stones at the entourage, injuring some of the saffron party activists. Infuriated over the attack, BJP workers chased the miscreants, who by then had fled to nearby bylanes, the officer said. The saffron camp activists then ransacked a few motorcycles and shops in the area. A huge police contingent was rushed to the spot to control the incensed activists. State minister Aroop Biswas has also reached the troubled area to take stock of the situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-229
18-01-2021||West Bengal||Mamata to contest from Nandigram in 2021 Assembly Elections||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee kicked off the Trinamool Congress's campaign for the assembly elections on Monday, announcing that she will contest the polls from Nandigram -- a political gambit aimed at the BJP's Suvendu Adhikari who won the seat in 2016 as a TMC candidate, while also retroceding to the land movement that catapulted her to power. Addressing a rally in Nandigram, Banerjee said she is not worried about those jumping to other parties as to when TMC was formed none of them was there, in a reference to the party leaders, including Adhikari, who has joined the BJP. Banerjee said these leaders left the party to protect the money "they have looted" in the last few years. "I have always started my campaign for the assembly polls from Nandigram. It is a lucky place for me. So this time, I feel that I should contest the assembly polls from here. I would request our state party president Subrata Bakshi to approve my name from this seat," Banerjee said. Bakshi, who was on the podium, swiftly accepted the request. The agitation in Nandigram in the Purba Medinipur district over land acquisition in the late 2000s catapulted Banerjee to power in 2011, ending the 34 years of Left rule. However, Adhikari after switching over to the BJP has been alleging that the chief minister has forgotten the people of the area that helped her get to the top post. Banerjee is at present the MLA from Bhawanipore in South Calcutta. "If possible, I will contest from both Bhawanipore and Nandigram. In case, I am unable to contest from Bhawanipore, someone else would contest," she said. Banerjee said she would never allow "some people" to sell out Bengal to the BJP. "Those who have left the part, have my best wishes. Let them become president and vice president of the country. But don't you dare to sell out Bengal to the BJP. As long as I am alive, I won't allow them to sell out my state to the BJP," she said. The assembly elections in the state are likely in April-May.  Mamata Banerjee on Monday declared she will contest the upcoming assembly election from Nandigram, as she took her battle for West Bengal to the home turf of poitical heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari, who recently quit the TMC and joined the BJP. That Banerjee chose Nandigram to make the big announcement reflects the TMC supremo's determination to take the BJP, which has launched a spirited campaign to unseat her after a decade-long stint in power, head on. Addressing a rally here, Banerjee said she is not worried about those joining rival parties as they were hardly areound when the TMC was formed. Banerjee said these leaders left the ruling party to protect the money "they have looted" in the last few years. "I have always started my campaign for the assembly polls from Nandigram. It is a lucky place for me. So this time I feel that I should contest the assembly polls from here. I request our state party president Subrata Bakshi to approve my name from this seat," Banerjee said. Bakshi, who was on the podium, swiftly accepted the request. Nandigram was the scene of massive public protest against "forcible" land acquisition by the then Left Front government for creation of a special economic zone. The protracted and often bloody protests added to Banerjee and her party's political heft and catapulted the TMC to power in 2011, marking the end of the Left Front rule of 34 years. Adhikari is considered the face of the movement in Nandigram. After switching over to ther BJP, Adhikari has often accused Banerjee of having forgotten the people of the area who helped her gain power in the state. Banerjee is at present the MLA from Bhawanipore in south Kolkata. "If possible, I will contest from both Bhawanipore and Nandigram. Nandigram is my elder sister and Bhawanipore is my younger sister. I will give a strong candidate from Bhawanipore also, in case I don't fight from that seat," she said. Banerjee said she would never allow "a handful of people" to sell out Bengal to the BJP. "Those who have left the party have my best wishes. Let them become president and vice president of the country. But don't you dare to sell out Bengal to the BJP. As long as I am alive, I won't allow them to sell out my state to the BJP," she said. TMC sources said Banerjee's announcement will galvanise party workers in East and West Midnapore districts and adjoining areas who were feeling rudderless after Suvendu Adhikari quit the party. Without naming Adhikari, Banerjee said he will have to fight the local TMC leaders first before even dreaming of winning the state. She recalled the struggles she waged in Nandigram and Singur over forcible land acquisition by the Left Front government, and asserted the BJP was committing the same mistake by trying to undermine the farmers' protest at Delhi's borders. "No one should undermine the farmers' struggle. The BJP is trying to undermine it and will face the same consequences like the Left did because of Nandigram and Singur," she said, and reaffirmed her opposition to the three farms laws. "The CPI(M) tried to snatch away the land of the farmers. The BJP is trying to snatch away the crops of the farmers," she said. Attacking the BJP for inducting a raft of leaders from rival political parties, Banerjee said it had turned itself into washing powder where tainted leaders come out clean after joining the saffron camp. "BJP is the biggest junk party in the country. BJP is not a political party but washing powder. It's using moneybags and intimidatory tactics to lure or coerce TMC leaders into joining them," she alleged. Referring to the desertions from her own party, she said the BJP might have "bought a few leaders but cannot buy the people of Bengal". "There are three kinds of leaders-- lobhi (greedy), "bhogi" (hedonist) and the "tyagi" (the one who renounces). The bhogis and lobhis might quit the party, but the tyagis never will. This party is like a mother to us and the tyagis will never ever quit the party," she said. Banerjee asserted the TMC will win a third straight term in office and the BJP will be decimated. The TMC supremo alleged the BJP has bought off some media houses which are coming up with fake surveys favouring the saffron party in the assembly elections. Suvendu Adhikari switched over to the BJP in the presence of Union Home Minister Amit Shah last month, in a reflection of the importance the leader from Nandigram has in the saffron party's scheme of things for the West Bengal elections. He also persuaded his younger brother Soumendu, who was removed as Kanti municipality administrator, to join the BJP. His another younger brother Dibyendu and father Sisir Adhikari are TMC Lok Sabha members from Tamluk and Kanthi. Both gave Banerjee's rally a miss. The Adhikaris wield considerable influence in at least 40-45 assembly segments in East and West Midnapore, Bankura, Purulia, Jhargram, parts of Birbhum -- mainly in the Junglemahal region and areas in minority-dominated Murshidabad district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-229
18-01-2021||West Bengal||Mamata to address meeting in Nandigram today||Core committee members of the Trinamul Congress in East Midnapore will “monitor and scrutinise” the attendance and patterns of rural and district-level leaders at Mamata Banerjee’s “mega” rally in Nandigram’s Tekhali on Monday. The scrutiny has been planned in the midst of lingering uncertainty over who moved to the BJP with the defection of East Midnapore strongman Suvendu Adhikari. The East Midnapore district Trinamul leaders had appealed to the chief minister to hold the rally in the aftermath of Adhikari’s switch, when they had feared an en masse defection of local functionaries. Trinamul state president Subrata Bakshi and minister of state Indranil Sen have been monitoring the setting-up of three adjacent stages for the rally, which has a target turnout of over two lakh. Other senior Trinamul leaders, such as ministers Firhad Hakim and Purnendu Bose and Rajya Sabha member Dola Sen, would also address the gathering. “This rally was rescheduled twice and Suvendu has been publicly mocking us over the delay, accusing us of fear and whatnot. We have a point to prove to him,” said a senior minister. Mamata’s Monday rally will be her first visit to Nandigram after December 2015, when ironically, her arrival had been made to name then Trinamul MP from Tamluk, Adhikari, as her nominee from the Nandigram Assembly seat for the 2016 polls. “Her comments, direct or indirect, on the Suvendu front are keenly awaited,” said a source. “Didi is most likely to not only lambaste the likes of Suvendu for their political opportunism but also seize total ownership of the historic anti-land acquisition movement in Nandigram. She would also underscore how the party remains unaffected by such desertions,” said a Trinamul MP. Sources said over 1,000 delegates, including state, district and rural-level leaders, had been invited to the event and were “expected to attend” it. “Following Suvendu’s defection, a few leaders, including MLAs, have distanced themselves from our activities. We will be keeping a keen eye on their attendance and mull appropriate steps,” said district core committee member Mahmood Hossain. Sources noted the example of zilla parishad functionary Siraj Khan, who had defected to the BJP even before Adhikari, but rejoined Trinamul in Calcutta on Sunday. The chief minister is slated to reach Tekhali on Monday by helicopter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-230
18-01-2021||West Bengal||Brick stack at kiln falls on workers in Nadia’s Santipur||Two women labourers were killed and three others and their male colleague injured when a stack of bricks collapsed on them at a kiln in Nadia’s Santipur on Sunday afternoon. The workers were reportedly lifting bricks from Sonali kiln’s pit in Chandra village. All six were rushed to Nadia district hospital in Krishnagar where two were declared dead. The four injured are serious but stable. The deceased were Pinki Dahari, 28, and Pulin Suranda, 35, natives of Jharkhand. Sources said the six-year-old kiln employs roughly 150 labourers. “A huge stack of bricks collapsed after it was accidentally brushed by the group of workers during the course of their tasks. We heard the deafening sound of the collapse and rushed to the spot to see labourers trapped under the bricks,” said an eyewitness, claiming that a few thousand bricks were routinely stacked in close proximity to each other inside the kiln. “Other labourers and residents rushed to rescue the trapped labourers from the 10-foot-deep pit and rushed them to the hospital in Krishnaga,” said labourer Mohon Murmu. Kiln owner Adhir Ghosh said it was unclear how the stack collapsed. “We always try to ensure safety of our labourers,” he said. A local resident claimed that the lack of regular checks at the kiln led to the accident. “The side wall of the pit needs to be checked regularly. It appears that a crack on the pit’s wall led to the collapse of the brick stack,” he said. Ghosh denied the allegation. A senior police officer said they were probing if there were any errors on the part of the brick kiln authorities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-230
18-01-2021||West Bengal||Want simple citizenship rules for Matuas: Santanu Thakur||All India Matua Mahasangha chief and BJP MP Santanu Thakur on Sunday urged members of his Matua community to visit their holy abode Thakurnagar  on January 30 — irrespective of political leanings — to demand “unconditional citizenship” before home minister Amit Shah who is likely to visit the area that day. Thakur appealed to community members to be vocal for “simplified provisions” of the amended citizenship law initiated by the BJP-led Centre in 2019 so no one is “harassed”. Speaking at the religious gathering organised by the Santipur unit of the All India Matua Mahasangha, Thakur said: “Please visit Thakurnagar on January 30 to demand unconditional citizenship with easy and clear provisions under the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. It is your matter of right, so raise your voice before the home minister forgetting all political prejudices.” Bongaon MP Thakur’s plea comes at a time chief minister Mamata Banerjee has ruled out the need for the CAA and offered freehold land deeds to refugees to try and woo the Matuas, lower-caste Hindu immigrants from Bangladesh. The citizenship issue has divided opinion among the Matuas ahead of Bengal polls where the community is an important vote bank. While the BJP has resolved to solve the community’s “identity crisis” through the CAA, the Trinamul has discouraged the Matuas, terming the law a “trap” that will eventually rob them of their residency rights. “Please believe that only a simplified provision of the citizenship act can solve our problem... A land right or any other document can’t prove your identity as citizen,” Thakur added. He also indirectly addressed another of Mamata’s arguments against CAA for the Matuas — paperwork. “We will appeal before the home minister for simplified provisions so that no religiously persecuted refugee like us is harassed in the absence of documents,” he said. He added that for a religiously persecuted person, obtaining documents was not just difficult but impossible.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-230
18-01-2021||West Bengal||TMC’s farmer front to launch mass campaign in Jalpaiguri||The farmers’ front of the Trinamul Congress has chalked out a plan to launch a district-wide mass contact campaign to draw support from among the agricultural sector of the Jalpaiguri district. Christened as “Ghar Ghar Pe Charcha (interactions at households)”, the campaign would be launched later this month during the visit of Becharam Manna, an MLA and the president of the Trinamul Kishan Khet Mazdoor Congress, to Jalpaiguri. “We want to reach out to the farmers living across the district to apprise them of the new farm law of the Centre which is detrimental to their interests. We would also explain to the farmers and others associated with the sector an array of initiatives taken by the Mamata Banerjee government for them,” said Dulal Debnath, the Jalpaiguri district president of Trinamul’s farmers’ front. According to sources, 35 to 40 per cent people living in the district are associated with agriculture and most of them reside at Rajganj, Jalpaiguri Sadar, Maynaguri and Dhupguri. Debnath said Manna, who would be in the district on January 24 and 25, would launch the campaign. As teams of Trinamul leaders and workers will visit the farmers’ households, they will speak about the hike in petro fuel prices and LPG and will distribute leaflets in different languages. Asked whether the campaign had been planned to counter BJP’s “Ek Mutthi Chawal” and “Chai Pe Charcha” — state-wide campaigns to develop contact with people, including farmers, Debnath said: “We do not believe in gimmicks like symbolic collection of paddy from farmers…..our programme has been planned to create support against the farm laws.” The BJP has, however, scoffed at Trinamul. “Trinamul leaders are desperate to win back people’s support and thus, they are simply imitating us. Such tactics will not work,” said Bapi Goswami, the Jalpaiguri district BJP president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-230
18-01-2021||West Bengal||I won’t contest polls, my party will: Binay Tamang||Leader of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha breakaway faction Binay Tamang on Sunday announced his decision to quit electoral politics. “I will not indulge in electoral politics further...under no circumstances,” Tamang told mediapersons, adding that he was making the announcement after having discussed the issue with his family, friends and well-wishers. However, Tamang also added that he would continue to indulge in politics and his party would contest the elections. “I will indulge in politics. It is just that I will not contest elections. My party will contest elections,” said the hill leader. Of late, Tamang has started speaking on larger issues like the review of the India-Nepal Friendship Treaty 1950, the administrative history of the region, the inclusion of the region under the ministry for Northeast states. These are all issues whose impact would be felt by Indian Gorkhas across the country and not just Darjeeling hills. Many believe that Tamang is probably attempting to position himself as a leader of the community and not just of the region by flagging these issues that are seen as a step towards creating a distinct identity of the Indian Gorkhas from Nepal citizens. “I have taken the decision (to quit electoral politics) to ensure the success of the issues that I have recently raised,” said Tamang, hinting that electoral politics and pursuing community-specific issues could not go hand in hand. Many hill observers believe that without electoral success, his acceptance as a leader of the community would be difficult. On his part, Tamang however asserted he would not put one foot in each boat, a clear indication that his intent now was to pursue these issues instead of running after elections or administrative positions. The Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader had formed a splinter group in 2017 and had unsuccessfully contested the 2019 Darjeeling Assembly by-election. Tamang had then quit as chairman of board of administrators, Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA), to contest the Assembly election which was finally won by Neeraj Zimba, a GNLF leader who had contested on a BJP ticket. His trusted aide Anit Thapa became the GTA chairman, a position he continues to hold. During his interaction with the media in Kalimpong on Sunday, Tamang repeatedly stressed that he was not “power hungry”. “I stayed in the most important chair of the hills (chairman of the GTA) for 18 months. Now that Anit Thapa (general secretary of his party) is there. If I was power hungry I could have gone back to the GTA,” said Tamang. Many believe Tamang is trying to bolster his image by bringing out the “not power hungry” narrative. “If I become power hungry, I will not be successful in (working on) the issues raised,” said Tamang.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-230
18-01-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul MLA draws flak for inoculation on Day 1||Monodeb Sinha, the Trinamul Congress MLA of Karandighi in North Dinajpur district, has caused embarrassment for the ruling patty in Bengal with the BJP launching a bitter attack on him for receiving a jab on the first day of the Covid-19 vaccination drive. Sources said, Sinha, who is the chairman of the Rogi Kalyan Samiti (RKS) of the block health centre of Karandighi, had reached the facility on Saturday to inaugurate the vaccination drive. The MLA then took the jab at the centre. “It is unfortunate that the MLA did not think about common people and frontline health workers. Instead, he went ahead proactively for the inoculation. We fail to understand how officials of the district health department endorsed the move,” said Biswajit Lahiri, the BJP district president of North Dinajpur. The MLA, however sounded unperturbed and said being the RKS chairman of the block health centre, his name was on the list and accordingly, he had received the jab. “There is no anomaly in it. A number of other people who hold similar position in different health establishments of the state have also received the vaccine,” Sinha said. On Saturday, Manjula Lama, the sabhapati of Kumargram panchayat samiti of Alipurduar, had invited criticism for the same reason. Amid the controversy on whether the MLA did the right thing by receiving the jab, the North Dinajpur district health officials have also backed the MLA’s move. “He is the RKS chairman and has hence, received the vaccine. We are acting according to the laid down guidelines in choosing people who should receive the vaccine in the first phase,” said Kartick Chandra Mondal, the chief medical officer of health of the district. A section of Trinamul leaders, however, said the MLA should have refrained from the move. They said even if the district health department had included Sinha’s name as one of the beneficiaries, he himself should have refrained from taking the jab like Sourav Chakraborty, the MLA of Alipurduar (who is also the RKS chairman of Alipurduar district hospital). “Such moves unnecessarily provide opportunities to the Opposition ahead of the elections. Being an elected representative, he should have acted more responsibly,” said a party insider.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-230
18-01-2021||West Bengal||Health dept asks districts to vaccinate by 'random' selection from database||The state health department has asked all districts to select health service workers “randomly” through an available database for vaccination, the move reportedly coming as a bid to avoid jabs for “ineligible” candidates. Officials said the government had prepared a list of beneficiaries for vaccination “manually” for the first day and they suspected it was the reason for the inclusion of unwanted candidates by technicians handling the database. “In a video conference on Saturday night in the presence of top health officials, it was conveyed to all concerned that beneficiaries were to be selected randomly using the database. We think it will minimise the chance of inviting ineligible candidates,” said a senior official in the state health department. “If the random selection is done through a computerised database, the software will automatically take names from the system. The officials were asked only to put the categories of people such as ASHA workers, doctors, nurses when asking the software to prepare the random list,” the official added. A section of health officials in the district, however, said there would be major problems if the software — CoWin — failed. “We have observed the CoWin software became defunct on Saturday and if it happens again, the random selection process will be very tough. However, we will do it according to directions,” said a health official in Birbhum. State officials said manual selection would be allowed only when the software failed. On the other hand, the health department reportedly asked up to 150 health workers to report at the vaccination camp instead of the actual target of 100 following a poor show in different districts on Saturday. The turnout was attributed to widespread apprehension about possible side effects. “Many are skipping vaccination amid the fear of adverse side effects, so we asked the districts to summon 150 health workers a day. It will help reach the target of 100 even if 50 persons don’t come. The officials have been asked to call 120 health workers at the centers where the attendance was pretty good on the first day,” said an official. Amid stray reports of illness of some recipients of the Covid, nodal authorities have begun scanning the physical condition of health workers who received the jab. From Sunday morning, officials began calling the recipients over the phone to know if they have felt any sort of uneasiness in the past 12 hours. Additional reporting by Subhasish Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-230
18-01-2021||West Bengal||Ripples in  BJP over Saumitra Khan's ‘CM  Dilip’ remark||At least three senior Bengal BJP leaders reportedly rebuked Bishnupur MP Saumitra Khan on Sunday for publicly claiming that state president Dilip Ghosh would be the next chief minister if the party came to power. Khan, who is also the state chief of the BJP’s youth wing, received the dressing-down from Shivprakash, Kailash Vijavargiya and Amitava Chakraborty. While Shivprakash is the national joint general secretary (organisation), Vijavargiya is a national general secretary and the BJP’s minder for the state. Amitava Chakraborty is the state general secretary (organisation) of the BJP. “Shivprakashji, Kailashji and Amitavada rebuked Saumitra at the meeting in front of Dilipda himself,” a source in the BJP said. “He was asked to control his tongue. Kailashji even told him that he would be even showcaused if he repeated such statements,” a BJP insider said. Khan was told that BJP MLAs and the party's parliamentary committee would decide on the chief minister. While addressing a rally in West Midnapore’s Deuli recently, Khan had said Ghosh would be Bengal’s next chief minister. “Dilipda is a true leader. He didn’t even start his own family. I firmly believe that he is going to be chief minister one day,” Khan had publicly said. Sunday’s meeting was convened to discuss a series of important organisational issues. “The party hasn’t given us any clarity over who is going to be the next CM. Union home minister Amit Shah has only said that it will be a son of the soil. However, there are multiple chief ministerial aspirants in our party already,” a state BJP office-bearer said. According to BJP sources, Ghosh is undoubtedly a major contender for the top post if the party won majority in the coming Assembly elections. However, multiple names including party’s Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta, Union minister Babul Supriyo, MP Locket Chatterjee and Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari, keep doing rounds as possible CM candidate. Khan’s comment will not go down well with the other leaders, a party source said. This person added that the leaders had sent a message to Ghosh as well by rebuking Khan as the Bishnupur MP wouldn’t have made a public speech on this issue without endorsement from Ghosh. While the incident of Khan being rebuked has made the anti-Ghosh lobby happy, leaders close to Ghosh were upset. “The reprimand in public was too harsh... besides, there is no doubt that Dilipda is the tallest BJP leader in the state,” said a source. The BJP state leaders are working on a plan to hold a rath yatra in Bengal sometime during the next month in the run up to the polls. The rath yatra, which is being tentatively called the Poriborton Yatra or a rally for change, is going to cover all 294 Assembly seats in the state. On Sunday, leaders from the five organisational zones of the party were asked to form five different committees in their respective zones  for the programme. “The plan is to bring out five different chariot rallies from each of the zones,” a source said. State president Dilip Ghosh said that preliminary talks had been held on the rally, but nothing concrete had been decided. “Our plan is to do the rally on the lines of the Ganatantro Bachao Yatra, which we had planned in 2019,” Ghosh said. The Ganatantro Bachao Yatra was planned in Bengal ahead of the 2019 parliamentary polls, but was later cancelled since the party failed to obtain the necessary permissions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-230
18-01-2021||West Bengal||Active Covid patients down to 7,083 in Bengal||Bengal on Sunday logged 621 recoveries, 565 infections and 12 deaths, which dragged the total of active Covid-19 cases down to 7,083. The drop in the active number of patients was for the 83rd consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami last year. In these 83 days since the end of Durga Puja on October 26, the total of active cases has fallen by over 30,000, from 37,190 reported then. The total of active cases is now back almost to where it was 195 days ago, on July 6 last year. “That, simply put, is damage of six months undone in about 12 weeks,” said a minister. “A look at the hospitalisation (of Covid-19 patients) on October 26 and today is enough evidence of the kind of improvement there has been, overall,” he added, referring to the 36.83 per cent occupancy (on 12,751 Covid-19 beds) on Dashami and 7.39 per cent (on 12,440 dedicated beds) on Sunday. The 200 state-run safe homes had, with 11,507 beds between them, had 1,012 people on October 26. On Sunday, there were 50 patients at the safe homes. The recovery rate has risen for 87 consecutive days, from 87.44, to 96.97 per cent, leading the national rate by 0.4 per cent. In the 83-day turnaround, the state reported over 2.38 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 2.11 lakh new infections found during the same period. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. The numbers of infections from the festivals in October and November showed that the court’s instructions were effective. A similar set of instructions came from the high court to ensure the outbreak did not worsen over the New Year celebrations. “Sunday was Day 10 for someone who got infected on January 8…. It can be conclusively said now that we managed to observe the Christmas-New Year phase without worsening the outbreak, much like Durga Puja, Kali Puja and other festivals prior to it,” said a minister. It is between days six and 10 of the infection that most cases get detected. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.39 per cent now, having improved steadily from 8.27 per cent 58 days ago. Bengal’s total number of swab samples examined so far are over 76.47 lakh, which include 26,231 tests logged on Sunday. Tests per million people are 84,971. The overall total of 5.65 lakh cases include nearly 5.48 lakh recoveries and 10,053 deaths. The dozen deaths reported on Sunday included two recorded in the city. “Even till a few weeks ago, the state was reporting 60-odd deaths daily, with 20-plus from Calcutta alone. Look at where we are now,” said the minister. The state attributed 8,435 (83.9 per cent) of the total deaths to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate is now 1.77 per cent, compared to 1.44 per cent at the national level.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-230
18-01-2021||West Bengal||Seat-sharing deal eludes Congress and Left ||A consensus on seat sharing for the Bengal polls eluded allies Left and Congress when their leaders met on Sunday, with multiple sources saying the failure did not bode well for the alliance. A source said Congress leadership demanded contesting from 130 of the 294 Assembly seats. The figure, the source added, was an astounding jump from 92 seats it had contested in 2016 state polls as part of the same alliance. “If the Congress is allowed to fight in 130 seats, the Left Front is left with 164 seats only,” a CPM leader said. “How will we distribute seats among our Front allies?” “We have to think of the larger Left family, the 17 Left parties,” the leader added Though the Left Front and Congress leaders had met several times these last few months to finalise a course of action for a political alliance, seat sharing was discussed for the first time in Sunday’s meeting. Left Front chairman Biman Bose and CPM state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra led the discussions for the Left parties. The Congress leadership, represented by state Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, MP Pradip Bhattacharya, MLAs Abdul Mannan and Nepal Mahata did not specify which seats they wanted, but the overall number that they presented gave Left leaders the impression that they might stake claim on seats that are traditional Left bastions. “If that’s the case, chances are that the alliance will hit a dead end repeating the events of 2016,” said a Left leader. During the 2016 Assembly elections, the Congress had rigidly stuck to its demand of contesting from seats that were strong Left pockets. In the absence of any resolution, alliance partners fought against each other in several seats such as Baghmundi in Purulia. A Left leader present in Sunday’s meeting said that Chowdhury at one point very confidently said “we are ready”. “...Adhir’s attitude didn’t give me a sense that he would easily give up on his demands,” this leader said. Pradip Bhattacharya of the Congress, however, said the Congress was not rigid about 130 seats. “We’ve proposed a preliminary number in order to start the discussion. There will always be room for modifications,” Bhattacharya said, adding that the Left parties would now have to discuss and suggest the number of seats they want to contest. Amid the uncertainty on what lies ahead for the alliance, Chowdhury and Left Front chairman Biman Bose said seat sharing would be final by January-end. Both leaders also said there was no bitterness between the two camps and no one would force the other to fall in line. However, these assurances haven’t been able to address the concerns of Left workers, especially ones from the minor allies. “In Bihar, the mahagathbandhan would’ve done better if the Congress hadn’t been headstrong about fighting from 70 seats,” a Forward Bloc worker said. “They could win only 19. If they’re allowed to fight in 130 seats in Bengal, we’re doomed.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-230
