19-01-2021||West Bengal||Modi to visit Calcutta on Netaji's 125th birth anniversary||The government has decided to observe January 23 as 'Parakram Diwas' to commemorate the birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Union minister Prahlad Singh Patel said on Tuesday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will participate in the first 'Parakram Diwas' programme in Calcutta on January 23 on Bose's 125th birth anniversary and inaugurate an exhibition on the grounds of National Library to mark the occasion, Patel said. Patel said PM Modi will also felicitate prominent members of the Indian National Army formed by Bose and their family members in Kolkata on Saturday. He said 200 Patua artists from West Bengal will make a painting on a 400-metre-long canvas depicting Bose's life. Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan will participate in a programme in Cuttack, Odisha, where Bose was born. Another programme will be held in Haripura village in Gujarat's Surat district where Bose was elected as president of the Indian National Congress in 1938. The culture ministry is also considering building a memorial in the honour of around 26,000 martyred members of the INA, Patel said. An 85-member high-level committee helmed by PM Modi has been formed to plan year-round programmes to mark the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose, the minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-228
19-01-2021||West Bengal||My soul connected to Nandigram: CM||Mamata Banerjee on Monday said she would not take any lesson from anyone on who all were behind the anti-land acquisition movement in Nandigram in an indirect snub of Trinamul Congress turncoat Suvendu Adhikari’s claim that he was the one who had led the 2007 agitation. The movement was launched after the Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee government had announced its plan to acquire land for a chemical hub in Nandigram, East Midnapore. “I will not take any lesson from anyone on who all were behind the Nandigram movement,” the chief minister said at a Trinamul rally in Nandigram. Over the last few months — both in the run up to his formal switch to the BJP and then after taking the plunge on December 19 — Suvendu held several programmes in which he pitched himself as the main force behind the struggle that catapulted Mamata into power in the 2011 Assembly elections. The former Trinamul minister has also asked questions at public meetings on why everyone forgot Nandigram whereas he continued standing by those who fought the movement. Even on Monday, Suvendu said she visited Nandigram after five years, since December 21, 2015, just because of the ensuing polls. “We didn’t forget anyone... I know the entire Nandigram. My soul was connected with this place and this connection will always stay,” said Mamata, swatting away Suvendu’s claim that only he had stood by the families of the martyrs or those who had gone missing during the land-related strife. In an attempt to prove that she cared for the victims’ families, the chief minister said during her speech that she would soon announce a monthly pension scheme for the victims’ families. Earlier in the day, Mamata had presided over a short programme in which family members of 10 people, who had gone missing after the alleged recapture of Nandigram by CPM goons on November 10, 2007, were given Rs 10 lakh each by the state government. During her 45-minute address — longer than the usual duration of her speech — Mamata dwelt extensively on how closely she was involved with the movement. “I still remember March 14, the day 14 people were killed... I was on my way to Nandigram and they (the then administration and CPM goons) tried their best to prevent me from going. The then governor, Gopal Krishna Gandhi, had called me and urged me to return to Calcutta saying that I might be killed,” the chief minister recounted the heady days of the Nandigram movement. “Listening to him, I went to a guest house in Kolaghat, but they put buses on the way to prevent us from going,” she added, before explaining how she rode pillion on a party leader’s motorbike to reach Tamluk Hospital to meet the injured. Mamata also rolled out a chronology of how the land acquisition movement had shaped up in Bengal under he leadership as she recounted her stir in Singur, followed by a 26-day hunger strike at Esplanade in Calcutta and then the Nandigram movement. She drew parallels between the Nandigram movement and the ongoing farmers’ movement in the national capital region before attacking the BJP. “In Nandigram, the attempt was to take away the land of farmers. In Punjab, Haryana, the BJP is trying to take away the produce of the farmers... We are firmly with the farmers and supporting their movement,” she said before adding that the movement would force the Centre to repeal the contentious farm bills.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-228
19-01-2021||West Bengal||Covid recovery rate 97%||Bengal on Monday reached the recovery rate of 97 per cent in the Covid-19 pandemic and recorded less than 7,000 active patients. The recovery rate of 97 per cent was achieved following a rise over 88 consecutive days from 87.44 on October 22 last year. On Monday, the state logged 10 deaths from Covid-19, the lowest daily toll in 204 days, since the 10 reported on June 28 last year. The state also reported 569 recoveries and 389 infections on Monday. Bengal now has over 5.65 lakh Covid-19 cases — since the first was reported on March 17, 2020 — but they include nearly 5.49 lakh recoveries and 10,063 deaths. The total active cases on Monday were 6,893. “Now, we have 97 per cent in recoveries, the daily death toll is down to 10, and we had 84 consecutive days (since Vijaya Dashami on October 26 last year) of a drop in the total of active cases…. The story of our triumph over the pandemic has been the stuff of fairy tales,” said a minister. On October 26, the total of active cases was 37,190. “Next targets? More than 98 per cent in our recovery rate, single-digit daily death toll and total of active cases less than 6,000,” he added. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.38 per cent now, having improved steadily from the 8.27, 59 days ago. Bengal’s total test count — including 18,875 tests on Monday — is over 76.66 lakh now, at 85,180 tests per million people. The 10 deaths reported on Monday included just one from the city. “Even in December, the state was reporting around 60 deaths daily, with 20-plus from Calcutta alone,” said the minister. The state attributed 8,443 (83.9 per cent) of the total toll to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate remained 1.77, compared to the 1.44 per cent nationally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-228
19-01-2021||West Bengal||Turnout ‘surpasses’ leaders’ expectation||Trinamul Congress leaders have said the turnout at Mamata Banerjee’s rally at Tekhali near here on Monday afternoon outdid their expectations. While police sources pegged the estimated attendance at 2.5 lakh, Trinamul Congress district leaders claimed a “3 lakh-plus” show-of-strength and quoted the chief minister’s words of it echoing a “Brigade rally”, a reference to Calcutta’s Brigade Parade Grounds, the benchmark of mega rallies. The rally was organised in the wake of former Trinamul heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari’s switch to the BJP. “The chief minister was pleasantly shocked when she emerged from the helicopter and greeted the sea of people awaiting her,” said Nandigram panchayat samiti deputy chief Abu Taher. “She asked me whether the turnout had trumped her 2015 rally, and I said ‘indeed’. It probably even pipped the mega events of the 2007 anti-land acquisition agitation in terms of turnout,” he added. Sources said most attendees hailed from East Midnapore, and a substantial number from West Midnapore. Eyewitnesses said both inroads via Khejuri and Chandipur were intermittently clogged from 8am by vans, trucks and tempos. The vehicles were all carrying attendees “eager to gain closure over Suvendu’s defection”. “This rally was notable because for once we did not have to goad people with free lunches or transportation to attend. They truly wanted to know what the word was,” Panskura municipality chairman Nandakumar Mitra, referring to the rally where Mamata eventually pitted herself as the party’s nominee from Nandigram for the Assembly polls. When correspondents from this newspaper set out from Tamluk around 10.30am, they faced over 100 traffic knots before reaching Tekhali, barely 50km away, shortly before 1pm. On the way back, the situation was similar, with the 3km stretch from Tekhali to Makeshpur alone taking over an hour. “We could not hire enough vehicles for supporters this time. Nonetheless, they paid out of their own pockets and clung to vehicle rooftops to attend,” said Trinamul labour arm’s district president Dibyendu Ray. The Calcutta-Digha NH116B was reportedly clogged all day on Monday, causing severe backlogs to tourist traffic in the area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-228
19-01-2021||West Bengal||Survey sees Mamata back at helm||The CVoter opinion poll for ABP Ananda for January 2021 has indicated that Mamata Banerjee will be able to retain power in Bengal, albeit with a reduced majority. The BJP, despite considerable gains since 2016, will not be able get close to the majority mark of 148 in the 294-seat Assembly, shows the survey. The poll conducted for four states and the Union Territory of Puducherry came out with several interesting takeaways for Trinamul and the BJP in Bengal, where the game-is-already-over-for-Mamata perception being peddled by the saffron ecosystem might not be true on the ground yet. A key factor in the polls, according to the survey, might be the Left and the Congress contesting in an alliance this time, thereby largely raining on the BJP’s parade. The Left and the Congress had contested separately in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and secured a marginally larger vote share. Their coming together could make a difference of 20-odd seats, which the alliance seems to be taking away from the BJP — thereby helping Mamata (see chart). “We always knew this. This is far from over. As the game progresses, our position will only keep improving further. Don’t be surprised if, in the end, Trinamul sweeps with 200-plus seats,” said a senior Trinamul MP. The MP refused to go on record on the matter till Mamata herself does -- asserting that more Left-Congress votes will swing in favour of his party, going forward. “Even if this is the result, after the polls, there will be an avalanche of ghar wapsi (homecoming) of Trinamul defectors from the BJP, worsening their numbers further,” he added. Another takeaway is the 7.7 per cent vote share secured by “Others” — which would include the likes of the Asaduddin Owaisi-Abbasuddin Siddiqui truck. The “others” might drag the BJP back by nearly 3 per cent of the votes (in comparison to 2019). In an election this close, and with Trinamul more or less holding on to the 43-odd per cent votes it secured in 2019, it is the BJP’s possible fall from 40.7 to 37.5 — from 121 to 102 seats, instead of a rise — that could be the clincher for Mamata. “We simply don’t believe this at all. We are coming to power with 200-plus seats, and these predictions will be proved wrong, like in the case of Bihar last year,” said a BJP leader. Some key takeaways from the other questions that were part of the opinion poll follow: ⦿ Asked who the Left-Congress alliance would benefit: 36.8 per cent of the respondents said Trinamul, 33.1 said the BJP, 13.2 said the alliance itself, and 17 responded with DN/CS (Don’t know/Can’t say) ⦿ Asked if they thought Suvendu Adhikari joining the BJP would deal a heavy blow to Trinamul: 45.9 per cent of the respondents said yes, 35.4 said no, 18.6 said DN/CS ⦿ Asked if the BJP would get extra mileage if Sourav Ganguly was its chief ministerial candidate: 48.1 per cent said yes, 33 said no, while 18.9 went with DN/CS ⦿ Asked if the BJP’s image would get tarnished for inclusion of the accused in the likes of the Saradha and Narada cases: 41.6 per cent said yes, 34.2 said no, 24.3 said DN/CS ⦿ Asked if the Mamata Banerjee’s government’s Duare Sarkar programme would benefit her party: 45.5 per cent said yes, 36.6 per cent said no, and 17.8 said DN/CS ⦿ Asked if Trinamul managed to blunt its own “outsider” weapon against the BJP by bringing poll consultant Prashant Kishor on board: 38.5 per cent said yes, 24.2 said no, 37.3 replied with DN/CS ⦿ Asked who between Amit Shah (200-plus seats for the BJP) and Kishor (less than 100 for the BJP) was more likely to be correct: 41.2 per cent went with Shah, 35.9 responded in favour of Kishor and 22.9 were unsure with DN/CS||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-228
19-01-2021||West Bengal||CM to contest from Nandigram for the 2021 Assembly polls||Mamata Banerjee on Monday announced the name of the first candidate for the 2021 Assembly polls in Bengal. The name is Mamata Banerjee and the seat Nandigram, which once pitch-forked her into the political stratosphere and which now symbolises the threat to her continuation at the top. Never known for shying away from a good fight, the chief minister worked the huge crowd on the Tekhali ground in Nandigram: “I am not naming anyone as the candidate from Nandigram right now.… But I will give a good candidate, who will be working hard for the people.” Mamata was probably in two minds. But any doubt she may have had appeared to have drowned in the eruption of applause from the audience. After a brief pause, she asked: “What if I contest from Nandigram?” The applause went on for a minute or so. Mamata’s candidature willy-nilly throws the gauntlet at Suvendu Adhikari, who represented the constituency as a Trinamul legislator until he resigned as an MLA and joined the BJP last month. Till now, Suvendu has been silent on whether he would contest the polls but after Mamata’s challenge, he has little option but to bite the bullet. Suvendu told a rally in Calcutta he would ensure the defeat of Mamata in Nandigram by 50,000 votes. (See Metro) Mamata later said she would contest as usual from her home turf, Bhowanipore. “Bhowanipore is like the elder sister while Nandigram is the younger sister.… I will contest from both seats,” she said. More than 2 lakh people had turned up at Mamata’s show of strength on the ground, prompting her to equate it with Calcutta’s sprawling Brigade. “My conscience tells me that I should contest from Nandigram.... It’s a rural area. My wish is that my name should be there as the candidate from Nandigram,” Mamata said, stealing a glance at Subrata Bakshi, the Trinamul state president who is officially in charge of the party’s candidate list. “Nandigram is lucky for me. In the 2016 elections, I had started the campaign from here. We won that election. We will win again in 2021,” the chief minister said. On December 21, 2015, Mamata had launched her poll campaign for the following year’s Assembly polls from the same Tekhali ground by naming Suvendu, who was an MP then, as the candidate from Nandigram. Bengal politics has, however, changed a lot since then. The BJP, which won only three seats in the last Assembly polls, has emerged as the main Opposition party and has publicly set the goal of coming to power in Bengal with more than 200 seats. With Suvendu joining the saffron camp, the narrative has started commanding higher traction in several parts of the state. When Mamata strode towards the dais, the expectation was she would contest that narrative and downplay Suvendu’s crossover to the BJP. Several Trinamul insiders said that hardly anyone in the party had expected her to end up nominating herself as the Trinamul candidate from Nandigram. Mamata appears to have made up her mind after seeing the turnout and after an attempt to strike a chord with the people. “In case there has been any mistake, slap me, but don’t turn your face away,” she said. The candidature was announced after Mamata explained her connect with Nandigram and the anti-land-acquisition movement she had led in 2007. A West Midnapore Trinamul MLA told this correspondent after the meeting: “This is a masterstroke.… Suvendu can’t be seen as running away from the challenge as that will erode his credibility. And if he contests, he will have to work round the clock to put up a fight against Didi. That will rob him of the opportunity to campaign across Bengal.” According to the MLA, some leaders in the party had proposed Mamata as the candidate at internal party meetings chaired by Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek Banerjee and poll consultant Prashant Kishor. “But we were told that Suvendu wasn’t a big enough leader for Didi to have to contest against him. Now that she has decided to contest from Nandigram, nothing can be better for the party,” the MLA said. Over the past month or so, almost all senior Trinamul leaders have publicly tried to downplay the possible electoral impact of Suvendu’s defection to the BJP, but there have been concerns as well. On Suvendu’s home turf, Mamata started her speech by allaying such concerns. Without naming anyone, she said the attempts by a few to go “idhar-udhar (here and there)” would not have any effect on the polls. She added that those leaving the party and joining the BJP were doing so to save their ill-gotten wealth. “You people can leave and go anywhere you want to. That’s your right.… I wish you the best so that in future you can become the Prime Minister or the President of the country. You can even become world leaders, but I will not allow the BJP to sell Bengal as long as I’m alive,” she said. Unlike several other Trinamul leaders, Mamata didn’t name Suvendu or anyone from his family during her address. Suvendu’s father Sisir and brother Dibyendu still remain Trinamul MPs. Both were absent from the day’s programme. The chief minister made it clear that she had tried her best to give the Adhikari clan their due share of importance. “Once, they were with us…. I tried to give them whatever I could. Let them be happy, I wish them 100 years of life,” Mamata said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-228
19-01-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul leader hacked to death, BJP blamed||A Trinamul Congress leader was hacked to death outside his home in the Maynaguri block of Jalpaiguri district on Sunday night. Police have arrested four persons in connection with the murder. District Trinamul leaders have accused the BJP of orchestrating the attack. Sources said Ranjit Adhikari had been dropped at his home in Saptibari around 10pm by Trinamul workers after attending a party meeting. While he was about to enter the home, a group of miscreants attacked him with sharp weapons. They hacked him on the head and face. As Ranjit raised an alert, Nilima, his wife, came out. The miscreants fled while the Trinamul leader collapsed on the spot. The neighbours also came out and he was rushed to a local health centre in Churabhandar where doctors pronounced him dead. “There were six of them who were hacking my husband. Local BJP supporters have time and again threatened my husband. We want exemplary punishment for all those who were involved in the incident,” said the bereaved wife. Ranjit, party sources said, is survived by his wife and four children. He was a small trader. On Monday, a number of district leaders reached his home. Also, a police team led by senior officers was deployed at the spot. “Ranjit was a popular face of our party in Maynaguri. The BJP has killed him in a planned manner,” said Chandan Bhowmik, a coordinator of Trinamul in Jalpaiguri district. He said another Trinamul leader had been murdered in the same locality around 10 months back. The BJP denied the charges. “It is an unfortunate incident but is a fallout of inner differences in Trinamul over sharing of cut money collected from beneficiaries of different social welfare schemes. None from our party was involved in the attack,” said Chanchal Sarkar, a district secretary of the BJP. Vikramjit Lama, the deputy superintendent of police (crime) of Jalpaiguri, said: “Four persons have been arrested. We are in search of some more people.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-229
19-01-2021||West Bengal||Amartya Sen asks VC to withdraw false charges||Economist Amartya Sen has described as “a crude attempt at harassment — or worse” the sudden abuse of his family’s property documents and asked the Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor to withdraw the false allegations against him. The following are excerpts from a letter the Nobel laureate has sent to the vice-chancellor: “You have heard from my lawyer…, asking you to withdraw immediately your false allegation made to the news agencies that a plot of land owned by Visva-Bharati is unlawfully occupied by me. “While you have not been able to provide any justification for this astonishing allegation, you now say that you are requesting the West Bengal government to measure the area of our homestead, Pratichi, to compare with the long-term lease of land taken by my father in 1940 from Visva-Bharati. “Your officiating Registrar, Mr Mahato, has threatened that ‘if there is any additional land occupied by him (Sen), legal action will be taken’. This sudden abuse of an 80-year-old document is clearly a crude attempt at harassment — or worse. Among other errors it ignores the big fact, which I have stated many times (even in the context of this dispute), that a substantial amount of free-hold land was purchased by my father (in the market — not from Visva-Bharati) to add to our homestead (with records of purchase registered under Mouza-Surul), on which khajna and Panchayat taxes are paid by me yearly. “The Registrar’s threat of ‘legal action’ if he discovers ‘any additional land’ beyond the leased land seems hugely mischievous. “I don’t know how the Vice-Chancellor treats his colleagues, but I have to confess I am getting quite tired of the deceptions. For example, the V.C. insisted that I called him by telephone from Santiniketan in June 2019 (he even gave two alternative June dates for this alleged conversation -- June 2 and June 14) and said that I introduced myself as Bharat Ratna, which is entirely implausible. “On being informed that I was abroad for the entire month of June 2019 and came back to India only in July, the story was promptly altered by the V.C.’s office to assert that I had called in ‘June or July’ but said the same things. “Rather than inventing new falsities and adding to their culpability, Visva-Bharati should withdraw the false allegations made by them, as my lawyer has asked.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-229
19-01-2021||West Bengal||Plan for rail talks on refugee land||The Mamata Banerjee government will hold discussions with the railways in a bid to convince the central utility that giving free-hold land rights to the residents in refugee colonies set up on its land will not hurt its interest. The decision has been taken in view of the railways’ reservations about the Bengal government issuing free-hold land rights to the residents of the refugee colonies on its plots. The move, sources in Nabanna said, has been initiated after the state government decided to go all out to issue free-hold land rights to nearly 1.5 lakh families residing in 330-odd refugee colonies by April this year. Of these, 200-odd colonies are on central government land, primarily on the plots owned by the railways. “We have already issued free-hold land rights to 20,000 families living in refugee colonies. Most of these families were residing in 94 colonies set up on state government land. We have started issuing land rights to the families living in the colonies set up on central government land. As some questions were raised, we are ready to hold discussions with the railways on the issue,” said a senior government official. According to sources, the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) had recently written a letter to the district magistrate of Jalpaiguri, pointing out that some pattas (long term settlement rights) had been issued to some local people on railway land. The NFR had asked the DM to intervene and “nullify” the pattas and allow the railways to take possession of the land. The railways had threatened to move to court if the district authorities failed to do the needful. “This has left the state government in an awkward situation. It is now being apprehended that if the railways move court and secure a stay on such activity, the plan to give free-hold rights to the colony residents would hit a roadblock ahead of the Assembly polls,” said an official. According to sources, the state government would try to make the railways understand that it is better to regularise the refugee colonies set up on its land as evicting the residents is almost impossible as they have been residing there for about 40-50 years. “We will offer the railways that the state would help the utility guard its land which was not encroached upon so far. We can earmark their land which is free from encumbrances and we will help them erect fencing to guard their plots,” said an official. Furthermore, the state will convey to the railways that it would give free-hold rights to the land on which the structures have been erected. “The remaining portion of the plots can be used by the railways,” the official added. The state government is banking heavily on its initiatives of giving free-hold land rights to the residents of refugee colonies to counter the BJP’s campaign related to the Citizenship Amendment Act. “As majority of the refugee colonies are on central government land, we have to find a solution outside the court. We want the refugees to get land-related documents ahead of the Assembly polls as people who crossed over to West Bengal from Bangladesh in the past 40-50 years hold the key to electoral success in at least 20-22 Assembly seats,” said a minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-229
19-01-2021||West Bengal||Plea in HC for CBI probe||Malati Roy, the wife of Ulen Roy, the BJP supporter who had died from pellet injuries during a protest march organised by the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha here last month, has filed a writ petition at the Jalpaiguri Circuit Bench of Calcutta High Court, seeking CBI investigation into her husband’s death. “Malati Roy filed the petition on Monday for a CBI investigation. Her husband was shot by the state police and lost his life, she has mentioned in her petition,” said Avrojyoti Das, Malati’s lawyer. On December 7, the BJYM had held a protest march to Uttarkanya, the branch secretariat of the state located on the southern end of Siliguri. As the rallyists breached barricades and attacked the police, the latter had to react to resist them. Ulen, who was with BJP supporters near Fulbari in southern parts of Siliguri, was hit by pellets. He was rushed to a private hospital nearby where doctors pronounced him dead. After the incident, the state government had assigned the investigation to the CID. Also, the state police had claimed that the pellets had been fired from a shotgun, a firearm that the police don’t use. The BJP accused the state government of concealing facts and demanded the CBI investigation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-229
19-01-2021||West Bengal||Glare on hill response to treaty review||The Indo-Nepal treaty of peace and friendship of 1950 has come to the fore once again both at the foreign ministry level and also at the local level in Darjeeling but a chain of events over the past few years suggests both the BJP-led Centre and Darjeeling-based political leaders and civil society have only been indulging in lip service. During his visit to Kathmandu in 2014, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had agreed to review the entire spectrum of bilateral relations between India and Nepal. This included review of the Indo-Nepal friendship treaty. The demand for the review of the treaty has been an integral part of hill politics. On July 27, 1986, 13 people were killed in a police firing in Kalimpong when Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF) supporters were on their way to burn copies of the treaty. Hill politicians believe that the clause that allows for free movement of citizens between India and Nepal and conducting business in each other’s territory has blurred the identity of Indian Gorkhas. Since then, July 27 is marked as Gorkhaland Martyrs’ Day. Following Modi’s Kathmandu visit, Eminent Persons Group for Nepal-India Relations (EPG-NIR) was formed in 2016 to look into all bilateral issues, including the treaty. The group consisted of eight members — four each from both the countries — and was co-chaired by former Uttarkhand chief minister Bhagat Singh Koshyari and former Nepal foreign minister Bhekh Bahadur Thapa . Nine meetings, six in Nepal and three in India, were held and the report was readied in 2018. Nepal foreign minister Pradeep Kumar Gyawali during his visit to Delhi last week raised the treaty issue once again. “We have agreed to revise, adjust and update the treaty to better reflect the current reality and to further consolidate and expand our friendship. We need to do it sooner than later,” the Nepalese foreign minister said. A source who is in the know of things said that the PMO “has not even received the report prepared by the committee”. “It is astonishing that while Prime Minister Narendra Modi agreed to form the committee, he has not provided time to the committee even to receive the report in more than two years now, not to talk about accepting the recommendation of the committee,” a source said. At the Darjeeling level, Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Binay Tamang had recently raised the issue and written to the Centre to review the treaty. Tamang is not the first person to raise this issue from the hills. Almost all political and civil society leaders have flagged this demand in the past four decades. “What is the use of flagging the issue at the wrong time?” asked the source. “When the committee was working on the issue, there was not a single written representation to the committee from the hills,” the source added. The source added that only Bharatiya Gorkha Parisangh — an apolitical platform formed by Gorkhas in India — had submitted a memorandum to the committee “that, too, at the fag end of the committee’s tenure” along with one Gorkha organisation from Dehradun, Uttarakhand. “The ignorance of politicians from the hills and their sense of timing is baffling at times,” said the source. Leader quits Tilak Chand Roka, coordinator of Bimal Gurung’s Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Darjeeling subdivision), on Monday announced his resignation from the party. Roka was a senior and important leader of the Gurung camp, who had been jailed for nine months following the Gorkhaland agitation. Roka said that he resigned from the party because of “ideological difference” over Gurung’s recent political stand to support Trinamul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-229
19-01-2021||West Bengal||Vaccination invite count increased to 200||The Mamata Banerjee government has decided to invite 200 health workers to each of the 207 vaccination centres across the state from Tuesday to achieve the target of administering Covid-19 vaccines to 100 persons at each centre. While only 74 per cent of the health workers had received the jabs on the first day on Saturday, the target came down to around 63 per cent on the second day of the vaccination on Monday. “On Saturday, 15,349 people had turned up for vaccination while the target was to administer vaccines to 20,700 people. On Monday, a total of 14,810 people could be given the first dose of vaccine even though 150 people were invited to get the vaccine at each camp,” said a senior state government official. The state government has also asked the district officials to call up the beneficiaries a day before the vaccination to encourage them to come to the vaccination centres. Senior officials pointed out that the health workers, who are enlisted for vaccination, need to be encouraged to come to the vaccination centres as the turnout was getting thinner. Sources said around 23,570 health workers were invited for vaccination on Monday at 207 camps across Bengal where the target was to meet 20,700 persons. “In the evening, we found that 14,810 persons were administered vaccines out of a target of administering vaccines to 20,700 people. It means 74 per cent could be administered vaccines on Saturday. But the figure came down to 63 per cent on Monday. This is why more people are being invited to get the vaccines,” said an official. At a few places, the district officials had invited candidates beyond the enlisted persons to meet the target. For example, in Birbhum’s Dubrajpur, only 50 persons could be given vaccines initially from the list prepared by the government. Later, 25 more persons were called to the camp who were not in the initial list and were administered vaccines. “We will enrol their names in the government portal later,” said a health official. A section of the health officials, however, said the process to invite persons beyond the list could create trouble and the districts had been asked to be careful in this regard. “We have asked health officials in the districts not to administer vaccines to people outside the list as it would create a problem to manage the system and stock of vaccination,” an official said. “To get rid of the problem, we have decided to invite 200 persons officially from Tuesday for the vaccination in a bid to meet the target. We are planning to increase the number of camps too,” he added. Officials felt that there could be two reasons behind the thin attendance in the camps. First, people are apprehending adverse side effects and second, many of the enlisted persons could not appear in the camps as all of them are engaged in emergency duties like treatment of Covid patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-229
19-01-2021||West Bengal||3 workers die as bike rams into truck||Three youths were crushed to death when their motorbike rammed into a truck at high speed apparently because of poor visibility caused by dense fog at Chapra in Nadia district on Monday morning. The three construction workers were on their way to work in Chapra. The truck was laden with sand. The accident occurred about 7.30am on the Chapra-Ranabandh state road that extends till the Indo-Bangladesh Border. The deceased were Imadul Halsana, 30, Sekim Ali Mondal, 24, and Ekbal Mondal, 20, all residents of Hatkhola village. Imadul was riding the motorcycle with Sekim and Ekbal as pillion riders. Police said there was heavy fog and the biker could have missed seeing the truck because of low visibility. Local residents, however, blamed construction materials like sand and stone chips dumped on the roadside for the accident. The villagers took the trio to Nadia district hospital in Krishnagar, where they were declared dead. Hospital sources said all the three victims had suffered head injuries as none of them was wearing helmets. A local resident and an eyewitness said: “It is true that there was low visibility because of dense fog but the motorcyclist tried to slam the brakes at the last moment when he saw the truck coming towards him. He couldn’t avoid the truck as the two-wheeler skidded on stone chips dumped on the roadside.” However, till Monday afternoon, no complaint had been lodged against the villagers who had allegedly dumped building materials on the road. A member of the local Pipragachi gram panchayat said: “On a number of occasions we have issued notices to people against dumping construction materials on the roadside. However, none paid heed to the notices and they are in a way responsible for the deaths of the three youths.” In another incident, Souvik Mondal, 17, died at Khulna village in North 24-Parganas’s Sandeshkhali when his motorcycle rammed into a roadside lamp post while returning home from a picnic on Sunday night. The accident left pillion riders Rupam Mondal and Preetam Biswas, both aged 19, critically injured. The trio were taken to Khulna rural hospital, where Souvik was declared dead. Rupam and Preetam were later transferred to NRS hospital in Calcutta. An officer of Sandeshkhali police station said: “The victim was riding the motorcycle at high speed despite foggy weather and none was wearing helmets.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-229
19-01-2021||West Bengal||BSF cycle trip to mark birth centenary of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman||A bicycle expedition flagged off by the Border Security Force to commemorate the birth centenary of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, the Father of the Nation of Bangladesh, reached Laxminarayanpur in the Tapan block South Dinajpur district on Monday. The expedition was flagged off from the Panitar BSF camp in North 24-Parganas on January 10. The expedition, sources said, will move through six states and will culminate in Mizoram on March 17, the birthday of Bongobondhu Rahman. “Thirteen BSF personnel are participating in the cycle rally. They will in total cover a distance of 4,666km,” said a BSF officer. The cyclists were felicitated by officials of the BSF and the Border Guards Bangladesh (BGB) on the border at Laxminarayanpur on Monday. “From here, the cyclists will head for Hilli border and then move further to north Bengal. The event has been organised to observe the birth centenary of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. It would strengthen the relationship between the two countries,” said R.R. Sharma, the deputy inspector general of the NB frontier of the BSF.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-229
