20-01-2021||West Bengal||Tug of war over Netaji events||The Trinamul-led state and BJP-led central governments are lining up their own events to observe Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s birth anniversary on January 23, intensifying the tug of war over one of Bengal’s foremost icons. Sources close to Mamata Banerjee said she would try and steal a march over the Prime Minister by hosting the state’s events before those of the Centre begin, on Saturday in Calcutta. On Tuesday, the Centre declared January 23 as Parakram Diwas (Valour Day). The railway ministry also decided to rename the Howrah-Kalka Mail as Netaji Express. Mamata professed displeasure over the word parakram, asserting deshprem (patriotism) or deshnayak (national hero) would have been better. On January 4, Mamata declared that January 23 would be observed as Deshnayak Diwas with a mega rally from Netaji’s statue at Shyambazar to that on Red Road, which she would lead. At 12.15pm, his birth time, sirens would be sounded across Bengal. “What the Centre has announced is their prerogative...But we are not happy. The word (Parakram, with connotations of chest-thumping aggression) they have chosen…I am told that even some members of the Bose family are not happy,” said Mamata. “Where is the national holiday? Has that been declared yet?” BJP state president Dilip Ghosh defended the name. “Parakram is absolutely the right word. Whoever is against it doesn’t know the meaning of it. The word is derived from Sanskrit and has been used in several Bengali texts. Netaji was parakrami and hence the word parakram.” Mamata’s event on Saturday would almost certainly be over by the time Modi participates in the inaugural Parakram Diwas in Calcutta, to inaugurate an exhibition on the grounds of the National Library in Calcutta and felicitate prominent members of Netaji’s Indian National Army. “Parakram” did not sit well with the CPM and Netaji’s own Forward Bloc leaders. “Mahatma Gandhi called Netaji Deshpremikottam (the greatest of patriots). Rabindranath Tagore called him Deshnayak. Is Modi bigger than Gandhiji and Tagore? We refuse to celebrate January 23 as Parakram Diwas,” said Bloc state secretary Naren Chatterjee. CPM’s Sujan Chakraborty said the Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee government had officially declared January 23 as Deshprem Diwas. “Parakram has an aggressive, imperialist connotation, which does not match Netaji’s legacy,” he said. Asked about Modi’s plans this Saturday, Mamata said: “Well, he (Modi) didn’t even know his (Netaji’s) name...” “When elections approach, Bengal is foremost on their minds. When elections are over, they conveniently forget Bengal. They cannot even pronounce the name of Bengal correctly, they call it Bangaal,” said Mamata. “It is an election year, so they can come…. No problem. Bengal welcomes everyone. Except, of course, goons and the rioters.” Mamata has been reminding the saffron camp that major Bengal icons it has been trying to appropriate in order to shed its “outsider” tag, such as Netaji, Tagore, Swami Vivekananda and Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar were opposed to the idea of pitting one religion against another, especially in politics and nation-building. Trinamul has, so far, been enjoying an apparent edge in this duel over Bengal icons, as the BJP has often been found wanting, with avoidable gaffes that have suggested a relative lack of understanding in those areas. Mamata has been planning Netaji celebrations with her elite committee, comprising eminent civil society members from Bengal. She was made part of a central committee, announced months after her committee, but she is unlikely to participate in the Centre’s plans enthusiastically. “The state’s committee is all about highlighting Netaji’s uncompromisingly inclusive, secular worldview, which we know is a thorn in this Centre’s side,” said a senior Trinamul MP. He said Mamata will use the occasion to lambaste the saffron camp’s attempts at deifying “controversial” figures that the saffron ecosystem considers iconic, such as Vinayak Damodar Savarkar, Syama Prasad Mookerjee and Deendayal Upadhyaya, sometimes at the cost of more “worthy” icons with inclusive, secular philosophies such as Netaji. Modi has often lauded Netaji, but according to critics it was always with the intent to undermine Jawaharlal Nehru. “Modi and his party are ideological descendants of Syama Prasad Mookerjee…. It is no secret that Netaji was a fierce critic and ideological rival of Mookerjee and the Hindu Mahasabha. This will be highlighted,” said the minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-227
20-01-2021||West Bengal||EC to verify caste papers of legislators||The Election Commission has asked the chief electoral officer (CEO) of Bengal to find out whether 14 persons, including three sitting MLAs and a sitting MP, are in possession of original Scheduled Caste certificates. The directive was in response to a complaint that Asim Kumar Hazra, the chairman of the Bangiya Scheduled Caste Welfare Association, had filed with the office of the chief election commissioner on December 16. Hazra complained that people like Burdwan East MP Sunil Kumar Mondal, and MLAs Asim Kumar Majhi and Seuli Saha of Trinamul and Dipali Biswas do not belong to the SC community. Mondal had defected from Trinamul to the BJP last month. Biswas had won on CPM ticket from Gazole in Malda district, later he joined Trinamul but recently walked into the BJP. Sources said in the instruction sent by an under-secretary of the EC to the CEO, it had been asked to submit a factual report on the issue by January 25. MP Mondal brushed aside the allegation. “It is nothing but a false allegation as I had obtained scholarships as a student in my school and college level. All my relatives have SC certificates and head of the 2019 Parliament elections, my certificate was verified,” he said. Majhi also spoke in similar terms. “I have no problem and anyone can probe my caste certificate. There is no doubt regarding my SC certificate as my father obtained the same back in 1978,” he said. Biswas said: “I belong to the Namashudra community. I am ready to face any probe.” Saha couldn’t be contacted. Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty in Bolpur||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-227
20-01-2021||West Bengal||Bengal records 6,781 active cases now ||Bengal on Tuesday logged 513 Covid-19 recoveries, 412 new cases and 11 deaths, with one from Calcutta. The state has 6,781 active cases. Total active cases fell for the 85th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami last year. Over these 85 days since October 26, the total active cases fell from 37,190 to 6,781, an improvement of 82 per cent. Bengal now has around 3.4 per cent of India’s active cases. The total is now back almost to where it was 198 days ago, on July 5 last year. Recovery rate rising for 88 days straight from 87.44 per cent on October 22 last year, it is now 97.02 per cent, ahead of the national rate of 96.67. “We are looking to speed up recovery rate over the next few weeks. We aim to cross 98 this month and 99 by midFebruary,” said a minister. Since Dashami, the state recorded over 2.39 lakh recoveries, compared to the 2.12 new infections detected. The state now has over 5.66 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first reported on March 17, 2020, which includes over 5.49 lakh recoveries and 10,074 deaths. The state attributed 8,452 deaths or 83.9 per cent of the total toll to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate remained 1.77, compared to the 1.44 per cent nationally. Calcutta High Court's intervention with instructions against crowding over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath, and then over New Year revelry, helped rein in the infections, the state believes. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.36 per cent now, having improved steadily from the 8.27, 60 days ago. Bengal’s total test count – including 30,034 tests on Tuesday – is over 76.96 lakh now, at 85,514 tests per million people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-227
20-01-2021||West Bengal||Tea planters want action on jumbo intrusions||The Dooars Branch of Indian Tea Association (DBITA) has expressed concern over frequent elephant depredations in tea gardens of the Dooars and sought the intervention of the state government for improvement of some of the roads which lead to the estates. I.S. Chauhan, the DBITA chairman, pointed out these issues at the 143rd annual general meeting of the body held in its office at Binnaguri in Jalpaiguri district on Saturday. The AGM was held virtually because of the Covid-19 pandemic, said sources. In his speech, Chauhan said intrusion of elephants into tea gardens across the Dooars caused loss of lives and property. “The worst affected were the tea estates near Banarhat. We feel it is time that a long-lasting solution to address the issue is pondered over. The government should take some effective measures.” The DBITA chairman said a number of roads connecting tea estates in blocks like Dhupguri and Matialli in Jalpaiguri and in some parts of Alipurduar district were in worst condition. “The condition of these roads is a serious concern not only for the tea estates in the vicinity but also for local people. The state departments and agencies concerned should repair the roads immediately. If tourism is to flourish in tea plantations as the state desires, these need to be refurbished at the earliest,” he said. Chauhan underscored that tea prices had gone up in 2020, the first rise in the past two decades. According to him, tea prices have experienced a rise of around 40.60 per cent compared to 2019 while there has been a loss of around 12.50 per cent in production in 2020. “It is not really time to rejoice as there had been a downward trend in prices at the end of the season. We hope the sudden spurt in prices and consequent notional prosperity will not bring in an array of new impositions on the industry,” the DBITA chairman said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-227
20-01-2021||West Bengal||Morcha backing won’t help TMC win: Dilip||BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh on Tuesday made an attempt to downplay the support base of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha factions — the strongest political force in the hills — and said that even the support of both Morcha camps can’t make Mamata Banerjee and Trinamul win the three hill Assembly seats. At a public meeting at Baghajatin Park here, Ghosh said: “People of Darjeeling hills have been repeatedly cheated and in the Assembly polls, they will give a fitting reply to Trinamul. (Bimal) Gurung or Binay Tamang won’t be able to help Mamata Banerjee win. Many prominent faces in the hills have joined BJP and residents will support us.” Ghosh’s assertion comes when Trinamul has the support of both Morcha camps. Long-time BJP ally Gurung ditched the party in October 2020 over “unfulfilled promises” to join hands with Trinamul. The Tamang faction is a Trinamul ally since 2017. The BJP has the support of GNLF, CPRM, ABGL and some other regional forces. “Gurung had once threatened the chief minister and was forced to stay away from the hills for over three years. Now he has joined hands with Trinamul….” said Ghosh. The BJP forged ties with the Morcha in 2009 and won three back-to-back Lok Sabha polls in Darjeeling. Gurung’s support was said to be crucial for the 2019 Darjeeling Assembly bypoll win of Neeraj Zimba, the GNLF leader who contested on a BJP ticket. “Now that Gurung has cut ties with the saffron brigade, BJP leaders who had piggybacked on the Morcha are fuming at him,” said an observer. On Wednesday, the BJP has planned a protest in front of the Alipurduar district magistrate’s office on issues related to tea workers. Shiv Sena in fray The Shiv Sena will field candidates in at least 100 of 294 Assembly seats in Bengal polls, Ashok Sarkar, Sena state secretary said on Tuesday. On January 23, they would observe birth anniversaries of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose and Sena founder Bal Thackeray in Calcutta and Asansol, he said. “Prominent leaders of our party will be in Bengal to campaign for our candidates ahead of the elections,” added Sarkar. Additional reporting by our Alipurduar & Cooch Behar correspondents||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-227
20-01-2021||West Bengal||Bhaichung to launch a soccer academy in Siliguri||Bhaichung Bhutia, one of India’s first football superstars, will start an academy in Siliguri, a move that could be a game changer for the football crazy region. The ace Indian striker had been looking at the state government for land for the project but with things failing to fall in place he decided to take personal initiative. On his investment, Bhutia told The Telegraph: “I have just bought my own property in Siliguri to set up an academy. Earlier we were looking at the government to give land, so enough of it now.” Bhutia’s disclosure comes close on the heels of his decision to revive the United Sikkim Football Club (UFSC). The club, formed by Bhutia and two of his friends Sherpa Lepcha and Arjun Rai back in 2004, was among the top 10 clubs of India in its heydays. Bhutia decided to wind it up in 2019. A couple of weeks back, he reversed the decision. The Siliguri football academy could be a major boon for budding players from north Bengal. Expected to come up in the next few years, the academy is likely to be a training centre for the Sikkim club. Topographically, it is challenging to get an open space for football training in Sikkim’s hilly terrain, so Siliguri is a better choice. Bhutia admitted “space is going to be very challenging in Sikkim”. The former skipper of the Indian football team said United Sikkim’s training ground might be shifted to Siliguri. “If we qualify for I-League or ISL (Indian Super League, the highest professional football league in India), than obviously while most matches will be played in Sikkim, we can look at having some matches in Siliguri as well, if the stadium does qualify for ISL standards,” said Bhutia. A few decades back, Siliguri would host international matches but not of late. Bhutia was in Darjeeling as a chief guest at the finals of a football tournament started by Darjeeling police. A total of 221 teams, including 25 women’s teams, registered for the tournament, a figure that surprised Bhutia. “It is a great initiative of Darjeeling police...I am surprised as you don’t get these numbers even in big states. There were quite a lot of talented girls,” said Bhutia. Darjeeling police started the tourney as a part of its police-public outreach under the Khel Utsav initiative. Darjeeling police won both the men and women category to take home Rs 1 lakh each. Runners-up were men’s URFC Rangbull (Jorebunlow) and women’s TIIEDI’s WE FC (Sadar), who received Rs 50,000 each.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-227
20-01-2021||West Bengal||Two die as rival TMC groups clash over land||The chief of a Trinamul-run panchayat samiti and an alleged party worker died in South Dinajpur district on Tuesday after two rival groups of Trinamul supporters clashed over a piece of land at Uttar Narayanpur village under Gangarampur police station area. The deceased were identified as Kalipada Sarkar, 54, the sabhapati of Gangarampur panchayat samiti, who had been injured in the clash but died of cardiac arrest, and Sanjit Sarkar, 27, who died of bullet wounds. The incident has led to loss of face for district Trinamul leaders who have been of late trying to present a unified image of the party in South Dinajpur, a district where the BJP has been gaining in strength these past couple of years. A large police contingent, along with RAF, reached the village, and arrested four persons for their alleged involvement in the violence. “We have arrested four persons and have seized crude bombs and a firearm. Search is on to nab more people,” said Debarshi Dutta, the South Dinajpur district police chief. Sources said on Tuesday, an altercation among the groups over the ownership of a plot sparked violence. Soon, both sides attacked each other with firearms and crude bombs. Sanjit, who was hit by a bullet on his head, collapsed on the spot. His aides rushed him to the local hospital in Gangarampur from where he was referred to Malda Medical College and Hospital. He succumbed to his injuries on the way to Malda. Sanjit, sources said, was a supporter of Gautam Das, the district Trinamul president. Seeing Sanjit’s collapse, his co-workers got agitated and gathered around the house of Suman Das, a party worker from a rival group. Alleging that Das has fired at Sanjit, they ransacked and torched his house. Seeing Kalipada on the spot, the agitated workers attacked him too. An injured Kalipada was taken to the hospital in Gangarampur, where the doctors pronounced him dead. It was later learnt that the cause of his death was cardiac arrest. Kalipada, party insiders said, was an associate of veteran party leader Biplab Mitra, a former MLA and former district chief of the party who defected to the BJP earlier, but returned to Trinamul last year and it was only a couple of days back that he was made the chairman of the district committee. Gautam Das, the district Trinamul chief, confirmed that Sanjit had been an active party worker. Mitra, on the other hand, claimed that Sanjit was a BJP worker. “He was an active party worker,” the Trinamul district chief said. “During the past few days, we have received information that some people are trying to foment tension in the district. We want the police to take stern steps against all those who perpetrated the violence, irrespective of their political affiliation. The other person is suspected to have died of a heart attack,” Gautam Das said. Mitra however called it a “local issue”. “The person who died of bullet injury is a BJP worker. He has no connection with Trinamul,” Mitra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-227
20-01-2021||West Bengal||TMC minister bid to woo Cong voters in Malda||State minister and Trinamul leader Firhad Hakim on Tuesday tried to reach out to Congress supporters from the minority community in Malda ahead of the Bengal polls. Hakim, who reached here on Tuesday, said at a party meeting: “Congress supporters should vote for us because their party leaders have joined hands with the CPM, the party responsible for the deaths of hundreds of Congress supporters in Malda.” He took the name of Congress stalwart A.B.A. Ghani Khan Choudhury, still considered the party’s tallest leader in the district. “Barkatda (as Khan Choudhury is known) has always said that the Congress will have to struggle against CPM till the last day. To fulfil his dream, it is time that those who have voted Congress for years now stand by us. It is only Trinamul that can thwart the BJP,” Hakim said. Since Trinamul’s emergence, Mamata has always focussed on the minority vote bank of the state and her strategy has helped her to win in a number of elections. However, unlike most other minority-dominated belts of Bengal, Trinamul has failed to draw support from a bulk of the minority population of Malda, a district with around 55 per cent minority population. Thousands of them are still believed to be with the Congress. In all, Malda has 12 Assembly seats. In the 2016 polls, Trinamul had failed to win even one seat in the district.  Trinamul could not bag either of the two Lok Sabha seats, Malda north and south, in 2019. “It seems that Trinamul now wants to erode the support base of Congress in minority belts. There are at least eight Assembly seats in Malda where support of minorities decides the results,” said an observer, adding that the Trinamul leadership might have thought that was easier than trying to erode BJP’s Malda vote bank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-227
20-01-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee’s rally pulls massive crowd in Purulia||The turnout of over two lakh people at Mamata Banerjee’s rally in Purulia on Tuesday came as a pleasant surprise for Trinamul leadership as the party has been on the backfoot in this western district since 2018 panchayat elections in which the BJP showed signs of significant gains. “It was our challenge to fill up such a big ground... We were worried about the turnout even half an hour before the chief minister’s chopper took off from Kolaghat as some parts of the field were vacant. But finally, people did turn up in droves and filled the ground,” said Gurupada Tudu, the Purulia Trinamul president. Tudu claimed that around 2.5 lakh people attended Tuesday’s rally of the chief minister and surpassed their target. The fact that the organisers were worried about the turnout became clear when Mamata rose to deliver her address. “I heard that few people were trying to take photographs of vacant ground around 10.30am or 11am despite the meeting being scheduled to start at 1.30pm. Please come on the dais to take a photograph of the ground. Anybody can come and anyone is welcome on the stage. Anyone can come and see the sea of crowd from the dais,” said the chief minister. As Trinamul is the party in power and has complete control over the administration and the police, one cannot draw conclusion about the party’s support base only on the basis of turnout, but Trinamul insiders said the gathering gave them hope of a turnaround in the district that has become a BJP stronghold in the last couple of years. “During the CM’s campaign rally before the Lok Sabha polls in 2019, we had struggled to bring even 25,000 people... Against that backdrop, today’s rally is indeed a success,” said a senior Trinamul leader in the district. Trinamul leaders said excitement over Duare Sarkar and groundwork helped in getting people to the venue. Trinamul leaders said the chief minister was so happy with the crowd count that she started sketching while sitting on the dais. “It was a sketch of state minister Sandhyarani Tudu and a party MLA sitting on the dais... She gifted the sketch to our MLA and minister with a smiling face,” said a Trinamul leader. Fatal fall Benjamin Sandil, 45, who had come to attend the rally, died after falling from the roof of a bus at the parking lot near the venue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-227
20-01-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee defends Tollywood actor||Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday tore into a section of BJP leaders for attacking a Tollywood actor. “How do you dare rebuke Bengal? I dare you to touch Tollywood. I dare you to touch the cultural arena,” Mamata said at a massive rally in Purulia. The chief minister was referring to a recent event where Tollywood actor Saayoni Ghosh was attacked by BJP leader Tathagata Roy on social media for daring to criticise Hindutva forces. Without naming Roy, Mamata said the septuagenarian had lost his mind. “She (Saayoni) is of his granddaughter’s age. Why is he giving her daily threats? Can’t she speak her mind?” Mamata asked. Roy engaged in a Twitter war with Saayoni recently after she spoke on BJP’s “Jai Shri Ram” slogan during a TV show. “Jai Shri Ram is the Lord’s name. Say it with love. Why do you need to make it a war cry?” Saayoni had said. This led to a tussle on Twitter between her and Roy. Roy filed a police complaint against Saayoni with Rabindra Sarovar police referring to an old tweet posted from her handle in February 2015 that had hurt religious sentiments. Saayoni tweeted an apology and clarified her Twitter handle had been hacked and it wasn’t her post. “Didi’s immense love and assurance has lifted my spirits and she has proven once again that her fight for a peaceful and democratic Bengal continues in full might,” Saayoni told The Telegraph. Actor Debalina Dutta is also being trolled for saying people should have the liberty to eat or cook what they want. Tarunjyoti Tewari, a vice-president of the BJP's state youth wing, said on Facebook that Dutta’s comments hurt his religious sentiments. “She can cook and eat whatever she wants...but there’s a limit to what she says,” Tewari, who filed a complaint against Dutta with Baguiati police on Tuesday, told journalists. Dutta said Tewari’s Facebook post led to rape threats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-227
20-01-2021||West Bengal||Clash precedes Suvendu rally||Supporters of the BJP and the Trinamul Congress clashed in East Midnapore’s Khejuri on Tuesday afternoon leaving at least 12 from both the sides injured. The violence occurred a few hours before Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari was to lead a BJP rally at Heria. Eyewitnesses said the incident occurred when hordes of unidentified youths appeared to block the path of vehicles headed for the BJP’s Heria rally, prompting a retaliation from occupants of the vehicles and a lathi-charge led by district police and Rapid Action Force. The incident took place on roads adjoining Khejuri’s Tetultala, Baratala and Gholabar areas. “Today supporters coming to our rally were stymied and attacked by Trinamul workers. Two mandal presidents had to be hospitalised,” Suvendu said while speaking later at the 4pm rally. Suvendu’s rally was held in the wake of a mega rally that chief minister Mamata Banerjee addressed at Nandigram in the neighbouring East Midnapore district on Monday. In his speech, Suvendu brought up the issue of Mamata’s decision to contest from Nandigram. “She cannot contest from both Nandigram and Bhowanipore. She must stick to Nandigram,” said Suvendu. Referring to the violence that preceded his rally on Tuesday, Suvendu said he was giving district police time “till Sunday” to arrest those behind the attack, otherwise he would lead a dharna — accompanied by BJP Tamluk district president Nabarun Nayak and Contai district president Anup Chakraborty — in front of the office of the superintendent of police, Tamluk, from Monday. “Workers were mercilessly pulled out of their vehicles by Trinamul workers and stoned. Crude bombs were also thrown,” said a BJP worker. Trinamul district core committee member Mahmood Hossain said the claims that Trinamul workers had attacked first were false. “Our supporters were heading for Madan Mitra’s rally at Vidyapeeth, which is 15km away from Heria. It was BJP workers who attacked us first when our processions had veered close to each other in our respective ways. So, we retaliated,” he said. Earlier, 10 homes of BJP workers were reportedly ransacked late on Monday in the wake of Mamata’s mega rally. “Several Trinamul inductees into our party refused to attend the CM’s rally yesterday (Monday). So, the party attacked them in retaliation,” said BJP district vice-president Pralay Pal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-228
20-01-2021||West Bengal||BJP more dangerous than Maoists: Mamata||Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday sounded a warning at a rally near here that voting in favour of the BJP would lead to the return of Maoists and disruptions in normal life in the Jungle Mahal. The chief minister’s message was aimed at reminding the residents of violence unleashed by the Left extremists in the Jungle Mahal between 2008 and 2011 and how the Trinamul Congress government had brought peace to the region. “Purulia will not be Purulia or today’s Rupasi Bangla if the BJP comes here. You will see that the Maoists will come again (if the BJP comes to power). The BJP is more dangerous than the Maoists,” Mamata told over two lakh people at Hatmura football ground, 12km from Purulia town. The chief minister did not explain why she said the BJP was more dangerous than the Maoists, but sources close to her said that she was obliquely referring to the spread of RSS network in tribal-dominated areas in the Jungle Mahal. The Trinamul chief made her success in bringing peace to the Jungle Mahal — which includes Purulia, Bankura, West Midnapore and now Jhargram — the theme of her address. “Earlier, the people of the Jungle Mahal could not walk freely on roads because of the fear of Maoists. The same Maoists later surrendered and joined the mainstream of the society. We offered many of them jobs of home guards and they started serving the nation... I promise that those who haven’t got jobs till now would get them soon,” she said. The focus on peace, several Trinamul leaders said, was a potent theme to take on the BJP, which has been steadily growing in the region. The saffron party bagged five out of the six Lok Sabha seats and was ahead in 31 of the 40 Assembly segments in the Jungle Mahal in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. “Where was the BJP when Baghmundi or Balarampur were bleeding? Ask the BJP leaders, where were they when the Ajodhya hills (in Purulia) were soaked in blood? Today, the BJP leaders are coming from Jharkhand because of the vote. But there was no one during the unrest in the Jungle Mahal,” said the chief minister as she highlighted her achievements in bringing peace to the region. Mamata also referred to how the development took place in Purulia and adjoining areas after the Maoist problem was solved as the region’s tourism potential was realised with the return of peace. “People are coming here for tourism, even film shoots are taking place... Several new hotels are being set up. I want more hotels here so that local youths get jobs,” she added. Ujjwal Kumar, the deputy chief of the Trinamul-run Purulia’s Arsha panchayat samity, said the chief minister did the right thing by reminding people of the dark days of Maoist domination in the region. “So many youths go distracted... Even I was attached to the banned outfit. I am back in the mainstream only because of the chief minister,” he said. The Maoists held sway in large parts of the Jungle Mahal and hundreds of political activists and ordinary people were killed between 2008 and 2011. The situation changed remarkably since Mamata came to power and the police launched an offensive on the banned outfit and its main leader, Mallojula Koteswara Rao alias Kishenji, was killed in 2011. Her focus on delivering on development and attempts to bring the Maoist foot soldiers back to the mainstream helped in return of peace in the region. Local BJP leaders said her attempt at drawing parallels between the BJP and the Maoists captured her fear of losing to the BJP in the upcoming Assembly polls. “The Trinamul leaders indulged in corruption in the name of development... We will expose all these after we come to power. She is scared and that’s why she is saying all these ridiculous things,” said BJP’s Purulia president Bidyasagar Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-228
