21-01-2021||West Bengal||One wedding and 14 funerals in Bengal||The ambience at Char-Churabhandar village in Maynaguri block of Jalpaiguri district changed from festivity to mourning overnight. On Monday, the village was busy celebrating the marriage of a girl, the festive mood spilling on Tuesday as well. Abruptly, the village plunged in despair when the news of the Tuesday night AH 48 accident that killed 14 persons, who were part of the bride’s party on way to the groom’s family reception, spread. When this correspondent went to the village on Wednesday, wails were heard from many homes. As state ministers Gautam Deb and Aroop Biswas reached the village and went to the houses of the deceased, hundreds joined them to extend their condolences. “We have no words,” said Joydeb Roy, the bride’s father, standing near the morgue of Jalpaiguri district hospital on Wednesday. “None of us had an inkling that my daughter’s marriage would turn into a nightmare for so many,” he said, alluding to the 14 dead and the 13 injured. Dulali Roy, one of Roy’s neighbours, lost her husband and two sons in the accident. “She is often falling unconscious. We don’t know how to console her. She has lost her whole family in the mishap,” said a neighbour. Pushpa Roy, also a neighbour of the bride, had been seriously injured but died at the NBMCH later. Kameswar Singha of Odlabari of Malbazar subdivision in Jalpaiguri district, a relative of the bride, lost six family members. “My elder daughter, son-in-law, two granddaughters, sister-in-law and her mother have died,” said an expressionless Kameshwar, standing near the morgue. His son Ajay, injured and being treated at Jalpaiguri superspecialty hospital, received permission to join his father at the morgue. Wincing in pain, he stood near the morgue to catch a glimpse of the deceased. Six-year-old Ritesh Mishra, who being treated at the same super-specialty hospital here, lost his parents Rajesh and Renu. “Ever since he learnt the news, he is just staring blankly and not talking. We don’t know how long it would take for him to become normal,” said a relative. Bipan Sarkar from nearby Baroghoria village lost his wife Mamani and three-year-old son Biraj in the accident. “I returned home (to Baroghoria) after the wedding but my wife and son stayed back in Char-Churabhandar. Our fourth wedding anniversary is on Friday. We had plans. But everything is finished,” he wept.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-226
21-01-2021||West Bengal||Mom and three girls bend it like Beckham||If football runs in a family, it is in the Sharma family from Karmatar village, some 40km from Darjeeling. Chandrakala Sharma, 38, defends the village women’s team that also has her three daughters, Bandana, 22, Archana, 21 and Aradhana, 20, in the line-up. Also, Chandrakala’s son Iswar, 18, is a footballer. Her husband Mani Raj, too, was a footballer, but stopped playing the beautiful game following a heart ailment some years ago. Chandrakala and her family are regulars in village level football, but they shot to fame for participating as part of the local team, Rangeet Girls Football Association, in the recent mega football tournament organised by Darjeeling police. A picture of the awesome foursome — Chandrakala and her three daughters — posted by Darjeeling Police, is earning rave reviews. Darjeeling Police on Wednesday posted: “Hats off to this wonderful family for loving and participating in the beautiful game of Football…that’s probably the best pic we have seen which should give inspiration to one and all.” Chandrakala, who’s from Thurbo in  West Sikkim, took to football at age nine and played for Sikkim “school state level team”, she said. “I married in 1996 and moved to Karmatar with my love, football,” she said. Not surprisingly, her daughters and son took the game like a fish takes to water. “The Darjeeling police tournament gave us a platform to display our skill. We, however, lost in the quarterfinals in a penalty shootout, and this still hurts,” said Chandrakala. During her prime, Chandrakala was a striker, but with age she has moved to defence while her daughters are strikers. Obviously, the mother is manager-cum-coach, though they have a local coach, Sagar Subba, to help them. “We have a small car, Alto, but whenever there is a tourney in our village, the family bundles up in the car to go there and play,” Chandrakala said. When does she scream more, at home or on the field? “In both,” said her daughter Bandana who is doing her masters in zoology from Darjeeling Government College. “But, we are so proud of her.” The Darjeeling police football tourney had an astounding 211 teams, including 25 women’s, which surprised even former Indian football skipper Bhaichung Bhutia, the chief guest of the finals on Tuesday. The hill police is planning to start a volleyball tournament during the next phase of Khel Utsav.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-226
21-01-2021||West Bengal||One more Bengal MLA defects to BJP||Arindam Bhattacharya, who had won the 2016 Assembly polls as a Left-backed Congress candidate and later switched over to the Trinamul Congress, joined the BJP on Wednesday. The MLA of Santipur in Nadia switched to the new party in the presence of the BJP’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya at the national headquarters in New Delhi. Justifying the reason behind his defection, Bhattacharya said: “There was no freedom to work (in Trinamul). I had a plan, a vision to work for development and betterment for people of my constituency and the state as a whole. But unfortunately, the ruling party has no vision, no future planning…the state has become synonymous with corruption.” “I eventually changed my mind to leave Trinamul to restore the lost pride of Bengal,” Bhattacharya added while speaking to media persons in Delhi. Bhattacharya had won the Santipur seat defeating Ajoy De of Trinamul in 2016 but defected to the ruling party in 2017. His defection triggered a major internal bickering in Trinamul. There were regular incidents of clashes between Bhattacharya’s supporters and those aligned to De, forcing Trinamul’s top leadership to intervene on a number of occasions. Trinamul leaders said Bhattacharya joining the BJP would have little impact on their organisation in Nadia. Trinamul MP and the party’s Nadia district president Mahua Moitra refused to comment on the issue. “My best wishes for him,” she told The Telegraph. Reacting to Bhattacharya’s induction, BJP MP Jagannath Sarkar said: “I have no comment to offer since the decision to take him has been taken by the party’s top leadership”. Bhattacharya’s defection comes a day after chief minister Mamata Banerjee told a rally in Purulia on Tuesday that anybody could leave the party, but she would not bow the head before the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-226
21-01-2021||West Bengal||14 dead in 4-vehicle pile-up on Bengal highway||Fourteen persons, including six minors, of a marriage party died in a devastating four-vehicle pile-up on a foggy Tuesday night on the Asian Highway 48 in Maynatoli area of the district’s Dhupguri block. Thirteen others are injured and are being treated at various hospitals of the region. On Tuesday, when three light vehicles — an Alto and two small vans — with 28 people of the marriage party were heading towards Dhupguri on the highway, a 10-wheel truck with boulders from the opposite end lost control, rammed into one of the light vehicles and then the two others. “Because of the fog, visibility was poor. The first vehicle collided head-on with the truck and the truck hit the divider. The other two vehicles coming from the wrong side collided one by one with the left side of the truck. As a result of the impact, boulders on the truck as well as the truck itself fell on these light vehicles. Occupants got buried,” said a police officer, adding the truck driver had been detained. As the passengers were taken out by the police, firemen and residents and rushed to Dhupguri block hospital, doctors pronounced 13 of them dead. Later, a woman shifted to the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital succumbed, taking the toll to 14. Sources said on Monday, a girl hailing from Char-Churabhandar village of Maynaguri block got married to a youth from Lalschool area of Dhupguri block. On Tuesday, the groom’s family arranged a reception and accordingly, 35 people from bride’s side were heading for the venue in five light vehicles, including cars. The mishap involved three of those vehicles. “Two vehicles had moved ahead and reached the groom’s place. Three vehicles were together and met with the accident,” said a villager. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced a compensation of Rs 2.5 lakh for each next-of-kin of the deceased, Rs 50,000 to each of those who with serious injuries and Rs 25,000 to each of those with minor injuries. “We want people to be more cautious while driving during winter months,” Mamata said. On Wednesday, state ministers Gautam Deb and Rabindranath Ghosh, along with party leaders and MLA Mitali Roy, visited the homes of some of the victims, handed over compensation cheques and assured them that the government was taking care of the treatment of the injured. The Prime Minister’s Office also came forward to help, announcing Rs 2 lakh for each of the next of kin of the deceased and Rs 50,000 for each of the injured. “The road accident in Dhupguri in Jalpaiguri (West Bengal) is extremely anguishing. In this time of sadness, prayers with the bereaved families. May the injured recover soon,” the PMO tweet read.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-226
21-01-2021||West Bengal||Day’s Covid toll lowest in Bengal in 8 months||Bengal on Wednesday logged six Covid-19 deaths, including two from Calcutta, the lowest daily toll for the state in this pandemic in 237 days since the six deaths reported on May 28 last year. The state also reported 509 recoveries and 409 new infections on Wednesday, which resulted in a drop in total active cases for the 86th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami last year. Active cases, from the Dashami high of 37,190, are now 6,675 on Wednesday. Rising for 89 consecutive days from 87.44 on October 22 last year, Bengal’s recovery rate touched 97.04 per cent. The national rate is 96.7 now. “The real highlight of the day, however, is how we have managed to improve our daily death count. Even in December, we were getting around 50-60 deaths daily, with 20-odd from Calcutta alone. Look at where we are now,” said a Bengal minister. However, Bengal’s mortality rate is 1.77 compared to the 1.44 per cent nationally. “Our next key goal is a major improvement in the mortality rate,” said the minister. The state attributed 8,457 deaths or 83.9 per cent of the total Covid toll of 10,080 to co-morbidities. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.33 per cent now, having improved steadily from the 8.27, 61 days ago. “The much better positive confirmation rate is a clear indicator of a decisive reduction in the spread of the outbreak,” said the minister. Bengal’s total test count – including 27,104 tests on Wednesday – is over 77.23 lakh now, at 85,815 tests per million people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-226
21-01-2021||West Bengal||Mamata promises to resend Kurmi ST tag proposal||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday assured a top leader of the Kurmi community that her government would send to the Centre a proposal for the re-inclusion of the community in the Scheduled Tribe category. The chief minister gave the assurance to Ajit Prasad Mahata, chief adviser, Adivasi Kurmi Samaj, during a meeting held at the conference hall of Belguma police line here on Wednesday afternoon after she inaugurated around 40 projects in different Jungle Mahal districts. “I took an appointment with the chief minister to talk to her regarding our demand of re-enlistment of our community as ST. After talking for a few minutes, she assured me that she would resend the proposal to the Centre,” Mahata said, adding that he was very pleased after getting the assurance from the chief minister. “According the ST status to the community depends upon the central government. We are apolitical but extend our support to one who will stand with us,” Mahata said. The demand for the inclusion of Kurmis, who play an important role in determining the outcome in over 35 Assembly constituencies in the Jungle Mahala, in the ST category has been there for years. The Kurmis claimed that they had been registered as Scheduled Tribe till 1931, but were dropped from the list post-Independence for some “unknown reasons”. They were included in the OBC list, but they want to be re-included in the ST category, said multiple Kurmi leaders. In 2017, Mamata had written to then Union minister for tribal affairs Jual Oram, requesting him to consider the state government’s proposal to confer the ST tag on Kurmis. However within a week, the central government replied to the state with a request to resend the application with further comments and informed that the Office of the Registrar of General of India didn’t support the proposal. Trinamul insiders said the chief minister’s assurance to Mahata that she would resend the proposal was a masterstroke in view of the Purulia demography, where more than 25 per cent of the population belong to the kurmi community. Sources said there were around 50 lakh Kurmis in Bengal. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, a majority of the Kurmi votes, a Trinamul insider said, shifted to the BJP from Trinamul, which helped the saffron party bag five of the six Lok Sabha seats in the region. Local BJP functionaries said they had already taken the Kurmis’ demand up with central leaders of the party. “The reason behind rejecting the proposal earlier was a genuine fault of the state which failed to convince the Central government. If the state sends the proposal properly, the Centre will certainly consider it. We are with the Kurmi community,” said Bidyasagar Chakraborty, the Purulia district BJP president. The chief minister said in Purulia on Wednesday that her government would organise 621 fairs in Bengal to boost small scale industries and artisans in the Jungle Mahal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-226
21-01-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati VC urged to resign||The SFI on Wednesday demanded the resignation of Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty for allegedly gagging democratic activities on campus and asked varsity authorities to unconditionally revoke the recent suspensions of university teachers, students and employees. Addressing reporters in Birbhum’s Bolpur, state SFI secretary Srijan Bhattacharya condemned Chakraborty’s “political activities” and demanded his resignation in the wake of recent suspensions of teachers, students and employees who “dared” to raise their voice against the VC. SFI leaders, including Bhattacharya, said they would write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, also the Visva-Bharati chancellor, and President Ram Nath Kovind this week for the removal of the VC who is “working against the values of the university’s founder Rabindranath Tagore”. “Urgent steps need to be taken so that we do not have to refer to someone like him as the esteemed VC anymore,” he said, demanding suspensions of student leaders Falguni Pan, Somnath Sow and economics professor Sudipta Bhattacharyya be revoked. Suggesting that the varsity was suffering from a “systemic” top-down problem, Bhattacharya emphasised on the VC’s “arrogance”, saying it had “ruined the varsity’s atmosphere”. He slammed Chakrabarty for “daring to humiliate Nobel laureate Amartya Sen” over an alleged land encroachment controversy. Bhattacharya said the controversy involving Sen was the latest in a chain of events that began in 2019 with the VC’s alleged support for the BJP’s citizenship thrusts. He condemned the VC’s attempts at saffronisation of the campus by inviting Rightwing ideologues such as Swapan Dasgupta to help promote the CAA. “Visva-Bharati is in a tough position... We strongly condemn it...In no uncertain terms we demand the resignation of the VC,” he added. SFI sources said a letter to the Prime Minister and President would be drafted and sent this week after signatures were collected from across the varsity town.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-226
21-01-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu ducks ideology query||Trinamul Congress turncoat Suvendu Adhikari was lost for words in an ABP Ananda interview when he was asked if he stuck to his oft-declared Gandhian ideology or subscribed to Sangh figure Syama Prasad Mookerjee’s stand vis-à-vis a particular episode in the Quit India movement. With hands folded, Suvendu, the BJP’s catch of the season, sought forgiveness for not answering the question from the channel’s executive vice-president Suman De and stepped away. The 50-year-old Adhikari repeatedly declares himself as an ideological descendant of the Tamralipta Jatiya Sarkar (national government) of 1942 and its protagonists and iconic Gandhians — such as Satish Chandra Samanta, Sushil Kumar Dhara, Ajoy Mukherjee and Matangini Hazra. De quoted Syama Prasad Mookerjee on the movement when he was a minister of Bengal Province (1941-43) in the A.K. Fazlul Haq’s coalition government. The question, the final one in the 54-minute interview, made Adhikari visibly uncomfortable and he tried to excuse himself from evaluating Mookerjee over his view of the landmark movement of 1942. Mookerjee is a foremost figure of the saffron ecosystem but his legacy is controversial. The relevant excerpts of the interview (in Bengali) follow. De: My final question. Whenever someone switches parties, there is a change in the ideological perspective. Let’s take for instance, you repeatedly say in your public addresses — all of us think so too — the Tamralipta Jatiya Sarkar of 1942 is extremely important in our state’s and nation’s history. You are a self-proclaimed ideological disciple of, the likes of Satish Samanta, Ajoy Mukherjee… names that will forever be remembered…. But the party you have switched to today, the predecessor of that was the Bharatiya Jana Sangh (the political arm of the RSS), its founder Syama Prasad Mookerjee had a completely different view of the 1942 movement. Just three months later, he said: “I do not think that the meaningless indiscipline and destructive work that was done in the past three months, it would be helpful to the cause of gaining Independence for our country.” (Quoting from Rashtro Shongrameyr ek Odhyay, Syama Prasad Mookerjee, Page 61) Just think, “meaningless indiscipline”, “destructive”, he says of the 1942 movement. Will you, Suvendu Adhikari, go by your own evaluation? Or will you go by that of the very respectable Syama Prasad Mookerjee? Adhikari: See, I will not evaluate Dr. Syama Prasad Mookerjee on the basis of this particular statement. I do not have that right. De: I am not asking you to do that though. I am asking you, while evaluating 1942, would you give precedence to your own assessment, or will you give precedence to Syama Prasad Mookerjee? Adhikari: No. You have asked me this question in relation to such a man, I am skipping this one (with folded hands). (De laughs out) You have the right to ask that question. I too have the right to step away. De: Indeed. (Adhikari laughs out) (What De did not add, possibly on account of Adhikari’s apparent hurry to step away, was another key quote from Page 116 of the same book, where Mookerjee said: “Now, in a state of war, a national government should be formed in a way that the war can be conducted in intensive cooperation with the friendly side.) The Tamralipta Jatiya Sarkar was a historic, independent parallel government established in Tamluk, in Adhikari’s backyard, during Mahatma Gandhi’s Quit India Movement. The Tamralipta Jatiya Sarkar had set up police stations, military departments, courts, a system for revenue collection, and even its own newspaper, Biplabi (The Revolutionary). The so-called national government functioned between December 17, 1942, and August 8, 1944. It was dissolved on the explicit directions of Mahatma Gandhi, taking note of the end of the Quit India Movement. Adhikari’s icons like Ajoy Mukherjee went on to become a three-term chief minister of Bengal. Satish Chandra Samanta was a five-term Parliamentarian in Independent India. Sushil Kumar Dhara — who passed away at 99 in 2011 and was often visited by Adhikari — was a three-term MLA and a one-term MP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-226
21-01-2021||West Bengal||Bengal decides on 15% hike in tea wages||The state labour department has decided on an interim hike of 15 per cent in the daily wages of workers and monthly salaries of staff and sub-staff serving Bengal’s tea industry, which is likely to be a leverage for the ruling Trinamul in the brew belt before Assembly polls. Tea workers, who now receive Rs 176 a day, will get a hike of Rs 26 that will increase the daily wage rate to Rs 202, sources said. “Also, staff and the sub-staff serving in tea estates will get a hike of 15 per cent on gross salaries...The revised rates will be effective from January 1 this year,” said Ziaul Alam, convener of Joint Forum, an apex body of tea trade unions. The decision, which will benefit close to three lakh workers and 10,000 staff and sub-staff, was taken at a tripartite meeting convened by the state labour department here on Wednesday in the presence of Bengal labour minister Moloy Ghatak, senior officials of his department, representatives of tea planters’ associations and tea trade unions. This interim hike in tea wage, sources said, came after October 2018. Tea trade union leaders said that it was pointed out at the meeting that an interim hike was needed at once, as the dates of the Assembly polls could be declared any time. Once dates were declared, the model code of conduct would kick in and nothing could be done. “That is why the state labour department took this step. They are also likely to issue the notification soon. We have, however, made it clear that talks for the final revision of salaries of the staff and sub-staff and for fixing the minimum daily wage for tea workers should continue,” said Saman Pathak, the Darjeeling district Citu secretary. Tea planters said that they agreed to the hike but also flagged productivity issues at the meeting. “It is necessary that the state takes initiative to address productivity issues. Rise in the cost of production vis-à-vis yield is a major concern in tea estates,” said Sumit Ghosh, secretary of the north Bengal branch of Tea Association of India. The Mamata Banerjee government has already started the Cha Sundari housing scheme in the tea belt. However, the interim wage hike decision, political observers said, may help Trinamul steal a march on its political opponents, especially the BJP. In north Bengal, votes of tea workers and their families decide the results of at least 15 Assembly seats. In neighbouring Assam — India’s largest tea producing state with the saffron party in power — the daily wage happens to be Rs 167 in the tea sector. Trinamul will surely highlight the Rs 35 difference in wages in Bengal and Assam, pointed out observers. “In fact, the wage in Assam is even lower in places like the Barak valley,” said an observer. “But even if we consider Rs 167 (as the average) in Assam, Bengal’s current wage rate is Rs 9 higher, but after the interim hike comes in force, the difference will increase to Rs 35. This would surely prompt Trinamul to raise the issue during campaign to counter BJP,” Like Bengal, Assam also faces elections in the first half of this year, with the BJP’s Sarbananda Sonowal government seeking a fresh term. Tea wage is a political issue there too. “Assam Cha Mazdoor Sangh has recently launched the ‘Shramik Garjan’ (workers’ roar) campaign over wage revision,” said a political analyst. “In this context, the ACMS will surely mention the hike announced by the Bengal government. It will be interesting to see how the BJP government there handles the issue.” The ACMS has demanded a daily wage of Rs 351 for tea workers in Assam, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-226
