22-01-2021||West Bengal||TMC expels disgruntled MLA Baishali Dalmiya from party||The ruling Trinamool Congress in Bengal on Friday expelled disgruntled MLA Baishali Dalmiya from the party for anti-party activities, sources said. The Bally legislator has been publicly speaking against a section of the TMC leadership. She had also claimed that there is no place for “honest and sincere people in the party”. In a statement, the TMC said that its disciplinary committee met on Friday and decided to expel Dalmiya from the party. Her expulsion came hours after senior TMC leader Rajib Banerjee resigned from the Mamata Banerjee cabinet, joining the growing list of dissenters who have put the ruling camp in a tight spot ahead of the assembly election. Dalmiya criticised the party leadership for Banerjee’s resignation as well. “Corrupt people are calling the shots in Howrah district. There is no place for the honest ones,” she said. Days ago in an interview with NDTV, Dalmiya had expressed strong views against the party. “I have complaints against some people who are working against the party, against the people and against the community I serve. I have reservations against them. There are people in my area who are not allowing business to flourish in Howrah. There are people who are trying to create hurdles for MLAs, MPs and other leaders of the party,” she said on Tuesday. “I want these termites - I call them termites - to be eradicated so that it is good for the community, it is good for the common people, it is good for senior workers of the party who have given their blood and sweat for the party but do not get any position in the party just because of these few people,” Dalmiya added. The TMC received its biggest jolt last month, during Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s rally in Midnapore, when party heavyweight Adhikari and 34 other leaders, including five MLAs and an MP of the ruling camp, switched over to the BJP. Since the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, when the BJP bagged 18 seats, just four less than the ruling TMC, and emerged as its challenger in Bengal, a TMC MP, 15 TMC MLAs, three legislators of the CPI(M) and four belonging to the Congress have switched over to the saffron camp. However, none of them resigned as MLAs. Elections to the 294-member assembly are likely to be held in April-May this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-224
22-01-2021||West Bengal||Rajib Banerjee quits from Bengal forest minister's post||In yet another jolt for the TMC dispensation, ahead of the assembly polls, Bengal forest minister Rajib Banerjee on Friday quit the Mamata Banerjee cabinet, citing personal attacks aimed at him for airing grievances against a section of party leaders as the reason. He said he was "deeply hurt" by the actions of some of the party members but declined to comment when asked if he plans to quit the party in the days to come. "I had grievances against some of the party's senior members and informed the leadership about it. I also had a word with party supremo, but nothing happened. Instead, I was personally attacked by a section of the leaders. "I was deeply hurt by the personal attacks aimed at me. Hence, I resigned from the cabinet," he told reporters after meeting Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar at Raj Bhavan. The Domjur legislator said earlier, too, he had decided to quit the state cabinet, when removed as the irrigation minister without any notice, but Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had stopped him from doing so back then. He, however, thanked the chief minister profusely, and said that he would always remain "indebted to her for allowing him to serve the people of the state". In the letter submitted to the chief minister this morning, he tendered his resignation. "It has been a great honour and privilege to serve the people of Bengal. I heartily convey my gratitude for getting this opportunity," he wrote in the letter. The Domjur MLA, who had been airing his grievances against a section of ruling party leaders over the past few weeks, joins the string of TMC leaders and legislators who recently quit the Mamata Banerjee camp. Most of them, including his former cabinet colleague Suvendu Adhikari, have switched over to the BJP. Banerjee also said that a copy of the resignation letter has been forwarded to Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar for "necessary action."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-224
22-01-2021||West Bengal||4kg pangolin scales seized at Matigara||The forest department arrested an Alipurduar resident and seized around 4kg of pangolin scales from him at Matigara near here on Wednesday evening. The pangolin scales were kept in a school bag carried by Alam. Murshid Alam, a resident of Patlakhawa in Alipurduar, was arrested by the Sarugarah range under the Baikunthapur forest division. Five others with him managed to escape when the foresters arrived for a raid after receiving a tip-off. Sanjoy Dutta, the Sarugarah forest range officer, said the six had assembled near the  Balason river bridge in Matigara. Foresters said the pangolin might have been killed in Bhutan and the six were planning to smuggle the animal’s scales into Sikkim. Pangolin is an endangered species under Schedule 1 of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972) and on the Red List of IUCN (International Union for Conservation of Nature). “Pangolin’s meat is consumed in countries like China and Vietnam. Its scales are also used for making traditional medicine in these countries,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-224
22-01-2021||West Bengal||Buses in Netaji memory at Krishnagar||The Mamata Banerjee government has decided to launch three new bus services from two different locations in the state and lay the foundation stone of a new bus terminus in Nadia’s Krishnagar as a tribute to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on the occasion of his 125th birth anniversary. The decision of the state government comes ahead of the Assembly polls in Bengal and at a time when political parties, mainly the BJP and the Trinamul, are trying to appropriate the legacy of Netaji, whose birth anniversary would be observed on Saturday. The Centre has decided to celebrate Netaji’s birth anniversary as ‘Parakram Diwas’, a move that has drawn criticism from the Left and Trinamul that had long demanded the day to be observed as Deshprem Divas. The Bengal government-run South Bengal State Transport Corporation (SBSTC)  has come forward to dedicate three new bus services between Siliguri and Mayapur, Tollygunj and Tarapith and Tollygunj and Jhargram on January 23 in Netaji’s memory, apart from laying the foundation stone of the Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Bus Terminus in Krishnagar. The foundation stone of the proposed new terminus in Krishnagar will be laid by state correctional home services minister Ujjwal Biswas. A statue of Netaji will also be installed at the site of the bus stand during the programme. The statue will be unveiled by Trinamul MP Mahua Moitra. “The Siliguri-Mayapur bus service has been named as Netaji Express, the Tollygunj-Tarapith bus service will be known as Azad Hind Express and Joy Hind Express will be the name of the Tollygunj-Jhargram bus service,” said Godala Kiran Kumar, SBSTC managing director, and added it would be a fitting tribute to the iconic leader and freedom fighter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-225
22-01-2021||West Bengal||Man gets death sentence  in museum murder||The fourth additional and sessions judge's court in Murshidabad’s Berhampore on Thursday awarded death sentence to a man who worked as a casual labourer in the historic Hazar Duari museum for killing in rage the head clerk on July 9, 2002. Saju Sheikh, 52, a resident of Murshidabad’s Khoshbagh, received the sentence from the fourth additional and sessions judge, Mahananda Das, after being pronounced guilty on Tuesday. His accomplice Alauddin Sheikh, a fellow labourer who assisted him in fleeing the scene, received five years in jail in the same ruling. On the afternoon of July 9, 2002, Saju had approached head clerk Prabir Kumar Saha, then 31, and alleged he had not been given commensurate amount of work in comparison to the other casual labourers. In the ensuing argument, Saju attacked Saha with a sharp gardening tool in the presence of 13 eyewitnesses and fled with Alauddin’s help. Rushed to Lalbagh subdivisional hospital, Saha succumbed on the way. “Saju Sheikh mercilessly killed the head clerk of the Hazar Duari museum office in full view of others and that is why he received death sentence,” said government lawyer Prasanta Kumar Datta. He added that conclusive evidence had been deliberated upon earlier this week after talks with all eyewitnesses. Saju and Alauddin had been out on bail until Wednesday, when they were arrested after being convicted of their role in the murder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-225
22-01-2021||West Bengal||Mamata gets private investment proposals  for north Bengal||The Mamata Banerjee government has received private investment proposals of over Rs 3,000 crore for north Bengal for the next fiscal year, state finance minister Amit Mitra said on Thursday. “North Bengal has investment proposal of Rs 3,265 crore for the business year 2021-2022. Last year, there were investment proposals totalling Rs 1,678 crore. These proposals have come for setting up infrastructure on tea tourism, industrial hubs, cement companies, and so on,” said Mitra who virtually attended the inauguration of the eighth edition of North Bengal Business Conclave & Synergy North Bengal in 2021. The two-day conclave, inaugurated at a hotel in Siliguri on Thursday, was organised by the NB zonal council of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) in association with West Bengal Industrial Development Corporation. In course of his speech, Mitra said they received proposals to set up three industrial parks, two in Alipurduar district and one in Jalpaiguri. “The estimated project cost for industrial parks in Alipurduar is Rs 700 crore and for the one in Jalpaiguri Rs 350 crore,” Mitra added. The event hosted to boost fresh private investments saw participation from all eight districts of the region. Representatives of trade organisations from Nepal, Bhutan and Bangladesh, countries with which the region shares international borders, attended the meet virtually. “On day one, talks were held on prospective investments, statutory compliances, business development and some ancillary issues,” said a source in CII. It was also learnt that there are investment proposals for around Rs 200 crore in tourism and Rs 500 crore for tea tourism. The CII source added that prospective investors had brought proposals such as a dairy project in Raiganj, food processing units in Malda, Cooch Behar, North Dinajpur and South Dinajpur and furniture and steel projects. Sanjit Saha, chairman of the NB zonal council of CII, said they would see that such investments are made in the region. “We welcome private firms to new industrial parks. If investments come in, they will largely help create jobs.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-225
22-01-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul milks tea wage hike in north Bengal||Tea trade union leaders of Trinamul hit the streets in the brew belt of north Bengal on Thursday to reap political dividends from the state government’s decision on Wednesday of a 15 per cent interim hike on daily wages of tea workers and salaries of the staff and sub-staff in the sector. In the presence of state labour minister and Trinamul leader Moloy Ghatak, trade union leaders under the banner of Cha Bagan Trinamul Congress Mazdoor Union held a rally in Birpara of Alipurduar district, right in the centre of the Dooars tea belt, to celebrate the hike. A public meeting was also held in Birpara where Trinamul leaders, including Ghatak, went after the BJP for “not doing anything” for the tea sector. “We are happy that wages of workers and salaries of staff and sub-staff in tea gardens will increase by 15 per cent. The question here is, what has the BJP done for the tea workers?” Ghatak asked. Ghatak also pointed out that wages in the tea sector in BJP-ruled Assam were much lower than in Bengal. “Let them first match the wage rate of Bengal in Assam... In the last 10 years (with Trinamul in power), the Bengal government has increased tea wages from Rs 67 to Rs 202. To add to it, a number of other initiatives have been taken for the tea population,” the labour minister said. Hundreds of workers swarmed in from nearby tea gardens to the meeting, mood upbeat. “It is evident that the hike has turned the tables in Trinamul’s favour to a considerable extent…BJP will have to come up with a new strategy to win tea workers’ support,” said an observer. Raju Bista, the BJP MP of Darjeeling, however, tried to prove the hike was not in consonance with the Code on Wages, 2019. “It is a paltry rise and through such interim hikes the Trinamul government is trying to subvert workers’ rights. The state labour minister should look into codes before making such a decision and expedite the process to fix minimum wages for tea workers of Bengal,” said Bista.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-225
22-01-2021||West Bengal||TMC flags BJP’s ‘hollow promise’ of Narayani Sena||District Trinamul leaders in Cooch Behar produced an RTI application and its reply to accuse the BJP of making “another hollow promise” over setting up an infantry regiment in the Indian Army after the name of the Narayani Sena, the armed troops of the erstwhile princely state of Cooch Behar. The move, political observers said, indicates that Mamata Banerjee’s party intends to stoke sentiments of Cooch Behar residents by raising an emotive issue and a longstanding demand of the region. Partha Pratim Roy, the district Trinamul chief, said here on Thursday that Udayranjan Roy Prodhani, an assistant professor of Dhubri Law College in neighbouring Assam and a resident of Gauripur, had written to the Union defence ministry last year asking whether it had any plans to raise such a regiment. “The Union defence ministry has replied, clearly saying that there is no such plan with them. Here in Cooch Behar, the local BJP MP has time and again promised that the Centre will come up with such a regiment. It is evident now that the BJP makes empty promises to garner votes,” said Roy. The issue, sources said, was raised time and again. Back in 2016, S.S. Ahluwalia, who was Darjeeling MP then, had written to then Union home minister Rajnath Singh, requesting him see that such a regiment is raised in the Indian Army. Last year, when BJP president J.P. Nadda was in Bengal, Nisith Pramanik, the Cooch Behar MP, had requested him to look into the issue, keeping in mind the Rajbanshi vote bank of north Bengal. Though the Centre has not made any decision on the issue, the Mamata Banerjee government in the state went ahead and announced creation of a Narayani battalion in the state police force last month. Mamata, who also announced that headquarters of this battalion will be in Mekhliganj of Cooch Behar, has also laid its foundation stone. “The decision to form such a battalion in the state police will obviously help Trinamul draw support of the Rajbanshi community, a considerable part of whom had voted for BJP at the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Now this RTI reply is yet another arsenal that the ruling party of the state is likely to use against BJP when it goes to campaign in Rajbanshi-dominated belts. It will be interesting to see how BJP handles the situation,” said a political observer. Calls by this paper to MP Pramanik went unanswered. Sanjoy Chakraborty, a general secretary of Cooch Behar district BJP, put on a brave face. “We also want the regiment and our MP has time and again raised the issue in Parliament and different quarters. Also, we are not sure about the documents that Trinamul leaders have shown today. They are simply trying to use people’s sentiments ahead of the polls,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-225
22-01-2021||West Bengal||News portal lobs ‘Nepal citizen’ charge at Anit Thapa||A Kathmandu-based web portal has created a furore in Darjeeling by reporting that Morcha leader Anit Thapa, the chairman of the board of administrators of Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA), is listed as a citizen of Nepal. Anit Thapa has condemned the report as fake and called it a “conspiracy”. Published by web portal KathmanduKhabar (www.kathmandukhabar.com) — which translates as News from Kathmandu — the report Neta Bharatko, nagarikta Nepal ko! (Leader from India with citizenship from Nepal !) claimed Thapa had gone to Dubai based on a forged Nepal citizenship. The website also uploaded the alleged citizenship certificate purportedly issued by the assistant chief district officer of Jhapa district, Nepal, to Thapa. The alleged citizenship certificate names one Binod Thapa as Anit’s father and adds that Anit registered himself as a resident of Bhadrapur in Jhapa district of Nepal. The report goes on to add that Anit is a resident of Kurseong and his real father’s name is Shyam Bahadur Thapa. “After completing his education, he entered Nepal seeking a job. However, when he failed to secure a job of his liking, he reached Dubai on a forged citizenship and passport. On his return from Dubai, he started a printing press business in Darjeeling,” the report states. Such was the impact of the story that Anit immediately issued a press statement denying the allegations. “Whenever issues are raised by Darjeeling hills in the interest of Indian Gorkhas, a political conspiracy comes into play. Questions raised on my citizenship is part of this conspiracy. The published news is fake. I condemn this news,” said Anit in a message sent through the party’s social media group. Anit was referring to his party president Binay Tamang raising the demand to review the Indo-Nepal friendship treaty of 1950, which among other things allows citizens of both the countries to move into each other’s territory and also conduct business. Anit has challenged anyone to verify the details by visiting the address mentioned in the purported citizenship certificate. But the report is significant for Darjeeling region as proponents of Gorkhaland state have been stating that a separate state is needed to clearly distinguish citizens between Nepal and India, among other issues. Moreover, possessing dual citizenship is a crime. “If anyone can prove (my Nepal citizenship) allegations, they are free to file a case,” countered Anit. Many in the hills said the story could be a selective leak because of the political situation in the hills. Questions were also raised on the portal’s authenticity. Aashish Guragain, chairman of National Media Pvt. Ltd that runs the portal, told The Telegraph over phone from Kathmandu that their story was to question the issue of forged citizenship. “We did our story based on information provided by our sources. We have uploaded the document we received...The office that issued the document has been mentioned, the document has been stamped and we will also reach out to authorities out here (in Nepal),” said Guragain. He added: “Maybe we are unknown in Darjeeling... (but) we have been in existence since 2012.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-225
22-01-2021||West Bengal||MLA behind my dad’s murder, says BJP worker||The decision of the BJP leadership to induct Trinamul turncoat MLA Arindam Bhattacharya has angered many district party workers and leaders in the Santipur Assembly segment in particular and Nadia in general. Many BJP workers and leaders wrote to the state leadership on Thursday, calling the party’s decision to enrol Bhattacharya “suicidal”. Bhattacharya had won in 2016 as a Congress candidate from Santipur Assembly seat in Nadia and switched over to the Trinamul in 2017 to join the BJP on Wednesday. Trouble began for the BJP leadership within a few hours of Bhattacharya’s induction when Sufal Sikdar, son of slain BJP leader Biplab Sikdar in Santipur, through a video post on social media questioned the party’s decision. “My father was killed because of a conspiracy hatched by the MLA. People here even installed a bust of my father...How can I as a BJP activist accept a person who has shattered our lives? I heard that he will visit our area. If he dares to, villagers will welcome him with a garland of shoes,” Sufal told this paper. On May 23, 2019, Sufal’s father Biplab, a booth committee president of the BJP, was gunned down allegedly by Trinamul-backed goons. Sufal said the apparent motive behind the murder was an attempt to grab power at the local Haripur-Methirdanga panchayat by ensuring the defection of six BJP candidates. “My father earned the wrath of Trinamul as he refused to join the party or hand over the panchayat. The MLA was behind my father’s murder. We filed a complaint against him, but the police never dared to arrest him,” said Sufal. His mother Sankari said: “We are shocked that the BJP leadership did not respect our pain.” BJP’s Nadia south unit convened an emergency meeting of aggrieved leaders and workers at its Ranaghat office, but party workers said they would not budge. BJP’s Ranaghat MP Jagannath Sarkar said he had no role behind the MLA’s induction and had no comment to offer. “It is the decision of the top party brass but I will inform the leadership about the resentment of party workers,” Sarkar said. MLA Bhattacharya told this paper: “I will work according to the party’s directive.” In Asansol, a group of old-timers from Kutli and Barabani went to the district BJP office and told senior BJP leaders including Arvind Menon, on how old-timers were being neglected to accommodate “Trinamul turncoats”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-225
22-01-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee bullish on handing land rights to refugees ||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said that the state government would continue to issue freehold land rights to refugees residing in refugee colonies set up on central government land even as some central agencies, mainly the railways, served eviction notice on the residents of some of such colonies. “All those residing in the refugee colonies, be it on state government or central government or private land, would be given freehold land rights free of cost. Residents of some of the colonies set up on central government land were asked to vacate the land… We won’t accept any kind of eviction,” said the chief minister at Nabanna after a cabinet meeting. Mamata said that so far 30,000 refugee families had received freehold rights of the land on which they had been residing for years. “We are ready to distribute land rights to another 12,000 families. The process to give such rights to another 3,840 families nearing completion,” she added. Sources said Mamata raised the issue after NF Railway wrote a letter to the district magistrate of Jalpaiguri seeking possession of land on which some families received freehold rights. The state government came to know that eviction notice was served to some residents living on land owned by the railways in North 24-Parganas. The CM’s assertion was a message to Delhi, said an official. “This is significant as the state has started giving freehold rights to residents of refugee colonies on central government land without consulting the Centre.” The state, sources said, has taken up the process of giving freehold rights to the residents of 119 refugee colonies, most of which are set up on central government land. “Questions can be raised whether the state can give freehold rights on central government land until plots are relinquished to the state. But the state is initiating the process on humanitarian grounds as eviction of people living on a plot for 40 to 50 years is not possible,” said an official. Recently, the state government took the initiative to hold talks with railways that as eviction of people residing on their land for years was not possible, it would be better to allow the state to issue settlement rights. “But before talks could be held, the railways started issuing notices to residents. The state will now continue to issue land rights,” said an official. Trinamul insiders said that the move was smart as it would help the party counter the BJP’s campaign on Citizenship (Amendment) Act among refugees ahead of polls. “Now, if the railways move to court against the state initiative, we can refugees that the BJP-led Centre does not want to give them freehold land rights while the state government had issued orders to this effect. They will be able to understand who their well-wishers are,” said a minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-225
22-01-2021||West Bengal||New BJP building in Burdwan stoned by party workers||A new three-storey BJP party office here, inaugurated by its national president J.P. Nadda last month, was on Thursday stoned by party workers during an alleged clash between two factions over charges that BJP district president Sandip Nandi neglected old-timers for turncoats. Sources said at least three BJP workers were injured and many windows panes were damaged as members of Nandi’s rival faction attacked the office — named after revolutionary Rash Behari Bose — with bricks and stones. The attack happened on a day home minister Amit Shah tweeted tributes to mark Bose’s death anniversary. BJP sources said the clash erupted during a meeting held by district observer Sawar Dhanania at the party office, when old-timers protested against the inclusion of newcomers, mainly those from Trinamul, to the district apex committee. Heated exchanges led to scuffles. BJP old-timers allegedly hurled brickbats at the office and set on fire three mini-trucks. Police have rounded up seven BJP workers. BJP state president Dilip Ghosh blamed Trinamul. “BJP workers simply can’t ransack their own party office. Trinamul was behind it,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-225
22-01-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court asks CBI for central order in  coal case||Calcutta High Court on Thursday directed the CBI to produce the document issued by the Union government that had led the central agency to probe against Anup Majhi alias Lala, an Asansol businessman, in a case related to illegal trading of coal. The central government had claimed in the middle of 2020 that it had definite information about the trade of illegally mined coal. The Centre also said some traders, police officers and politicians were involved in the racket and asked the CBI to conduct a probe. Majhi, whose name figured in the FIR filed by the CBI, moved a petition before the high court last year challenging the legality of the Centre’s decision to initiate proceedings against him without obtaining prior approval from the state government. Majhi’s counsel claimed before the court that the coal mine in question was situated within Bengal and the central agency could not start proceedings against any person of the state without obtaining prior permission of the state government. The lawyer also informed the judge that the state had initially directed the CBI to conduct a probe in the issue but had withdrawn its order in November 2018. Appearing for the Centre, advocate Phiroze Edulji opposed the prayer. After hearing both the sides, Justice Sabyasachi Bhattacharyya issued the order and fixed the matter for hearing again on January 27. According to the CBI, Majhi is allegedly involved in illegal mining and coal theft from leasehold mines of ECL in Kunustoria and Kajora areas. Names of several ECL officials have also cropped up in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-225
22-01-2021||West Bengal||Additional 15 lakh people come under pension schemes||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said the state government would bring additional 15 lakh persons under the ambit of old-age or widow pension schemes, the decision apparently part of her government’s bid to reach out to more people with direct benefits ahead of Assembly polls. “The state cabinet on Thursday decided to bring another 15 lakh people who had applied for old age and widow pension. All those who need the assistance will start getting it soon,” said the chief minister at Nabanna on Thursday. Mamata said state departments earlier could not bring all applicants under pension schemes because of certain restrictions such as family income. “But mothers and other aged people in our families need support. This is the reason why the state government has decided to include all applicants in the list of beneficiaries...,” she added. Sources in Nabanna said that as of now nearly 20 lakh indigent persons get old-age pension or widow pension from departments including panchayat, women and child welfare, agriculture and backward classes welfare. “All beneficiaries get a monthly Rs 1,000 under the (pension) scheme based on certain criteria including monthly income cap. This is why all applicants could not get the benefit earlier,” a senior official said. Sources said as the state government had decided to overlook the basic eligibility criterion of family income, the state might have to shoulder the entire burden of additional pensioners. “Usually, the state and Centre share the burden of pension to certain beneficiaries on a 50:50 basis. But as the state has decided to include applicants irrespective of monthly income, it appears that it has to shoulder the burden solely for those who don’t qualify the (existing) criteria. The number of such applicants is yet to be ascertained,” said an official. Land rights Mamata also asserted that the state would continue to issue freehold land rights “free of cost” to refugees in refugee colonies on central government land even though some central agencies, mainly the railways, have served eviction notices on residents of some such colonies. “We won’t accept any kind of eviction,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-226
22-01-2021||West Bengal||5.5 lakh patients recover from Covid-19 in Bengal||Bengal on Thursday went past 5.5 lakh Covid-19 recoveries in all, with the day’s 517 recoveries. The state also logged 416 new infections and nine deaths in the 24-hour window till 9am on Thursday. The most recent 50,000 recoveries were logged in 35 days and the total of over 5.5 lakh came in 310 days from the first Covid-19 infection detected in Bengal on March 17, 2020. “The first 50,000 of Bengal’s recoveries took 137 days (since March 17). We had been achieving recent 50,000 recoveries in 12 to 17 days. The latest one took longer because the number of infections being found daily has come down drastically, naturally bringing down the number of daily recoveries as well,” said a state minister. “With us having reined the outbreak in considerably, these daily numbers will keep going down,” he added. Bengal now has nearly 5.67 lakh Covid-19 cases, including 5.5 lakh recoveries and 10,089 deaths. On Thursday, Bengal reported a drop in total active cases for the 87th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami last year. The total active cases fell from the Dashami high of 37,190 to 6,565, an improvement of over 82 per cent. With a rise over 90 consecutive days — from 87.44 on October 22 last year — the recovery rate touched 97.06 per cent, leading the national rate by 0.32 per cent. However, mortality rate is 1.77, worse than the national 1.44 per cent. No jabs on Netaji day The state government postponed the vaccination drive on January 23, birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, owing to the fact that most health workers would be busy with mega celebrations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-226
22-01-2021||West Bengal||Election Commission hints at central forces on all polling premises||The full bench of the Election Commission led by chief election commissioner Sunil Arora hinted on Thursday that it was likely to take the unprecedented decision of bringing all voting booths under the cover of central forces in the forthcoming Bengal Assembly polls. The hint shows the seriousness with which the Nirvachan Sadan has been taking the views of the Opposition parties while drawing up plans for the polls. A source at Nabanna said the full bench gave a clear hint during its meetings with the top brass of state civil and police administration that central forces would be posted on all polling premises irrespective of the nature of the booth. “In previous elections, we were asked to do the sensitivity mapping of poll premises very carefully and depending on it, requirement of central forces used to be estimated. But this time, the issue of mapping of poll premises didn’t crop up during the meeting with the full bench. It gives a clear hint that the EC would deploy central forces on all polling premises,” said a source. The full bench also held an all-party meeting here on Thursday. According to sources, the BJP demanded before the full bench that central forces be deployed in the state as soon as the model code of conduct is implemented.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-226
