23-01-2021||West Bengal||Mamata hits out at Centre on Netaji’s birth anniversary||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday hit out at the Centre for abolishing the Planning Commission, which, according to her, was conceptualised by Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. Addressing a programme at Netaji Bhavan in Calcutta on his 125th birth anniversary, Mamata described Bose as an icon who had advocated unity among all communities in the country. She also demanded that Netaji’s birthday on January 23 be declared a national holiday. “Why was the national Planning Commission, which was conceptualised by Netaji in independent India, dissolved? Why is the demand for a holiday on Netaji’s birthday by our government not yet met,” the chief minister said. The Narendra Modi government disbanded the Planning Commission in 2014 and had formed the Niti Aayog. Banerjee said, “We don’t remember Netaji before the elections. He is in our hearts for 365 days. We are in touch with his family.” She also said Netaji was described as ‘Deshnayak’ by Rabindranath Tagore. “We are celebrating his birthday day as Deshnayak Diwas,” she added. “What is the meaning of ‘Parakram’? They may dislike me politically but could have consulted with me. They could have consulted with Netaji’s great-grandsons Sugata Bose or Sumantra Bose on choosing a word,” Mamata said. She also asked, “Who has given the name ‘Parakram’,” she added. Days ago, Narendra Modi declared that Bose’s birth anniversary will be celebrated as ‘Parakram Diwas’. The Prime Minister landed at Calcutta on Saturday. Earlier in the day, Mamata kicked off a grand procession here to pay tribute to Netaji. Before the commencement of the procession from Shyambazar area in the northern part of the city, she blew a conch shell and a siren was sounded at 12.15 pm, the time when Bose was born on this day in 1897. The seven-kilometre procession culminated at Netaji's statue on Red Road. There, the chief minister said India should have four capitals on a rotation basis and sessions of Parliament should be held in different locations in the country. “During the British-era, Calcutta was the capital of the country. I think we must have four capitals on a rotation basis. Why does the country have only one capital? And the sessions of Parliament should be held in different places in the country. We will have to change our concept,” she said while addressing the gathering after the rally. Hundreds of people, several senior leaders of Trinamool Congress and MLAs joined the procession to pay their tribute to the freedom fighter. Chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay and other bureaucrats of the state government were also present in the rally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-223
23-01-2021||West Bengal||160,000 doses of Covaxin land in Bengal carrying riddles||Around 160,000 doses of Covaxin, the home-grown Covid vaccine, landed in Bengal on Friday, carrying with them multiple riddles that have landed state officials in a dilemma. Some of the questions that awaited answers on Friday evening: ⚫ Bengal now has vials both of Covishield — the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine — and Covaxin. Who will decide which recipient will be given which vaccine? ⚫ What should be the response if someone refuses to take either of the two versions? Considerable misgivings have already crept in about the home-grown version because of a lack of transparency on the part of the Centre. ⚫ The central drug authority feels the two vaccines should be treated on a par. Does the lack of choice mean a potential recipient sceptical of Covaxin will be denied Covishield? The questions have left Bengal officials undecided for now about how to distribute the Covaxin. The state health department is likely to write to the Centre seeking clarifications before releasing the Covaxin vials, said an adviser after a departmental meeting on Friday evening to discuss the option to expand the immunisation drive using Covaxin. In keeping with the Centre’s advisory to the states not to interchange vaccines, Bengal has decided to complete the inoculation of its healthcare workers with the available Covishield doses before selecting the next lot of recipients for Covaxin. Bengal has so far received close to 14 lakh doses of Covishield. The state has around six lakh healthcare workers. Inoculations with Covishield took place on Friday at over 330 vaccination centres across 23 districts. “We have enough Covishield stocks for the healthcare workers. Another two to three weeks without interruptions would be enough to complete the first round,” said a senior health department official at Swasthya Bhavan. “The volume of Covaxin that reached us on Friday is way too little for any plan to be drawn up immediately. Hopefully we will get another consignment soon.” Health department officials are also concerned whether the frontline workers – next in line for the vaccination after the healthcare workers -- would be keen on Covaxin, which has been released only on the basis of its safety and immune responses without efficacy data. Advisers to the state health department have flagged certain concerns about the implementation plan to be followed for Covaxin, which they say require clarifications from the Centre. “One question discussed today was how do we decide who should be offered Covishield and who should get Covaxin,” said one of the advisers. “It is not clearly specified whose responsibility it is to administer the informed consent process. Recipients who decline Covaxin run the risk of not receiving any vaccine in its place. Given the pandemic situation, is that acceptable? Would this not be viewed as an indirect coercive strategy?” Covaxin has already been rolled out in 12 other states, each of which received about 20,000 doses of the home-grown vaccine before the start of the Covid-19 vaccination campaign on January 16. The national health mission director in one state that had received both Covishield and Covaxin told The Telegraph that a decision had been taken to distribute Covaxin to “certain medical colleges” without too much debate on the differences between Covishield and Covaxin. “A decision was taken by the central drug regulatory authority and other authorities in Delhi that both vaccines should be treated equally. We do not have the scientific capacity to examine or question that decision,” the director said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-223
23-01-2021||West Bengal||District police chiefs’ shift tied to poll panel order||The Bengal government on Friday shifted two district police chiefs, a day after the full bench of the Election Commission had purportedly recommended their transfer to keep them away from the Assembly poll process. Birbhum superintendent of police Shyam Singh and Purulia SP S. Selvamurugan were transferred to the traffic department and the state CID, respectively. In their new postings, they won’t have any direct involvement in the polls. Meeraj Khalid, who was posted as deputy commissioner (central) in Calcutta police, has replaced Singh as the new SP Birbhum. Biswajit Mahato, who was deputy commissioner in Asansol-Durgapur police commissionerate, has been made the Purulia SP. Both Singh and Selvamurugan had been shifted out of their chairs by the EC before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls also. They were shifted amid allegations of bias towards the Trinamul Congress. Singh was posted as SP Birbhum in 2019, while Selvamurugan was SP Diamond Harbour. Both were reinstated in their posts by the state government after the poll results had been declared. Sources said the Election Commission had also recommended the transfer of at least one IAS officer holding a key post in the state administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-223
23-01-2021||West Bengal||Central forces to be deployed in Bengal before elections||The chief election commissioner of India, Sunil Arora, on Friday said central forces would be deployed in Bengal before the poll process began. The declaration has come as a shot in the arm of Opposition parties in the state as they placed representations with Nirvachan Sadan that central forces be deployed as soon as the model code of conduct comes into effect. “Central forces shall be deployed and shall be deployed in advance,” said Arora while replying to a question during a news conference at a hotel here on Monday. While Arora did not say from when and how many companies of central forces would be deployed in the state, senior government officials, with whom he had held a series of meetings over the past 48-hours, were apparently given a hint that comparatively larger quantum of paramilitary personnel would be posted in the run up to the polls. “The model code of conduct comes into effect as soon as the election dates are declared, which is usually done 45 days ahead of the first phase of the voting. The CEC did not mention when the poll dates would be declared and when central forces would be sent to the state, but he gave enough hints that paramilitary personnel could be sent for confidence building measure within a few days of the dates being declared,” said a senior government official. If this happens, it will be unprecedented as only 25 to 30 companies of forces are normally sent to the state for confidence building about 15 to 20 days before the polls. “But it seems there will be more central forces in the state and they could undertake confidence building measures for about a month before the polls,” said a district magistrate. As polls in Bengal have a history of violent incidents, the Opposition parties had been sending representations to the EC for the past few months demanding deployment of central forces in the state much before the voting. Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh, who led his party’s representation to the EC full bench on Thursday, said they had demanded deployment of central forces ahead of the polls. “We have asked the EC to deploy central forces as soon as the MCC comes to effect,” another party source had said on Thursday. Sources in the administration said the series of instructions given by the full bench during its two-day visit to the state made it clear that the poll panel was taking the complaints lodged by the Opposition parties seriously. First, the EC made it clear that there would be no motorcycle rallies in the state as soon as the MCC comes into effect. Second, the EC gave a clear direction to the top brass of the administration that no civic volunteers or green police would be engaged in poll-related duties. Third, officers who would conduct the polls have been given a clear direction that any kind of complaints of dereliction of duties would affect their career. Sources in the home department said deployment of central forces would completely depend on the availability of forces once the polls were declared. “But it appears the Centre would be able to send more forces to Bengal this time because Assembly elections would be held in five states only. In case of Lok Sabha polls, it was tough to send more forces to Bengal,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-224
23-01-2021||West Bengal||BJP booth plea bares chinks||The BJP has requested the Election Commission to allow any voter of Bengal, irrespective of where they are enrolled as voters, to be deployed as polling agents anywhere across the state. The plea, BJP insiders conceded, exposed the organisational weakness of the party at the booth level. “If the candidate doesn’t need to be a voter of the Assembly he or she is contesting from, why should there be specifications for the agent?” asked BJP leader Sisir Bajoria, who was part of the team of representatives from the party that met the Election Commission full bench on Thursday. According to him, the request to change the existing rule, which makes only a voter of an Assembly segment eligible as a polling agent at booths, has been placed in front of the EC that met representatives of all political parties during its visit to Bengal. BJP sources said the party’s leadership believed that only if the condition was relaxed and any voter of the state was allowed to work as a polling agent anywhere, it would be easier for the party to depute polling agents across booths in the state. “We hope the EC will listen to our demand.... But we cannot deny the fact that we are still weak organisationally and do not have booth levels workers to post them as polling agents at over 1lakh voting stations across the state,” said a source. According to a BJP office-bearer, even after winning 18 of the 42 Lok Sabha seats in Bengal in 2019, only 66 per cent of the booths have been covered in the past two years. “We still don’t have a proper organisation in around 34 per cent booth areas,” this person said. The Covid-19 pandemic has prompted the EC to restrict the number of voters per booth to not more than 1000, instead of 1,500 earlier. Hence, the number of booths has gone up to 1,01,790 from 78,903 previously.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-224
23-01-2021||West Bengal||Bengal logs 493 recoveries from Covid-19||Bengal on Friday logged 493 recoveries from Covid-19, 406 infections and eight deaths as the drop in total active cases continued for the 88th consecutive days since Vijaya Dashami last year. The total of active cases fell from 37,190 on Dashami (October 26) to 6,470 on Friday. The recovery rate rose for 91 consecutive days to touch 97.08. “We have achieved such a great deal of improvement in these three months since the end of Puja. Even our most optimistic assessments did not put us here at this stage,” said a Bengal minister. The state now has nearly 5.67 lakh Covid-19 cases, including around 5.51 lakh recoveries and 10,097 deaths. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent the worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. The numbers of infections from the festivals in October and November showed that the court’s instructions were effective. A similar set of instructions came from the high court to ensure that the outbreak did not worsen over the New Year celebrations — a goal the state government believes has also been achieved. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.29 per cent now, having improved steadily from 8.27 per cent 63 days ago. Bengal’s total test count, including the examination of 28,171 swab samples logged on Friday, is over 77.79 lakh now. The tests per million people are 86,443. The state attributed 8,472 (83.9 per cent) of the total deaths to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate remained 1.77, compared to the 1.44 per cent nationally. “There has been enough improvement for us to give up several hundred more beds, requisitioned from private hospitals. We could also dismantle more quarantine facilities, going forward. We have this under control now,” said the minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-224
23-01-2021||West Bengal||Rajib Banerjee quits, Baishali expelled from state cabinet||Mamata Banerjee on Friday expelled Rajib Banerjee from her cabinet, soon after he had submitted resignation letter to the chief minister’s office “without following procedural norms”. Rajib Banerjee, who was the forest minister, had been keeping away from cabinet meeting. The Howrah leader met governor Jagdeep Dhankhar at Raj Bhavan also on Friday and submitted his resignation. The Domjur MLA is the third minister to exit Mamata’s cabinet after Suvendu Adhikari and Laxmi Ratan Shukla in less than two months. Adhikari is the only one who has formally joined the BJP so far. Sources said Rajib had handed to Mamata’s office at her Kalighat residence the resignation letter. Citing procedural lapses in the resignation, the chief minister recommended to the governor Rajib’s ouster from the cabinet and the Raj Bhavan accepted it. Another Trinamul Congress leader in Howrah, Bally MLA Baishali Dalmiya, welcomed Rajib’s resignation and the party’s disciplinary committee soon expelled her. The possibility of defection to the BJP by a battery of Trinamul’s Howrah leaders, including Banerjee, Dalmiya, Howrah North MLA Shukla, Shibpur MLA Jatu Lahiri and Howrah MP Prasun Banerjee, has been deemed strong by the ruling party for months. Sources said the Howrah mutineers were likely to join the BJP during Union home minister Amit Shah’s likely visit to Bengal at the end of this month. “A couple of days ago, there was a social gathering in Howrah, where many of them sat with Suvendu. Of course, Rajib and Baishali were there. We have been aware of things they have been up to, for a while now…. She (Mamata) has a zero-tolerance policy for such behaviour,” said a senior Trinamul MP. Banerjee claimed he had been forced to take the decision after “humiliation” from a section of the leadership. He alleged a lack of “courtesy” towards him by the chief minister two-and-a-half years ago when he had been unceremoniously removed from the irrigation department. The department was then handed over to Adhikari. Fellow rebel Dalmiya, who had been repeatedly attacking the party in public, issued a statement of firm support for Rajib. Hours later, the 52-year-old daughter of deceased cricket administrator Jagmohan Dalmiya, was expelled. Agri-marketing minister Arup Roy, a senior Howrah leader that the rebels were allegedly opposed to, was critical of the mutiny. “Well, when the party was founded in 1998, none of them was there anyway. There was this lingering feeling, for sometime, that this was going to happen…. These are but a few leaves falling off a giant tree,” said Roy. Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh said: “I have been saying for weeks that it is only a matter of time before just two people in Kalighat (Mamata and her nephew Abhishek Banerjee, her heir-apparent) remain in the party…. All these people are welcome to approach us and we will consider it, if they want to join.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-224
23-01-2021||West Bengal||Army relaxes educational qualification for Gorkha recruits||The defence ministry has relaxed the education qualification needed for Gorkhas to join the Indian Army after reports that the number of recruits from the community in the force had been decreasing for many years. In a letter dated December 21, 2020, to Darjeeling MP Raju Bista, defence minister Rajnath Singh said: “It is informed that the educational qualification requirement in respect of all Gorkhas for recruitment in Indian Army has been amended in Sep, 2020 and is applicable till 31st March, 2023.” The Telegraph had in its November 14, 2020, edition reported that many Gorkha veterans were of the opinion that the change in recruitment criteria and also socio-economic factors were behind the dip in the recruitment. Unlike their fellow compatriots, Indian Gorkhas have always been given relaxation in the minimum qualification requirement. “In 2001, while fellow Indians needed to be Class X pass with a minimum aggregate of 45 per cent, Gorkhas only needed to be Class VIII pass,” said Col. (retd) Keshab Rai, who was one of the veterans to flag the issue before the defence minister. Over the years, there were many changes in the qualifications required for the Gorkha recruits. In 2019, a Gorkha needed to pass Class X with 45 per cent marks in aggregate and 33 per cent in each subject. “The problem (of low intake) started in the beginning of this decade and reached a problematic stage from 2017 onwards….the tinkering in the established system was carried out because of over-emphasis on All India All Caste (AIAC) and Recruitable Male Population (RMP) concepts by some staffs of the Recruitment Department,” Col. (retd) Rai had stated in his letter to the defence minister. Rajnath Singh in his letter to Bista said he had the “matter examined,” after the Darjeeling MP had raised the issue with him on September 28, 2020. “The current educational qualification for Soldier (GD) is class 10th pass and for soldier Tradesman is Class 8th pass respectively,” said Singh. The relaxation has come as a boon for the Gorkhas but army veterans have attributed to other factors like drop in physical standards to the low recruitment. Even though there is relaxation in height and educational qualifications, there is no exception in the standard of recruitment test that a Gorkha has to undergo. “The first test is a one mile race and one has to complete it in 5.40 minutes. One has to run like a horse and even if you jog for 10 paces, you are finished,” Lt. Gen. (retd) Shakti Gurung, a former director general (recruiting), Indian Army, had earlier said. The Indian Army has seven Gorkha regiments with approximately 40,000 personnel. While 60 per cent of the vacancies are reserved for citizens of Nepal, the remaining 40 per cent are allotted for Indian Gorkhas. There is no dearth of recruits from Nepal but the Indian Gorkha vacancies are being under-subscribed. The association of Gorkhas — even from Nepal — with India is over 200 years old. The steely grit of Gorkhas was first internationally recognised during the Anglo- Nepalese war (1814-16) between East India Company and Gorkha Kingdom. Even though the Gorkhas lost the war, the valour of the community impressed the British to the extent that they decided to recruit “Gurkhas”. At the time of India’s independence, the British had 10 Gorkha regiments, which has served with distinction in all major wars that the British fought. After India gained Independence in 1947, a pact generally called “Tripartite Agreement (TPA)” was signed the same year among the UK, India and Nepal, in which Nepal agreed to allow Gorkha troops in the armies of the UK and India. Following the agreement, six out of 10 Gorkha regiments became part of Indian Army and the remaining four went with the British army. However, some Gorkha soldiers refused to join the British Army. To retain them, the Indian Army made the decision to raise the 11 Gorkha Rifles. The UK still recruits “Gurkhas” but only Nepal citizens are eligible for their force. Also, the number of recruits for the “Gurkha regiment” are far less than the Indian Army.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-224
23-01-2021||West Bengal||Two back-to-back festivals await north Bengal in February||Come February, residents of north Bengal will gear up for two back-to-back festivals which would be held at different locations across the region. Uttarbanga Utsav, the annual cultural extravaganza that is hosted by the state government, will start on February 1 and continue till February 10. On the other hand, the state tourism department, in association with stakeholders of tourism industry, will host the Bengal Himalayan Carnival — a three-day-long tourism carnival that will be held in Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Gajoldoba from February 5 to 7. “The Uttarbanga Utsav will be organised throughout north Bengal for 10 days. In Siliguri, there will be cultural functions at Baghajatin Park and a colourful procession to mark the event. Over 200 folk artists will perform at the procession,” said state tourism minister Gautam Deb here on Friday. He was speaking on the sidelines of a preparatory meeting held at Mainak Tourist Lodge Complex for the fest. “In Darjeeling district, cultural functions would also be held in Kalimpong, Darjeeling and Bidhannagar,” he added. Sources said the organisers are planning to get chief minister Mamata Banerjee at the inauguration of the festival. On February 2, Mamata is supposed to arrive on a two-day visit to Alipurduar district. “Appropriate communications have been made with the chief minister’s office. However, we are yet to receive any confirmation,” said a source. The carnival — which is the first of its kind event to be held to promote tourism in the region — will have a series of activities and events like heritage walk, performance of music bands, photography exhibition and display of local handicrafts in three different locations. “Also, people can experience the local cuisine at these locations. They can join boat rides and bird-watching competitions in Bhorer Alo, the mega tourism hub at Gajoldoba (located around 25km from Siliguri),” said one of the organisers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-224
23-01-2021||West Bengal||Violence racks three districts of north Bengal||Sporadic incidents of political violence were reported from at least three districts of north Bengal in the past 24 hours. While four offices of political parties were ransacked, elected representatives and party supporters had to face attacks at different locations. In Rajganj block of Jalpaiguri, a group of miscreants attacked Atiar Rehman, deputy head of the Trinamul-run Sanyasikata panchayat, while he was returning home on Thursday late evening. “Around 8.30pm, I was returning home from Rajganj with three party workers. As we reached Kayetgach (a village en route), a group of miscreants attacked us and ransacked our car. All four of us have suffered injuries. We suspect the BJP is behind the attack,” Rehman said. Khageswar Roy, the Trinamul MLA of Rajganj, also blamed the BJP. “The police should arrest all those who were behind the attack,” he said. BJP leaders, however, denied the charges and said the incident was the fallout of inner differences in Trinamul. In Cooch Behar district, suspected Trinamul supporters ransacked a BJP office at Bhetaguri in Dinhata. “A group of Trinamul supporters attacked our office. They ransacked the furniture and torched posters and banners. We want the police to arrest the attackers within three days or else, we will raise an indefinite blockade on the Dinhata-Cooch Behar road,” said Anowar Hossain, a leader of the BJP’s minority cell. In Mathabhanga, suspected Trinamul workers attacked the house of a BJP leader at Gopalpur and ransacked two offices of the saffron party in Goplapur and Majherbari. “Trinamul-backed miscreants organised an attack on my house. Later, they also vandalised two offices of our party. If such attacks continue, we would be forced to launch a demonstration at the local police station,” said Ranjan Burman, the BJP leader. Trinamul leaders countered the charge and instead alleged that BJP workers had  beaten up one of their supporters. In South Dinajpur, a CPM office at Dipalinagar in Balurghat town was ransacked by miscreants on Thursday night. Parimal Sarkar, a CPM leader, has blamed Trinamul and BJP for the attack. “For past few weeks, we have been organising different political programmes. That is why we suspect Trinamul and BJP have ransacked our office,” said Sarkar. Trinamul and BJP leaders have denied the charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-224
