24-01-2021||West Bengal||Mamata trying to appease only 30 per cent of voters: Vijayvargiya||Mamata Banerjee refused to deliver her speech on the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji after being greeted with ‘Jai Sri Ram’ slogans, because she wants to please a section of people, BJP leader Kailash Vijayvargiya said Sunday. Vijayvargiya, the saffron party’s national general secretary, alleged that the chief minister of Bengal  has only been sensitive to the needs and the interests of ‘30 per cent’ of the state’s over nine crore people. “Jai Sri Ram is used to greet people. It was chanted when Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrived, and also when he was leaving the Netaji Research Bureau. Why did Mamata didi feel insulted? Why did she feel upset on hearing ‘Jai Sri Ram’ or ‘Bharat mata ki jai’ chants,” he told reporters at Jalpaiguri, where he is scheduled to attend a party programme. Asserting that Banerjee's move was aimed at "appeasing 30 per cent of the voters in the state", Vijayvargiya, who is also the BJP’s Bengal minder, said “for the remaining 70 per cent, it has always been a tale of neglect”. Minorities, especially Muslims, constitute 30 per cent of the state’s population. “People of Bengal will give a befitting reply to her in the next elections," the BJP leader added. The chief minister on Saturday declined to speak at an event, organised to celebrate Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s birth anniversary, after ‘Jai Shri Ram’ slogans were raised there, in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The TMC supremo said such “insult” was unacceptable. Lauding Banerjee, TMC MP Mahua Moitra said on Twitter, “Never have I been prouder to be part of Mamatadi’s team. In an ocean of monkeys she stands out as the lone lioness.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-222
24-01-2021||West Bengal||Netaji event marred by 'Jai Shri Ram' chants||“Jai Hind, Jai Bangla.” With these words, chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday reminded the Narendra Modi government of a basic lesson in civility that Indians raised on the philosophy of Atithi Devo Bhava should be well familiar with: You do not insult your guest. A section of the audience at an event hosted by the Union culture ministry at Victoria Memorial to celebrate the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose had erupted in chants of “Jai Shri Ram” as Mamata was invited to speak. The chanters ignored appeals from the emcee to “calm down” and allow the chief minister the “opportunity” to say a few words on this “auspicious occasion”. Mamata went up to the lectern and said in Hindi: “I think there should be some dignity to a government programme. This is a government programme, not that of a political party. This is a programme of all parties and of the people.” The sloganeering continued as she spoke. “I thank the Prime Minister and the Union culture ministry for holding this programme in Calcutta,” the chief minister said. “But it is unbecoming of you to invite someone and then insult them. In protest, I am not speaking any more. Jai Hind. Jai Bangla.” Mamata then returned to her seat, near that of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who sat impassively. Union ministers Prahlad Patel, whose department had hosted the programme, and Babul Supriyo were also on the dais. The heckling should have upset the Prime Minister and his colleagues on several counts. In a culture that prides itself on treating the “atithi” (guest) as “deva” (a god), to insult a guest should be sacrilege; the slogan-shouting had disrespected the memory of the national icon whose anniversary was being celebrated; and it had shattered the dignity of a programme hosted by the Government of India. Not a word from PM If Modi was upset, he did not show it. Anyone who had expected the Prime Minister to condemn the boorish behaviour of his supporters or to apologise for it to Mamata, who was a guest at his government’s programme, would have been disappointed. In his 30-minute address, Modi uttered not a word on the subject. He spoke of Atmanirbhar Bharat and contended that his pet theme bore the imprint of Netaji’s philosophy.
Mamata sat through the one hour that remained of the programme, occasionally looking up at the clear January sky. Not once was the “Jai Shri Ram” slogan heard after she spoke, making it clear the intent was only to heckle her. The BJP is known to use the chant variously as a greeting, a war cry and a taunt. Sources close to Mamata said she had initially been in two minds whether to attend the programme because she had had a busy day that began at 10.30am with a visit to Netaji Bhavan on Elgin Road. She later led a colourful procession through 7.5km from Shyambazar to Esplanade as part of the state government’s celebrations of the 125th anniversary of the icon from Bengal. Mamata eventually decided to go, joining Modi in inaugurating an exhibition on Netaji and then escorting him to the main venue on the Victoria Memorial lawns. “Despite her pressing schedule, she went to attend the central government programme…. But see the reception she received at the programme,” a source close to the chief minister said. “The BJP supporters proved once again that they don’t know Bengal’s culture,” said senior Trinamul leader Partha Chatterjee. ‘Like a party event’ That something like this might happen was clear the moment Modi reached the venue at 4.28pm. As the Prime Minister’s image flashed on the giant screens, cries of “Jai Shri Ram” filled the air, much to the surprise of some in the audience who had received the invitation from the Union culture ministry. Sources in the BJP said that though it was a government programme, the state BJP unit took the lion’s share of the invites and distributed them among party leaders and loyalists. Party leaders were seen waiting at the south gate of Victoria Memorial, from where most of the invitees entered, with bunches of invitation cards and distributing them. When BJP state president Dilip Ghosh was entering the venue, most of the people waiting in the queue greeted him with “Jai Shri Ram”. “I see our people all around…. It’s like a party event,” a middle-aged man in a saffron bandhgala was overheard telling a man who claimed he had been to the airport to receive Modi. The same man was among those who raised the “Jai Shri Ram” chant when Mamata spoke. Asked why, he said: “Chanting ‘Jai Shri Ram’ is part of Indian culture…. If she (Mamata) has a problem with it, we can’t help it.” He refused to identify himself. But the state BJP was in two minds whether to endorse what happened in Victoria Memorial. “Such slogan-shouting at the programme was unfortunate,” said party spokesperson Shamik Bhattacharya. Kailash Vijayvargiya, the BJP’s Bengal minder, however tweeted: “Greeting someone by Jai Shri Ram is considered insult by Mamata-ji. What kind of politics is this!”
The peals of laughter from the audience after the chief minister returned from the podium without speaking left no one in any doubt about the intent of the sloganeers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-222
24-01-2021||West Bengal||Icon who believed in pluralism: Mamata||Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s philosophy of inclusiveness, which Prime Minister Narendra Modi completely ignored, was the theme of Mamata Banerjee’s three public addresses in Calcutta on Saturday — at Netaji Bhavan, Shyambazar five-point crossing and near Netaji’s statue on Red Road. The chief minister’s stress on the icon’s faith on India’s pluralistic culture on his 125th birth anniversary was clearly aimed at countering the BJP’s narrative in the run-up to the Bengal polls. “Netaji was a firm believer in unity. He always spoke about solidarity among all religions. Just see the composition of the Indian National Army, which had Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs and people from all religions. It had people from Gujarat, Bengal, Tamil Nadu, and all across India as he believed that since he was fighting for the country, everyone should be part of the force,” said Mamata while delivering an address at the end of a 7.5km rally that she led on Saturday afternoon. “The British believed in divide and rule, while Netaji wanted to unite the country,” she added, before announcing that her government would carry on with year-long celebrations and spread his ideals among the young. The underlying message in her address could not be missed in poll-bound Bengal, where the saffron camp is banking on a polarisation among voters on religious lines to wrest the seat of power. With inclusiveness on her lips, Mamata tried to send out a message that she was a believer in Netaji’s philosophy while the saffron party’s agenda was that of dividing people. “What should be the qualities of a leader? That person should be like Netaji, who believed in taking everyone along…. Netaji never said that the country should broken down into pieces...,” said Mamata. As Bengal nears the polls, an intense battle has broken out between Trinamul and the BJP over appropriating Bengali icons like Netaji, Rabindranath Tagore or Swami Vivekananda. On Netaji’s birth anniversary, the battle intensified. Mamata announced on Twitter that the state government would build an Indian National Army memorial in Rajarhat and set up a university after Netaji’s name. Through the day, Mamata rolled out example after another to establish that the BJP was far from Netaji’s principles. After elaborating on Netaji’s inclusiveness different from the saffron camp’s divisive politics, she focused on how Netaji’s idea of governance was different. “Netaji had envisioned the Planning Commission and the Indian National Army much before Independence…They (the Centre) claim to idolise Netaji but (they) scrapped the Planning Commission and formed NITI Aayog. No harm in setting up NITI Aayog, but why scrap the Planning Commission?” she asked. Mamata repeatedly said in the past that the BJP government’s decision of disbanding the Planning Commission was part of an agenda to reduce the power of states and an assault on federalism. Quoting the BJP’s oft repeated slogans, she said, “The attitude needs to be changed… One leader, one nation, one ration card, ... One political party, one nation. Why this?” Giving a new dimension to her federalism argument, she questioned why India should have only one capital in Delhi and suggested there be four rotating capitals in different parts of the country. “Why shouldn’t Calcutta be the capital of the country, I am saying this because of our contribution to the freedom struggle... I will again urge the Centre that India should have four capitals, one in south, one in north, one in east and in northeastern,” the chief minister said. The BJP state leaders were quick to rubbish the demand as “absurd”, but Trinamul insiders said they would keep repeating the demand in the run up to the polls to strike a chord with voters in Bengal. Mamata also explained why her government celebrated Netaji’s birth anniversary as Deshnayak Dibos while the Centre celebrated the day as Parakram (valour) Diwas. “Rabindranath Tagore was the first to bestow the title of Deshnayak (national hero) on Netaji...,” Mamata said at Netaji Bhavan. Additional reporting by Debraj Mitra||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-222
24-01-2021||West Bengal||Modi ties Netaji’s vision to govt slogans||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday strenuously attempted to associate the vision of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose with the “achievements” of his government, steering clear of the secular hero’s inclusive philosophy. Quoting Netaji repeatedly in laboured Bengali, the Prime Minister allowed saffron to paint what was to be an apolitical event of the ministry of culture at the Victoria Memorial Hall lawns on Saturday, not unlike his January 12, 2020 address at Belur Math, where Modi had used the occasion of Swami Vivekananda’s birth anniversary to defend the controversial amended citizenship law. Modi — in the presence of chief minister Mamata Banerjee — went to the extent of raising his party’s pitch for its Assembly poll campaign, urging people in the name of Netaji and his legacy not to rest till “Sonar Bangla” was achieved. “Netaji Subhas, along with Atmanirbhar Bharat, is the greatest inspiration for Sonar Bangla. The role he played towards India’s Independence, Bengal must play that role in Atmanirbhar Bharat…. Bengal must come forward, add to its own glory, and that of the nation. Like Netaji, we must also not stop till we achieve the goals we have set for ourselves,” he said, towards the end of what virtually became a BJP campaign speech. Modi’s speech was replete with attempts to underscore Netaji’s Hindu background — such as references to how Netaji supposedly carried a copy of the Bhagvad Gita with him, how he sent a niece to seek blessings for his mission from the Dakshineswar Kali Temple — while keeping mum on the icon’s secular, tolerant, humanist worldview. Referring to Netaji’s request to nephew Sisir Kumar Bose — “Amar ekta kaj kortey parbey (Can you carry out a task for me)?” — for help with the historic escape from under British surveillance from his Elgin Road residence in January 1941, which paved the way for his epic transcontinental war effort for India’s Independence, Modi launched into a series of associations between Netaji’s aspirations and the things attempted by the present central government. “Today, if every Indian puts his hand to the chest and experiences Netaji once again, everyone would hear that (request to Netaji’s nephew)…. That task, that goal is of making Atmanirbhar Bharat…. There is no power in the world that can stop India from achieving Atmanirbhar Bharat,” Modi said. “It pleases me that this country now is working tirelessly for the empowerment of the downtrodden, the exploited, farmers, women…. Today, every poor person is getting help for healthcare (apparent reference to Ayushman Bharat),” he added. “Farmers of the nation, from seeds to the markets, are being given modern aid...what they spend on agriculture, there are efforts underway to reduce that (apparent reference to the contentious farm laws),” he added. Adding the National Education Policy and even the acquisition of Rafale aircraft to the mix of things that, according to Modi, would have pleased Netaji, he broached the subject — albeit only in passing — to the conflicts with Pakistan and China. “Netaji is watching us, blessing us, loving us… the strong India he had imagined, today from the LAC to the LoC, that is the avatar of India that the world is watching. From wherever there is an attempt to challenge India’s sovereignty, today, this country responds fittingly,” said the Prime Minister. Modi, who in his very first year as premier, decided to replace Planning Commission envisioned by Netaji with the NITI Aayog, attributed to the icon his government’s propensity to commit to contentious policies despite opposition. “Something Netaji said that influences me, the relentless effort to achieve your own goal…. He taught me that if some idea is not simple, not common, has difficulties, despite that, there should be no fear in trying out something new...” “If you believe in something, you have to show the courage of starting it. It might seem that you are going against the tide. But if your goal is pure, there should be no hesitation,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-222
24-01-2021||West Bengal||Total active Covid cases 6,396 in Bengal ||Bengal on Saturday logged 474 Covid-19 recoveries, 410 new infections and 10 deaths, as the state’s total active cases dropped for the 89th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami on October 26. From 37,190 on Dashami, total active cases are 6,396 now. “We are now looking at a realistic target of total active cases becoming less than 5,000 by February-end,” said a minister. The state’s recovery rate rose for 92 days straight to touch 97.09, from 87.44 per cent of October 22, the national rate being 96.8. However, Bengal’s mortality rate is 1.78 per cent, with India’s average being 1.43. The state now has nearly 5.68 lakh Covid-19 cases, including over 5.51 lakh recoveries and 10,107 deaths. “Festival after festival came and went. Bengal celebrated all of them. Yet, we managed to keep the pandemic from worsening. It is a phenomenal achievement,” said the minister. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.27 per cent now, having improved steadily from the 8.27, 64 days ago. Bengal’s total test count – including 28,242 tests on Saturday – is over 78.08 lakh now, at 86,756 tests per million people. The state attributed 8,482 deaths or 83.9 per cent of the toll to comorbidities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-222
24-01-2021||West Bengal||PM welcome as PM, not politicians||A family member of Subhas Chandra Bose stood firm against the politicisation of Netaji’s 125th birth anniversary celebrations, refusing to allow any member of the BJP to accompany Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the freedom fighter’s ancestral home at Elgin Road in Calcutta on Saturday. Sources said Netaji’s grandnephew Sugata Bose, a historian who chairs the Netaji Research Bureau, received a call from the Prime Minister’s Office on Saturday afternoon that Modi wanted to visit Netaji Bhavan and that some BJP leaders would accompany the PM. Sugata — also a former MP for Trinamul — refused to allow entry to any politician other than the Prime Minister. He said that Modi was welcome as the Prime Minister, but the event shouldn’t be politicised. “Initially what was sent  (the itinerary) looked like he (Modi) would come with some political functionaries of his party. I said that it is the occasion of Netaji’s birth anniversary and (so) the PM should come as a PM,” Sugata told this paper. BJP leader Kailash Vijayvargiya, the party’s minder for the state, and Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta were present outside Netaji Bhavan to welcome Modi. They were joined by another grandnephew of Netaji, BJP leader Chandra Kumar Bose. However, only Modi entered Netaji Bhavan. None of the other BJP leaders entered the premises, and many waited outside. Vijayvargiya left soon afterwards. A few BJP supporters raised Jai Shri Ram slogans in front of Netaji Bhavan. A section of Bengal BJP said a family member of Bose snubbing BJP leaders would not send a good message ahead of the polls in Bengal. “Our leaders wanted to show their love for Netaji by accompanying the PM to Netaji Bhavan. What happened is a face loss,” a member said. Sugata said this was the first time a communication about the Prime Minister’s visit (to Netaji Bhavan) was announced a few hours before the event. “Whenever Prime Ministers have visited in the past, the PMO has always been in touch long in advance. This time, I directly heard from the PMO only a little before 1 o’clock today (Saturday).” According to his original itinerary, the Prime Minister’s first stop was supposed to be the National Library. Sources said a change was made to the itinerary late on Friday when it was decided that Modi would visit Netaji Bhavan. Chandra Kumar Bose claimed that he had placed a request with the PM “through appropriate sources”, requesting him to visit Netaji’s ancestral house. “I’m happy that the Honourable PM accepted my request,” Bose said, adding that the visit was a last-minute inclusion to the PM’s itinerary, ahead of the main event on Victoria Memorial lawns. The saffron brigade had also started a narrative that no Prime Minister other than Lal Bahadur Shastri and Modi had ever visited Netaji Bhavan on January 23. Refuting this claim, Sugata said that in 1995, then PM P.V. Narasimha Rao had visited the house on Netaji’s birth anniversary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-223
24-01-2021||West Bengal||A family that worships a chair ||Amid the political noise in poll-bound Bengal on the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, a family in a Bankura village, 205km away from Calcutta, quietly showed their love for the icon by worshipping a chair Netaji had sat on, nearly 81 years ago. The patriarch of Deshuriya village’s Karmakar family, Niranjan Karmakar, 88, had, as an eight-year-old boy laid eyes on Netaji in April 1940. Netaji had come to Gangajalghati near Deshuriya for an event. “A sofa had been laid out for Netaji but he pulled up a humble wooden chair, which my father (village physician Ramrup Karmakar) had carried along with him to help with seating arrangements, and sat on it. As far as I recall, my father had bought the chair from Raniganj,” recalled the octogenarian on Saturday, a day that saw Prime Minister Narendra Modi flying down to Calcutta to pay tribute to the late freedom fighter. “Since then, my father said no one should sit on this chair, and it was put in our thakurghar (puja room). We worship it along with Netaji’s portrait,” said Niranjan, a retired government contractor. This year, Netaji’s birth anniversary has become a point of contention, with the Centre naming it Parakram Divas and the state, Deshnayak Divas. Far from all this, residents of this village paid their intimate tribute to Netaji at the Karmakar home and the local club. The story of the chair came to light on Saturday when Bankura University used the virtual platform to share this unique tribute to Netaji. “We came to know about this family and sent a student to video-record the chair and this tribute and share it virtually. It is very interesting,” said Kaushik Ghosh, who teaches political science at the varsity. In this tiny village, Netaji’s legend lives on from generation to generation. “I’ve heard how people here offered money and ornaments to Netaji for his Azad Hind Fauj,” said Prashanta Karmakar, now 50, Ramrup’s grandson.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-223
24-01-2021||West Bengal||BJP worker ‘shot at’ in Belur, party blames TMC||A BJP supporter allegedly received bullet wound during a clash with Trinamul workers on Saturday morning at Belur in Howrah district. “Pramod Dubey, one of our workers, was shot in the leg by Trinamul goons and is admitted to the Howrah general hospital,” alleged Sanjay Singh, a state BJP general secretary. According to sources, the clash broke out on Friday evening when BJP supporters were attacked by goons at a social event organised by the saffron party at Belur’s Matwala Chowrasta. Singh alleged the clash spilled over to Saturday morning, when a BJP worker was allegedly attacked by Trinamul goons. “We took the party worker for treatment but on our return Trinamul goons attacked us with at least 30 crude bombs. At least 12-13 rounds of bullets were fired at us,” Singh said, adding that the incident happened before a school in the area. “Pramod was hit by a bullet on his leg.” Trinamul leader Kailash Mishra, also a councillor of the Howrah Municipal Corporation, denied these allegations. “BJP leaders had been extorting money from vendors of Matwala Chowrasta for their event. People protested and we joined in,” Mishra added. Howrah police commissionerate is probing if gunshots were fired during the clash. “A person is injured and hospitalised. We are investigating if he has suffered a gunshot injury,” said a cop.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-223
24-01-2021||West Bengal||Anit seeks consensus on relief fund use||Anit Thapa, the chairman of the board of administrators, Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA), has decided to convene a meeting of “all stakeholders” to decide on using the GTA Chairman Relief Fund set up at the start of Covid-19 pandemic for tea garden workers. Over 11,000 donors have contributed around Rs 3 crore. The GTA will match the collected amount, making the total sum around Rs 6 crore. “I have decided to hold a meeting on January 28 with all stakeholders...(donors, politicians and trade union leaders) to discuss its utilisation,” said Thapa, adding the GTA will go by the decision arrived at through consensus. Political parties in the hills have in the past been raising the issue of the relief fund with some sections suggesting that Thapa might want to take political mileage through it. Thapa set up the relief fund on March 24, 2020, purportedly to take up the gigantic task of “paying the tea gardens workers during the lockdown”. The 87 tea gardens in the hills, which employ around 55,000 permanent and 15,000 temporary workers, were however shut only from March 25 to April 9, unlike other sectors, so the fund was not needed for the purpose it was meant for. With Opposition parties in poll-bound keeping an eye on the utilisation of the fund, Thapa, observers believe, does not want any controversy. “He probably wants to build a consensus regarding the utilisation of fund but it would be interesting to see how the invited politicians and trade union leaders look into the issue,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-223
24-01-2021||West Bengal||Ladies of the Land||The languages we speak in, the very words we use, betray our seminal beliefs. In Bengali, for instance, there is a goalini for every goala (milkman), a methrani for every methar (scavenger), a naptini for every napit (barber), but no mahila sainik for every sainik (soldier) and no chashini for a chasha (farmer). The Hindi word kisan has no feminine form. The Gujarati word for farmer is khedut; but khedutani is not used as much. Between the fashioning of this vocabulary and now, whole contexts have changed. And that is why, when the Chief Justice of India appealed to “women” alongside children and senior citizens at Delhi’s farmers’ protests to return home, his statement elicited howls of protest. After all, the protesting women are at Singhu in their capacity as farmers as well. Indeed, a large percentage of Indian’s agricultural labour force constitutes women, no matter the gendered land ownership pattern. In Bengal, there is a new trend among women farmers. But first, farmlands here as compared to the rest of the country are small. This has to do with the aggressive land reform measures including ceilings on the upper limit of landholding implemented by the Left Front government. The average landholding size declined from 1.20 hectares in 1970-71 to 0.92 hectares in 1985-86, according to the agriculture census. There are no large farms except for tea plantations. Says Koushik Brahmachari of Bidhan Chandra Krishi Viswavidyalaya, “The number of marginal farmers is large here and in places like Bolpur and the Sunderbans, the landholdings are on a homestead scale.” Saleha Khatun of Hariharpara in Murshidabad married Sahabuddin in 2012. She was barely 16 at the time. Her husband too was young and had not completed his studies. Saleha’s father-in-law owned a one-and-a-half bigha agricultural plot and Sahabuddin helped his father till the land. What they grew on the plot was barely enough to feed the family. There was nothing left to sell. Small holdings typically yield marginal farmers next to nothing and they are ultimately forced to sell their holdings to large landholders and turn into farmhands. But that did not happen to Saleha’s family. Soumyajit Das, who is the special secretary of the Comprehensive Area Development Corporation of the panchayat department, says, “Unlike states such as Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra, where commercial agriculture is practised in large landholdings, in Bengal, we have fragmented landholdings that are used for backyard cultivation of vegetables, oilseeds, floriculture, fruits. Women are engaged in these.” Saleha’s mother-in-law, Sabira Bibi, was part of the Hariharpara Nilakar Mahila Samabay, a co-operative of self-help groups (SHGs) set up in 2000. Now, there are 8,65,000-odd registered SHGs in the state. About 30-40 per cent of these are involved in agriculture, says Partha Mandal, who is the deputy general manager of the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development or Nabard. The Hariharpara co-operative has 4,000 shareholders, 400 SHGs, and a corpus of 15 bighas where shareholders grow coriander, cumin, onions and sundry varieties which they sell at a profit. The way it works is this — the smallest SHG comprises 10 women. Each of them contributes anything between Rs 10 and Rs 200 per month and a corpus fund is formed. This money is used by members of SHGs to cultivate vegetables or raise poultry individually or collectively. Whatever profit the group makes, members divide among themselves equally. When a group does well, it is granted credit linkage to banks by Nabard. This means they become eligible for loans. Typically, if a loan amount of Rs 1,25,000 is given to a 10-member group, each member gets Rs 12,500. They then engage in group agricultural activity on leased land. Like her mother-in-law, Saleha too has joined the co-operative. She explains, “About 75 per cent of the profit is distributed among the women who work and 25 per cent is split among the shareholders who give out loans or engage in other group activities.” The SHGs also offer other support. When Saleha wanted to complete her master’s and BEd, the group gave her an education loan at 2 per cent interest. In 2019, the Hariharpara co-operative cultivated 15 bighas of land and made a profit of Rs 29,000. The following year, it took out a year-long lease of 18 bighas of land in Samserganj, also in Murshidabad, from local farmers. Samserganj is at least 100 kilometres away from Hariharpara, but Saleha and many of her neighbours work the fields there. Saleha explains, “We women water the plants, sow seeds, cut paddy. Men plough the field with tractors.” The co-operative cultivates onions, garlic, ginger, vegetables, turmeric, coriander seeds, cumin seeds. It has also purchased its own grinding machine and packaging machine. It seems, apart from the Comprehensive Area Development Corporation, who is their biggest customer, they have other loyal customers. Manju Bala of Uttaran Bahumukhi Sangha Primary Co-operative Society Limited from Duttapulia in Ranaghat block of Nadia district has a different story to tell. It was the floods of 2000 that sowed the seeds of community cohesiveness among residents here. Says Manju, “About 8-10 families lived together till the waters receded. It was then that we formed a self-help group — the Seema Mahila Samity.” The women collected Rs 20 from every member. Says Manju, “In addition, we took a loan of Rs 5,000.” With that money, group members started their own businesses. She adds, “Some of us bought ducks and reared them to sell their eggs, some started a whole poultry farm, while a few of us started growing vegetables, and others, flowering plants.” Vegetables and flower nurseries turned out to be profitable businesses. In the meantime, Manju’s children grew up and she, too, found the time to pass the board exams. She says, “You can’t become a trainer or keep accounts in an SHG if you haven’t passed the boards.” Next, she formed her own cluster in 2007 — the Uttaran Bahumukhi. No matter what the Sabiras, Salehas and Manjus’ contribution to the Indian agriculture scene, agricultural holdings continue to be in the name of the men of the household. The SHG movement is aimed more at empowering women economically within the traditional societal structure. Manish Anand of Delhi’s The Energy and Resources Institute has co-authored a paper on enhancing the role of women in agriculture and allied activities and providing them institutional support. He says, “Women provide critical support to the health of farmlands... Being unpaid in nature, these efforts of women are dampened as they are not recognised as primary producers. They continue to face constraints in accessing land, credit, technology, agricultural inputs, services and market opportunities.” Anand draws attention to women’s groups in Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu that have managed to work around these. He says, “Federated structures of women’s co-operatives have been largely successful in Kerala.” One day, for sure, this change afoot in Bengal will cover all of the state, it will spread across the rest of India too. The accepted vocabulary will be updated; and ways of seeing will change too — even from high places.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-223
