25-01-2021||West Bengal||'Jai Shri Ram' slogans by BJP supporters insulted Netaji, says Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday lashed out at the BJP, accusing it of insulting Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose by raising 'Jai Shri Ram' slogans at an event to mark the icon's 125th birth anniversary. Branding the BJP as a group of "outsiders" and "Bharat Jalao Party", she said it has been continuously insulting the icons of Bengal, Netaji being the "latest addition to the list". "Would you invite anyone to your house and then insult the person? Is this the culture of Bengal or our country? I would have had no problem if slogans hailing Netaji were raised. "But they didn't do that. To taunt me, they shouted slogans which had no relation to the programme. I was insulted in front of the prime minister of the country. This is their (BJP) culture," the Trinamool Congress boss told a rally here. Banerjee had on Saturday refused to speak at an official event attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to observe Subhas Chandra Bose's 125th birth anniversary, after 'Jai Shri Ram' chants greeted her. Dubbing turncoats in her party as "betrayers", she said those who have deserted the TMC in the run-up to the assembly polls will never be welcomed back. "The ones who left knew they would not be getting tickets in the coming elections. It is good they exited, or else we would have thrown them out... Those who want to leave the party should do that as early as possible," Banerjee added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-221
25-01-2021||West Bengal||Republic Day celebrations sans spectators in Calcutta this year||The Republic Day celebrations in Calcutta will be subdued this year in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic with no spectators being allowed, a senior official said on Monday. Only a few dignitaries, including Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and select top state government officials, will be present to witness the parade at Red Road in the heart of the city, he said. Around 200 contingents will take part in the parade on Tuesday, the state government official told PTI. "This year, the Republic Day parade will be shorter in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. No spectators will be allowed at Red Road like the previous years. Only a few VVIPs other than the CM, the governor and a few senior bureaucrats have been invited," he said. The seating arrangements have been made following the COVID-19 protocols of physical distancing, he added. Usually, the entire Maidan area around the venue is barricaded as thousands of enthusiasts come to the city to witness the parade, a senior Kolkata Police officer said. "However, this year we have decided to put the barricades only around the surrounding areas of the Red Road to stop the entry of the common people to the venue," he said. The work to barricade the venue started on Sunday, the officer said. At least 1,000 policepersons along with security personnel of the Heavy Radio Flying Squad and Radio Flying Squad will be deployed in and around the Red Road area, he said. "Senior officers of the rank of assistant commissioners and 12 deputy commissioners will be on duty at the venue for the Republic Day celebrations. Adequate security arrangements are in place. We will not take any chances," he added. Sniffer dogs and bomb squad personnel will be scrutinising the venue and the surrounding areas from time to time to ensure foolproof security, the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-222
25-01-2021||West Bengal||State govt receives 10 lakh requests for job cards in seven weeks||The Bengal government has received more than 10 lakh requests for job cards under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act over the past seven weeks through the camps set up under the Duare Sarkar programme. The numbers suggest that the lockdown-induced loss of livelihood is still affecting people in rural areas. “A total of 2.21 crore people have visited 21,057 camps set up under the Duare Sarkar programme between December 1 and January 18. Of them, 10,10,224 people sought job cards under the MGNREGA. The figure is staggering as we never received so many applications seeking job cards under the scheme,” a senior government official told The Telegraph. According to sources, nearly 60 per cent of the applicants have wanted enrolling their names in the existing job cards of their families and the remaining applied for new job cards. Sources said 10 lakh people applying for job cards in less than two months is significant given that the state has a total of 1.39 crore job cards under the scheme since it was launched in 2007. Senior government officials said that the deluge of applications for job cards suggested that more than one million people were desperate for a livelihood even after the lockdown had been lifted. “We had taken an initiative to issue job cards to the migrant workers, who were forced to come back to Bengal leaving their jobs in other states, soon after the state decided to bring back such people in the end-April-May last year. We had received around 2.2 lakh applications at that time. As we received more than 1 million applications this time, it suggests that livelihood remains a major issue in rural areas,” said a senior bureaucrat. Senior officials in the panchayat department, who are keeping a tab on the issue, said that there could be two reasons behind such a large number of applicants. First, a significant proportion of migrant workers, who did not apply for job cards initially as they had thought that they would be able to go back to their workplaces within a few months, failed to get back their jobs they had lost because of lockdown. “It seems many of the estimated 22 lakh migrant workers could not go back to their workplaces till now. As these workers don’t see any hope in getting back to their workplaces in near future, they may have applied for job cards as an alternative,” said an official. Officially, more than 14 lakh migrant workers had come back to the state by June last year. The state government received reports from various districts that some of the workers had gone back after a few months. But the government has no clear data on how many workers could not go back to their workplaces. Second, there might be a large number of people who were forced to apply for the cards as they lost their livelihood in rural areas. “Some officials from the districts informed that many of these people have lost their livelihood in the post-lockdown period. Some of them were running small shops, which are not paying back enough to run the family. Some were working with some local institutions like rice mills and lost their jobs in the post-lockdown period as the mills are being run with lesser employees,” explained another official. Sources in the panchayat department said they were trying to issue job cards to all the applicants who need it badly. Providing them with jobs under the scheme, however, may not be easy in the next two months as the state has already created 34 crore man-days under the scheme exceeding the initial approved target of 22 crore man-days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-222
25-01-2021||West Bengal||Mamata visit brings amenities to Ballabhpur Danga village||The tribal hamlet of Ballabhpur Danga in Birbhum has emerged as a model village following a state government initiative to implement over a dozen development projects and undertake a beautification drive following a surprise visit by chief minister Mamata Banerjee to the area near Sonajhuri forest on December 30. After attending her mega rally in Bolpur on December 29, Mamata had visited Ballabhpur Danga village the following day and spoken to residents. As the chief minister walked through Ballabhpur Danga, she interacted with the villagers who told her about their long-standing demands. While listening to the complaints, the chief minister instructed district administration officials accompanying her to redress the grievances of the people at the earliest. Following Mamata’s instructions for the development of the village, separate sets of government officials made random visits to Ballabhpur Danga to sort out problems and also took measurements to implement at least a dozen development projects earlier last week. Apart from constructing toilets, bathing ghats and changing rooms, in addition to solar submersible pumps to meet the demand of drinking water, the government has already painted walls of the tribal homes as part of a “local beautification” drive. “We could not have imagined that so many projects would be completed within such a short period. It was really surprising for us and it happened only because Mamata didi had visited our place. The village has become a new place for us after the walls of our houses were so beautifully painted,” said Sanmani Soren, a villager who interacted with the chief minister during her visit on December 30. “She took up a ladle to cook a vegetable curry at a roadside kiosk,” said one villager while recollecting Mamata’s visit to the quaint hamlet. “The chief minister asked us to add more chilli for flavour,” he added. Officials said the development projects included setting up of solar street lights, 144 toilets for villagers, construction of two culverts along with several concrete roads, tube well platforms with soak pits and electricity connection to individual homes. The villagers reportedly complained to the chief minister about the bad condition of the government-provided toilets and the lack of supply of drinking water along with other demands. On Wednesday morning, secretary of self-help groups, Roshni Sen, and district magistrate Vijay Bharti visited the village to supervise the ongoing development projects. “We have painted the walls of the tribal hamlet to preserve the tradition of their culture. Already, 60 per cent of the proposed development work has been finished and the rest will be completed shortly. We are happy to convert the village into a model one where all benefits from the government will be delivered to every household,” said Bharti, the district magistrate. Sen said that she was “overwhelmed” after visiting the village. “There is a saying in English — ‘bottom-up’ approach. The projects at the village were taken up after listening to the demands of the villagers. The move will not be restricted to this village but will be implemented in all possible parts of the district,” said Sen, who is the nodal officer of Birbhum for the Duare Sarkar project.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-222
25-01-2021||West Bengal||Bimal to people: Keep BJP off Hills||Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Gurung on Sunday hinted that the BJP might face retaliation if it held meetings or sought votes in the hills in poll-bound-Bengal. Speaking at a public meeting at Vah-Tukvar, his former GTA constituency, for the first time in more than three years, Gurung said: “If the BJP conducts meetings in villages or anywhere in Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Kurseong, Mirik, they should not be allowed...” The Gorkha leader instead said “people should directly ask BJP” what the saffron party had done for them. “You (the BJP) do not have the right to conduct meetings or seek votes in the hills…and this is what you (the people of the hills) need to raise before them (the BJP),” said Gurung. The leader said the BJP had failed to live up to its commitment of granting tribal status and permanent political solution despite including both promises in its election manifesto twice. Gurung was an ally of the BJP from 2009 until October 2020 when he decided to join hands with Trinamul. “Youths must go in thousands (at the BJP meetings) and question this let down on the Schedule Tribe lollipop,” said Gurung. Despite the BJP winning polls, its organisational strength is still in its formative stages in the hills. Gurung said that it was “no use blaming Mamata Banerjee” when his own people had betrayed him, a reference to Binay Tamang and Anit Thapa who floated a splinter group of the Morcha in 2017. He also launched a vitriolic attack on Darjeeling MP Raju Bista of the BJP. Describing Bista as someone whom Gurung had “made”, Gurung said: “If Raju Bista comes to Darjeeling he will have to return, this is my word.” “Raju Bista (was) nothing, but because of your love for me, because of my appeals, you voted for him,” said Gurung, and added that now Bista was talking against him. Bista had won by more than 4.5 lakh votes in 2019. Bista did not take calls from the paper when the copy was filed on Sunday night. However, Kalyan Dewan, president, BJP (hills), called Gurung’s assertion a “murder of democracy.” “Holding public meetings is a constitutional right. Through public meetings we can clarify our stand on various issues, about Gorkhas…. His statement reflects arrogance, undemocratic, illegal, unconstitutional and dictatorial attitude. Who is he to grant or deny public meetings?” Dewan said. Observers, however, wondered if Gurung would be able to stop the BJP from holding public meetings once the model code of conduct kicked in. Gurung also called himself the guardian of the hills and announced a monthly stipend of Rs 1,500 each to 50 elderly people from each of the 45 GTA constituencies, the Dooars and Terai from next month. For 50 elders from Vah-Tukvar, he started the scheme from this month. “We will set aside funds (for the scheme),” he added.  Going by conservative attempts, Gurung would be spending over Rs 33 lakhs per month for this scheme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-222
25-01-2021||West Bengal||Unbroken 90-day fall in active cases||Bengal on Sunday achieved a drop in its total active Covid-19 cases for the 90th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami on October 26, 2020. During these 90 days, total active cases fell from 37,190 to 6,323, improving by 83 per cent. “We are today (in terms of active cases) back almost to where we were on July 3, 205 days ago,” said a minister. On Sunday, the state logged 454 recoveries, 389 new infections and eight deaths, including two from Calcutta. Bengal’s recovery rate rose for 93 days straight to touch 97.11, having improved by nearly 10 per cent since October 22. The national rate is 96.8. Bengal now has over 5.68 lakh Covid-19 cases, including nearly 5.52 lakh recoveries and 10,115 deaths. Bengal’s mortality rate is 1.78 per cent now, compared to the national average of 1.43 per cent. The state government attributed 8,490 deaths or 83.9 per cent of the toll to comorbidities. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent crowding and a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath, and then ahead of the New Year. The number of infections in this time showed that the court’s instructions were effective. Since Dashami, over 90 days, Bengal reported over 2.41 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 2.14 lakh infections detected. “These three months have given us much breathing room as vaccination takes off. Bengal could have been one of the worst-affected regions of the world, given its circumstances, but we instead produced a war effort that is exemplary and heroic,” said the minister. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.25 per cent now, having improved from 8.27, 65 days ago. Bengal’s total test count — including 25,207 tests on Sunday — stands at over 78.33 lakh now, at 87,037 tests per million people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-222
25-01-2021||West Bengal||Libraries to reopen with limited readers||State-owned, government-aided and government-sponsored libraries in Bengal will all resume public services on Monday. Although limited numbers of readers will be permitted in the light of the Covid-19 pandemic, services are set to start three times a week on alternate days. Sources said the directorate of library services had asked employees to take “strict protective measures”, including sanitising the library premises on a daily basis, and allowing only half of already-enrolled readers according to protocols prescribed by the health department. Bengal has a total of 2,480 libraries, which include 13 government-run libraries, 2,460 government-sponsored, and seven state-aided libraries. In September last year, the state government had instructed libraries to open at least twice a month to clean books and remove dust apart from sanitising the premises. The order had come in the wake of allegations that the directorate had been “negligent” with regard to the condition of items, including “century-old manuscripts” which could have suffered damage inside unventilated and shut down library buildings. “Several state libraries house rare old books and century-old manuscripts written on toddy-palm leaves and other valuable collections,” said Sanjit Dutta, a retired librarian in Nadia. The sources said the decision to make public libraries functional was taken during a meeting on January 15 in the presence of mass education extension and library services minister Siddiqullah Chowdhury. “Since public services have been largely restored while fighting with the Covid-19 situation, we decided to resume library services as well. However, strict guidelines have been issued to officials so that no compromise is made with regard to health measures”, a senior official of the library services directorate said, adding that in addition to allowing only half the number of regular enrolled readers in the building, reading rooms would be limited to 50 per cent capacity as well. “We have told our officials to wear face masks and have also told them to ensure that readers use face masks while maintaining safe distance,” said minister Chowdhury.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-222
25-01-2021||West Bengal||Firearm making unit unearthed in Malda||A joint raid by the special task force of Bengal police and Jalpaiguri district police unearthed an illegal firearm making unit at a village near Kaliachak in Malda district on Saturday. Mohammed Farukh Alam and Mohammed Azam from Munger in Bihar were arrested. The STF and the Kaliachak police seized a number of finished and semi-finished firearms, live bullets, magazines and several equipment during the raid. The police said local resident Humayan Sheikh was the kingpin of the racket involved in the manufacture and sale of firearms. “Humayan had been arrested by Malda district police in 2015 and last year. He had been once arrested in Murshidabad also. But after securing bail, Humayan continued with his illegal business,” said Alok Rajoria, the superintendent of police of Malda. Sources said Sheikh used to run a similar arms making unit at his own home earlier. But after his arrest, Sheikh took on rent a building owned by his neighbour Rakibul Sheikh and and opened a similar unit there. “Rakibul, in turn, was offered a higher amount than the usual rent so that illegal activities could be carried out. Along with Humayan, we are in search of Rakibul and need to interrogate him,” a police officer said. The police also came to know that Humayan used to sell the firearms — mostly improvised seven mm pistols — with bullets and magazines to buyers in the neighbouring districts of North Dinajpur, South Dinajpur and Murshidabad. “He has a steady network of buyers in these three districts. He avoided selling his products in Malda so that he doesn’t come under our radar,” the officer said. The cop said the improvised pistols had a steady demand in the clandestine market. The pistol is made at a cost of around Rs 10,000 and sold at Rs 40,000 to Rs 50,000. “The arrested men were brought from Munger to make the firearms,” the cop said . Senior officials of the district police and the STF have decided to send a team to Munger.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-222
