26-01-2021||West Bengal||Centre's insensitive attitude, indifference to be blamed: Mamata on Delhi violence||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Tuesday that the Centre's "insensitive attitude" and indifference towards farmers are to be blamed for the violent protests in Delhi, maintaining that she was deeply disturbed by the situation. Banerjee urged the Centre to engage with the farmers and repeal the new farm laws, which she termed draconian. "Deeply disturbed by worrying and painful developments that have unfolded on the streets of Delhi. Centre's insensitive attitude and indifference towards our farmer brothers and sisters has to be blamed for this situation," she tweeted. A tractor march meant to highlight farmers' demands dissolved into anarchy on the streets of the national capital as hordes of rampaging protesters broke through barriers, fought with police, overturned vehicles and delivered a national insult -- hoisting a religious flag from the rampart of Red Fort, a privilege reserved for India's tricolour. Banerjee said, "First, these laws were passed without taking farmers in confidence. And then despite protests across India and farmers camping near Delhi for last 2 months, they've (Centre) been extremely casual in dealing with them." "Centre should engage with the farmers and repeal the draconian laws," she added. Tens of thousands of protesters clashed with police in multiple places, leading to chaos in well-known landmarks of Delhi and suburbs, amid waves of violence that ebbed and flowed through the day, leaving the farmers' two-month peaceful movement in tatters. Senior Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury alleged that the Delhi Police attacked the farmers without any provocation. "This shows the unsympathetic attitude of the BJP government to the problems faced by the small and marginal farmers," he said. Senior CPI(M) leader Md Salim said, "Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Prime Minister Narendra Modi are responsible for today's turn of events for their unresponsive attitude to the justified demands of the farmers." He said the Left will continue to be on the side of the agitating farmers. State BJP leader Sovan Chatterjee said that no disrespect should be shown to the national flag. "However, it has to be found out if there was any provocation from any quarter for such an act," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-220
26-01-2021||West Bengal||Soil from homes to build Birsa statue||Trinamul leaders in Bankura have started a drive to collect soil from the courtyard of tribal families in the district for a statue of Birsa Munda that the ruling party had decided to build after Union home minister Amit Shah in November garlanded that of an anonymous tribal hunter mistaking that to be that of the tribal freedom fighter’s. The Trinamul started the collection drive from the home of Bibhishan Hansda, the tribal villager who had hosted Shah for lunch at his Chaturdihi village home in Burdwan in November. “We had promised to erect a statue of Birsa Munda near Poabagan, where the statue of the hunter was garlanded by the Union home minister Amit Shah. We will visit houses of each tribal people in our district and collect a handful of soil from every home. We will also inform them how the BJP had insulted their hero," said Shyamal Santra, a minister of state and Bankura Trinamul president. The tribal freedom fighter, religious leader and folk hero suddenly assumed centre stage in the battle between Trinamul and the BJP ever since Shah paid floral tribute to the statue of an anonymous tribal hunter, which the BJP had identified as Munda’s statue. While the faux pas by Shah drew sharp criticism from tribal organisations, the state BJP tried to bluff it out. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh said — much to the dismay of tribal organisations — that the party considered the statue of the anonymous hunter as that of the tribal icon because Shah had paid floral tributes to it. Around that time, Trinamul announced that the party would help set up a 20-foot-tall concrete statue of Munda as early as possible. Trinamul leaders said the drive to collect soil from tribal households in the district would help the party connect with the tribal community. “We will collect soil in keeping with tribal culture. We have formed at least 200 teams who will visit most of the tribal houses,” said Santra. Mrityunjoy Murmu, the sabhadhipati of Bankura Zilla Parishad, who accompanied the team that visited Bibhishan Hansda’s house on Monday, said: “We took a bamboo container and placed fresh leaves on it to collect the soil. We assured them that the soil of their courtyard will be used in making the statue,” said Murmu. “I am glad that the soil of my courtyard will be used to erect Birsa Bhagwan’s statue. I am not a political person but will I be happy if a statue of our hero is set up,” said Bibhishan. BJP leaders in Bankura scoffed at the Trinamul’s “gimmick”. “Tribal people have already decided to overthrow the Trinamul in the coming Assembly polls. Trinamul’s gimmick will not work,” said Vivekananda Patra, BJP’s Bankura president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-220
26-01-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee flays hecklers and 'Bharat Jalao Party'||Mamata Banerjee on Monday lambasted attempts at “teasing” her with Jai Shri Ram chants by some in the audience at the BJP-led Centre’s supposedly apolitical event on Saturday to honour Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on his birth anniversary. “Tell me, my mothers and sisters, if you invite me over for a meal at your home, would you call me and then tell me that you will give me one tight slap, that I should get out of your home? Would you ever do that? That is not our tradition, not our courtesy, not our decency,” said Mamata, at a party event in Hooghly’s Pursurah, in her first public reaction to the heckling. Hecklers on Saturday used the chant — turned into an aggressive political slogan by the saffron ecosystem over decades — to greet the chief minister when she was asked to address the event at Victoria Memorial in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Not once was the “Jai Shri Ram” slogan heard after she spoke, making it clear the intent was only to heckle her. She branded the BJP as a marauding horde of bohiragawto (outsiders), expanding its acronym as “Bharat Jalao (Burn India) Party”. She accused the saffron camp of having added Netaji, a foremost national hero with near-divine status in Bengal, to the list of icons the BJP has “insulted” while trying to appropriate them. “Netaji is everybody’s leader. Every single person’s, across the country. Even for many across the world…Such audacity! A handful of the gordho gaddar (asinine traitors)…ugro (acrid), gordho (asinine), dhormandho (zealots). They were teasing me. Sitting right in front of the country’s Prime Minister…They do not know me,” added the Trinamul chief. As the Centre’s Netaji event was allowed to be painted with saffron politics, Mamata declined to speak there to protest against its politicisation. Modi did not react to the heckling of the chief minister then or later. In his speech, he tried to associate Netaji with his government’s activities and highlighted Bose’s Hindu identity while omitting his secular credentials. Not only have political rivals Left Front and Congress come forward in support of Mamata, so have eminent members of the civil society such as Netaji’s kin, eminent historian Sugata Bose. Mamata on Monday said the hecklers did what they did because they didn’t know her well enough. “If some mothers and sisters ask me to come and do their dishes, I would gladly do so…. But if you show me a bandook (gun), I will show you a sindook (chest) full of bandook. I do not believe in guns. I believe in politics. I will ensure a fitting response to this through politics,” she said. Even as sections within the BJP — relatively aware of the state’s sensibility — came forward criticising the chanting at the Netaji event, members of various Sangh parivar outfits claimed there was nothing wrong with the chant at the event and mocked Mamata for her alleged aversion to the name of Ram. On Monday, Mamata returned fire. “Had you, instead, shouted “Netaji, Netaji”, I would have done nothing but saluted you, respectfully. Instead, what you did, you insulted Bengal, you insulted Netaji,” she said. A Trinamul MP said Mamata would highlight the differences between the philosophy of Netaji and that of the BJP, pointing out it was an ideological descendant of Syama Prasad Mookerjee, leader of the Hindu Mahasabha and founder of (BJP’s predecessor) Bharatiya Jana Sangh. A city-based historian said that on May 12, 1940, Netaji famously said in Jhargram: “The Hindu Mahasabha has deployed sannyasis and sannyasins with tridents in their hands to beg for votes. At the very sight of tridents and saffron robes, Hindus bow their heads in reverence. By taking advantage of religion, and desecrating it, the Hindu Mahasabha has entered the arena of politics. It is the duty of all Hindus to condemn it…. Banish these traitors from national life. Don’t listen to them.” The historian also quoted from Mookerjee’s autobiographical writings, Leaves from a Diary. “Mookerjee wrote: ‘Subhas once warned me in a friendly spirit, adding significantly, that if we proceeded to create a rival political body in Bengal he would see to it, by force if need be, that it was broken before it was really born. This I considered to be a most unfair and unreasonable attitude to take up’,” the historian said. Mamata had a message to potential defectors — that those looking to desert the party for the BJP before polls should do so immediately. “Soon, they would all want back in, but they will never be allowed again…. The ones leaving know that they failed the people and would be denied candidature by the party anyway,” said Mamata at Hooghly, a district where the ruling party is a bitterly divided house. The BJP has been eyeing Hooghly to engineer large-scale defections before the election.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-220
26-01-2021||West Bengal||2,000 people gathered at Plassey to protest against Centre’s citizenship matrix||Around 2,000 people gathered in Nadia’s Plassey on Monday to raise their voice against the Centre’s citizenship matrix, the protest coming in the backdrop of Union home minister Amit Shah’s visit to the state later this week and the growing demand among Matuas for the implementation of the Citizenship Amendment Act. A large number of villagers cutting across political lines had formed the Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Manch last year to hold continuous demonstration in Plassey’s Phulbagan against the CAA and express solidarity with the protest in New Delhi’s Shaheen Bagh. The Phulbagan protest had to be withdrawn following the outbreak of Covid-19 last year. However, the protesters returned to the same place on Monday to iterate their demand of scrapping the CAA as well as the National Population Register (NPR). “On January 25 last year, we had launched the sit-in demonstration similar to the one at Shaheen Bagh. But the pandemic compelled us to suspend it. Today a year later, we are far from reaching our goal of complete and unconditional withdrawal of the controversial citizenship matrix. On the anniversary of the launch of our demonstration, we have come back to the venue to protest against the act as it appears the Centre is on the verge of implementing the CAA before the Assembly polls,” said Kamaluddin Sekh, a member of the platform. While people like Kamaluddin want the CAA to be scrapped, the BJP in Bengal is facing pressure from the Matuas, lower-caste Hindu immigrants from Bangladesh, to implement it. However, Shah, while addressing a rally in Assam on Sunday, did not utter a word on implementing the citizenship matrix and is scheduled to visit the Matua stronghold of Thakurnagar in North 24-Parganas on January 30. Last year, nearly 2,000 people had begun the demonstration in Plassey, close to the historical mango orchard in the township where the battle against the British was fought 263 years ago. Barely a few kilometres away from the Plassey battleground, where the last independent ruler of Bengal Siraj-Ud-Daulah fought with the British force, Kamal, Salim, Sabia, Swapan, Obiadulla and many like them who took part in last year’s demonstration, joined the day-long protest on Monday. Kamaluddin said: “Shaheen Bagh was a pioneering model of protest against the CAA. We held it in Plassey that reminds us of the courage and determination of Siraj-Ud-Daulah to prevent the British East India Company from ruling Bengal.” Speaking at the meeting on Monday, social worker Mahiuddin Mannan said: “We have returned with our protest to respect our historical legacy. Since Covid has had a huge financial impact on our lives, we are not in a position to continue with the demonstration right now. At the same time, we will take to the streets if the Centre tries to impose the citizenship act.” CPM leader Ainul Haque said: “The Centre should scrap the act and provide citizenship to all based on documents such as voter card and Aadhaar.” Trinamul leader Gulam Kibria Seikh echoed chief minister Mamata Banerjee and said the matrix would not be implemented in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-220
26-01-2021||West Bengal||Temporary health cards for now: Mamata||Mamata Banerjee on Monday said those not getting biometric cards under the state’s Swasthya Sathi free health insurance scheme before polls would get temporary cards to ensure cashless treatment of up to Rs 5 lakh. “We are going to give Swasthya Sathi cards to all residents of the state… Those yet to get the card within this short window will be given a temporary card, which will be converted into smart cards soon. Temporary cards will ensure free treatment of up to Rs 5 lakh for the family of a beneficiary,” said the chief minister at a party rally in Hooghly’s Pursura on Monday. Mamata, sources said, tried to address a concern among the masses on whether they would get cards ahead of the polls. “The BJP is trying to play politics saying the state would not give cards to all as issuing cards to the beneficiaries was taking some time…The chief minister made it clear that people should not be confused by the BJP’s campaign while announcing that every applicant would get a temporary card,” said a senior bureaucrat. Mamata explained why the state government was unable to issue cards to all applicants. “We are not able to print more than 1.5 lakh biometric cards (even) by deploying the maximum possible number of machines... Those who didn’t get the card within the short time frame should know that the process will continue even after elections (dates) are declared,” Mamata said. Sources said as Swasthya Sathi was a declared scheme, the process of issuing cards to beneficiaries could be carried on even after poll dates are declared. Printing biometric cards in huge numbers is an issue since the state government decided to include 2.5 crore people — earlier left outside the ambit of the scheme — in November. “The scheme earlier covered 7.5 crore people and once the rest 2.5 crore people were added into the list of beneficiaries, it was found that it would be tough to print more than 1.25 lakh cards a day even if we hire all agencies working in the field. Right now, we are printing about 1 lakh cards a day and will try to increase it to 1.25 lakh soon,” said an official. A government report says the state brought in 76.26 lakh people under the scheme since December 1 when Duare Sarkar was launched. By May, all beneficiaries will get cards, an official said. “In all likelihood, election (dates) will be declared by mid-February. The government is trying to issue temporary cards to all applicants under the scheme with cards to the maximum number of people ahead of polls,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-221
26-01-2021||West Bengal||Congress, Left agree to keep seats won in 2016||The alliance between the Left Front and the Congress moved a step ahead with the two sides meeting for the second time on Monday and arriving at a seat-sharing consensus on 77 constituencies that either of the two political affiliations had won in the 2016 Assembly polls. “We have decided that the 77 seats will be distributed in the winning ratio of 2016. However, the rest of the 217 seats will be discussed at the next meeting,” said Congress MP Pradip Bhattacharya. According to Bhattacharya, the Left Front will field candidates in the 33 seats it had won in the last Assembly elections and the Congress will contest from the 44 constituencies where it had trounced opponents. Although the two sides have moved ahead by clinching a formula on the 77 constituencies, the alliance remains in deep waters as the fate of multiple seats that are considered to be their respective strongholds by the Congress and the Left remains uncertain. “The 77 formula has settled a possible dispute that would have erupted over the Baghmundi seat in Purulia district. However, what will happen to the rest of the seats is a big question,” a Left Front leader said. Nepal Mahato of the Congress had won the Baghmundi seat in 2016. However, Baghmundi is believed to be a traditional bastion of Left Front constituent Forward Bloc that had fielded a candidate against Mahato in 2016. “We are okay with Nepal Mahato contesting from Baghmundi again,” a Bloc leader said. “But will Congress be accommodating in other seats that we consider as our stronghold? That is the question.” Sources in the Congress said they would stick to their demand of 130 seats. In the first meeting between the two political forces, the Congress had demanded that it be allowed to contest from 130 out of the 294 seats. The next meeting is scheduled for January 28, where the Left parties and the Congress will have to reach an agreement on who will contest from the remaining 217 seats, as both the parties want to finalise the seat sharing by the end of this month. CPM politburo member Mohd Salim on Monday said the alliance might accommodate Abbasuddin Siddiqui’s Indian Secular Front. Siddiqui, a Pirzada or spiritual leader from Furfura Sharif in Hooghly district, has recently floated his own political front. Since Siddiqui has been in talks with All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen chief Asaduddin Owaisi for an alliance in Bengal, sources in the CPM said there was room for Siddiqui in the front only if he snapped ties with Owaisi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-221
26-01-2021||West Bengal||AIMIM eyes minorities and Dalits in Malda ||The All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) held its first public meeting in north Bengal on Monday and sought to counter the narrative that the party was the B-team of the BJP. Mohammad Majid Hossain, a former mayor of Hyderabad and the party’s observer for Bengal, addressed the meeting at the Hathkhola ground in Samsi near Ratua. He accused other political parties, including the BJP, of betraying minority and Dalit voters. Hossain indicated that the AIMIM would contest in almost all Assembly seats in Malda, including Habibpur and Gazole where the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes decide the poll results. “Those who got elected on Congress, Trinamul and Left tickets in Bengal have defected to the BJP. None from our party went to the BJP. In all five seats which we recently won in Bihar, the BJP and other NDA constituents were defeated,” said Hossain as he sought to dismiss charges that the AIMIM was playing second fiddle to the BJP. That Asaduddin Owaisi’s party bracketed minorities and Dalits showed that it was banking on both the communities. “In Malda, votes of the minority community matter in at least eight of 12 Assembly seats. There are a couple of other seats where Dalit votes are decisive,” said an observer. While the AIMIM kicked off its poll campaign on Monday — Owaisi had earlier said it would field candidates in minority-dominated districts of Bengal, Furfura-Sharif cleric Abbas Siddiqui, who had announced formation of the Indian Secular Front last week, will reach the district on Tuesday. According to sources, Siddiqui will attend two religious programmes at Jalalpur and Bamangram in Kaliachak, the areas where Muslims constitute around 90 per cent of voters. “Both are religious programmes. Even then, he might speak on the upcoming elections and other issues,” said one of the organisers. Trinamul couldn’t win a single seat in Malda in the 2016 Assembly elections or the Lok Sabha polls in 2014 and 2019. “This time, Trinamul is giving special focus to Malda as its leaders think minority votes in its favour can swing its fortune. But if forces like the AIMIM and the ISF plunge into the poll fray, it would put pressure on Trinamul,” said an observer. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee will be in the Malda district next month. BJP national president J.P. Nadda is scheduled to reach the district in the first week of February and Union home minister Amit Shah might come at the end of the next month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-221
26-01-2021||West Bengal||Kamtapur Liberation Organisation victims hold dharna in Jalpaiguri||Members of around 14 families which had lost several people in attacks by the Kamtapur Liberation Organisation held a dharna outside the Jalpaiguri superintendent of police’s office here on Monday demanding jobs. The demonstration was held while engagement letters were being delivered to 127 former KLO militants and linkmen to work as special homeguards. A senior police officer said the 127 belonged to different places in Jalpaiguri district. After Mamata Banerjee had become the chief minister in 2011, around 550 ex-KLO militants and linkmen were recruited as special homeguards in Jalpaiguri, Alipurduar and Cooch Behar districts. The recruitment drive to rehabilitate them was considered as a major move by the Trinamul government to woo Rajbanshi voters. “We thank the chief minister for providing us with jobs. We faced apathy and atrocities during the Left Front rule and our demand was never heeded. All of us will stand by the chief minister and her party in the upcoming elections. We will felicitate her during her next visit to the region,” said Jyotish Roy, a former militant, on Monday. The families which held the dharna outside the SP’s office said they were Trinamul supporters and should be given similar jobs. Subhajit Sarkar, one of the demonstrators, said around 40 families in Jalpaiguri had lost their near and dear ones in the KLO attacks. “Most of them were sole bread earners and we have been struggling to run the families for many years. If the former militants and linkmen can be rehabilitated, we should also be provided with similar jobs or assistance so that we can run our families. If required, we will continue our demonstration,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-221
26-01-2021||West Bengal||GNLF to hold public meeting in Darjeeling after three years||The Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF) has decided to hold a public meeting in Darjeeling after a gap of three years with the promise to make it a “rally with a difference”. Ajoy Edwards, president of the GNLF, Darjeeling branch committee, said that the party had last held a public meeting in Darjeeling on January 29, 2018, to commemorate the third death anniversary of their leader Subash Ghisingh. “We are holding a public meeting in Darjeeling on January 31 after a gap of three years and are expecting a footfall of more than 10,000,” said Edwards. On the “rally with a difference”, Edwards said: “We will adopt the servant politician philosophy.” Explaining it, he said party leaders would not be on stage but would be seated among supporters. Also, GNLF leaders are planning to stress on their “vision for Darjeeling” rather than attacking other parties. The meeting at Darjeeling Motor Stand is scheduled at 10am and will start with a musical program with singers and musicians affiliated to the party performing. Mann Ghisingh, the president of GNLF, Neeraj Zimba, Darjeeling MLA, Mahendra Chhetri, party general secretary and Edwards would be the keynote speakers at the meeting. Other political parties and particularly two factions of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, which are headed by Bimal Gurung and Binay Tamang have been holding non-stop meetings in the hills for the past month. GNLF, however, said it does not believe in public meetings. “Instead of lecturing the public, we prefer to spend time visiting people at villages and interacting with them, an exercise we are continuously conducting,” said Edwards. “Nevertheless, in electoral politics, it seems sometimes one has to engage in a show of strength,” he added. Stressing on person-to-person interaction, Edwards said that the Darjeeling public meeting would not be followed by public meetings in Kalimpong, Kurseong and Mirik, as is the norm with other political parties. “Moreover we do not have huge funds to hold back-to-back public meetings,” said Edwards. The party, which was the dominant force in hill politics from 1986 to 2008, is now trying to come up with a new image with a new set of leadership. The BJP counts it among its hill allies. Many in the hills believe that in the present political atmosphere the majority of the hill people are silent in their preference. “Our focus will be to reach the ‘silent majority’,” said Edwards. “We are also looking at mobilising more people from Darjeeling town.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-221
26-01-2021||West Bengal||Active  cases drop to 6,151||Bengal on Monday logged 417 Covid-19 recoveries, 252 new infections and seven deaths, including three from Calcutta. Bengal has 6,151 active cases now, down from 37,190 on Dashami 91 days ago. The state’s recovery rate has risen for 94 consecutive days to touch 97.14. The national rate is 96.68. Bengal now has over 5.68 lakh Covid-19 cases, including over 5.52 lakh recoveries and 10,122 deaths. Its positive confirmation rate is 7.24 per cent now, improving from 8.27 per cent 66 days ago. “We are now ninth among states with highest positive confirmation rates and will drop out of the top 10 in days,” a minister said. The state attributed 8,496 deaths or 83.9 per cent of the toll to comorbidities. The minister pointed out a relative increase in deaths of patients with hypertension as comorbidity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-221
26-01-2021||West Bengal||7kg silver ornaments seized from Bangladesh border||The BSF seized over 7kg of silver ornaments from the Bangladesh border near Kaliachak on Sunday night while a group of people was about to smuggle the jewellery into the neighbouring country. The smugglers left behind the bag containing 249 pieces of jewelleries and escaped when the 44 Battalion of the BSF tried to intercept them. After receiving a tip-off, the BSF was keeping vigil along the frontier in the Chowki-Alipur area. The 249 pieces of jewelleries weigh 7.13kg and cost Rs 5.16 lakh. According to BSF sources, it is rare that jewelleries are smuggled into Bangladesh through the Malda border. Arms seizure Police seized two firearms and 10 rounds of live cartridges from Uttar Narayanpur village in the South Dinajpur district on Sunday night. The raid was conducted after two groups of Trinamul supporters had clashed at the village on January 19. Two party workers had died in the clash. Debarshi Dutta, the district police chief, told newspersons at Balurghat on Monday that the law enforcers were in search of illegal firearms as Sanjit Sarkar, one of the deceased, had died from gunshot. A carbine and nine rounds of cartridge were seized from the house of Alok Das, the brother of Suman Das who is accused of shooting Sanjit. A pipe-gun and one round of live cartridge were seized from the house of Nanigopal Roy, another resident of the village. Roy has been arrested. Additional reporting by Kousik Sen in Raiganj||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-221
