27-01-2021||West Bengal||Sourav Ganguly to undergo stenting procedure on Thursday||Less than a month after he underwent an angioplasty, BCCI President Sourav Ganguly was on Wednesday taken to a private hospital in Kolkata for a "checkup for his cardiac condition", a senior official of the medical establishment said. Several tests conducted on the 48-year-old former Indian cricket captain at the emergency ward of the hospital revealed that his vital parameters are stable. Earlier, a source in Ganguly's family had said that he felt discomfort in the chest following which he was taken to the hospital. Ganguly “has come for a checkup for his cardiac condition. There is no change in his parameters since his last hospitalisation and his vital parameters are stable,” the hospital said in a statement. He will remain at the hospital on Wednesday night as doctors may conduct an angiography on him on Thursday, a senior doctor said. Ganguly to undergo a stenting procedure on Thursday and the procedure will be done by Dr Aftab Khan in the presence of renowned cardiologist Dr Devi Shetty, with Dr Saptarshi Basu and Dr Saroj Mondal attending, reports NDTV.com. Ganguly had complained of chest pain while exercising at his residence around three weeks ago. He was diagnosed with three blocked coronary arteries. The former cricketer, who then had a stent implanted in his right coronary artery in another hospital, felt "dizzy and slight discomfort in the chest", a family source said. So he was taken to the hospital for further diagnosis, the source said. The Calcutta Police created a green corridor for smooth travel from his residence at Behala to the hospital near Salt Lake, over 20 km away, authorities at the medical establishment said. His wife Dona Ganguly and brother Snehasish Ganguly accompanied him to the hospital. Union Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP's Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya enquired about his health, party sources said. Family friend and MLA Baishali Dalmiya, who was recently expelled from the ruling Trinamool Congress, and a few others visited him at the hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-219
27-01-2021||West Bengal||Bengal backs Delhi march||The march of farmers into New Delhi on Republic Day found echo across Bengal with political parties and peasants’ unions taking out tractor rallies in solidarity with the movement to demand repeal of the contentious farm laws of the Narendra Modi government. Organised by the Left-backed All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, around 500 tractors rolled into Burdwan and covered a distance of over 7km from the town’s Nawabhat to Ullas More on Tuesday. “Almost 500 tractors and 75 motorbikes took part in the road show with women on excavators leading the rally,” said state convenor of the coordination committee and CPM leader Amal Halder. The huge procession demanding scrapping of the three farm laws was held less than three weeks after BJP national president J.P. Nadda had led a rally in East Burdwan’s Katwa to kick off the saffron party’s farmers outreach programme with an eye on the forthcoming Assembly polls. Such was the enthusiasm that Seikh Salaluddin, 51, a farmer from East Burdwan’s Chamargram, drove his tractor for 10km to join the rally at Nawabhat on Tuesday. “We had recently seen Nadda seeking alms from families of farmers in East Burdwan but we seek respite from the farm laws that will destroy us and benefit corporates close to the BJP. As Nadda cannot ensure the scrapping of the laws, we have to fight it on the street and force the government to repeal it,” said Salaluddin. He said if the “black farm laws” were allowed to be implemented, the famine of 1946 would revisit the country. “The famine of 1946 was man-made and these farm laws will force one more on the nation,” the farmer said. Salaluddin, who owns 17 acres of land, slammed the amendments to the Essential Commodities Act and alleged that the change would allow corporate entities to hoard as much crop and grain as they want. “The amendment will promote hoarding and help corporates sell produce at a much higher price later at the cost of farmers,” he said and added the fight going on in New Delhi and across the country was for the benefit of the nation. Similar tractor rallies were also taken out in other districts of south and north Bengal. While most of these rallies were led by the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, a few non-political organisations brought out road shows to express solidarity with the movement in New Delhi and condemn the attack on farmers taking part in the Republic Day parade on Tuesday. In Calcutta, the Left and Congress leaders took out a solidarity march with Left Front chairman Biman Bose, CPM state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra, CPM politburo member Mohd Salim, Congress MP Pradip Bhattacharya and Congress MLA Abdul Mannan taking part in it. While farmers are up against the Centre’s farm laws, parties opposed to the BJP in Bengal might not be on the same page when the ruling dispensation tables a resolution opposing the farm laws in the Assembly session on Wednesday. According to a CPM MLA, the Left and the Congress are unwilling to vote for the resolution to be introduced by the government. “There is no difference between the farm laws passed by the state government in 2014 and 2017 and the three central farm laws,” the CPM leader said. “The state government will have to repeal its own laws before it passes a resolution against the central laws,” the MLA added. Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty and Subhasish Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-220
27-01-2021||West Bengal||Kalyani AIIMS to start operations from January 27||AIIMS Kalyani is all set to become functional from January 27 when it will launch its outpatient department (OPD) offering limited service to a restricted number of patients on its premise in Basantpur, located at the outskirts of the town. However, there will be no formal inauguration on the day for the much awaited rollout of the service, which has been kept shelved until the fullfledged hospital service is launched. “The formal inauguration will be held once the fullfledged hospital with both outpatient and inpatient care becomes operational”, said AIIMS Kalyani’s executive director Ramji Singh. Sources said that the Centre had set September as the target for making the AIIMS fully operational which include inpatients services. The AIIMS Kalyani authority in a notification has stated that at present only outdoor patients will get service at 8 departments. “To begin with, we will offer outdoor service at general medicine, general surgery, obstetrics and gynaecology, paediatrics, dermatology, ophthalmology, otorhinolaryngology (ENT), psychiatry for a restricted number of patients,” said Ramji Singh. Fullfledged OPD with services for 17 departments is expected to become operational from April this year, an official said. “Considering limited faculties, we will at present offer to around 200 outdoor patients as a whole between 9am to 1pm only from Monday to Friday. There will be no service on Saturday, Sunday and on the central government holiday,” Singh told The Telegraph adding that registration of patients would be done between 8am and 11am only on prior appointment. The modalities of registration will be notified soon, an official said. Speaking to The Telegraph, Ramji Singh further said: “At present, there will be no emergency, laboratory, diagnostic service, and admission of patients for indoor treatment since the limited outpatient care being launched largely for academic purpose as it will help our MBBS students to get exposure to clinical education”. The construction work for AIIMS Kalyani had begun in 2016 on 179.82 acres of land allotted by the Bengal Government in the Basantapur area located on the outskirts of Kalyani town, 45 km away from Calcutta and connected with NH12. Two construction companies were assigned the construction work in two phases. In the first phase the OPD and residential buildings were constructed. The work of the second phase is going on fast to meet the targeted inauguration of the entire project in September 2021. Officials of union health ministry, AIIMS governing body are at present working in coordination with the Bengal government so that infrastructure outside the premises that include construction of fourlane road, bus bay and a police station are constructed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-220
27-01-2021||West Bengal||250 students and academics take out rally demanding resignation of vice-chancellor||Over 250 students and academics from Presidency University, Calcutta University and Jadavpur University led a march from Bolpur station to the Visva-Bharati in Santiniketan on Tuesday demanding the resignation of vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty for allegedly trying to saffronise the central varsity. The march covered 3.5km and was attended by former CPM MP Malini Bhattacharya, SFI state secretary Srijan Bhattacharya and All India Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisation president Keshab Bhattacharya among others. “The Visva-Bharati VC is going all out to implement the RSS-BJP agenda of saffronisation and targeting those who dare to question his ways. We demand his resignation,” SFI leader Srijan said. Those who took part in the rally said the march was a “strong protest at the VC’s political activities on the Visva-Bharati campus”. The march comes in the wake of weeks of upheaval over a controversy involving economist Amarya Sen’s Santiniketan home and the suspension of economics professor Sudipta Bhattacharya, who had questioned the appointment of a principal in one of the varsity’s schools. Earlier this month, the VC had also suspended three students for protesting against the suspension of Bhattacharya. “We are here on Republic Day to reclaim our beloved varsity and to reclaim the Republic by extension. We cannot acquiesce to the VC’s quashing of dissent,” said Srijan. “He has trampled upon the tradition of peace and harmony established here by Rabindranath Tagore,” he added. “This walk is a reflection of our demand for free speech,” said Keshab Bhattacharya at the street-corner rally held after the meeting ended in Santiniketan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-220
27-01-2021||West Bengal||Dilip Ghosh hoists Tricolour upside down at Republic Day programme in Birbhum||Bengal BJP president and MP Dilip Ghosh inadvertently caused a major loss of face for the saffron party when he hoisted the Tricolour upside down at a Republic Day programme in Birbhum’s Rampurhat on Tuesday morning. The event, held outside the local BJP office to commemorate the nation’s 72nd Republic Day, saw Ghosh hoist the national flag nearly halfway up the pole before realising it was upside down. According to eyewitnesses, he brought it down immediately and hoisted it in the right way soon after. Approached by this correspondent, Ghosh declined comment on the mistake. Trinamul district president Anubrata Mondal said the BJP leader’s faux pas while hoisting the Tricolour showed Ghosh was carelessness in respecting the national flag. Instead of commenting on the Tricolour hoisting, Ghosh chose to remark on the recent controversy involving BJP workers chanting “Jai Sri Ram” when chief minister Mamata Banerjee, in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, walked up to the lectern to speak at the 125th birth anniversary ceremony of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose in Calcutta on Saturday. Modi had declined to step in or comment. “We chant God’s name all the time and will do it again,” Ghosh said. His comments reflected the BJP’s reluctance to back down from its stance of using the chant as an affront to political and ideological opponents, particularly the Trinamul. On Monday, Ghosh also offered prayers at the Tarapith temple. Speaking to reporters, he said he had prayed for securing “200-plus seats” for the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-220
27-01-2021||West Bengal||Cleric: Trinamul Congress rejected offer of alliance||Furfura-Sharif cleric Abbas Siddiqui on Tuesday came down heavily on the Trinamul Congress and accused Mamata Banerjee’s party of declining an offer of alliance made from his end. “We had proposed an alliance to the Trinamul leadership and asked for 44 Assembly seats. The offer was, however, rejected and after we made it clear that we would be in the poll fray, the state government has started harassing our supporters by implicating them in false police cases,” said Siddiqui. He was speaking in an open religious gathering at Bamangram in Kaliachak of Malda district. The area comes under the Sujapur Assembly constituency, a seat where the Congress has been winning since the sixties. Siddiqui, who has recently floated a new political platform — Indian Secular Front (ISF) — also accused Trinamul of “paving the way for the BJP in Bengal”. “Trinamul brought in the BJP and now, as the BJP started chasing the people with an open sword, Trinamul tactfully opened its door to offer refuge to minorities and Dalits…. It was nothing but a political strategy as those who trusted Trinamul were deprived even of basic facilities for years,” the cleric added. Siddiqui as well as Asaduddin Owaisi, who heads the Hyderabad-based AIMIM, are eyeing Malda, a district that has around 55 per cent minority population. On Monday, the AIMIM had held its first public meeting in the district. Speaking to newspersons, Siddiqui reiterated that the ISF would contest in alliance with the AIMIM. “We do not fear the BJP. If they beat 10 of us, we would injure 20 of them. But time to befool us with the scare of the BJP has come to an end,” he said. Siddiqui urged the audience to be inclusive and embrace people of all castes, creed and religion because “they are creations of the Almighty”. The ISF has decided to field candidates in six of the 12 Assembly seats of Malda district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-220
27-01-2021||West Bengal||Madan Tamang statue at murder spot||Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League (ABGL) leader Madan Tamang had left his home Rhododendron Dell in the early morning of May 21, 2010, to address a public meeting, which many said would reveal some explosive details of hill politics, at Upper Clubside in Darjeeling. Minutes before the start of the meeting, Tamang was hacked to death at the venue. Ten years later, his family and the public at large have managed to complete Tamang’s dream of that fateful day. A 12-feet statue of ABGL’s then president was unveiled on Republic Day by his wife Bharati at the same spot where he was killed at Upper Clubside. Bharati currently heads the faction-ridden party. The statue is symbolic in more than one way. First, the statue has been erected at the very spot where he was killed. Tamang is seen addressing the crowd the way he would have done on May 21, 2010, and is complete with a microphone. While his right hand is raised, the left hand is clutching a bunch of papers. S.P. Sharma, convener, Salig Nirman Samity, said: “We wanted to recreate the image of Madan Tamang addressing the crowd that fateful day and thus complete his unfulfilled dream of that day. That is why we have also included a microphone. The bunch of papers in his hand is a reminder that Madan Tamang spoke with facts and evidence.” The statue was sculpted by Kirpendra Gurung from Birpara in the Dooars and the total expenditure in installing it touched Rs 5 lakh. “Bharati Tamang helped us and the rest of the contribution was through the public,” said Sharma. Many in the hills believe Tamang was the trigger behind the opposition to the Sixth Schedule demand raised by Subash Ghisingh, the late GNLF chief. After Ghisingh was thrown out of power, Tamang started criticising the new power centre led by Bimal Gurung on grounds that even the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha had allegedly compromised on the Gorkhaland demand and it would finally settle for an autonomous council similar to the Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council but with a change in the nomenclature that would include the word “Gorkhaland”. Tamang’s prediction came true two years after his death with the formation of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA). Why did it take 10 years to erect a statue? “His (Madan’s) brother Mohan had got a statue done some years back but then, the situation was not too good for the installation. Moreover, we felt even the face had not come out correctly,” said Bharati. “Also, some other people taking up the exercise would have been better and the statue committee’s initiative is laudable.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-220
