28-01-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly passes resolution demanding rollback of farm laws ||The Bengal Assembly on Thursday passed a resolution against the three contentious farm laws enacted by the Centre and demanded that they be withdrawn immediately. The ruling Trinamul Congress had moved a resolution earlier in the day, while BJP MLAs staged a noisy walkout on Thursday. The CPI(M) and the Congress supported the resolution but demanded that the state government withdraw similar laws it had passed a few years back. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said the Centre should either withdraw the new laws or step down. Speaking after the resolution was moved by Parliamentary Affairs Minister Partha Chatterjee amid vociferous protests by BJP lawmakers, Mamata demanded that Prime Minister Narendra Modi convene an all-party meeting to discuss the process of withdrawal of these laws. The assembly witnessed unruly scenes in the morning after Chatterjee moved the resolution, with BJP MLAs led by their legislative party leader Manoj Tigga rushing to the Well of the House, claiming the TMC government has launched a “misinformation campaign” against the laws. Tigga, along with his party MLAs, subsequently walked out shouting ‘Jai Shri Ram’ slogans. “We oppose the anti-farmer laws. We demand their immediate withdrawal. Either the Centre should withdraw the laws or step down,” the chief minister said. Banerjee said the Union government, which has in the past, waived corporate loans, should also extend the same benefit to farmers. She also claimed the Delhi police “mishandled” the tractor parade by farmers which resulted in the situation going out of hand on the Republic Day. “Delhi police is to be blamed for that. What was the Delhi police doing? It was a complete intelligence failure. We will not tolerate farmers being branded as traitors. They are the assets of this nation,” she said. Banerjee appealed to the Congress and the Left Front to keep aside ideological differences and come together in support of the farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-218
28-01-2021||West Bengal||Sourav Ganguly undergoes angioplasty||Doctors on Thursday performed an angioplasty on BCCI President Sourav Ganguly, said an official of a private hospital where he is admitted. Two stents have been implanted to clear blocks in a coronary artery of the 48-year-old former Indian cricket captain, he said. The decision to conduct an angioplasty was taken after noted cardiologist Devi Shetty went through reports of tests conducted on Ganguly and consulted doctors treating him at the hospital. "After diagnosing his condition, we have decided to carry out angioplasty," a senior doctor told PTI. Earlier, a series of tests were conducted on Ganguly who was hospitalised on Wednesday for a checkup for his cardiac condition. Ganguly had complained of chest pain while exercising at his residence around three weeks ago. He was diagnosed with three blocked coronary arteries then and had a stent implanted in his right coronary artery in another hospital. The BCCI president "slept well all night. He had a light breakfast," the senior doctor said. According to a source in Ganguly's family, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee may visit him at the hospital. She also called him up in the morning to enquire about his health, Senior CPI(M) leader Ashok Bhattacharya also paid a visit to Ganguly at the hospital. The former left-handed batsman was on Wednesday afternoon rushed to the private hospital on EM Bypass here from his Behala residence as he felt "dizzy with slight discomfort in chest". A green corridor was created by the city police for his smooth travel to the hospital. A statement issued by the medical establishment on Wednesday evening stated that several tests were carried out at the emergency ward, but there was "no change in his (vital health) parameters since his last hospitalisation".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-218
28-01-2021||West Bengal||Glare on Padma Shri choice||The Centre’s decision to confer Padma Shri, the fourth highest civilian award in India, on an activist of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh-backed All India Vanavasi Kalyan Ashram of Malda, has come under scanner because of her alleged religious conversions. Kamali Soren, who is also known as Guru Maa in and around Gazole of Malda, has got the award for her “social work”. “She was instrumental in persuading several tribal people, mostly Christians and some Muslims, to embrace Hinduism as part of Sangh Parivar agenda by offering monetary and other incentives. Her selection as a Padma Shri awardee has raised several questions even in her locality,” said Krishnendu Choudhury, a former minister and a senior Trinamul leader of the district. Soren, 50, said she encouraged people to “return to Hinduism”. “I help those who changed their faiths return to Hinduism. In the past 25 years, I helped several people embrace Hinduism again,” she told The Telegraph. According to Soren, a resident of an ashram at Kotalhati village in Gazole 1 panchayat of Malda, she goes around tribal and Dalit-dominated villages, interacts with the marginalised people and propagates the tenets of Hinduism. “I have taught many tribal families the basic rituals of Hinduism. I speak of the basic practices like the need to keep and worship “Tulsi” plants in every household and believe it is my duty,” she said. The All India Vanvasi Kalyan Ashram that was opened in 1952 is known to work among tribal people and has its branches spread across the country. Last year, a mass marriage of tribal girls, organised by Soren, had to be cancelled amid allegations by local people that there were plans to “forcibly convert” the would-be couples to Hinduism. Her selection drew criticism from the Congress and the Left. “It is unfortunate that the award has been used as a political instrument before the Assembly elections. I have serious doubts whether even the residents of Gazole block are aware of this social worker,” said Ambar Mitra, the district Left Front convener. Ajay Ganguly, a vice-president of the BJP in Malda, said: “She is the pride of not only the tribal community but also the entire district. Any attempt to demean her achievement would be suitably answered by people who take pride in Kamali Soren’s Padma Shri.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-218
28-01-2021||West Bengal||Mamata ties Duare Sarkar to district reviews||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said the Duare Sarkar programme was the “third stage” of her government’s 500-odd district review meetings which she had conducted since the Trinamul Congress had come to power in 2011. The chief minister’s clarification seemed to be aimed at countering the BJP’s narrative that the Bengal government had launched the reach-out to woo voters ahead of the Assembly polls. “We are not doing it (providing services to people) today. When we came to power in 2011, we decided to hold review meetings in districts with all officials, ministers and line departments. We have already held 500 such meetings and Duare Sarkar was planned as the third stage based on the feedback we received during the meetings,” said the chief minister at a programme at a Nabanna auditorium. It was not clear what the second stage of the programme was. Bengal’s Opposition parties, especially the BJP, have been critical of the initiative saying the last minute reach-out programme by the government indicated that it didn’t deliver in the past 10 years. Mamata’s insistence that Duare Sarkar was a continuation of the administrative meetings was aimed at swatting away the charge. During the one-hour-plus programme on Wednesday, some beneficiaries under government schemes accepted the scheme-related documents from the chief minister, who also launched the fifth phase of Duare Sarkar. A select set of audience, including the diplomatic core in Calcutta, representatives of various multilateral organisations like the World Bank, UNDP and Unicef, and senior editors of both local and national media outfits, was present at the programme with whom the chief minister held a free-wheeling discussion. After rolling out figures — like more than 2.5 crore people have visited the camps set up under the Duare Sarkar scheme — on the success of the scheme and its follow-up initiative, Parai Samadhan (solution at neighbourhood), the chief minister took care to explain why the programme had been launched. “During the district review meetings, we realised that some people need support from the government and they need the support at their door steps. That is why the programme was launched,” said Mamata. According to a government report, 76 lakh families were brought under the Swasthya Sathi scheme after they had applied through the Duare Sarkar camps. A total of 15.04 lakh people secured caste certificates through the camps and 11.18 lakh people got job cards under the 100 days’ work scheme through the camps. Junaid Kamal Ahmad, the country head of World Bank, who attended the programme virtually, lauded the initiatives of the government saying those had helped people during the Covid-19 pandemic. “According to our assessment, 95 per cent people in the state received at least one service from the government during the pandemic,” he said. “This is highly appreciable.” Indicating that she was not complacent with the accolades that Duare Sarkar initiative had drawn, the chief minister told officials that the follow-up of the applications received at the camps had to be carried out seriously so that the beneficiaries got the services they deserved. The interaction on Wednesday afternoon, sources said, was part of Mamata’s strategy to bring the development issue to the centre-stage in the run up to the polls to take on the BJP’s narrative that they were all set to wrest the seat of power in Bengal. “Our government has done so much of work for the people and even the multilateral agencies are recognising the efforts... This will help us to make development the main focus of the campaign,” said a source close to Mamata.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-219
28-01-2021||West Bengal||Job data show migrant woes||The Mamata Banerjee government has provided jobs to 6,46,299 migrant workers under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) since April last year. As the figure was about 2 lakh till mid-July, a senior government official said the data suggested that more than 4 lakh out of 15 lakh migrant workers, who had returned from their workplaces in different states during the lockdown, did not go back even after the lockdown norms were relaxed. “Initially, we were receiving reports that most of the migrant workers had gone back to their workplaces. Now, the latest figures suggest that more than 25 per cent of the migrant workers did not go back to their workplaces after the lockdown was relaxed and depended on 100 days’ work to earn livelihood,” said a senior government official. Sources said district authorities had recently sent reports to Nabanna that many of the migrant workers informed the officials that they could not go back to their workplaces because operations at those places had come to a halt. The recent report that 3.81 lakh migrant workers were issued new job cards since April last year also suggests that a significant number of workers don’t see any hope of getting back to their work places in near future. “Many of the migrant workers had enlisted their names in their existing family job cards. But issuing 3.81 lakh new job cards to migrant workers means the problem is deeper. These people did not have any job card in the name of their families. As they applied for new job cards, it is assumed that they found no hope in near future in their workplaces,” said an official. The reports drawn up on applications received through the Duare Sarkar camps pointed out that 11.18 lakh people applied for job cards under the 100 days’ work scheme. “This means, about 7 lakh people have applied for fresh job cards through the Duare Sarkar camps in the state after they lost their livelihood in the post-lockdown period. It is clear they did not apply for job cards before the lockdown and they faced troubles to earn livelihood in the post-lockdown period,” said an official. Senior government officials said the chief minister had realised the need to lay stress on 100 days’ work scheme to meet the demand of work since May last year. “That is why the state could generate more than 36 crore man-days since April last year, which is the highest in the country. It is also important to note that 1.1 crore were given jobs under the scheme during the period,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-219
28-01-2021||West Bengal||Subrata to feel Nandigram pulse||Panchayat minister and former Calcutta mayor Subrata Mukherjee will spend three days in East Midnapore’s Nandigram starting February 1 to “gauge the situation” in the wake of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s announcement that she would contest Assembly polls from there. Mamata’s big announcement at the January 18 mega rally in Tekhali threw the gauntlet at turncoat Suvendu Adhikari, who joined the BJP last month and whose turf Nandigram is perceived to be. However, party sources said her surprise announcement riled a few district leaders. Apparently, zilla parishad deputy chief Sheikh Sufian had expected to be Trinamul’s Nandigram candidate, and after Mamata’s announcement, his “body language became extremely negative”, said a district worker. Sufian has been skipping most party meetings since then. Trinamul insiders, fearing fissures, appealed to Calcutta mayor Firhad Hakim to send someone from the party for a ground assessment. That’s why Mukherjee will go there before Mamata’s next visit, party sources have said. Sufian was absent on Tuesday at a district meeting held by president Somen Mahapatra, which over 50 leaders including panchayat samiti deputy chief Abu Taher attended. Sources said Taher appealed to Hakim last week to send an observer to Nandigram to ensure no fissures appeared in the wake of Mamata’s announcement. “Despite Suvendu’s defection, a massive setback, we have managed well. Not too many people have left the party for his sake,” said a source, adding that Taher and Sufian were Suvendu’s adversaries. “The chief minister will visit here in February, and so (Subrata) Mukherjee will (be here before that to) tie up any loose ends and to set the campaign trail,” the source added. Suvendu held a rally in Nandigram on Tuesday where he proclaimed that in 14 of 17 parts of Nandigram, Mamata would be “washed out” in the polls. Sources said Mukherjee was coming to Nandigram to assess its ground realities and read the pulse of party workers and local leadership. “Suvendu had an iron grip on the area and many leaders were close to him. The party wants to have in place a foolproof election strategy for Nandigram and rule out any chance of sabotage. Mukherjee’s survey will assess the ground reality in an area where none other than (party supremo) Mamata Banerjee has decided to contest,” said a Trinamul leader. Law minister Malay Ghatak will also visit Nandigram later this month, sources said. Mukherjee told reporters on Wednesday that he was going to Nandigram to “discuss party matters in person”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-219
28-01-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logged 5,868 active cases||Bengal on Wednesday logged 386 Covid-19 recoveries, 234 new infections and eight deaths, including one from Calcutta. Bengal’s total active cases dropped for 93 days straight, from 37,190 on Vijaya Dashami, October 26, to 5,868 now. “We have undone around seven months of damage in three months,” said a minister. The state’s Covid-19 recovery rate rose for 96 days on the trot to touch 97.19 per cent. “We are looking at taking the total down to less than 5,000 in another month and the recovery rate past 98 per cent in that timeframe,” the minister added. “Not even in our most optimistic assessments could we have predicted this position at this stage of the pandemic.” Bengal now has nearly 5.69 lakh Covid-19 cases, including nearly 5.53 lakh recoveries and 10,139 deaths. Bengal’s mortality rate is 1.78 per cent now, lagging behind the national rate of 1.43. The state has attributed 8,513 of the deaths or 84 per cent of the toll to comorbidities. However, the state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.21 per cent now, having improved steadily from the 8.27, 68 days ago. “Steady fall in positive confirmation rate means only one thing that the outbreak is shrinking for Bengal,” the minister said, calling the state’s pandemic management “spot on”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-219
28-01-2021||West Bengal||Tourism carnival boon for returnees||A 10-day tourism carnival hosted across various locations of north Bengal to promote rural destinations and homestay accommodations has come as a boon for many youths from these places who had been migrant workers before the Covid-induced lockdown to explore new earning opportunities from their homes. The event named “Travelling Carnival” was organised by the Association for Conservation & Tourism (ACT) in collaboration with the Union tourism ministry to improve rural and cultural tourism in the state. The ministry, sources said, launched a campaign “Incredible India, weekend gateway” and intends to promote new and smaller destinations which most of the tourists are preferring to visit in the new normal instead of clustering at popular destinations like before. “The idea is to enhance rural tourism. With this carnival, we have highlighted a series of attractions that tourists can enjoy during their stay. Among these include local agricultural practices, cuisine, culture and architecture,” said Raj Basu, the convener of the ACT. “We want to encourage tourists to join different local activities instead of simply viewing a place and its activities from a comfortable distance. This includes getting to know the people who live there, sharing meals, learning the language, or perhaps lending a hand at a farm,” added Basu. According to sources, the carnival had started on January 14 and continued till January 24 across different locations such as Rajabhatkhawa in the Dooars, Bungkulung, 12th Mile, Lolegaon, Takdah, Rimbick, Meghetar, Sonada and Mungpoo in the hills. At the carnival, attendees included people from other states and even from countries such as Brazil and the UK. Artists, poets, rural tourism experts and villagers — including those who had been migrant workers before the pandemic but now back home — joined the carnival at different locations. At each location, experts elaborated before the local residents about the potential of their place and how rural tourism activities can boost the economy and create alternative earning opportunities for them. It was during the carnival that the organisers found the former migrant labourers — local youths who had come back other states or even abroad in 2020 to try and make a living — very enthusiastic about the potential of tourism. “Many of them approached us inquiring whether they can start homestays or other facilities so that they no longer need to go out and can make a living sitting at their homes. In fact, some of them even said that the possibilities highlighted during the carnival indicated that they could earn more from home. It is good that along with the promotion of offbeat destinations, it has also encouraged former migrant workers,” Basu said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-219
28-01-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul worker dead, party blames BJP||A Trinamul worker from a village on the outskirts of Raiganj in North Dinajpur district was found dead at a deserted location on Wednesday. Police suspect that Mohammad Ali, 55, of Krishnamuri village under Raiganj police station, was shot dead. The body has a suspected bullet wound and two bullets have been recovered from near the spot. While Trinamul suspected the BJP to have a hand in the death and the BJP dismissed the charges, the police have detained one of Ali’s relatives. Ali had been to a public meeting organised by the party nearby on Tuesday and was supposed to reach home by afternoon. When he did not return by Tuesday evening as well, his family members started searching for him. On Wednesday morning, some residents of Maharaja, an adjoining village, spotted his body at a deserted place, and informed the police. As the news of the body spread, Ali’s family members and neighbours went to the spot and identified him. Investigating police officers also found two bullets near the body. “It seems that the victim has been shot from close range. The seized bullets would be examined and we are also waiting for the victim’s post-mortem reports,” said an officer. So far, the police have detained Sikandar Ali, one of the nephews of the victim. Police sources said Ali had been having problems with his brother Tepu Ali over the possession of a plot of land. “A few days back, the two brothers had an altercation which had eventually led to a skirmish. Preliminary investigations suggest the victim was murdered over the family dispute. We are exploring all angles,” said a police officer. Local Trinamul leaders, however, have accused the BJP of having a hand in Ali’s death. “He (Ali) was an active party worker and popular in his village and surrounding areas. We suspect the BJP behind the attack,” said a Trinamul leader. The BJP local leadership denied these charges. “If the police impartially probes the case, the truth will be revealed,” a BJP leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-219
28-01-2021||West Bengal||Lynching finger at BJP, 8 held||A Trinamul booth committee president in East Burdwan’s Mangalkot, Sanjit Ghosh, 38, was lynched and another party worker accompanying him badly beaten up allegedly by BJP workers on Tuesday evening. Police have arrested eight BJP workers after family members of the slain Trinamul leader filed a written complaint against 26 persons. “We have arrested eight persons named in the complaint. We have started a probe and raids are on to arrest the rest,” said Bhaskar Mukherjee, East Burdwan police chief. Trinamul and police sources said a group of BJP supporters allegedly waylaid Sanjit, Trinamul’s No. 198 booth committee president, when he was riding home on his motorbike in Nigon village of Mangalkot on Tuesday evening. Trinamul worker Ibrahim Khan, who was injured in the attack, was riding pillion. “BJP goons stopped Sanjit’s motorbike and started to beat him with iron rods and sticks. Ibrahim suffered injuries in the attack and fled to save his life. Sanjit was first taken to Katwa subdivisional hospital and shifted to Burdwan Medical College and Hospital where he died,” said Apurba Chowdhury, Trinamul block president in Mangalkot Trinamul leaders said the murder took place after BJP’s Soumitra Khan attended a political meeting in the village on Monday. “Khan instigated BJP supporters at the rally, prompting them to kill our party leader,” said a Trinamul leader. Anubrata Mondal, Trinamul’s minder for Mangalkot, said those involved in Sanjit’s murder would not be spared. “It (the crime) was the result of anger as very few people went to the BJP meeting of Khan. If BJP leaders think and take to violence, we will be more violent than them. I won’t allow any of the BJP workers to step out of their homes,” said Mondal. BJP’s Katwa president Krishna Ghosh claimed Sanjit’s murder was the fallout of Trinamul’s infighting. “Trinamul’s internal feud led to the death of the person known for leading violent attacks on political opponents. Trinamul is accusing the BJP of the murder for political mileage ahead of the Assembly polls. We don’t believe in the politics of murder and violence (that) is an integral part of Trinamul’s politics,” said Ghosh. Trinamul sources said that Sanjit had been involved in minor clashes with BJP workers since the past few months. He had allegedly been earlier attacked twice in Nigon, a region that has emerged a BJP stronghold ever since the party made electoral gains in the region in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. “Sanjit had earlier protested against a rally that the BJP had organised in support of farm bills and allegedly beat up a BJP worker. A couple of months ago Sanjit was also attacked by BJP workers,” said a Trinamul source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-219
28-01-2021||West Bengal||TMC head count at Mamata’s home ahead of Shah’s visit to Bengal||Mamata Banerjee has summoned all her party MLAs and MPs for a meeting at her Kalighat residence on Friday, a day ahead of Amit Shah’s scheduled visit to Bengal, with sources saying she was likely to issue a stern message of “zero tolerance” for sabotage from within. Sources in Trinamul said the party chief was expected to clearly tell those looking to jump ship before the Bengal elections to do so right away. “It will be a head count of sorts. Those skipping that meeting — without good reason — will certainly be viewed as the most likely to switch sides before the elections,” said a senior c MP. The ruling party has been jolted on many occasions since November with desertions. A Howrah faction — comprising the likes of former minister Rajib Banerjee and Laxmi Ratan Shukla, besides MLAs Baishali Dalmiya and Jatu Lahiri, and MP Prasun Banerjee — is likely to defects. Some, if not all, of them may join the BJP during Union home minister Shah’s weekend trip to Bengal, said the Trinamul MP. A Hooghly faction is likely to sway. Since Suvendu Adhikari’s defection, the BJP is trying to engineer en masse switchovers. “We still have 200-plus MLAs left, besides 21 Lok Sabha MPs and 13 Rajya Sabha members. Absences will be carefully noted,” he said. Other than the unofficial roll call, Mamata is likely to issue guidelines for the party’s poll campaign. “The national political scenario, especially in the context of the farmers’ movement, will be factored in...so that we can create optimal discomfort for the BJP,” a minister added. The party issued a whip for all its MLAs to attend the brief Assembly session on Thursday to discuss and pass a resolution against the controversial farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-219
28-01-2021||West Bengal||North Bengal BJP to focus on turncoats||The BJP leadership in north Bengal has decided to draw up a plan to ensure the consistent presence of new entrants of the party in political events that the party is carrying out in the region. “There is a perception within the leadership that the presence of those who have recently joined BJP, particularly from Trinamul, in political programmes can prove more effective for the party. It is not that leaders who are with us for years now will take a backseat but in public meetings, a speech against Trinamul by a former Trinamul leader can help draw support from people,” said a BJP insider. He pointed out that the strategy worked in south Bengal, where political activities of Suvendu Adhikari, Sovan Chatterjee, Arjun Singh and Soumitra Khan — all Trinamul turncoats — brought in extra political dividend for the saffron camp. In north Bengal, the BJP is still in search of prominent Trinamul turncoats. Unlike in the south, the BJP in the north managed to get only three MLAs and a former MP on board. Though state leaders have hinted that some popular Trinamul leaders will eventually defect, that hasn’t happened yet. “Those who joined us so far (in north) can’t match the popularity of Suvendu or even Sovon. Even so, it has been decided that they (turncoats) should be called at political events organised across north Bengal, not just their areas,” the BJP leader added. Since 2019, BJP has been focussing on north Bengal as it won seven of eight Lok Sabha seats. For 2021, the party has set a target to secure 50 of 54 Assembly seats in the region. BJP central leaders tasked with spreading the party’s base in north Bengal have held a number of indoor meetings in Siliguri. But a political observer said that in north Bengal most BJP events were held in the presence of one or more state leaders or even central leaders. “It appears that those from Trinamul are yet to participate in a full-fledged manner. That is why, it seems, the leadership has come up with the plan (to make turncoats more visible),” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-219
28-01-2021||West Bengal||Founder of Siliguri schools no more||Rambilash Agarwal, a nonagenarian known for his contributions in the field of education in Siliguri, passed away on Tuesday midnight. Agarwal was the founder and the president of Bidya Bharti Foundation that runs two schools and an engineering college in Siliguri and another school at Joka in Calcutta. Born in 1929, Agarwal had taken the task of forming the foundation that opened up the Delhi Public School, Siliguri, one of the largest educational institutions in north Bengal. The foundation then opened two other schools — Delhi Public School, Joka, and Delhi Public School, Fulbari (on the southern end of Siliguri) — and the Surendra Institute of Engineering & Management at Dagapur in Siliguri. “It is a great loss for us. It was under his able guardianship that the foundation could come up with four leading educational institutions,” Sharad, his grandson, said. People from different walks of life have mourned Agarwal’s demise. “He will always be remembered for his benevolence and his contribution to the society. His initiative to come up with educational institutions has largely helped residents of Siliguri and north Bengal as a whole,” said Sandipan Bhattacharya, an academic of the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-219
28-01-2021||West Bengal||Kalyani AIIMS opens with limited OPD||The out-patient department of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) at Basantapur in Nadia’s Kalyani was inaugurated on Wednesday with large number of people, including many from neighbouring districts, turning up but most of them returning without treatment as they did not have prior appointment. Bengal’s first and the nation’s 15th AIIMS commenced “limited OPD services” with executive director of the institute in Kalyani, Ramji Singh, launching the facility on Wednesday morning. Speaking to The Telegraph, Singh said: “At present, there will be no emergency, laboratory, diagnostic, medicine and in-patient service for patients since the limited outpatient care services have been launched to help our MBBS students get exposure in clinical education.” For the time being, only 100 patients will get treatment through prior appointment from Monday to Friday between 9am and 1pm. However, only 15 patients could eventually get treated on Wednesday for lack of clear information about the services available at the facility at the moment. Saswati Guha, 51, a resident of Chinsurah, who had to return as she did not have prior appointment, said: “I read in newspapers about the inauguration of AIIMS OPD. But I had no knowledge that treatment would be provided only to those who have prior appointment. It would have been better if AIIMS had issued a detailed advertisement in public interest.” Rajesh Yadav, 43, of Barrackpore, who has been suffering from eye-related problems, also returned home for the lack of prior appointment. “I could get treatment at the OPD since I had no prior appointment,” he said. A good number of patients from Nadia, North 24-Parganas, Hooghly and East Burdwan turned up for treatment but returned home without getting to enter the OPD. Sharmila Ganguly, 56, a resident of Serampore, was among the lucky few to get the treatment at the OPD because she came with a prior appointment. She paid Rs 10 to seek the advice of expert doctors. “It was a great experience for me. I hope that the AIIMS Kalyani will change the health-care scenario of the state, particularly in south Bengal,” she said. Utpal Pramanik, 43, a private security guard at AIIMS and resident of Krishnagar, was the first patient at the OPD. “Since I joined my duty at AIIMS in Kalyani I have been eagerly waiting for this day. I have problems of indigestion and am happy to get the advice of doctors in the general medicine wing of the OPD,” he said. A spokesperson for the AIIMS, Kalyani, told The Telegraph: “At present, we are taking appointments over telephone. Anybody can call 033-29516005 between 10am and 4am for the next day’s appointment at the OPD. There is no provision for instant appointment. However, patients will be able to make online appointments very soon.” “We will also soon launch a mobile application for prior appointment,” he said and added there would be no service on Saturday, Sunday and on the central government holidays. At present, limited OPD service will be offered only in the departments of general medicine, general surgery, obstetrics and gynaecology, paediatrics, dermatology, ophthalmology, ENT and psychiatry. “We are hopeful to offer complete OPD service by April or May,” Singh said and added efforts were on to launch in-patient service by September.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-220
