29-01-2021||West Bengal||Rajib Banerjee, who resigned from Bengal cabinet, quits as MLA||Senior TMC leader Rajib Banerjee, who recently quit the Mamata Banerjee cabinet in Bengal, on Friday resigned from the post of MLA. Banerjee, who represented the Domjur assembly seat, met Speaker Biman Banerjee at the state Assembly and submitted his resignation letter. “I have resigned as the MLA of the state assembly. I submitted my resignation letter to the speaker. I thank my party supremo Mamata Banerjee for providing me the opportunity to serve the masses,” Banerjee, a two-time MLA, said. “In the days to come, I would continue to serve the people of the Domjur constituency,” he added. Rajib Banerjee, who was the forest minister, had been keeping away from cabinet meetings. The Howrah leader met governor Jagdeep Dhankhar at Raj Bhavan last week and submitted his resignation, following which he was dismissed from the state cabinet. The Domjur MLA is the third minister to exit Mamata’s cabinet after Suvendu Adhikari and Laxmi Ratan Shukla in less than two months. Adhikari is the only one who has formally joined the BJP so far. Sources said Rajib had handed to Mamata’s office at her Kalighat residence the resignation letter as minister. Citing procedural lapses in the resignation, the chief minister recommended to the governor Rajib’s ouster from the cabinet and the Raj Bhavan accepted it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-217
29-01-2021||West Bengal||Sourav stable, removed from oxygen support||Indian cricket board chief Sourav Ganguly's health condition is stable and he had a good sleep on Thursday night, while doctors are planning to carry out requisite medical examinations on him on Friday, a senior official of the hospital where he is admitted said. The former India captain underwent another angioplasty on the previous day. Two more stents were implanted to clear his clogged coronary arteries. "Sourav Ganguly's health condition is stable. He had a good sleep at night. All his vital parameters are normal. Doctors will carry out necessary tests on him in the morning. "Senior doctors will carry out a thorough checkup following which a decision will be taken whether to move him to another ward," the hospital official told PTI. The 48-year-old cricket icon was in the ICU on Thursday night following the angioplasty conducted by a team of doctors including noted cardiologist Dr Devi Shetty and Dr Ashwin Mehta. His oxygen support has also been removed, the official said. Ganguly was hospitalised on Wednesday for the second time in a month due to his cardiac condition. He had suffered a mild heart attack earlier this month and was diagnosed with Triple Vessel Disease. He had undergone an angioplasty procedure during which a stent was inserted to clear a blocked artery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-217
29-01-2021||West Bengal||Bengal logs 289 more Covid-19 cases||Bengal on Thursday reported a drop in total active Covid-19 cases for the 94th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami on October 26 last year with an improvement by nearly 84.5 per cent. The total active cases fell over these 94 days from a high of 37,190 to 5,781. The total is now back almost to where it was on June 30 last year, 212 days ago. On Thursday, the state logged 367 recoveries, 289 infections and nine deaths, including one in Calcutta. The recovery rate rose for 97 consecutive days to touch 97.2 per cent, having improved by 10 per cent. The national recovery rate is 96.92 now. “On Dashami, Calcutta and North 24-Parganas had nearly 15,000 active cases between them. On Thursday, that number has come down to less than 2,700. On Dashami, those two most high-incidence districts had 1.3 lakh recoveries between them. On Thursday, that total is 2.41 lakh,” said a Bengal minister. Since Dashami last year, the state recorded over 2.43 lakh recoveries, outweighing 2.15 lakh infections detected during the same period. “The turnaround throughout the state was possible largely because of the vast improvement made in these two districts. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent the worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. A similar set of instructions came from the high court to ensure that the outbreak did not worsen during New Year celebrations. The numbers of infections from the festivals between October and January showed that the court’s instructions were effective. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.19 per cent now, having improved steadily from 8.27 per cent 69 days ago. On Thursday, the state reported 25,129 tests, taking the total past 79.19 lakh, at 87,996 tests per million people. The state attributed 8,521 of the 10,148 deaths — 84 per cent — to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate remained 1.78, while the national rate also was unchanged at 1.43 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-217
29-01-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress starts Matua outreach||The Trinamul Congress has begun an outreach initiative among the Matuas by communicating with small group heads — known as “Gosain”, “Pagal” and “Dalapati” who have strong influence on the community — ahead of Union home minister Amit Shah’s visit to their stronghold of Thakurnagar on Saturday. On January 30, Shah is scheduled to address a public rally in Thakurnagar when he is expected to announce a timeline for implementation of the Citizenship Amendment Act in an apparent attempt to pacify the Matuas. The community had supported the BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in anticipation of the implementation of the new citizenship act, but has been sulking since the CAA has remained only on paper till now. “Senior Trinamul leaders like MP Saugata Roy and MLAs Bratya Basu, Jyotipriya Mullick attended such meetings with the community heads to convey our chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s stand that Matuas are Indian citizens and the BJP is confusing them by talking about the new act,” said a source. “The heads of small groups in the community wield significant clout and that’s why we are reaching out to them,” said another Trinamul source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-217
29-01-2021||West Bengal||JMM blow to BJP tribal plan||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Thursday hinted that his party Jharkhand Mukti Morcha would field candidates in the Jungle Mahal, a move that can deal a blow to BJP’s hopes of consolidating the tribal vote bank in its favour in the Assembly elections. “Every fight has its first step and today it is the first day for Bengal. I will come again and the movement for the tribal people will continue here. Our party will be with the adivasis and poor people of the region and you should be prepared for the elections,” said Soren while addressing a gathering of around 5,000 in Jhargram’s Jamda circus ground in West Midnapore. The BJP strategy to grab power in Bengal rests heavily on the 41 seats in the Jungle Mahal, which is dominated by tribal voters. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP had managed to dent the tribal vote bank of Trinamul by leading in 35 of the 41 Assembly segments in the Jungle Mahal districts of West Midnapore, Bankura, Jhargram and Purulia. Hemant’s announcement at his first political rally in poll-bound Bengal is likely to hit the BJP’s plan to consolidate the tribal vote bank in its favour. “We are ready to field around 40 candidates in Assembly polls this year mainly in the Jungle Mahal areas where tribal people remain deprived,” said Samir Kumar Mohanty, JMM MLA from Jharkhand’s Baharagora constituency and party’s observer for Bengal. JMM’s decision to contest in the Bengal polls has not gone down well with chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who accused Hemant of trying to play politics in Bengal. “I felt bad today that Hemant Soren came to Bengal to do politics. He should manage Jharkhand first before coming to Bengal. He came today as he wanted (to field) candidates for his party,” said Mamata. Sukhamoy Satpati, BJP’s Jhargram president, said: “The JMM will not be able to impact our tribal vote bank.” At the Jhargram rally, Soren also said the JMM would fight for inclusion of tribal areas in Bengal under the Fifth Schedule of Constitution. Additional reporting by Animesh Bisoee in Jamshedpur||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-217
29-01-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee to Hindi speakers: Stand by me||Mamata Banerjee has reached out to Hindi-speaking residents of Bengal, urging them to carry out their “huge responsibility” of standing by her in the Assembly elections and thereby defeating the BJP’s alleged polarising agenda that seeks not only to divide between religions but also on the basis of language. At an event titled “Hindibhashi Sang (Hindi-speakers with) Didi” at the Trinamul Congress headquarters here on Thursday evening, the chief minister vowed to keep standing by non-Bengalis and much as Bengalis in future, asking the attendees to support her in the polls and prove the BJP wrong. “It is a matter of pride for us that we don’t discriminate people against on the basis of language. We don’t judge people for their language…. You have a huge responsibility. After Hindu-Muslim, now the BJP is attempting to polarise on the basis of Bengali and non-Bengali. We want you to vote for us in a percentage even larger than that of Bengalis,” said Mamata to thunderous applause. Hindi-speaking civil society members were in the audience. Hindi-speakers comprise around a seventh of the state’s electorate, with a decisive say in around 20 of the state’s 294 Assembly seats. The BJP, with its traditional reputation as a party that speaks for Hindi-Hindu-Hindustan, considers itself favourites to win most of them. “Form little groups, go out, reach out, speak to everyone…. The man on the street. We cannot get traitors from outside to do this work for us, so you please do this for us. We will keep looking after you after the elections, I swear to you. We will show you everything we can do for you in future,” said the chief minister. Mamata — while repeatedly bringing up the farmers’ movement by Hindi-speakers from across the nation, reiterating her unconditional support for the cause — underscored her love for Hindi-speakers, their culture and their cuisines. “Since we came here, has there ever been a problem for Hindi-speakers here?” she asked, amid loud nays from the audience. “What Hindi will the BJP teach me? I will hold them by the ear and teach them instead. My Hindi might be a little broken, but at least I don’t read out from scripts — typed out in Gujarati — off a teleprompter,” she added, in an apparent jibe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Mamata pointed out how her government was the first to give Hindi the status of an official language in Bengal, how it announced a two-day holiday for Chhath Puja and set up Hindi varsities and colleges. “People from around the country are here, Bengal is a big family, we all live here happily… our essentially cosmopolitan culture, none can destroy,” she said. “Always remember, Didi will die but will not fail to keep her promise,” she added. Didi Ke Bolo Mamata Banerjee issued a statement on Twitter on Thursday morning, announcing the completion of 500 days of the Didi Ke Bolo initiative designed by poll consultant Prashant Kishor, launched in the wake of the BJP’s unprecedented gains the Lok Sabha polls in 2019. “Over this course, 28 Lakh people reached out to the helpline 91370 91370 with more than 80 Lakh interactions taking place. I thank each one of you for your support & response,” she posted. “Through feedback received on @DidiKeBolo, GoWB implemented the 6th Pay Commission, expanded Samajik Suraksha Yojana & started programmes like Pathashree, Duare Sarkar, Paray Samadhan, Jai Johar, Sneher Paras, Prochesta Prakalpa, Taposili Bandhu & many others,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-217
29-01-2021||West Bengal||Left outfit’s support to defeat BJP||CPI-ML (Liberation) announced on Thursday that it would contest in 12 seats in the Bengal Assembly polls and support any party that could defeat the BJP in other constituencies. The assertion was in sharp contrast to the stand of the Left Front and the Congress, which held another round of inconclusive meeting on seat sharing between them. “We will contest in 12 seats in the state. We shall also lend support to some select candidates fielded by other Left parties or mass organisations,” said CPI-ML (Liberation) general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharyya. “Across the state, we will urge voters to defeat the BJP,” he added, indicating that the party didn’t have any inhibitions in supporting Trinamul to keep the BJP at bay. He also said his party would extend issue-based support to Trinamul. Bhattacharya had earlier said the Left parties in Bengal must identify the BJP as their “primary enemy”, which triggered an intense debate among the Left constituents in the state and the CPM leadership lost no time in debunking the CPI-ML (Liberation) leader’s theory. On Thursday, Bhattacharya, however, reiterated that his party — unlike the CPM — didn’t equate the BJP and Trinamul and explained why he thought so. “One cannot distinguish between national and state politics. We don’t think the BJP and Trinamul should be viewed as equal threats,” Bhattacharya said adding that this ideological difference led them to take a call on not being a part of the greater alliance proposed by the CPM. There was no formal reaction to the CPI-ML (Liberation)’s stand till late evening. A senior state CPM leader, on condition of anonymity, told this correspondent that it appeared that the CPI-ML (Liberation) had started a campaign in favour of Trinamul. “This (CPI-ML (Liberation)) party once said Trinamul is better than the CPM. Today, they are saying Trinamul is better than BJP. Are they running a secondary campaign for Mamata Banerjee?” a CPM leader asked on condition of anonymity. This person added that the Left parties maintained that Trinamul was as dangerous as the BJP. Even as the alliance partners stuck to their stand on the BJP and Trinamul, their differences over seat sharing for the Assembly polls persisted. After a meeting with the Left front leaders on Thursday, state Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said a consensus had been reached on sharing 193 seats, including the 77 seats they had earlier decided to share amongst themselves. However, a Left leader said the announcement meant little as the seats were not identified. “We just had a consensus on the number, 193. But the problem still remains. What about the seats where both Congress and left have strongholds?” this leader asked. Sources in the Congress said the state leadership was unwilling to give away any seat in Malda and Murshidabad districts to the Left parties, hinting that an amicable seat sharing was still out of reach. The two hues have, however, decided to hold a joint public meeting at the Brigade Parade grounds in Calcutta on February 28, where Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi and CPM’s Sitaram Yechury were invited.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-217
29-01-2021||West Bengal||BJP MP Saumitra Khan’s gaffe on poet||A Bengal BJP leader on Thursday attributed to Jibanananda Das a line by 18th-century poet Bharatchandra Ray Gunakor, continuing his party’s misadventures with Bengali icons. Bishnupur MP Saumitra Khan’s gaffe came at a rally in East Burdwan where he accused the Mamata Banerjee government of failing to generate jobs and flagged Bengali parents’ aspirations of a comfortable future for their children. “In the words of Jibanananda Das: Amar shontan jyano thakey dudhey bhaatey (Let my children live comfortably),” Khan said. The line was from Annada Mangal, a narrative poem in three parts by Bharatchandra (1712-1760), written in 1752-53. Jibanananda, one of Bengal’s most beloved poets, lived between 1899 and 1954. A Calcutta-based historian said: “Today, with so much information available through one’s smart phone, how do these mistakes keep getting made?” BJP sources admitted in private this was yet another “regrettable and avoidable” faux pas highlighting the party’s disconnect with Bengal’s history and culture. “We keep tying ourselves in knots while trying to appropriate Bengali icons,” a BJP leader said. Trinamul pounced on the opportunity. “This shows the cultural standard of the BJP and its associates. They are utterly ignorant of most things. Still, they go on speaking without shame,” Trinamul vice-president Saugata Roy said. Asked to respond at night, Khan claimed he was “very well aware” of who wrote what. “I simply meant that Jibanananda once quoted from Bharatchandra,” he said, without elaborating. East Burdwan BJP general secretary Sunil Gupta defended Khan. “All Trinamul can do now is look for our mistakes. Khan may be guilty of misquoting and mentioning the wrong name, but the point he made was cent per cent correct.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-217
29-01-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee to PM: Repeal laws or step down||The Bengal Assembly on Thursday passed a resolution demanding the repeal of the controversial farm laws of the BJP-led Centre as chief minister Mamata Banerjee demanded resignations of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah should they fail to give in to the demands of the agitating farmers. Amid aggressive “Jai Sri Ram” slogans and ruckus by the BJP in the House, Mamata lambasted the saffron camp over apparent attempts to discredit the agitators. “If there is any good intention towards the greater interests of the people, I ask the Prime Minister to rescind the three legislations. You must. Either repeal the laws or step down,” said Mamata in the House, before demanding an immediate all-party meeting at the Centre. Comparing the farm laws with the notorious indigo cultivation during the British Raj, Mamata said the Centre was trying to push the country into a famine. “You deliberately had the bills passed when people couldn’t even go to Parliament because of Covid-19…. You didn’t even allow proper voting,” she added. Parliamentary affairs minister Partha Chatterjee moved a government resolution, urging the Centre that the three laws be repealed. The Left and the Congress suggested some amendments, but did not oppose the resolution. After failing to prevent Mamata from addressing the House during the discussion, the BJP MLAs staged a walkout — while raising “Jai Sri Ram” slogans — and claimed the resolution was “unconstitutional”. Amid a controversy later in the day over the slogan being raised in the Assembly — Trinamul, the Congress and the Left were critical — the BJP aggressively defended the act. Mamata threw her weight behind the agitating farmers and brought up the incidents in Delhi on Republic Day. “If there is something they don’t like, they will go about maligning them, branding them as terrorists, is it correct?” she asked. “If 20 lakh farmers went to Delhi together, in a pre-announced programme, took due permission, a couple of small incidents took place, nothing major…. These are all lies. They are leveling such allegations that should never be levelled,” she added. Later in the day, during a Trinamul event, Mamata accused the BJP of trying to burn the nation. “Amit Shah had said in public, I have documentary evidence, that they have 50 lakh WhatsApp groups… and if they want, they can make even wrong information go viral. If the Union home minister says this, this is what happens. Farmers, bechara, without fault… terrorism and whatnot now, simply to discredit them,” she said. “BJP ka chamcha (the BJP’s acolyte)… that flag-bearer (actor Deep Sidhu). He was part of photo ops with Modi and Shah…. The Prime Minister and the Union home minister should resign,” she added. Mamata said at the event that she has seen many central governments from close proximity, since Raji Gandhi’s time. “Such audacity this one has…. These two (Modi and Shah, apparently)… such deliberate use of force, I never saw. Anybody you don’t like, goli maro (shoot them)…. You should go,” she said. Budget session The Assembly would reconvene for the budget session on February 5, with the vote-on-account likely to be passed on February 8. Sources in the treasury benches said there might be no gubernatorial address at the start, as the ongoing session is in continuation of a session from 2020, closed prematurely because of Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-217
29-01-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee government hands over engagement letters to ex-KLO members||The Mamata Banerjee government on Thursday handed over engagement letters to over 1,500 people from across the state, including former militants of the Kamtapur Liberation Organisation and family members of people killed in KLO attacks in north Bengal. At a programme organised at the Netaji Indoor Stadium in Calcutta, chief minister Mamata Banerjee launched the distribution of engagement letters among these who would be provided with jobs as special home guards. “We have earlier provided jobs and today again, jobs were provided to some more people……now that you have returned to the mainstream, we want you to deliver your responsibility and lead a better life with your families,” Mamata said while addressing the audience. She asked them to be vigilant and take initiatives to discourage any attempt made to foment tension. Sources in the state government said around 600 former militants and linkmen and around 36 victims’ families had been provided with jobs. From Alipurduar, a group of 227 people were present at the programme. Dipankar Roy, a former KLO linkman who received his engagement letter, said: “It was a longstanding demand that the chief minister finally met. We are grateful to her as we can lead a better life now. Many of us were finding it tough to run our families.” Ruma Debnath Adhikary, a resident of ward 18 of Alipurduar, also sounded happy. Back in 2009, she had lost her father-in-law in a bomb blast at Chowpathi, the most prominent crossing of Alipurduar. “What the chief minister did for us is remarkable. It would be of immense help for us,” said Ruma. The induction of former KLO members, linkmen and victims’ families as home guards would help the Trinamul Congress consolidate its base in north Bengal, said political observers. “These people have been asking for jobs since those days when the Left Front was in power. However, it is Mamata Banerjee who met the demand. It would surely help her party earn some extra edge over its political contenders,” an observer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-217
29-01-2021||West Bengal||BJP raises language issue to exert pressure on Mamata Banerjee||The BJP has raised the language issue to exert pressure on Mamata Banerjee during this election season with Darjeeling MP Raju Bista seeking the chief minister’s “intervention” to remove the disadvantage faced by youths from the plains who learn Nepali or Hindi as their main language, besides English. Nepali and Hindi speaking population can influence results in at least 15 of the 54 Assembly seats in north Bengal. In a press statement on Thursday, Bista said: “It has been brought to my notice from several concerned citizens that under the current rules, knowledge of Bengali language is compulsory for all candidates in West Bengal government qualifying examinations, except for those who live in the hill subdivisions of Darjeeling and Kalimpong district.” The trigger of Bista’s demand is probably a recruitment notice issued by the West Bengal Police Recruitment Board for the post of sub-inspectors. In the language category, the notice reads that the “applicants must be able to speak, read and write in Bengali,” and even though residents of the hill-subdivisions of Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts are exempted, Bista’s argument is for Nepali and Hindi speaking candidates in the rest of the state. A large number of Gorkhas and adivasis reside particularly in the Dooars and the Terai, including the Siliguri subdivision of Darjeeling district. “I have requested her (Mamata Banerjee) to kindly provide options for Gorkhas and Hindi bhasis from Terai and Dooars region to write their government qualifying exams in their mother tongue if they so desire…..,” Bista said. The last date of filling up the police application forms is February 20. The other issue flagged by Bista is inclusion of Nepali language as an optional subject in the West Bengal Civil Services Mains exams. “Additionally, it has also been brought to my notice that Nepali language is not included as an optional subject in WBCS Mains exams whereas languages like Pali, Persian, Arabic are included in the exam,” he said. The MP said the exclusion had deprived a large section of students, who study Nepali for their bachelor’s and master’s degree, of chances to get selected as WBCS officers because their subject choice is not given. Bista is not the first to demand the inclusion of Nepali as an optional subject in the WBCS (mains). Language has always been a sensitive issue and Bista’s decision to flag this concern has the potential to be a major poll issue. The Gorkhaland agitation in 2017 was triggered on the language issue with the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha alleging attempts were being made to impose Bengali on hill students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-218
29-01-2021||West Bengal||GNLF smells scam in footpath near Singalila National Park||The Gorkhaland Territorial Administration’s decision to construct a 26km-long “footpath” at an estimated cost of Rs 15.5 crore near the Singalila National Park has come under the scanner for its expenditure and project priority. The Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF) has criticised the project and alleged smell a scam when elections are round the corner. “Tenders for two footpaths, one from Srikhola Trekkers’ Hut to Molay Fatak and the other from Molay Fatak to Sabargram at Rimbick has been floated but the tender amount defies logic,” said Sandeep Limbu, general secretary, GNLF Darjeeling branch committee. “Such a project before election smells of a scam.” The shortest road distance to Rimbick from Darjeeling is 60km. The GNLF not only raised the issue of overestimation, but also asked whether a footpath in the already popular trekking trail was needed at all. “People love to trek on natural trails. Instead of footpaths the amount could have been used to build motorable roads at five neighbouring villages as most roads in that area are unmotorable during monsoons,” said Limbu. Tender bids can be submitted till February 10 and will be opened on February 13. Dipendra Ghimiray, executive engineer, GTA engineering division-II, said the estimates were done according to the schedule of rate approved by the public works department and vetted at the level of chief engineer. “Estimates are done according to the schedule of PWD. Lot of factors like terrain difficulties are also taken into account,” said Ghimiray. The GTA official also said many might have got confused with the usage of the word “footpath”. “Along with footpath other allied development works like gazebos and resting sheds are also included in the plan,” he added. The tender papers describe the work as “construction of footpath….” and detailed description of other allied works could not be immediately obtained. The GNLF, however, insisted that the GTA’s priority was wrong. “We will soon meet the principal secretary of the GTA and request him to utilise the funds in projects which will be more beneficial for the villagers. In natural parks people want to be with nature,” said Limbu. The GTA is of the opinion that tourism has to be promoted along this popular trekking trail. A source said: “Hundreds of trekkers, including a large number of foreign travellers, visit this place. Improvement in tourism infrastructure is bound to help the region.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-218
29-01-2021||West Bengal||Two arrested for ATM robbery bids in Siliguri||Two persons, including an army sepoy who allegedly deserted from the force, have been arrested in connection with attempts to burgle a number of ATMs here in the past few weeks. The two Haryana residents were arrested by Siliguri Metropolitan Police and they purportedly made an attempt to burgle a bank also in the city. According to police sources, there were attempts to break ATMs at different locations in Siliguri on January 12 and 25. An attempt was also made on January 18 to break into a bank at Panitanki More here. “After the incidents, we formed a special team and intensified the vigil and night patrolling across Siliguri. When the miscreants tried to rob an ATM booth at Deshbandhupara in the city three days ago, they were nabbed red-handed,” said a senior police officer. The police, he said, seized some equipment which were used to dismantle ATMs and locks. Some cash has also been recovered from the duo. The arrested have been identified as Pravin Kumar and Rahul Kumar. While Pravin is from Haryana and was involved in similar crimes earlier, Rahul is also from the same state but has been staying in Siliguri for many years. D.P. Singh, the commissioner of the SMP, said: “During interrogation, we came to know that Pravin was a sepoy in the Jat Regiment of the army. In June last year, he was arrested in Gurgaon for his involvement in a similar case. After getting bail, he came here and involved the other person to carry out the crimes.” “We have officially contacted the army to get details of him. We are trying to gather more details about them,” he added. The police sources have said this is the second time in recent days that people from Haryana have been arrested. A few days ago, the police had arrested two others who were also from Haryana and had seized ATM cards and a swipe machine from them. Appeal for CCTVs Siliguri police commissioner D.P. Singh appealed to residents and different organisations to install more CCTV cameras at their respective houses and commercial places to curb crimes. As of now, around 250 CCTV cameras are operational on streets in the SMP jurisdiction. “We urge the citizens to install more CCTV cameras. It would improve surveillance on one hand and help in the quick detection of crimes on the other hand,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-218
29-01-2021||West Bengal||Derailment hits train movement between north Bengal and Northeast for three hours||Train movement along the principal route between north Bengal and Northeast was disrupted for around three hours on Wednesday night after a bogie of a goods train went off the tracks near the Khalaigram station in Jalpaiguri district. Sources said the goods train with 43 bogies was heading towards the Dhupguri station. While it started from Khalaigram around 10.30pm, the derailment occurred. Railway officials and RPF personnel from Khalaigram and Dhupguri reached the spot. Officials of the Alipurduar railway division of the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) also arrived after some time. A number of trains were regulated at other stations and some trains were diverted via the Changrabandha-Mathabhanga route. The NFR engaged workers to remove the derailed bogie and the tracks were cleared. The traffic along the main route was restored on Thursday early morning. Railway authorities have ordered a probe into the derailment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-218
29-01-2021||West Bengal||Hijacked truck seized, two arrested in Assam||A gang of six miscreants held the driver and cleaner of a truck at gunpoint in Maynaguri of Jalpaiguri district and fled with the vehicle on Thursday morning. The truck was intercepted in the neighbouring Assam and two persons suspected to be members of the gang arrested. The seizure and the arrest were made on the basis of an alert issued by Jalpaiguri police. Sources said the truck was from Uttar Pradesh and had carried rice from Delhi to Siliguri a few days back. The truck was supposed to be loaded with potatoes at Maynaguri on Thursday morning and head for Bihar. Mohammad Akram and Mohammad Mukram, the driver and the cleaner, had their dinner on Wednesday night. They then parked the vehicle near Assam More in Maynaguri and were sleeping inside. Around 4am on Thursday, six miscreants broke the window and started beating them. As they protested, both were held at gunpoint. “They tied us up with ropes and gagged us with clothes. One of them turned on the engine and headed towards Dhupguri (along Asian Highway 48). On the way, two miscreants forced us to get down from the vehicle at a deserted location in Ranirhat while the remaining four fled with the vehicle,” said Akram, the driver. The miscreants left the driver and the cleaner off the highway, with their hands and legs tied. Later in the morning, some local people spotted the driver and the cleaner and informed the police. A team from Maynaguri police station reached the spot and rescued them. The police also circulated detail information of the truck to nearby police stations and the police in Assam and Bihar. After some time, the police could locate the truck’s location through GPS. They passed the information and soon, the vehicle was intercepted by a team of Chapar police station in the Dhubri district of Assam. “We have come to know that as the vehicle was intercepted, two miscreants managed to escape while the other two have been arrested. Both of them are from Uttar Pradesh. There is information that along with them, some miscreants from Manipur were also involved in the crime. A team from Maynaguri police station has headed for Assam,” said Vikramjit Lama, deputy superintendent of police (crime) of Jalpaiguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-218
