30-01-2021||West Bengal||Disgruntled TMC leaders Rajib Banerjee, Baishali Dalmiya and three others join BJP||Former Bengal minister Rajib Banerjee, who recently quit the Trinamul Congress, joined the BJP in the national capital on Saturday along with a few other leaders of the state’s ruling party after meeting senior BJP leader and Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Banerjee and MLAs Prabir Ghosal and Baishali Dalmiya, who was recently expelled from the TMC, and former Howrah Mayor Rathin Chakraborty, flew to the national capital on a special plane, and met central BJP leaders. “They have joined the BJP,” party general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya told PTI following the meeting. Former TMC MLA Parthasarathi Chattopadhyay and actor Rudranil Ghosh had also accompanied them on their visit to meet BJP leaders in the national capital. BJP national vice-president Mukul Roy and Vijayvargiya arrived in Delhi with them. The TMC, which has been facing dissent from a number of leaders ahead of the assembly election due in April-May, said that those who are leaving do not have a long political history. Earlier in the day, Banerjee said he had a word with Union Home Minister Amit Shah who called him to the national capital. “After I resigned from the TMC, I received a call from the BJP leadership.... Amit Shah ji told me to come over to Delhi. He also requested me to pass on the information to five other important public figures who wanted to serve people in a better way to accompany me. “If I get an assurance on the state’s development, if I get an assurance that I can work for the betterment of people, I will join the BJP,” he told reporters at the Kolkata airport. When asked what role he expected to play in the BJP, Banerjee said it is for the party to decide. “I want to work for the people. So whatever role is assigned to me, I will accept,” he said. “Instead of mudslinging at each other, the Centre and the Bengal government should work together for the people of the state,” he added. Actor Rudranil Ghosh, who has recently been voicing his discontent over the issue of governance in Bengal and alleged corruption in the distribution of monetary compensation to Cyclone Amphan-affected people last year, said he wants to work for people and play an important role in the state in future. Uttarpara MLA Prabir Ghosal, who recently alleged that repair of a road in his constituency was not being allowed by a faction of the party to harm his poll prospects, told reporters that he would join the BJP. According to BJP sources, these TMC leaders were supposed to join the saffron party during Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s rally at Dumurjula in Howrah on Sunday. However, Shah’s two-day visit to West Bengal was cancelled at the last minute. The ruling TMC in West Bengal was rocked by a fresh bout of desertions on Friday with Banerjee quitting the party and several other leaders rallying behind him. Reacting to the development, senior TMC MP and party spokesperson Sougata Ray said, “Those who left don't have a long political history and most of them were inducted into the party by (Chief Minister and party supremo) Mamata Banerjee. In future, the TMC will be careful.” Another senior TMC leader and minister Subrata Mukherjee said, “What can we do if anyone wants to go? Ours is a big party. We cannot prevent dissenters by deploying the military.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-215
30-01-2021||West Bengal||Sourav likely to be discharged from hospital if test results return normal||BCCI chief Sourav Ganguly is stable and he is likely to be discharged from the hospital on Saturday if the results of the medical examinations to be conducted on him return normal, an official of the establishment where he is being treated said. "Ganguly's health condition is stable. He slept well on Friday night and had light food in the morning," the official told PTI. Doctors are scheduled to conduct a few medical examinations on the 48-year-old former India captain to decide whether he is fit to be discharged from the hospital, he said. Ganguly had on Thursday undergone a fresh angioplasty and two more stents were implanted to clear his clogged coronary arteries. He was hospitalised on Wednesday for the second time in a month due to his cardiac condition. He had suffered a mild heart attack earlier this month and was diagnosed with Triple Vessel Disease. He had undergone an angioplasty procedure during which a stent was inserted to clear a blocked artery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-215
30-01-2021||West Bengal||10-quintal sale cap sparks farmer protests in Malda||Farmers resorted to protests in at least four blocks of Malda on Friday following a directive by the district administration that slashed by a third the quantity of paddy that a farmer can sell to the state government at one go. Sources said that according to the rule, a farmer can in all sell 90 quintals of paddy to the state government through a Kisan Mandi in year, and at one go can sell up to 30 quintals. But according to the new directive, while he can sell 90 quintals in all, he can now only sell 10 quintals to the state government at one time. It means for 90 quintals, a farmer has to come to the Kisan Mandi nine times. “So far, the state had been buying according to the rule and many of us have sold 30 quintals in a day. However, on Friday, as we went to sell our produce, we were told that we can, at best, sell 10 quintals a day. To sell the remaining portion, we have to visit the market again. This led to protests,” said Haripada Biswas, a farmer demonstrating in Pakua of Bamangola block. The agitation initially erupted in Pakua where the farmers locked the Kisan Mandi and resorted to protests. They also blocked the road to demand an immediate revocation of the administration’s directive. As the day rolled, reports of similar agitations came in from Habibpur, Gazole and Old Malda blocks where hundreds of farmers joined in protests. “We suspect that eventually, we will not be able to sell our produce to the state because of this directive. This is because any farmer who has 90 quintals of paddy ready for sale will have to visit the mandi for nine days,” said a farmer. “It is inconvenient and expensive.” All agitators pointed that the new directive would increase their transport costs and discourage a section of farmers to turn up at the government market. “We suspect that now middlemen will try and exploit this opportunity to buy the produce at a lower rate from the farmers. The administration should immediately withdraw this directive or else we will launch a movement,” said Shakiruddin Sarkar, the Malda district president of Sara Bharat Sanjukta Kisan Sabha, a farmers’ front of RSP that has lent support to the protest. Officials in Malda district administration confirmed the new order but said the decision had been made to ensure adequate place to stock the food grain purchased from the farmers. “The decision has been made so that we do not face any problem in storing food grain. There should be no doubt that any farmer can sell 90 quintals to the state but this time he has to sell it across nine days instead of three days,” said Rajarshi Mitra, the district magistrate of Malda. Partha Saha, the district controller of food and supplies, who issued the order, said some “outsiders” fuelled the protests. “Local and marginal farmers would be helped by this new order. We have information that some outsiders have triggered the agitation as they have vested interests,” he said. District BJP leaders were quick to pick up the issue and raise questions at the Mamata Banerjee government. “The decision made by the administration goes against the farmers. We support their protests and if required, our party will launch a movement on the issue,” said Gobinda Mondal, the district BJP president of Malda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-215
30-01-2021||West Bengal||State government urged to set up cricket stadium in Kawakhali||The Siliguri-Jalpaiguri Development Authority (SJDA) has sent a proposal to the state government for setting up a comprehensive sports complex including a cricket ground in Kawakhali, a township located at the southern end of Siliguri. The decision made by SJDA to write to the state government for the sports complex comes at a time the demand for a cricket stadium is steadily gaining ground in Siliguri. “A proposal for setting up a sports complex with a cricket ground was adopted at the board meeting of the SJDA. We have proposed that the sports infrastructure can come up in Kawakhali and have sent it to the state urban development department for approval,” said Nantu Paul, the vice-president of the SJDA. He said that the SJDA already had earmarked a 15-acre plot for the proposed sports complex. “Within the complex, we have proposed a full-fledged cricket ground with spectators’ gallery. The complex will also have an athletics track and facilities for indoor games such as table tennis and a multi gym. The facility can help the promising players of the city with regular practice and can also be a venue for various tournaments,” added Paul. Siliguri is known as a city that has given some ace table tennis players to the country, from Ganesh Kundu to Mantu Ghosh in the 1980s and 1990s. However, during the past one decade, Siliguri has also come up with some fine cricketers, including Wriddhiman Saha and Richa Ghosh. During the past few months, the demand for a cricket stadium has grown louder in the city that also boasts the Kanchenjunga Stadium which has hosted several prominent football matches. Recently, a group of cricket enthusiasts submitted a memorandum to the state tourism minister Gautam Deb, who is also a resident of the city, urging him to take up the demand with the state in earnest. Also, the Siliguri Cricket Lovers’ Welfare Organisation, which earlier held signature campaigns and street corners to drum up support for the demand for s stadium, sent a memorandum to the chief minister on the issue a couple of days back. “A number of promising cricketers have emerged in the city. Despite not having an appropriate cricket ground here, they have proved their talent in international and domestic tournaments. We believe that once a ground is set up here, it would help more talented cricketers emerge. We have appealed to the chief minister to take necessary steps to establish an exclusive cricket stadium here,” said Manoj Verma, president of the association. Jayanta Bhowmik, Wriddhiman’s coach, echoed Verma to say that from Siliguri, a number of cricketers have been of late representing the state team in various tourneys. “We need a proper facility for them. Also, if developed in a proper manner, the stadium can be a second ground in the state for international cricket matches after Eden Gardens,” said Bhowmik.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-216
30-01-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri civic body push for roads, sewerage||Authorities of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) on Friday elaborated on civic projects planned across the city. Among these include the construction of roads and the development of sewerage, renovation of parks, beautification and landscaping. MLA Asok Bhattacharya, who chairs the board of administrators of the SMC, said that while some of these projects were over, work on some others will start next month. “A number of development projects worth over Rs 50 crore have been completed in the city during the past few months,” said Bhattacharya. According to him, around Rs 22 crore had been spent to develop roads in the civic area. Also, Rs 5 crore which the civic body had received under the Green City Mission, a central scheme, was spent to beautify many stretches of the embankment of the Mahananda river that moves through the city. “Funds have also been spent on slum development, illumination projects with solar panels and for infrastructure development of 10 primary health centres across the city,” added Bhattacharya. In February, the civic authorities will bring in former soccer player Bhaichung Bhutia to inaugurate infrastructure development to be carried out across three football grounds. “We will also start the development and renovation of 16 roads of the city and work on scientific disposal of wastes at the dumping ground. A sum of Rs 18 crore would be spent,” Bhattacharya said. The civic body, sources said, will also host a citizens’ convention at the Kanchenjunga Stadium here on February 3. “The convention will apprise residents about all these projects that have been carried out in Siliguri,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-216
30-01-2021||West Bengal||Binay Tamang camp to Bista: Quit if Centre fails to place ST bill||The Binay Tamang camp of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha has step up heat on Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista and demanded his resignation if the Centre fails to place a bill and grant tribal status to 11 hill communities during Parliament’s budget session which started on Friday. Keshav Raj Pokhrel, the spokesman for the Tamang faction, alleged that the BJP had been hoodwinking the Gorkhas since 2009 and it would no longer be allowed. “The budget session started today and this time, we want the Darjeeling MP who has won by a record margin of over 4.5 lakh votes to ensure that the 11 communities are granted tribal status during the ongoing budget session or else, he should resign,” said Pokhrel. The Tamang camp which is with the Trinamul Congress also appealed to the BJP alliance partners to dump the saffron camp if the demand remained unfulfilled when the session ended on ground of “principle”. The demand for granting tribal status to Bhujel, Gurung, Mangar, Newar, Jogi, Khas, Rai, Sunuwar, Thami, Yakka (Dewan) and Dhimal (this community mostly resides in the Terai) is more than two decades old and the BJP has promised the same since 2014. Observers believe that any development — positive or negative — on the ST status could be decisive in the outcome of election results in nearly 15 Assembly seats in north Bengal. The fifth session of the 17th Lok Sabha started on Friday and will continue till February 15 after which it will be adjourned to resume on March 8 for a month. Bista has been talking about some positive developments for the Gorkhas in his recent speeches. The other demand promised by the BJP is to find a “permanent political solution” for the region. Despite Bista’s assurance, developments over the past three years on the tribal issue have not been encouraging. The Union ministry of trial affairs had formed a committee in 2016, just before the Bengal elections, to examine the tribal status demand. Since then, the committee was reconstituted three times and the final report was compiled by a team headed by M.R. Tshering, joint secretary, ministry of tribal affairs. In 2019, Bishal Rai, a resident of Teesta, who is now with the Tamang camp, had obtained some salient features of the report through an RTI query. From the RTI report, it was clear that the committee had passed the buck to the Office of Registrar General of India (ORGI). “The determination has to be done as per the modalities of the government. ORGI is the competent authority to determine if a community is as per its yardstick for listing as Schedule Tribe,” the report stated. While addressing a public meeting in Kurseong two months ago, Roshan Giri, the general secretary of the Bimal Gurung camp of the Morcha, had said that Union home minister had told a delegation that the tribal demand would be looked into after Assam Assembly elections. “A delegation that included party president Bimal Gurung, me, Nima Tamang and Binu Sundas (Morcha leaders) met Amit Shah (Union home minister) and he said he would look into the issue (of tribal status) after Assam assembly elections,” Giri had said at the public meeting. The delegation had purportedly held a meeting on July 21 though the names of Gurung and Giri had not been made public then. Assam assembly elections are scheduled for 2021 almost at the same time Bengal goes to the polls. The Gurung camp also dumped the BJP a few months ago and has aligned with the Trinamul Congress. Bista’s reaction could not be immediately obtained. Contacted just before filing this report, the Darjeeling MP said he was “at a meeting”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-216
30-01-2021||West Bengal||Top cop Humayun Kabir quits months before retirement ||IPS officer and chief of Chandernagore Police Commissionerate Humayun Kabir resigned on Friday three months before his scheduled retirement. Gaurav Sharma, who was  joint commissioner (establishment) in the Calcutta police, replaces Kabir, a government order said. Many bureaucrats said this change of guard was significant ahead of the Bengal polls. Kabir did not choose to comment on his resignation or its timing. “Any posting at this juncture will be important because of the coming elections,” said a senior IPS officer. Sharma, who also got additional charge of the special task force of Calcutta police, has been asked to take charge on Sunday, said a source. Sharma, a 2005-batch officer has earlier held key posts like commissioner of Howrah city police, SP Howrah rural, deputy commissioner (north), deputy commissioner (southeast) in Calcutta police, SP Jhargram and ASP Siliguri. Sources in the state home department said more changes in the rank and file of the Bengal and Calcutta police were likely in the coming days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-216
30-01-2021||West Bengal||Amit Shah cancels Bengal visit, blow to Matua plan||Union home minister Amit Shah on Friday cancelled his weekend visit to Bengal, dealing a major blow to the BJP’s plans that included a rally at the Matua bastion of Thakurnagar in North 24-Parganas on Saturday. Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said the visit had been cancelled in the aftermath of a blast near the Israel embassy in New Delhi on Friday. “Amitji’s schedule for January 30 and 31 has been cancelled. But the programme at Dumurjola stadium in Howrah on January 31 will be held as scheduled. Someone from Delhi will replace Amitji,” Ghosh said. The cancellation of the Shah’s rally at Thakurnagar has left the Matuas restless as the community expected the Union home minister to announce roll-out of the contentious Citizen Amendment Act (CAA) and clear their concerns on the issue at the meeting on Saturday. The dejection among the Matuas over the cancellation of Shah’s trip is obvious as this is the second instance of Shah not making it to Thakurnagar in recent times. During his last trip to the state on December 19 and 20, there were discussions that Shah would address the Matuas on the first day of the trip but Midnapore got preference over Thakurnagar. Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari and several others had joined the BJP at the rally at Midnapore. The hype over Saturday’s rally at Thakurnagar was evident on Friday evening as the stretch of Jessore Road from Barasat to Bongaon was lined up with BJP and Matua flags. Local BJP leaders held street-corner meetings to ensure that large numbers of Matuas turned up for Shah’s rally on Saturday. “This was supposed to be a show of strength for us,” a local BJP leader in Bongaon said. “But the cancellation of the rally will be a major loss of face,” the leader added. The BJP has long been trying to woo the Matuas, who have the numbers to determine the results in several Assembly seats in the districts of North 24-Parganas and Nadia and some parts of north Bengal, with the CAA bait and the delay in its implementation has made the community, including All India Matua Mahasangha chief and BJP MP Santanu Thakur, restless. “We understand that the situation in Delhi is serious. But the Matuas are getting frustrated now,” a pro-BJP Matua leader said. The sudden cancellation of Shah’s trip has derailed several outreach programmes that the BJP had planned, including the home minister’s visit to the Iskcon temple in Nadia’s Mayapur on Saturday. The BJP, however, has not cancelled the public meeting at Dumurjola on Sunday since several prominent Trinamul leaders are scheduled to join the BJP at the rally. “We are desperately trying to get someone of the stature of our president J.P Nadda or a senior leader like Rajnath Singh for Sunday’s rally,” said a Bengal BJP leader who did not want to be named. BJP sources said that former Trinamul minister Rajib Banerjee, who along with expelled party MLA Baishali Dalmia, former Howrah mayor Rathin Chakraborty and another Trinamul MLA Prabir Ghoshal would switch over to the BJP on Sunday. “Everything is final. In fact, Rajibda, Prabirda and Rathinda met Kailash Vijayvargiya and Suvenduda on Friday evening to finalise things. We can’t delay the joining any further,” a BJP source said. “That is why we want someone big from Delhi to come down to Dumurjola and hand over the flags to them,” the source added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-216
30-01-2021||West Bengal||Bengal logs 349 Covid-19 recoveries||Bengal on Friday logged 349 Covid-19 recoveries, 286 new infections and seven deaths, including four from Calcutta. Bengal’s total active cases fell for 95 consecutive days — since Vijaya Dashami on October 26 — from 37,190 to 5,711. “We are getting closer to our next target of less-than-5,000 total active cases,” said a minister. The state’s recovery rate is now 97.21 per cent. “We are days away from our target of 98-plus in our recovery rate,” said the minister. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.17 per cent now, having improved steadily from the 8.27, 70 days ago. On Friday, the state reported 25,064 tests, taking the total past 79.44 lakh, at 88,274 tests per million people. The state attributed 8,528 deaths — or 84 per cent — of the 10,155 deaths in all to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate remained 1.78 per cent, while the national rate stayed unchanged at 1.43 per cent. Calcutta High Court had intervened with instructions against crowding to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath, as well as ahead of New Year celebrations. The slide in the number of infections from the festivals between October and January has shown that the court’s instructions were effective.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-216
30-01-2021||West Bengal||Tea planters’ association flag subsidy ‘bias’ in north Bengal||A tea planters’ association in north Bengal has accused the Tea Board of India under the Union commerce ministry of delaying the release of subsidy to tea estates of Bengal unlike in the neighbouring BJP-ruled Assam. “In north Bengal, the total subsidy yet to be paid to tea gardens is between Rs 300 crore and Rs 400 crore. Hundreds of applications are pending with the Tea Board that pays the subsidy. It is also disappointing that while we are being deprived, subsidies have been disbursed to applicants in Assam,” said M.P. Bansal, the chairman of the Terai Indian Planters’ Association (TIPA). The TIPA, he said, has written to the Tea Board, the apex government agency for the tea sector, seeking immediate disbursement of the subsidy. In the tea industry, estates can apply for subsidy if they do certain jobs such as replanting and rejuvenating tea bushes, setting up irrigation facilities, cultivating orthodox teas and modernising factories. “An estate needs to approach the Tea Board for inspection and approval of a project for which it can avail subsidy. The project is then executed, and after another round of inspection, the subsidy is paid. In north Bengal, many gardens have spent money on such activities but have not yet received subsidy,” said a tea planter in Siliguri. The tea planters’ association has also questioned the role of Raju Bista, the BJP’s Darjeeling MP, who is also a member of the Tea Board. “We have also sent a letter to him, saying that though he makes statements on social media about certain achievements, nothing concrete is visible on ground. We have decided to reach out to the workforce at the tea gardens to apprise them of the real facts so that they do not get swayed by the publicity and marketing blitz,” Bansal added. This is the first time a tea planters’ association in north Bengal has questioned the performance of the Board and MP.  A political observer said this might impact the Assembly elections. The state government’s recent decision to revise the wages of tea workers and salaries of staff and sub-staff has given an extra edge to Trinamul in the region, the observer said. “The subsidy issue raised by the association is something the Tea Board has to deal with. It is evident that Trinamul will pick up the issue to exert fresh pressure on BJP. Both Trinamul and the BJP are focusing on the tea population across some 15 Assembly constituencies of north Bengal,” said an observer. A source in the Tea Board said they were aware of the subsidy issue. “There are certain formalities that need to be completed before subsidy is disbursed,” said the source. MP Bista could not be contacted by this paper for his comments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-216
30-01-2021||West Bengal||Step-down chant for turncoat MLA Sukra Munda||Trinamul supporters in Nagrakata waved black flags and demonstrated in front of local MLA Sukra Munda on Friday, demanding he step down immediately from the MLA’s post. The protests came in the wake of Munda joining the BJP last month. The Nagrakata  MLA, who had won on a Trinamul ticket at the 2016 Assembly elections, joined the BJP citing “neglect" by ministers in Trinamul. “People had voted for me but whenever I would approach the state ministers, I was made to wait for hours. Nothing was done for my constituency. The party went on ignoring me,” the MLA had said then. Since his defection, Trinamul leaders and workers of his constituency have raised the demand that he should resign from his post as he has defected to another party. On Tuesday, Trinamul supporters, led by some local leaders, took out a protest march in Dhumpara area of the block. When Munda reached the locality to arrange a social function, agitators waved black flags at him and shouted slogans. “Sukra Munda betrayed the confidence of thousands of people who voted for him. He should immediately resign from the MLA’s post and unless he does so we will continue our protests against him,” said Raju Chhetri, local Trinamul leader. “For five years, he has enjoyed all the benefits as an MLA and recently he has defected to BJP. He has no right to hold the MLA’s post,” Hemanta Roy, another  Trinamul leader said. An unperturbed Munda said he would hold the post till the last day of his tenure. “Why should I listen to Trinamul? They can make their demands but I want to make it clear that I will continue to hold the MLA’s post till the last date of my tenure. The police and the administration should see to it that I get proper security cover as these people had assembled near me and there was a security risk,” said the MLA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-216
30-01-2021||West Bengal||Tea worker shot at in plantation clash in North Dinajpur||A tea worker sustained a bullet wound when a group of workers clashed with some alleged goons over the possession of a tea plantation in Chopra block of North Dinajpur on Friday morning. Police brought the situation under control, seizing two double-barrelled guns and arresting two persons. Sources said a Siliguri resident owned the 27-acre tea plantation at Hingalgach village of Chopra block. Recently, some alleged goons mounted pressure on him to sell off the plantation to them, which prompted the 40-odd plantation workers to object to the sale and express fears that they would be jobless if the plantation changed hands, a local source said. “Some of them, in fact, had proposed to the owner to sell off a part of the plantation to them. A few days back, the owner caved in to the goons and sold off the plantation to them. The workers’ fears turned out to be correct and they were told that their services would not be required anymore,” said the source. On Friday, a gang of armed goons reached the site to take control of the plantation. As the news of their arrival spread, jobless workers tried to stop them. The goons allegedly fired gunshots at the workers. One of the workers, Akbar Ali, was hit by a bullet and admitted to the subdivisional hospital in Islampur. A Chopra police team dispersed the workers. They found two double-barrelled guns from the site and arrested two suspected goons. “The situation is under control in Hingalgach. Our men are posted in the area and searches are on to nab others who had perpetrated the violence,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-216
30-01-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee readies party for all-out fight against BJP||Mamata Banerjee on Friday told a core committee meeting of the Trinamul Congress that the party would go all out against the BJP in the first phase of a campaign from February 1 to 15 before the Assembly elections. The meeting at the chief minister's residence in Calcutta was deemed a roll call of seniors in Trinamul ahead of Union home minister Amit Shah’s Bengal visit. But the meeting did not spring surprises by way of MLAs or MPs — other than the ones already expected — being conspicuous by their absence. “Few were not there; they were not expected to attend anyway,” said a minister after the closed-door meeting. According to sources, the Trinamul chief said the party would go fully into poll-mode from February 1, with intensive focus on every constituency and an extensive tour across the state by her. The first phase of the campaign would continue till February 15. “First of all, she (Mamata) would conduct a tour of north Bengal. Then, the Jungle Mahal. These two were areas where we had not fared well in the Lok Sabha polls in 2019. She likes prioritising tougher challenges,” said the minister. The minister added that the broad contours of the campaign would be laid down directly by Mamata and, for now, there would be a lot of stress on areas such as the farmers’ movement nationally and the “bohiragawto (outsider)” BJP’s alleged insult of Bengal icons in its desperation to appropriate them ahead of the Assembly polls. A senior MP said the chief minister had repeatedly instructed leaders not to cross the line of decency in political attacks against the BJP and its leadership in campaign. “Didi said the BJP would stoop to lows we cannot match and make it a very dirty campaign, which the people of Bengal are unlikely to accept. She said we must steer clear of trying to return fire by way of discourtesy and incivility. That, she said, would make a big difference,” he said. Although there were expectations, said a senior minister, of Mamata talking about defections and her zero-tolerance for sabotage, there was no such element in her directions. “The CM was entirely focused on how the BJP must be fought back and defeated, inch by inch, starting Monday. There cannot and will not be any compromise, she said…. While the national issues and perspectives would feature prominently, local issues must not be relegated to the sidelines, she said,” said the minister. Rajib quits Trinamul Domjur MLA Rajib Banerjee, who had quit the cabinet last week, on Friday resigned as MLA and then from Trinamul. He might join the BJP in the presence of Amit Shah on Sunday. Along with him, at least three other Howrah MLAs, including a former minister, a Hooghly MLA, an MLA and MP from South 24-Parganas, are also likely to switch sides. Since the defection of former minister Suvendu Adhikari, the BJP has been trying to engineer en masse defections from the ruling party. Trinamul has been insisting that those desertions will not hurt the party electorally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-216
30-01-2021||West Bengal||A trader whose profits go towards the greater good||Sixty-eight year old Mangilal Bothra is a familiar sight on the streets of Cooch Behar, with bhujia, papad and other snack items that he brings from Rajasthan to sell at homes, restaurants and shops. At the day’s end, however, he doesn’t take his profits back home but spends it on the needy. “For past seven years, I have not taken a penny of my earnings back home,” said the unusual trader who lives in the NN Road area of the town. “Whatever I earn every day, I buy various items and distribute them among the poor, the children and others. This, I believe, is my small service to society,” he said, adding that sometimes he also pitches in with monetary help to arrange the weddings of girls from humble homes. It was in 1978 when the young Mangilal had joined the trade of procuring snack items from Rajasthan, the state that he calls his second home, and supplying them to the different parts of Cooch Behar. Right now, he makes around Rs 1,000 a day, which includes a profit of around Rs 400. This tire profit goes towards charity. “Back at home, my son runs the family and at times even helps me out with money,” said the philanthropist. “I, on the other hand, spend my profits on helping people. During the lockdown, I had arranged the marriages of six girls from economically backward families whose earnings had dried up. Some acquaintances also came forward to help me,” he added. As he moves through the streets, his eyes keep scanning for people who need genuine help. Sometimes, he helps children with books and stationery, while at other times he helps the poor buy medicines or helps them with winter clothes, blankets and mosquito nets. The soft-spoken Mangilal admitted that he could have easily stayed back home and enjoyed a “retired” life. “But this is something I do not want to do,” he said. “I want to work till the last day of my life and extend whatever little help I can to make the life of the poor easier,” he said. His own lifestyle is extremely simple, he says. The sexagenarian takes a meal only once a day and relies on occasional sips of tea and munches on biscuits for the rest of the time. “Instead of spending money on myself, I prefer to save every penny of my earnings so that I can help others. This has become my habit for the past seven years. I rarely take a rickshaw to travel with my wares and cover most of the town on foot,” said Mangilal. The unusual benevolence of the trader has drawn appreciation from Cooch Behar residents, including notables. North Bengal development minister Rabindranath Ghosh, who is also a resident of the town, said he was aware of the trader’s selfless service to society. “He has been relentlessly working for society out of his own means for years now. He is the pride of our town and we should take a lesson (in philanthropy) from him,” Ghosh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-217
30-01-2021||West Bengal||High court asks panel to consult govt on civic poll dates ||Calcutta High Court on Friday directed the State Election Commission to hold polls to 106 civic bodies after finalising the voters’ list but asked it to fix voting date/dates only after consulting the state government so that appropriate measures could be taken for maintaining law and order during the process. The division bench of Justice I.P. Mukerji and Justice Md Nizamuddin excluded the issue of Calcutta Municipal Corporation polls as it was pending before the Supreme Court. The high court passed the order on prayers by the Howrah district committee of the CPM and Howrah resident Mausumi Roy. Advocate Bikash Ranjan Bhattachayya, who appeared for the CPM, informed the court that the five-year tenure of the Howrah Municipal Corporation had already expired and urged the court to direct the SEC to hold the election immediately. During the course of the hearing, additional advocate general Abhratosh Majumdar said it would not be possible for the state government to deploy enough force for the civic polls because of the forthcoming Assembly elections. “Holding two elections at a time is not possible. To maintain law and order during polls, security forces will have to be deployed,” Majumdar told the court. The SEC’s counsel told the court that the initial process for holding the civic  polls had already started.  After hearing the arguments, the court issued the directive to the SEC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-217
