31-01-2021||West Bengal||TMC looted rations provided by Centre during lockdown says Smriti Irani||Accusing the ruling Trinamool Congress in West Bengal of indulging in corruption, Union Minister Smriti Irani said here on Sunday that while Prime Minister Narendra Modi provided foodgrains for 80 crore people of the country for eight months during the pandemic, the rations were looted by the party in the state.

Irani deputised for Union Home Minister and senior BJP leader Amit Shah at the programme in Howrah district.

Shah's two-day visit to the state was cancelled at the last minute due to the ongoing protest by farmers in Delhi and an explosion near the Israeli Embassy on Friday. He addressed the rally through video-conferencing.

Maintaining that the PM had said that each migrant worker returning home during the coronavirus lockdown be given at least 100 days of employment under Garib Rojgar Yojana, Irani said, though countrywide more than 50 crore mandays were created, "it did not happen in Bengal".

Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said last year that the scheme was not implemented in West Bengal as the state did not provide any data regarding migrant workers who returned to their native places during the COVID-19 lockdown.

A state minister had claimed in November that Bengal had created nearly 31 crore mandays in 2010-21 fiscal under the MGNREGA scheme, and the feat was achieved amid the pandemic, as the government made sure that workers who returned during the lockdown were included in the programme.

"The Prime Minister provided five kg rice and one kg dal for 80 crore people of the country for eight months through 'Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana', but in Bengal, TMC looted it during the lockdown," she said.

Mentioning that Shramik Special Trains arranged by the Centre were termed 'Corona Express' by Mamata Banerjee, Irani said, "I want to ask her whether sons and daughters from Bengal working in different parts of the country are considered viruses by her".

Irani said, the Prime Minister had urged all to unite in the fight against COVID-19, but the "TMC indulged in loot during the lockdown".

Maintaining that more than 130 BJP workers died in Bengal, she said that their sacrifice will be remembered by people who will silently vote for the saffron party with the slogan "chup chap, padma chap, padma chap (silently cast your vote by pressing the lotus button -BJP's poll symbol).

She claimed that though Banerjee is shunning Shri Ram, 'Ram Rajya' (implying good governance) will be created in Bengal.

While the PM had asked each state to distribute foodgrains on the basis of ration cards, in West Bengal coupons were given by the Mamata Banerjee government for such distribution and "these went to those who are a part of the TMC", the minister alleged.

Speaking mostly in Bengali, Irani claimed that the hapless public were lathi-charged when they came down to the streets demanding food.

She claimed that the chief minister only transferred some officers over allegations of misappropriation of rations, but took no step against corrupt TMC leaders.

"I want to thank the Prime Minister that he gave rice and dal to the people which Didi did not want to," she said.

The Prime Minister transferred money to the bank accounts of poor women under the 'Jan Dhan' scheme, and also provided 80 lakh gas cylinders, under the 'Ujwala Yojana', to the poor women in the state, Irani said.

Irani said that the Mamata Banerjee government prevented opposition BJP leaders and workers from working for the people at the height of the pandemic in the state.

She claimed that relatives of coronavirus patients admitted at government hospitals were not provided information on their health condition or even when they died.

Accusing the TMC government of failing to handle the situation arising out cyclone Amphan in the state despite prior warnings, she said that the Army had to be called in to restore normalcy.

"The Prime Minister had given Rs 1,000 crore for Amphan relief as advance, but your leaders looted the money through panchayats," Irani said, asserting that Banerjee will have to answer these questions.

She said that the Mamata Banerjee government has deprived the farmers of the benefits of PM Kisan Samman Nidhi for two years, by refusing to give the list of beneficiaries to the Centre.

Irani alleged that TMC leaders are involved in taking "cut-money", which has "become a practice" in the state.

The Union minister said, according to former state Rajib Banerjee who joined the BJP on Saturday after quitting the TMC, people cannot support a party which instigates fight among themselves, keeps bad relations with the government at the Centre for its "narrow political interests".

"No patriot can stay in a political party which even insults the slogan of 'Jai Shri Ram'," she said.

Several TMC leaders including one of the founding members of the party, Bani Singha Ray, shifted allegiance to the BJP at the rally, which was attended by Rajib Banerjee and many others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-214
31-01-2021||West Bengal||BJP doing ‘jan kalyan’, Mamata interested in ‘bhatija kalyan’, says Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah Sunday accused West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee of working only for "welfare of the nephew" instead of well-being of the masses, and said she will have no one by her side by the time assembly elections are held.

He said the agenda of the TMC dispensation is to make the nephew the next chief minister of the state.

Pointing to the spate of defections from the Trinamool Congress, Shah asserted that Banerjee will be left alone by the time assembly elections are held in the state.

Polls to 294-member Bengal assembly are expected to take place in April-May this year.

Several TMC leaders including one of the founding members of the party, Bani Singha Ray, shifted allegiance to the BJP at the rally, which was attended by newly inducted former TMC minister Rajib Banerjee and many others.

The TMC's slogan of "Maa, Mati, Manush" (mother, land and people) has been reduced to "dictatorship, tolabaji (extortion) and appeasement", Shah said while addressing the rally through video-conferencing in Howrah district.

The senior BJP leader who cancelled his two-day trip to Bengal at the last minute due to ongoing farmers protest in Delhi and explosion near Israeli Embassy, however, kept his date with the rally by addressing it virtually.

Shah is making all efforts to realise BJP's "mission Bengal" by throwing TMC out of power in the state.

Lashing out at "dynastic politics" in the TMC, Shah alleged that Banerjee has been working towards the "nephew's welfare" rather than the well-being of the masses.

"Wherever under the leadership of Prime Minister Modi Ji, NDA has formed the government in the states they are working towards 'Jan Kalyan' (welfare of the masses) to provide services at doorsteps, but here in Bengal the only agenda of the Mamata Banerjee dispensation is to ensure that the nephew becomes the next chief minister.

"The government of Mamata didi is busy towards 'Bhatija Kalyan' (welfare of the nephew) in Bengal. The welfare of the masses is not the agenda of the TMC government," he said without naming anyone.

While inducting the new entrants into the party, Shah said the situation in Bengal under Banerjee's rule was worse than the erstwhile Left regime.

"TMC formed the government after fighting the Left parties, 10 years ago, with Mamata didi promising transformation in the state with the slogan 'Maa Maati Manush'. What changed in the 10 years that so many people are leaving TMC?"

"Mamata Banerjee should think over why so many TMC leaders are joining BJP. It is because she has failed the people of the state.

"The way leaders are deserting party by the time elections arrive, Mamata Banerjee will be left alone," Shah said, taking a swipe at the TMC supremo.

Slamming the chief minister for not being serious about implementing the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi, Shah said the state government has not sent any details to the Centre.

"Initially Mamata didi did not allow implementation of PM Kisan scheme in Bengal. When she realised that the farmers are angry as they have been deprived of the benefits. She agreed.

"But now she is trying to fool the state's farmers by just sending a paper that she is ready. She did not send the list of farmers, bank account numbers. You did not send anything. Whom are you trying to fool?" he quipped.

Shah, assailed the West Bengal government, for not allowing Ayushman Bharat yojna in the state, and asserted that once the saffron party forms the government, it will propose in its very first cabinet meeting that the benefit of the health scheme is provided to all the eligible poor of Bengal.

Shah also attacked Banerjee's government over infiltration on Indo-Bangla border.

"Mamata didi's government has blood-soaked the land of Bengal. The TMC can never stop infiltration as it has allowed it in the state. Only a BJP government formed under the leadership of Narendra Modi can stop it," he said.

Shah said the BJP will take Bengal to the development path and usher in "Sonar Bangla" (golden Bengal).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-214
31-01-2021||West Bengal||Sourav in stable condition, released from hospital||Three days after undergoing a fresh round of angioplasty to clear clogged coronary arteries, Indian cricket board chief Sourav Ganguly was discharged from hospital on Sunday morning, officials said. The 48-year-old cricket icon was admitted on Wednesday to a Calcutta hospital for the second time in a month due to his cardiac condition. On Thursday, an angiography revealed that the blockages in the two other arteries had not reduced even though Sourav is on medication. So, doctors decided to perform angioplasty to remove the blockages. Cardiac surgeon Devi Shetty, the chairman of the Narayana Health group, was present during the procedure. “Mr Ganguly is doing fine and his heart is as strong as a normal person. He had an uneventful recovery and we are hopeful that within the next couple of days, he will be able to return to normal life,” a senior doctor of the private hospital, where he was admitted, said. The former India captain is required to follow a strict routine and needs to be on medication for a few months, he added. The batting great suffered a mild heart attack earlier this month and was diagnosed with Triple Vessel Disease. He had undergone an angioplasty procedure during which a stent was inserted into one of the blocked arteries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-214
31-01-2021||West Bengal||Matuas bristle at immigrant clause||Ram Mondal, a 65-year-old from the Matua community, woke up early on Saturday, did his puja and walked 12km to reach the local high school by 9am to secure a vantage point on the sprawling ground, hoping that Union home minister Amit Shah would clear the confusion about the implementation of the Citizenship Amendment Act. On reaching the venue, he learnt Shah’s event had been put off. In a late Friday decision, the Union home minister deferred his weekend visit to poll-bound Bengal in the wake of a blast near the Israeli embassy in Delhi. Still, Mondal hung around for three hours. Finally, he left the venue, murmuring: “Ebar-o elen na uni (He didn’t turn up this time too).” Shah’s much-hyped event in Thakurnagar was to host an audience of more than a lakh, most from the immigrant Matua community of Bangladesh. An earlier trip to Thakurnagar had earlier been cancelled on December 19. Mondal, who migrated to India in 2000 because of floods in Bangladesh, has Aadhaar and PAN cards and a land deed in his name. Originally from Jessore, Mondal however lives in fear that Indian authorities consider him a Bangladeshi. “I want Indian citizenship and I came here thinking that Amit Shah will solve my problem,” said Mondal, who is concerned despite chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s assertion that people like him are very much Indian and no one can drive them away. A group of 20-odd men and women at the venue said they had similar fears despite having almost all identity documents such as voter, Aadhaar and PAN cards. “Only a citizenship card can solve our problem and that only the BJP government at the Centre can give us,” said one of them, Bikash Biswas, unaware that there was no such thing. Thakurnagar was painted saffron and red (the colour of the Matua flag) on Saturday for Shah’s visit. The Matua leadership and state BJP leaders had raised expectations by campaigning that Shah would announce the process of implementation of the new citizenship act. With Shah not showing up — twice in 41 days — dejection was palpable. When local MP Santanu Thakur — also from the community — was closeted in a meeting with the BJP’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya and national vice-president Mukul Roy, slogans demanding immediate implementation of the citizenship act filled the air. “Amitji couldn’t come because of a national emergency.… The stage will remain intact and he can come anytime, even on 24 hour’s notice,” Roy said in a media briefing. Statements like these helped people like Mondal go back home, their hopes alive. This hope has been the BJP’s biggest political asset in the Matua-dominated parts of North 24-Parganas and Nadia from where the party won two Lok Sabha seats in 2019 riding on the promise of citizenship. At the same time, not only is impatience brewing in the community, some among the Matuas have started challenging the BJP narrative. “The provisions of the CAA will require any applicant for citizenship to disclose that he has been an illegal immigrant… The question is, why will we do so after living in this country for so many years?” asked writer Kapil Krishna Thakur. Such questions have reached Matua leaders such as Bongaon MP Santanu and his brother Subrata. “We want citizenship, but without any conditions like applying for it or declaration of status as illegal immigrants,” said Subrata. Legal experts, however, say that unconditional citizenship is not possible under the existing provisions of the CAA. Sources aware of talks between the Matua leaders and BJP top brass said that the demand from the MP’s family had made framing the CAA rules a complicated exercise. As the Matuas matter in 25 to 30 Assembly seats, Trinamul has started working overtime to woo them back. “Our chief minister has said all of us are citizens.… She has given land deeds to people in refugee colonies. The BJP is creating confusion on the citizenship issue for political gains,” said Mamatabala Thakur, a former Trinamul MP and a Matua leader, who also went on to allege that Shah had avoided coming here as he had nothing to offer. Additional reporting by Subhasish Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-214
31-01-2021||West Bengal||Six turncoats hop on plane to reach Shah||Six Trinamul turncoats, including former minister Rajib Banerjee, joined the BJP at Amit Shah’s residence in Delhi late on Saturday after they took a chartered flight to the capital on the Union home minister’s “orders”. “We have been handed over the BJP flag and formally inducted into the party by Amit Shah,” said Banerjee. The others who joined the BJP with him were expelled Trinamul MLA Baishali Dalmia, former mayor of Howrah Rathin Chakraborty, MLA Prabir Ghoshal, former chairman of Ranaghat municipality Parthasarathi Chattopadhyay and actor Rudranil Ghosh. “I am sure their induction will further strengthen the BJP’s fight for Sonar Bangla,” Shah said. BJP national vice-president Mukul Roy and the party’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya, who accompanied five of the six inductees in a special flight to Delhi on Saturday, were present. Actor Ghosh did not take the flight to Delhi but was present at Shah’s home. These inductions were to be held in Shah’s presence at a rally in Dumurjola on Sunday but he had to cancel his weekend Bengal visit on Friday. Union minister for textiles Smriti Irani will address the meeting at Dumurjola on Sunday. “Shah will address the rally at Dumurjola virtually,” Dalmia said outside Shah’s residence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-214
31-01-2021||West Bengal||Bagdogra taxis to go on indefinite strike over demands of fare hike||Around 1,300 taxis plying from Bagdogra airport will go off road “indefinitely” from February 2 to protest the state government’s delay in hiking fares, representatives of the Bagdogra Taxi Owners’ Welfare Association (BTOWA) said on Saturday. The taxi strike is likely to inconvenience thousands of commuters every day. On Saturday, Bagdogra airport saw 42 flights. Siraj Bhowmik, the BTOWA president, said they had no option but to announce the strike. Taxi fares had been revised last in 2008. “Earlier this month, we raised an eight-point demand including revision of fares. We had decided to discontinue our services from Bagdogra but put it off for a fortnight on the assurance of state tourism minister and officials that decisions (by the state) would be made within 15 days. A fortnight has passed without a decision,” he said. The taxi strike, sources said, has been backed by Intuc, the INTTUC and a number of other taxi owners’ and drivers’ associations of the hills and plains. The impending taxi strike has left tourism stakeholders worried. “If taxis stop plying from the airport, many tourists may cancel their trips. The administration should immediately hold talks with taxi owners and drivers,” said a hotel owner in Siliguri, adding that over 6,000 passengers travelled via Bagdogra on Saturday. Snow in Sandakphu Sandakphu, the highest point in Bengal perched at a height of 11,900 feet, saw the first snowfall of the season on Saturday. Sources said that it started snowing from 1pm, and soon there was a deposit of around 2 inches of snow across the region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-215
31-01-2021||West Bengal||Bengal logs 310 new Covid-19 infections||Bengal on Saturday logged 341 recoveries, 310 new infections and nine deaths, including two from Calcutta. Its total active Covid-19 cases slid for 96 days on the trot from 37,190 on Vijaya Dashami, October 26, to 5,671 on Saturday. Bengal’s recovery rate rose is now 97.22 per cent, ahead of the national average of 96.97. Its mortality rate, however, is 1.78 while the national average is 1.43 per cent. A minister highlighted the falling occupancy of Covid patients in hospitals as proof of improvement. “A look at the hospitalisation (of Covid-19 patients) data on December 30 and today (January 30) is evidence enough of the overall improvement overall in the past month alone,” he said, referring to  the 11.92 per cent occupancy in 13,588 Covid-19 beds across 102 hospitals on December 30, and 5.83 per cent occupancy in 8,727 beds across 69 hospitals on Saturday. “That we have been able to de-requisition 4,861 and 33 hospitals in just a month tells you how decisive this turnaround has been.” The 200 state-run safe homes had, with 11,507 beds between them, had 1,012 people on October 26 and 99 on December 30. On Saturday, there were 15 people in safe homes. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.15 per cent now, having improved steadily from the 8.27, 71 days ago. On Saturday, the state reported 26,107 tests, taking the total past 79.7 lakh, at 88,565 tests per million people. The state’s total of Covid-19 cases is nearly 5.8 lakh now, including around 5.54 lakh recoveries and 10,164 deaths. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. A similar set of instructions came from the high court, to ensure the outbreak does not worsen over the New Year celebrations. The numbers of infections from the festivals between October and January has shown that the court’s instructions were effective. The state attributed 8,535 deaths or 84 per cent of the total toll to comorbidities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-215
31-01-2021||West Bengal||Tally VVPAT and EVM, says poll watchdog||The Citizens’ Commission on Elections (CCE), a civil society group, said on Saturday that the Election Commission of India must optimise the tallying of voter-verified paper audit trails (VVPATs) with the EVMs in the polls in upcoming elections. Retired IAS officer Jawhar Sircar, a former chief electoral officer, addressed a news meet on behalf of the CCE, whose members include former Supreme Court judges, civil servants, journalists, economists and academics. “There is no proof that EVMs cannot be tampered with. Hence, the only solution... is to ensure that as many VVPATs as possible are tallied with EVMs,” he said. Four states — Bengal, Assam, Tamil Nadu and Kerala — and the Union Territory of Puducherry are going to polls later this year. Sircar referred to the ECI’s decision before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls to tally one VVPAT per Assembly constituency. Many political parties had moved the Supreme Court opposing this small sample size. The apex court ruled that five VVPATs for every Assembly constituency should be tallied with EVMs to ensure maximum transparency. However, the CCE does not agree. Sircar said that in an Assembly constituency with hundreds of booths, counting merely five VVPATs would not reflect the whole picture. “We have seen in Madhya Pradesh during the 2019 polls that the number of votes cast and recorded didn’t match. This happened in over 200 booths,” Sircar said. Sircar was the chief electoral officer of Bengal in 1999, when EVMs were first introduced. However, on Saturday Sircar said that there had been little technical upgrade in EVMs over the past 22 years. The CCE has prepared a report where it has discussed how EVMs can allegedly be tampered with. It will share the report with the ECI, the President of India and relevant government departments. Recently, former chief election commissioner of India S.Y. Quraishi argued in favour of cent per cent VVPAT counting. Quraishi, in a webinar, said that counting both VVPATs and EVMs takes barely 20-25 minutes, hence all VVPATs must also be counted. Sircar endorsed Quraishi. “The ECI argued that counting of all VVPATS would be a long-drawn process. From my experience as a CEO, I can say it won’t take more than 20 minutes to count a VVPAT,” he said. Subhashis Banerjee, a professor of computer science in IIT-Delhi who joined the news meet virtually, said EVMs could be hacked through electromagnetic and other devices from a remote location. Against such a backdrop, the CCE believes the only way to ensure maximum transparency in polls would be to count as many VVPATs as possible.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-215
31-01-2021||West Bengal||Tagore focus in Bolpur station revamp ||Eastern Railway has decided to engage Visva-Bharati’s school of fine arts Kala Bhavana to give Bolpur railway station a makeover on the theme of the art and culture of Santiniketan and Rabindranath Tagore. This comes within a month of the December visit of Union home minister Amit Shah to the varsity campus and the video-address by Visva-Bharati Chancellor and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the occasion of the institution’s centenary celebrations. Many sources said this hinted at how the BJP-led central government was making fervent attempts to highlight its Bengal connect in the run-up to the Bengal polls. Sources said senior officials of Eastern Railway, headed by Howrah divisional railway manager Sonjoy Kumar Saha, on Saturday held a meeting with Kala Bhavana’s senior professors at Bolpur station and asked for a detailed project report on how the station and its surroundings could get a “makeover sourcing from the art and culture of Santiniketan and of Rabindranath Tagore”. The sources said railway officials asked Kala Bhavan teachers to send their proposal as soon as possible, indicating that the central government wants primary work to start before the Assembly polls. A team of professors headed by Kala Bhavana principal Pankaj Panwar who attended the meeting gave a primary briefing to Saha and his team on making the station unique. “We plan to promote this station as an international one.… We held a meeting with Kala Bhavana teachers who assured us of help to implement the project,” said Saha. Sources said the Kala Bhavana team proposed a theme based on Tagore and Visva-Bharati along with murals of several modern artists. “We will hold a meeting shortly and make a detailed plan after visiting the station and measuring the area,” said a Kala Bhavan professor. Trinamul leaders called out the “politics” behind the plan ahead of the polls. Anubrata Mondal, Trinamul’s Birbhum president, said: “People cannot forget the faux pas by (BJP chief J.P.) Nadda in describing Santiniketan as the birthplace of Tagore... The railways’ move is nothing but a last-ditch effort to undo the damage.” Dhruba Saha, Birbhum BJP president, said Trinamul had “no right to criticise the move”. “People have not forgotten that their leaders took part in attacking the campus last year to break its gates,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-215
31-01-2021||West Bengal||Five die in two mishaps||Five persons were killed in two accidents in Murshidabad’s Sagardighi and Behrampore late on Friday. In one, brothers Sitaram and Sankar Mondal, and their cousin Apurba died when their bike rammed into the wall of a home at Ujjalnagar village in Sagardighi at 10pm. In the other, Uttam Haldar and Maidul Islam died when their auto collided with a truck in Behrampore’s Katabagan around 9pm. Autorickshaw driver Samsuddin Mondal, grievously injured, was first sent to Murshidabad Medical College and then referred to NRS Medical College in Calcutta. Police are searching for the truck driver.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-215
