01-11-2020||City||Yeida to set up dedicated cell for registry of properties||GREATER NOIDA: The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) has decided to set up a dedicated registry cell for plot allottees who want to execute sublease deed of their properties.The registry or sublease deed cell will be having four counters to assist the plot allottees, officials said. The cell will be set up at the ground floor of the Yeida’s main administrative building located in Greater Noida’s sector Omega-I. It has three floors with customer relation office and industry office on the ground floor. The move comes after the authority realised that the plot allottees have to face inconvenience during the process of getting the sublease agreement done.“We will start the facility from next week at our office so that plot allottees do not face any inconvenience in getting sublease done,” Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer, Yeida, said on Saturday. In 2009, Yeida had allotted 21,000 residential plots in sectors 18 and 19. In the past nine years, the authority could not develop these sectors and most of the plot allottees are yet to obtain the possession. In the last one year, the authority has offered possession to 14,000 allottees and it is on way to offer possession to remaining 7,000 plot allottees, the officials said. According to the officials, the authority has said that if the plot allottees get the sublease deed done by December this year, they will not have to pay any extra penalty for delay in payment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/yeida-to-set-up-dedicated-cell-for-registry-of-properties/story-djZBbGalwndhxBOTefmBHI.html
01-11-2020||Mumbai||Free walk-in Covid-19 testing at 244 spots in Mumbai from today||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Sunday said starting today (Monday), citizens will be able to avail free walk-in Covid-19 testing at 244 locations across the city as the civic body aims to increase tests to 24,000 daily before Diwali. The BMC said citizens will be able to test for free between 10am to 12 noon. Citizens can avail information on the nearest testing camp by calling on BMC’s helpline 1916 or visiting http://stopcoronavirus.mcgm.gov.in. Hindustan Times had reported first on Sunday that BMC is going to finalise a plan of free walk-in testing camps at multiple locations across the city. Civic officials said the plan was to have adequate testing facilities in a decentralised manner. Owing to this, the number of testing centres will go up to over 300 in the city. A total of 54 private laboratories are providing these tests, including home service. Since September, the BMC has been conducting between 8,000-15,000 Covid-19 tests on a daily basis, 30-40% of which comprises rapid antigen tests. Overall, more than 15.26 lakh tests have been conducted in the city and the overall positivity rate is around 16%. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC, said, “Free walk-in testing camps will help in increasing the number of tests as well as timely diagnosis.” The state Covid-19 task-force had also suggested that daily testing should be increased if more unlocking is happening.Furthermore, the BMC is also anticipating a surge in cases around the festival time and additionally, local trains starting for all citizens in the coming days. Meanwhile, according to BMC, initially, the facility of free testing will be available on a walk-in basis, and further on, after taking the response into account, an appointment system may be initiated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/free-walk-in-covid-19-testing-at-244-spots-in-mumbai-from-today/story-pxDquk9NZuF9mXoGrPKNXN.html
01-11-2020||Noida||Season’s all-time high stubble burning contribution affects air quality of Noida, Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: It has been eleven days in a row on Sunday since October 22 that Noida and Ghaziabad have remained under the ‘very poor’ category of air quality. The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) has said that the share of stubble burning in pollution went to about 40% on Sunday, the season’s highest, which contributed majorly to the deteriorating air quality. On Sunday, the air quality index (AQI) values for Noida, Ghaziabad and Greater Noida were recorded in higher ranges of ‘very poor’ and stood at 384, 388 and 384, respectively, as per data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). As per SAFAR, the previous highest share of stubble burning in air pollution in the national capital region was 36% on October 29. “In spite of improved wind conditions, air quality has not progressed as expected due to high stubble-related intrusion and trapping of pollutants during night time due to low wintertime boundary layer height. However, it has not deteriorated further due to continued favourable North-northwesterly boundary level wind direction. The highly favourable conditions for fire-related intrusion in Delhi expected to continue,” the SAFAR forecast said. As per the forecast, the SAFAR-synergised stubble fire counts over Punjab, Haryana, UP, Uttarakhand, and neighbouring areas impacting air stood at 3,216 on Saturday. “Stubble burning share in PM2.5 has increased and is estimated as 40% for today (Sunday), the highest of the season. A better ventilation condition is forecasted for the next two days... It is set to marginally deteriorate on 3rd November,” the SAFAR forecast further added. Meanwhile, officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) have predicted that favourable meteorological conditions will prevail for the next two-three days which will help speedy dispersal of pollutants. “It is expected that the pollution levels will not rise for the next two-three days as there will be wind speed which will help in dispersal of pollutants. On Sunday, the wind speed was about 18-21kmph during day time and temperature also went up to 30.8 degrees Celsius. It is likely to remain in the range of 30-31 degrees Celsius for the next three days and this will also help in dispersal of pollutants,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s Regional Weather Forecasting Centre. According to official statistics of the Consortium for Research on Agroecosystem Monitoring and Modelling from Space (CREAMS) Laboratory, there have been a total of 30,999 stubble fire incidents in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh from October 1 to October 30, with Punjab alone accounting for 27,088 of these. The stubble fire counts stood at 25,778 during the same period last year. Praveen Kumar, regional officer of UP pollution control board (UPPCB) at Noida said that they are focussing more on local pollution sources. “We are focussing to maintain enforcement and curb the local pollution sources. We are maintaining strict vigil for such sources and trying to increase our activities to curb pollution,” he added. In Greater Noida, only monitoring station at Knowledge Park V spiked to ‘severe’ category on Sunday, while none of the four stations in Noida went to ‘severe’ category. In Ghaziabad, the monitoring station at Loni went to the ‘severe’ category on Sunday, besides the one at Sanjay Nagar. “Till now, we had only the Loni station which frequently went to ‘sever’ category. On Sunday, Sanjay Nagar monitoring station also went to ‘severe’ category. We are monitoring all four stations and taking appropriate measures at Sanjay Nagar. The overall AQI in Ghaziabad deteriorated due to 40% contribution of stubble burning. We are trying to keep in check the local factors as well,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB, Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/season-s-all-time-high-stubble-burning-contribution-affects-air-quality-of-noida-ghaziabad/story-ypZXSMI4OB2cDvrH1lKF1N.html
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||100 notices issued for ₹55-crore suspected GST evasion in Chandigarh||With the economic activity picking up after relaxation of Covid-19 restrictions, the Chandigarh goods and services tax (GST) department has also restarted drive against tax law violators and has issued 100 notices in suspected cases of tax evasion amounting to more than ₹55 crore.“The department has shortlisted 100 taxpayers on the basis of discrepancies found between GSTR-3B and GSTR-1, involving more than ₹55 crore. Taxpayers have been issued notices,” said RK Chaudhary, assistant excise and taxation commissioner.GSTR-3B is a monthly summary return filed by a taxpayer by the 20th of next month. GSTR-1 is a monthly or quarterly return filed by taxpayers to disclose details of their outward supplies for the month, along with their tax liability. Reconciliation between the two ensures that no invoice is omitted or recorded more than once and a taxpayer arrives at an accurate amount of output tax payable.GST dept steps up checking of e-way billsThe Chandigarh GST department in order to plug evasion of tax has also stepped up its roadside checking and inspection of e-way bills. The department has imposed and recovered a penalty of ₹34 lakh in October, said Chaudhary. The GSTIN (good and service tax identification number) of 542 taxpayers who were generating e-way bills, but did not file their GSTR-3B returns for December 2019 and January 2020 have been blocked by a computerised system. The blocking of e-way bills has restarted from October 15 and applicable on those taxpayers whose turnover is more than ₹5 crore.The department has calculated an interest to the tune of ₹13.24 crore on late payment of voluntary taxes for years 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20 by taxpayers. This interest amount has been calculated on the net tax liability after allowing input tax credit and the department has initiated recovery proceedings by issuing statutory notices to the taxpayers for deposit of interest on late payment of voluntary taxes.The GST department has accomplished 100% returns compliance in the years 2017-18, 2018-19, 99.97% in 2019-20 and 94.65% in the current financial year 2020-2021(up to September 30), which is highest in India, Chaudhary said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/100-notices-issued-for-55-crore-suspected-gst-evasion-in-chandigarh/story-LGPLEk9FMZqDubGLWDEm3N.html
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||PU syndicate meeting not held for three months in a row||After the senate polls of Panjab University were deferred in August, the varsity’s syndicate has not met for the third month in a row.The last meeting of syndicate, which is the executive body of PU, was held in July. As a tradition of PU, its executive body meets once in a month. Although vice-chancellor Raj Kumar had called an emergent meeting of syndicate in an online mode twice in September, the members refused to attend the same and instead demanded a physical syndicate meet.On Friday, the syndicate members again wrote to V-C, urging him to call the meeting of syndicate to ensure that the functioning of the university did not suffer. With the end of term of PU senate, the syndicate remains the highest executive body of the university and its meeting remains key for the smooth functioning of the varsity. According to the PU calendar, the executive government of the university will be vested in the syndicate, which has powers to consider and make recommendations to the senate as it deems fit in the matters that include appointment of officers of Class A, affiliation and disaffiliation of colleges, recommendations of the board of finance relating to annual budget, supplementary grants, and others.The calendar also grants power to syndicate to pass orders on various university matters, including those related to colleges, academic council, faculties, and sanction proposals of new expenditure up to a particular limit. However, as no meeting was held over the last three months, many important matters are still pending including the reservation roster for recruitment of teachers. Syndicate member Navdeep Goyal said, “When the governing body will not meet, no policy decisions can be taken.”The recommendations of the board of finance are tabled in syndicate for consideration before the final approval from the senate. Last year, the board meeting was held in August and the budget was taken up by syndicate in October. “Generally, the budget estimates are finalised in July/September each year. University’s budget estimates for 2021-22 would be delayed and it may create a crisis in timely release of grants and delay other financial needs of the university,” said Rajat Sandhir, who is a member of the finance board.Syndicate member Rabindra Nath Sharma said, “This is an unfortunate scenario and if the senate is not there, the vice-chancellor should call the syndicate meeting so that all the pending issues will be taken up.”PU vice-chancellor Raj Kumar, meanwhile, refused to comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-syndicate-meeting-not-held-for-three-months-in-a-row/story-RXup3ZeuRHhMeG6uwKr6IP.html
01-11-2020||Mumbai||After 8 years’ wait, Diva man gets stolen gold chains back from Kalyan GRP||Sandip Ghag, a 31-year-old resident of Diva who lost two gold chains in a theft in 2012, got lucky after eight years when Kalyan Government Railway Police (GRP) returned his gold chains worth ₹70,000, as per present market value, on Sunday. “I was speechless when I realised that finally my hard-earned gold chains will be returned to me. One week ago, one of the policemen had come to my place asking me to take the chains. However, I could not go as I was not keeping well. On Sunday I finally received it,” said Ghag. He added, “I had completely forgotten about the chain as there was no hope. Currently, my mother is sick and I have to arrange money for her treatment. I am sure the chains will help. I always believed that hard-earned money will return in some or the other; and it is proved now.” The theft took place at Kalyan railway tracks in 2012 when Ghag was heading to Kalyan for a job. He was hit by stone by the thief and suffered injuries in the incident. A case was registered on the same day and the police initiated a search. While GRP managed to nab the thief, the recovered gold chains were stuck in court trials. “Several such recovered items are often not returned due to lack of follow up. We have recently taken up such cases and are trying to reach out to the complainants. In Ghag’s case, his phone number had changed and there was no follow-up by officers as well,” said Shardul Walmiki, senior police inspector, Kalyan GRP. He added, “We will be returning more such recovered items in the coming days by putting in all the efforts to reach out to the complainants.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/after-8-years-wait-diva-man-gets-stolen-gold-chains-back-from-kalyan-grp/story-cU4TPis1WpsXhW2lRknmeN.html
01-11-2020||Noida||Noida: Officials hope of a higher turnout in schools this week||NOIDA: With the response coming from the schools in Gautam Budh Nagar district, it is expected that more students will attend school in person this week, district education officials said. The turnout in private schools and government schools has been recorded 15% and 30% respectively, ever since the state government allowed schools to open for classes 9 to 12 from October 19. Neeraj Pandey, the Gautam Budh Nagar district inspector of schools (DIOS), said that initially, the response from parents in sending their children to schools was lukewarm but the situation is improving. “So far, the turnout in private CBSE schools in the district is less than 15%. But we hope that it will be doubled this week, given as parents have started showing interest in sending their children back to school. I hope that from this week, the student turnout will at least be double than what we are seeing, in private schools,” he said.When contacted, Kamini Bhashin, the principal of DPS Noida, said the school has already started classes for students of Class 9 to 12. “Though the attendance is not very encouraging, we have decided to start the practical classes, particularly for classes 10 and 12, from Monday as they have to take their Board examinations next year. The school has also decided to conduct a full-fledged examination, which will be different from the regular pattern, enlisting the participation and cooperation of the parents at home and the teachers at school,” she said.She further said that the objective of the exam is to gauge the students’ understanding of concepts and to give them an exposure to writing three-hour long papers at one go.“We see parents as co-partners in the child’s education and hence solicit their active support in executing the exam in the safety of your homes. We would like to share the exam plan with them. The exams will commence from November 23, in which the entire syllabus will be evaluated. Examinations are about confidentiality, so parents are requested to create a new e-mail id, which would be used exclusively to share the question paper, and ensure their ward has no access to the password. The new id has to be shared with the home room teachers (HRTs),” she said.On the other hand, Renu Singh, the principal of Amity school (Noida), said the school has not yet started in-person lessons for class 9 to 12. “The parents’ response is very cold. We are waiting for a better response. Only then will we start in person lessons for them,” she said.Meanwhile, parents also believe that after Diwali, the turnout of students will increase in the schools. Anchal Vohra of sector 77, said that a lot of parents in his society have agreed to send their children back for in-person classes in schools. “They need to be there for practicals. We’ll send our children to school after Diwali,” he said.Echoing similar views, Sushmita Singh of Sector 25 (Noida), said: “Online classes can only enhance their academic credentials. But in-person classes are needed for their overall development, we have decided to send our children to school once Diwali is over,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-officials-hope-of-a-higher-turnout-in-schools-this-week/story-v7549Zc2ROgmKax0GsBU9O.html
01-11-2020||Delhi||Online HSRP bookings resume in Delhi||Online bookings of high-security registration plates (HSRP) and colour-coded stickers for vehicles resumed on Sunday, with an additional provision for doorstep delivery that is currently available for applicants only in a handful of localities in east and west Delhi districts.On September 23, the Delhi government had issued a public notice asking vehicle owners to avail HSRP and colour-coded stickers at the earliest in order to avoid being penalised under existing laws but it did not mention any deadline in the notice. But on October 1, Delhi Transport minister Kailash Gahlot had directed for stopping the online booking last month after complaints were received from vehicle owners about delays and issues in logging on the registration portal.“Around 3,000 bookings are targeted every day up to Diwali. If the service from suppliers of HSRP and colour-coded stickers and dealers are found to be satisfactory, the bookings will be raised after the festival break,” said an official in the government’s transport department.On Sunday, the doorstep delivery provision was made available by booking service providers for applicants who are residents of Mayur Vihar, PatparGanj,Anand Vihar, Laxmi Nagar, Janakpuri, Rajouri Garden, PunjabiBagh and Kirti Nagar, said an official, adding that more localities will be added in the list over the next two weeks. There are around 3.2 million vehicles in Delhi – both commercial and private – which are supposed to have high-security registration plates. They include around 1.1 million four-wheelers, 1.9 million two-wheelers and the rest include auto-rickshaws, e-rickshaws, buses, trucks, etc. The rule applies largely to vehicles registered before April 1, 2019, as most newer vehicles (registered after April 1, 2019) come equipped with HSRPs and stickers, said the transport official.About 350 fitters are being roped in for home delivery and affixation of number plates. The home delivery charges have been decided in consultation with Delhi government and at Rs 125 for two-wheelers and Rs 250 for four wheelers, in addition to the usual fee for HSRP, said a spokesperson of Rosmerta Safety Systems Private Limited – one of the three authorised suppliers of HSRP in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/online-hsrp-bookings-resume-in-delhi/story-lZupO7lvq1L4XTGuEhYigJ.html
01-11-2020||City||Islamic centre’s signage defaced, FIR registered||New Delhi: Alleged members of the Hindu Sena defaced the signage outside the India Islamic Cultural Centre (IICC) on Sunday, police said, adding an FIR has been registered suo-motu. Deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Eish Singhal said an FIR was registered at the Tughlaq Road police station against unknown persons under Section 3 of the Delhi Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, 2007. “A police team spotted the defaced signage while patrolling the neighbourhood on Sunday morning. There is no CCTV camera installed around the board. The name of a right-wing organisation is mentioned on the objectionable poster pasted on the signage. We will probe the involvement of its members,” said the officer.Earlier in the day, Hindu Sena released a statement owning up the responsibility for the act. Photographs of the defaced board went viral on social media on Sunday. Hindu Sena chief Vishnu Gupta said that in the morning he learnt that some members of their organisation had defaced the signage during a protest at the India Islamic Cultural Centre on Sunday morning. “Muslims in cities like Bhopal and Mumbai have been protesting against the France government’s response to Islamic terrorism. This has been happening despite our Prime Minister and our people extending support to France at this hour. We believe that members of the IICC should have come out with a statement condemning the protests in India. Since they did not, it is clear that they too were supporting the protest,” he said. Referring to the defacement, SM Khan, vice president of IICC, said the incident was unfortunate. “It was an unfortunate incident and we brought it to the notice of local authorities. Our board will meet to decide on the course of legal action. IICC is a place which believes in inter-faith dialogue, deliberation and promotes national integrity. To say we support any act of terror is ridiculous.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/islamic-centre-s-signage-defaced-fir-registered/story-HHtmJeLPsgUuYpjH5K3kqN.html
01-11-2020||City||‘Special measures’ to ensure DU internal exams finish before semester tests||New Delhi: To ensure that internal assessment and practicals for the academic session 2020-21 are conducted before the semester theory exams scheduled in December, Delhi University’s exam department on Saturday asked principals, deans and heads of department to adhere to “special measures” devised for the same.The notice lists guidelines for the internal assessment and practicals of the current second- and third-year students. The undergraduate admissions are currently underway and the session for first-years is slated to begin November 18.Manoj Khanna, principal of Ramjas College, said, “As per the academic calendar released by University Grants Commission (UGC), the classes for first-year students will begin on November 18 and their semester exams will be conducted in March. Since the remaining exams (for other years) are being conducted in December, they (university) will chalk out a plan for the assessment of first-year students accordingly.”“Instead of the three existing components of internal assessment viz Class Tests, Tutorial Test, and Attendance, only one component defined i.e internal assignments maybe carried out for the current semester for this examination, except SOL as a special measure due to the Covid-19 pandemic,” Dean (Examinations) said in the notice. These assignments will be conducted online and students will be asked to submit via email in the defined time.For undergraduate (UG) practical exams the teachers will give assignments based on practical syllabus while for the postgraduate (PG) practical exams, the evaluation will be in “100% continuous evaluation mode.”Viva-voce, moot courts, and oral exams will be conducted through Skype or other online teaching platforms. For internship or apprenticeship mandatory for completion of degree in most professional or technical courses, the students can take up online internships and the period of internship can be reduced by clubbing it with assignments.“In the present scenario, appropriate measures have to be adopted to facilitate the UG/PG students pursuing projects and dissertation. Accordingly, review-based/secondary data-based projects or software driven projects shall be accepted by the Faculty/Department/College instead of laboratory-based experiments or field survey based assignments to these students,” Dean (Exams) said in the guidelines.Payal Mago, principal of Shaheed Rajguru College of Applied Sciences, said, “After the Covid-19 lockdown struck in March, the previous academic session saw similar guidelines being implemented for internal assessment of existing students. However, this is not for first-year students since we are yet to see if their entire semester will be fully online or a hybrid mode if they are allowed to attend offline classes at some point later.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/special-measures-to-ensure-du-internal-exams-finish-before-semester-tests/story-b5vhZpt4Nu2NHk8WTzO4tN.html
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||In-house weekly prize money tourneys gear up local golfers for pro circuit||After almost seven-and-half months, the country’s professional golfing circuit will resume on November 4 from Chandigarh and Panchkula simultaneously. But apart from playing on their home turf, the local golfers will have an advantage of competing in the in-house weekly prize money events for the last four months. With lockdown forcing the professional golfers to stay away from the competition since mid-March, the Chandigarh Golf Club started its own in-house weekly prize money tournament to give the professional golfers a feel of the competitive circuit. An entry fee and a small prize money for the top-five finishers added more thrill to the event. “It (referring to an in-house weekly tournament) was like playing a round of proper competition. We faced the same amount of pressure we felt while playing in any pro event. No one can afford to take a shot lightly or for granted. Everyone played his best and winning has always been a pride,” says India’s one of the most successful professional golfers, Jeev Milkha Singh. The club initiated a weekly tournament, every Wednesday, from mid-June. A one-day event, with 18 holes, has been played in a team scramble format. A professional golfer paired up with an amateur and both the team members tee off. After every shot, the best ball is chosen. “The idea basically evolved out of lockdown to provide competition to professionals, who were absolutely lacking any competitive golf. Besides that, the advantage of amateur being paired up with professionals provides them the invaluable experience and opportunity to learn the sport from a close quarter with the best names in the country,” says Sandeep Singh Sandhu (Bobby), CGC president. “Because of the format (team scramble), it became a very competitive field and there was a sense of competition in every shot. The scores for a round have even touched 10-12 under.”Every in-house weekly event saw 50 to 60 entries with the names like Jeev Milkha Singh, Ajeetesh Sandhu, Harinder Gupta, Karandeep Kochhar, Adil Bedi, and Akshay Sharma playing regularly. Even current golfing sensations Shubhankar Sharma and Gaganjeet Bhullar played a couple of Wednesday events before heading to take part in the European circuit. With all the players chipping in ₹1,000 each as an entry fee, the money collected has been distributed among the top-five pairs. The winning pairs (top-five) cannot play with the same partners for the next three weeks. “Though the prize money is only for a token, it increases the competition level and offers a fair amount of pressure. Everyone wants to win,” says Jeev. “Chandigarh golfers will be in advantage when the circuit starts on November 4. They will be ready to deal with the competition pressure. From my experience, I can say that even the world’s top golfers come under pressure and it has a bearing on their performance when they are playing in competition after a gap of six to seven months, unless one is used to the same type of feeling and playing in the same environment. Because as a human being, we need time to adapt,” he added.“Since mid-March, we are out of competition and only a couple of Indian pros are eligible to play in the ongoing European circuit. So, for the larger community of pro golfers, these weekly pro events were the only option to stay tuned with competitive golf and sense the same environment as we do during the pro events,” says Akshay Sharma, who finished top-five twice in the weekly tournaments. About the resumption of pro circuitThe Indian professional circuit is resuming with back-to-back tournaments in Panchkula and Chandigarh. The tour is opening with Tata Steel PGTI Players Championship presented by Panchkula Golf Club from November 4 to 7. The first two rounds will be played simultaneously at Panchkula and Chandigarh golf courses, while the third and fourth round will be played in Panchkula. The next four-round event presented by Chandigarh Golf Club will start from November 9. The venue format for the first two rounds remains the same, while the third and fourth round will be played in Chandigarh. Both the events carry prize money of ₹30 lakh each. “Most of the things remain the same, except for reporting an hour before the tea off timing and submitting a report of Covid-19 test done not before 72 hours of the practice round (November 2). Only the golfers with negative reports will be allowed to participate,” says Akshay, whose negative report makes him eligible to play in both the tournaments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/in-house-weekly-prize-money-tourneys-gear-up-local-golfers-for-pro-circuit/story-l1a0OGytaeB9L9y7HsiSNN.html
01-11-2020||Noida||Covid-19: Owing to festive season, Ghaziabad tests service providers to gauge possibility of second wave||Ghaziabad: In the first three days of focussed testing for the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease taken up by the district health department, teams have found positive cases among groups of those working as auto-drivers, beauticians and staff at sweets’ shops, and have advised people to take all precautions while going out to markets during the festival season.The focussed testing drive was directed from October 29 to November 12 in all districts in Uttar Pradesh in order to control any probable second wave of Covid-19, and to detect clusters of cases which may result due to mixing of people in markets, etc in the festive season.According to the records of the health department, a comprehensive testing of auto drivers was taken up at Vijay Nagar, Sahibabad, Ambedkar Road, Mohan Nagar, and near the Sahibabad Site IV Industrial Area. Four people of the 1,005 people tested through rapid antigen kits were found positive. The reports of another set of 350 people who were tested with the RT-PCR method are awaited.Likewise, during the focussed sampling drive on October 30, in which beauticians and mehendi artistes, and staff of beauty parlours were tested in markets and malls in Raj Nagar Extension, Vasundhara, Indirapuram, Kaushambi and Raj Nagar, etc., five persons were found positive out of a total of 1,037 tested through rapid antigen kits. The results for another set of 369 samples tested through the RT-PCR method are awaited. Another set of 1,034 tests, conducted through rapid antigen kits, were administered at Raj Nagar Extension, Vijay Nagar, Sahibabad Site IV, Indirapuram, Modinagar and Govindpuram, of which six persons were found positive. The RT-PCR test reports of another 370 persons from this group are awaited.“Each day we are targeting a different set of people in order to know how many of them have Covid-19 and can pass it on to others if undetected. Since there will be a lot of movement in markets in the coming days owing to festivals, it is important that such groups are tested and positive persons are isolated or sent for treatment,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad. Under this initiative, the health department is taking up 1,300 samples per day from focussed groups which also include people like vendors, cycle-rickshaw drivers, shopkeepers and milkmen, etc.The 1,300 tests are included in the daily testing target and samples are collected at collection centres as well as locations identified with the help of traders’ associations.“On our part, we have issued strict directions to our members to observe all safety and precautionary measures as there is overcrowding in markets these days. However, the authorities need to put in place enforcement measures against erring customers as we have no such power. We can only make appeals,” said Pradeep Gupta, convener of Vyapari Ekta Samiti, Indirapuram – a traders’ association. Dr VB Jindal, former president of Indian Medical Association, Ghaziabad, said: “In times of Covid-19 and high pollution levels, wearing of face mask is a must, besides adherence to social distancing. The present situation is volatile as it may increase infection among masses. So, all precautions must be observed. Preferably, customers may avoid over crowded markets and order items online. Instead of several members of the same family going out together, shoppers may restrict it to only one two from a family venturing out.”Meanwhile, the district officials said they are gearing up for any probable surge in Covid-19 cases in Ghaziabad, in the wake of the recent spike in Delhi. “If there is any surge in Covid-19 cases in November in Ghaziabad, we have stock of medicines for about 1,000 patients. For now, we have been given a target of 3,100 tests per day and it will be increased to 4,000 in November. If need be we will enhance testing up to 6,000 per day. For better surveillance, we have plans to increase the number of surveillance teams from 861 at present to 1,000,” district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said in a statement. “Residents are advised to follow all Covid-19 protocols and take up all precautions such as wearing masks and observing social distancing in order to protect themselves in busy places like markets. Focussed testing is going on to find positive cases from the different targeted groups,” he added. He further said that proper arrangements are being put in place for L1 category Covid beds, ventilators, high flow nasal cannula and other equipment in anticipation of any probable surge in Covid-19 cases in the district in November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/covid-19-owing-to-festive-season-ghaziabad-tests-service-providers-to-gauge-possibility-of-second-wave/story-0swCcBxY0qQXjOvhZAlAaI.html
01-11-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad: Residents suffer as RT-PCR test reports getting delayed||Ghaziabad: It has been about two-and-a-half months since the new RT-PCR laboratory got initiated at MMG District Hospital in Ghaziabad, but it is yet to cater to all the samples for Covid-19 testing taken up by the district health department. In such a scenario, people are suffering as they have to wait for more than five days to get their test reports. Usually, it takes about 24 to 48 hours to deliver a reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test result.The RT-PCR laboratory was inaugurated on August 15, and has now reached the testing capacity of about 500 samples per day. According to officials, the district health department is collecting about 1,500-2,000 samples daily for RT-PCR tests. However, only about 400 samples are sent to MMG hospital while the rest are sent to the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), Noida. “I got myself tested on Wednesday (October 28) and yet to receive the test report. Initially, I had fever and other Covid symptoms and decided to get myself tested. But I am taking all precautions,” said a resident of Vaishali who wished not to be named. A resident of Shastri Nagar, who tested Covid-19 positive and completed home isolation on October 24, decided to go for RT-PCR test in order to be sure about the health status before attending office. “I took up rapid antigen test at the MMG hospital and it turned negative. So, it was followed with an RT-PCR test whose report I received after five days on October 29,” the patient said. The delayed test reports in several cases have raised concerns about spread of infection as the person who got himself/herself tested could be attending to office, meeting friends or even moving about in public places. Health officials admitted that delays were taking place. “Of about 1500-2000 RT-PCR samples a day, we are sending only 400 samples to MMG Hospital. The laboratory at MMG hospital at present can conduct only 500 tests per day. Overall, there may be some delay in getting several test reports, and a team of officers is inquiring the reason,” said an officer from the district health department, on condition of anonymity. “As regards to people who are waiting for test reports, we will advise them to take all precautions and remain in home quarantine till they receive their reports,” the officer added. If all the RT-PCR tests of Ghaziabad are taken up by the laboratory at MMG hospital, residents will be able to get their test reports within 24 hours. Dr Anurag Bhargava, chief medical superintendent of MMG hospital, said that they have sufficient manpower but are testing only 500 samples per day. “It is because we are still in need of an RNA-extractor machine. Once we get it, we will be able to ramp up testing. Initially, we started with 50 tests and now are conducting 500 tests per day for the last 10 days,” he added. Authorities at GIMS said that they are overburdened. “We generally provide test reports in 24 hours. Although we have an official capacity to conduct 2,000 tests, we are conducting about 3,000 tests per day. Sometimes, the burden of testing is high. Besides, about 5% samples are also repeated for further testing,” Brig (retd) Rakesh Gupta, director of GIMS, said. Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey, however, said that the test reports’ issues were streamlined in the district. “If the residents have any complaints about the delayed test reports, we will get these checked up on case-to-case basis. If any issues emerge, we will take rectification measures and see to it that all issues are resolved,” Pandey said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-residents-suffer-as-rt-pcr-test-reports-getting-delayed/story-O9cNnns4DfSVigCK1fqRFL.html
01-11-2020||Kolkata||‘Losing ground’: Veteran actor Soumitra Chatterjee’s condition worsens, say doctors||Veteran actor Soumitra Chatterjee’s condition deteriorated on Sunday night with doctors treating him at a private hospital in south Kolkata trying to stop internal bleeding. Since his haemoglobin level fell, the actor had to undergo blood transfusion. Chatterjee’s overall condition was not good and the doctors said he was losing ground. The Dadasaheb Phalke Award winner was admitted on October 6 after he tested positive for Covid-19. Chatterjee tested negative for Covid-19 on October 14 but his neurological system was affected by Covid encephalopathy. “We conducted CT angiography to detect the exact location of the bleeding. We have found that. Since a dye had to be used for the angiography we had to do a dialysis to filter out the contrast media. This CT angiography was done to find out the location of the bleeding and had nothing to do with the heart,” Dr Arindam Kar, head of the team of doctors treating Chatterjee, said on Sunday night. “We tried to seal the bleeding. It was somewhat successful but is yet to be fully successful. We will look into the matter tomorrow (Monday) and figure out how to completely contain the bleeding. But due to the entire situation, his level of consciousness is still the same. His organ functions are holding on,” said Dr Kar.Also read: ‘Woman with self-respect will die if raped’ - Kerala Congress chief’s shocker “His electrolytes have stabilized. His urea and creatinine levels have stabilized. This is his 26th day in the hospital. For an 85- year-old man, with so much of comorbidity and background disease coupled with non-improvement of level of consciousness due to Covid encephalopathy, it is not a very good news. With every passing day we are losing ground,” said Dr Kar. Chatterjee’s condition drastically deteriorated over the past week. The noted actor has been in a drowsy state since last Monday. Millions of people in Bengal and beyond have been praying for Chatterjee’s recovery ever since he was admitted. In a bid to offer a holistic treatment, the doctors initially made Chatterjee listen to music and literature of his choice. He even communicated with his daughter Poulomi Basu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/losing-ground-veteran-actor-soumitra-chatterjee-s-condition-worsens-say-doctors/story-1zBgzrwBGYgHhRxCtXbUSK.html
01-11-2020||City||‘Suspension of freight trains bound to break backbone of Punjab industry’||Expressing resentment over the prohibition on the movement of goods trains in the state, Pawan Dewan, chairman of the Punjab Large Industrial Development Board, said rail services were not stopped even during the peak terrorism days. “Suspension of freight trains has pushed against the wall the industry that is already struggling to come out of Covid crises,” he added. In a statement issued here, Dewan said that the ₹20,000 crore economic package promised by the Centre has not seen the light of the day; what to talk of fulfilling a promise. “The central government’s decision is bound to break the backbone of industry,” he added. Dewan said suspension of freight was not only affecting the import, but also exports as the industry was unable to produce in the absence of raw material. “Industries are facing huge losses which will have adverse repercussions on the entire economy, so the central government must review its decision at the earliest,” he added. Yogesh Sagar, president, Mohali Industrialists Association, said, “It is indeed a very tough time for the industry. Labour shortage, Covid impact, financial difficulties and on top of that, a ban on the movement of goods trains. Exporters are foreseeing order cancellations and penalties on failure to deliver goods coupled with credibility loss.” He said, “It is expected to be a Black Diwali this season. The Covid-hit labourers looking for Diwali bonus now fear losing jobs.” Sewing machine spare parts manufacturer Bahadur Singh from Bahadur Udyog and Jaswinder Singh Saini from National Steel Industries also resented shortage of coal for foundries and goods rake being stuck up in Ambala. “Right now, we are managing with our inventories and materials,” said AR Chaudhary from AV Fabrications, who was irked over non-arrival of orders from an iron ore in Chattisgarh. We have been forced to buy raw material at “premium price” from the local markets, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/suspension-of-freight-trains-bound-to-break-backbone-of-punjab-industry/story-9LRpaRiE0aMKauvrAEbb9H.html
01-11-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 death rate among Mumbai’s cancer patients stands at 9.8%: Tata Memorial Hospital||Even though the death rate for Covid-19 in Mumbai is 3.9%, the fatality rate among cancer patients co-infected with the Sars-CoV-2 virus is as high as 9.8% owing to their compromised immunity, according to data shared by Tata Memorial Hospital (TMH), Parel. In Mumbai, since the outbreak of the pandemic, a total of 257,497 cancer patients contracted Covid-19, of which 10,293 succumbed to the infection. TMH, the leading cancer hospital in India which receives 70,000 cancer patients every year, has treated 1,140 cancer patients with Covid-19 co-infection between March and October, of which 112 died of the infection. Due to their treatment, cancer patients become immunologically weak, which increases their chances of contracting the viral disease, said oncologists. “Among immunocompromised patients, the body’s white blood cells, which fight infections, become low or don’t function. This fails the body to fight the infections effectively. This makes cancer patients, especially those who are on active chemotherapy, most vulnerable to the infection,” said Dr CS Pramesh, director, TMH. “The infection and mortality rate are the highest among cancer patients above the age of 50. If they have other co-morbidities, their infection becomes deadlier,” he added. Patients who are undergoing active treatment for cancer are presumably at higher risk than those who are in remission. “Active cancer patients have to be extra cautious due to their low immunity. Since March, we have treated 141 Covid-19 positive patients with cancer. Of them, five have succumbed to the infection,” said Akash Aanand, assistant medical superintendent of Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital, unit of TMH, Varanasi. A study, ‘COVID-19 prevalence and mortality in patients with cancer and the effect of primary tumour subtype and patient demographics: a prospective cohort’, published by the Lancet shows that the mortality rate is 30.6%. The researchers conducted the study on 1,044 cancer patients with co-infection at the UK Coronavirus Cancer Monitoring Project (UKCCMP) cohort between March 18 and May 8. Of them, 316 patients died. Oncologists said fatality rate in India is lower than developed countries as the consumption of smokeless tobacco is limited. “In India, the consumption of gutkha is more than western countries where cigarettes are more common. In comparison to the US, UK, where the death rate ranges from 15-30%, we can save co-infected patients more,” said Dr Pankaj Chaturvedi, deputy director, centre for cancer epidemiology at TMH. Dr Chaturvedi has also been overseeing the treatment of Covid-19 cancer patients at the NSCI jumbo centre and has so far treated over 500 co-infected patients. As per city oncologists, patients with haematological malignancies, when cancer affects the blood, bone marrow, and lymph nodes, are more vulnerable. “Patients with haematological malignancies are at highest risk. Their cancers directly affect their immune system. Thus, they fail to fight with the virus. Also, it has been observed that during therapies that it can cause severe myelosuppression (bone marrow suppression which reduces the production of blood cells) and lymphodepletion (destruction of lymphocytes and T cells),” said Dr S Chandrakala, haematologist, King Edward Memorial, Parel. “Studies have shown that patients with solid organ tumours have lower death rates,” she added. During the initial days of the lockdown, cancer services were largely disrupted which affected clinical research, diagnosis and delivery of treatment. In the first three months between March and May, the overall footfall of cancer patients decreased by almost 50%, according to oncologists. For instance, during April and May, TMH saw only 45% patients (60-70). The numbers are rising again and between August and September, the hospital got 150 new patients daily. Of these, 10-12 have co-infected patients. Before Covid-19, TMH would get over 200 patients a day. Lockdown travails Dr Neha Choudhary, 23-year-old, a medical student at Jaipur developed a large cancer tumour mass in her chest around her heart and lungs. It was making her breathless. She needed surgery immediately as chemotherapies also didn’t prove effective. But due to the lockdown, she couldn’t travel to Mumbai to get operated upon and had to wait for three months until June. Dr Anil Sanganeria, a surgical oncologist at Saifee Hospital, who operated upon her, said, “It was a common story of all cancer patients during lockdown. If it had not been removed, it would have caused her a life-threatening suffocation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-death-rate-among-mumbai-s-cancer-patients-stands-at-9-8-tata-memorial-hospital/story-vp6l1ppcX3pr2ju1cgMVqI.html
01-11-2020||City||October ends with second-highest monthly rainfall for Mumbai in a decade||With 170.1mm rainfall, the month of October ended with the second-highest monthly rain in 10 years for Mumbai. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the highest monthly rainfall in 10 years for the month of October was recorded in 2012 at 197.7mm, while the all-time high monthly rain was in 1998 after the city received 376.6mm. Last year, Mumbai recorded 75mm rain in October, while in 2018 the city received only 3.8mm rainfall. Between 2013 and 2017, the rainfall ranged between 23.4mm and 85.7mm while the city recorded 120.1mm rain in October 2011. According to the Santacruz weather observatory – representative of the suburbs and Mumbai – the city witnessed downpour on two days last month. Between October 14 8.30am and October 15 8.30am, the city received 86.5mm, which was the decade’s highest 24-hour October rain. The city also received the second most rainfall (55.8mm) between October 3 and 4 this year. The all-time highest 24-hour October rain was recorded on October 4, 1988, at 140.8mm. The southwest monsoon withdrew from Mumbai on October 28, making it the most delayed withdrawal for the city since 1975. “Mumbai witnessed one of its best October rainfall years in a decade owing to the effect of late monsoon withdrawal from central and south India,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD. Meanwhile, the Colaba weather station, representative of south Mumbai, received 216mm rain (an excess of 220%) throughout October, against 67.6mm received on an average during the month. The suburbs had received excess rainfall of 99%. Overall, Maharashtra recorded 67% excess rainfall in October at 119.7mm against the average of 71.8mm. Central Maharashtra recorded 110% excess rain, followed by Marathwada at 47%. However, Vidarbha witnessed 18% deficient rainfall. Meanwhile on Sunday, the minimum temperature for the suburbs was 21 degrees Celsius for the second consecutive day, while the maximum temperature was just 1 degree Celsius above the normal mark. Hosalikar said areas such as Powai, Borivli and the surrounding regions recorded the minimum temperature at 20 degrees Celsius or below. “There continues to be a slight nip in the air during mornings which will continue, but overall the city is likely to experience pleasant weather in the first week of November,” he said. October monthly rain over the years 2020 –170.1mm 2019 – 75mm 2018 – 3.8 mm 2017 – 83.6 mm 2016 – 78.7 mm 2015 - 31.3 mm 2014 – 23.4 mm 2013 – 85.7 mm 2012 – 197.7 mm 2011 – 120.1 mm 2010 – 64mm 1998 – 376.6mm (all-time high) (Source: IMD)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/october-ends-with-second-highest-monthly-rainfall-for-mumbai-in-a-decade/story-7dBFzKLzqaHP7331KpbUKK.html
01-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai man smashes brother’s head with stone, held||Khar police on Friday arrested a 47-year-old man for killing his 50-year-old brother by smashing his head with a grinding stone. The accused, Sunil Tambe, and the victim, Sudhir, lived together at Khar Danda. Sudhir’s wife Anjali in her statement to police said, “The incident took place on October 18 when Sudhir, who had a handicap and did not go out for work, was shouting at his mother.” She said, “Around 10.50pm Tambe came home drunk. When he saw Sudhir shouting, he asked him why he was not amicable with others at home and why was it necessary for him to fight all the time.” Gajanan Kabdule, senior inspector from Khar police station, said, “After this both of them started arguing, during which Tambe picked up a grinding stone and warned that if Sudhir doesn’t listen to him and stop shouting, he will hit him with the stone.” “Sudhir did not listen and told Tambe to go ahead and hit him. After warning several times, Tambe smashed the grinding stone on Sudhir’s head. Sudhir started bleeding and was taken to Cooper Hospital,” Kabdule said. He added, “During the initial four days of treatment Sudhir was quite well and was even talking to his family members, but on the fifth day his was unable to talk and went into coma. His condition deteriorated and on October 28, he succumbed due to brain haemorrhage. We have arrested the accused under sections 326 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons or means) and 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-man-smashes-brother-s-head-with-stone-held/story-WlORhvs3mO2kRXVkeFekZI.html
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||Control inflating food prices: Himachal CPI (M)||Accusing the state and central governments of failing to curb the increasing inflation in the country, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) leaders on Sunday demanded that the state government immediately withdraw the hiked prices and take concrete steps to curb the rising prices of food items in the market. A statement issued by the CPI (M) says the government has not been able to provide any relief to the public during the last seven months and has instead hiked the rates of petrol, diesel, ration, electricity, water, school and examination fee, property tax to name a few, which has put a huge financial burden on the general public.CPI (M) leader Sanjay Chauhan said that due to the government’s neglect, the prices of food items, including potatoes, onions, oil, vegetables and pulses, were at an all-time high but the government was not taking any appropriate steps to curb it. “Since the lockdown was imposed, millions of people have lost their jobs and employment and are facing economic and financial crisis. Recently, the state government hiked the rates of installing electricity meters and electricity connections and also granted permission to private schools to charge full fees, instead of charging only tuition fees. The policies of the Centre and state are only benefiting the corporate houses and capitalists due to which economic condition of our country is in a bad shape and GDP is at an all-time low,” he said.“If the government does not comply with these demands, then our party will mobilise the people against these anti-people policies and will launch a movement,” said Chauhan.CPI (M) has also demanded that the government provide ₹7,500 per month and 10 kg ration per person free of charge to all those outside the purview of income tax.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/control-inflating-food-prices-himachal-cpi-m/story-EyRHO5qMlWnfEiVMPMdOVK.html
01-11-2020||Mumbai||196 arrested for violating lockdown norms at reputed four-star hotel in Mumbai||Mumbai Police’s social service branch (SSB) arrested 196 people in the wee hours of Sunday during two raids —one at Opa Bar and Café on the 7th floor and the other at Mitron Pub on the ground floor of a reputed four star hotel at Sakinaka, Andheri (East), for allegedly violating lockdown guidelines. The arrested accused include 171 male and female patrons, two owners, three managers, a cashier and 19 workers employed in the pub, bar and cafe. The raid was conducted at 12.50am based on specific information received by deputy commissioner of police Dr Raju Bhujbal (enforcement). “A police team in civil clothes was sent to verify the complaint and found that music and dancing was going on inside the pub and the patrons were not maintaining social distancing,” said Dr Bhujbal. “In the bar and café, alcohol was served to the customers and the number of patrons was more than 50% seating capacity,” said DCP Dr Bhujbal. Restaurants and bars are currently allowed to operate at 50% seating capacity. The state government has been easing restrictions, which were imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19, in a phased manner and has also extended the ongoing lockdown restrictions till November 30. Cases have been registered under sections 188 (disobeying order duly promulgated by public servant), 285 (negligent conduct with respect to fire or combustible matter), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code and other relevant provisions against the arrested patrons, owners and employees of the two outlets.According to civic body records till Saturday, Mumbai reported a total 992 new Covid-19 cases, taking its case count to 257,500. The Covid-19 death toll in the city went up to 10,250 with 32 fresh fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/196-arrested-for-violating-lockdown-norms-at-reputed-four-star-hotel-in-mumbai/story-6lHu1SKa4J07FZtWav0E4M.html
01-11-2020||City||Capital adds 5,664 new Covid cases, 51 more deaths||New Delhi: The Capital on Sunday recorded 5,664 new cases of Covid-19 and 51 fatality, taking the toll to 6,562, as per state government’s daily health bulletin.So far, 392,370 people have contracted Covid-19 in the Capital, of whom 352,635 have recovered, the bulletin said.With 44,623 total tests recorded on Sunday, the positivity rate shot up to 12.69% — up from an average of 5.3% recorded for the week ending October 8. The positivity rate stood at 11.42% on Saturday.The case trajectory in Delhi shows three distinct surges. The first started in mid-June, and peaked when the seven-day average of daily cases, also known as the case trajectory, touched around 3,400 in the last week of June. This dropped to about 1,000 a day by the end of July. It remained in that range for a month, and the second surge started towards the end of August, rising till the middle of September, when average daily cases touched 4,174Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain said on Sunday, “In Delhi, the contact-tracing strategy was revised around two weeks ago. Currently, more than 15 contacts are being tested for every Covid-19 positive case, as against six to seven contacts per case till two weeks ago. The aggressive strategy is bringing out more cases in terms of numbers.”“As far as preparations are concerned, last month, we added 1,000 ICU beds. Another order pertaining to reservation of 80% ICU beds in private hospitals for covid-19 cases is pending in court. At this point of time, people must wear masks and treat it like a vaccine till a real vaccine is available,” Jain added.On Sunday evening, 6,561 of the 15,783 Covid-19 general beds and 2,086 of 3,158 ICU beds were occupied across hospitals in the city, government records showed.Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the epidemiology and communicable diseases in the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said, “The increased positivity rate indicates high transmission rate of the virus at this point. To some extent it also indicates that the government is currently testing a greater proportion of high-risk individuals, which include close contacts of Covid-19 positive cases. People should not let their guards down. They should strictly wear masks and maintain social distancing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/capital-adds-5-664-new-covid-cases-51-more-deaths/story-SDg2n1efuO3Msf3KZCPFoJ.html
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||2 Haryana residents among 3 held with 24g heroin in Kullu||Three people, including two Haryana residents, were arrested with 24g heroin in Kullu district, police said on Sunday.The accused, Vinod ,27, and Vikram Singh, 25, are residents of Kaithal and Sukrit Sharma, 21, is a resident of Kahala village, Kullu.A police team patrolling the area near Raison on Bandrol Jaula Mod link road searched the three people who were sitting under a tree and found the heroin inside a transparent polythene and an electronic scale. Kullu superintendent of police (SP) Gaurav Singh confirmed the report and said an investigation was underway. A case was registered under Sections 21 and 29 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-haryana-residents-among-3-held-with-24g-heroin-in-kullu/story-enlD6URmRDtkkDJtgKqAmJ.html
01-11-2020||Mumbai||Use ₹1.5 lakh fine from guilty couple for treatment of Covid-19 patients: Bombay HC to Latur district collector||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) recently directed the Latur district collector to spend the ₹1.5 lakh fine deposited by a couple for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. The couple was asked to pay the fine after the two were found guilty of forging dates on the birth certificates of their children as they were contesting local body elections. The court had observed that as the couple had shown scant regard for the law and had manipulated not only the certificates but also officials, they did not deserve to be pardoned and should deposit the fine amount with the court which would then be given to the district collector. A single judge bench of justice Ravindra V Ghuge, while hearing the application of the couple through advocate Suresh P Pandav, was informed that the couple was asked to pay the fine in March. However, in view of Covid-19 pandemic and the ensuing lockdown, they could not undertake inter-district travel and were unable to arrange and deposit the amount. In its earlier order, the court had ordered the disqualification of the couple from contesting any election for having more than two children after the cut-off date. Additional divisional commissioner disqualified the woman petitioner from her duty after the authority concluded that records of the two biological children (twins) born to the couple have been suppressed by the couple. As per a judgement of the full bench of the HC, the maximum number of children to be eligible for contesting zilla parishad and panchayat samiti polls was two and the cut-off for having more children was September 12, 2000. When the previous case against the couple had been heard in March, the single bench of justice Mangesh Patil had noted that the woman’s husband had approached the registrar of birth to obtain five birth certificates on a single day and it was ‘apparent’ that manipulations were done by him. While the first three children were shown born with a gap of two years each in 1994, 1996 and 1998, the twins were shown to be born in December, 2000 instead of their actual birth date of June 24, 2006. In light of the above, the court had refused the pardon request of the couple. “There appears to be mens rea (criminal intent) and a systematic planning in what has been done. It would be a mockery of law and justice to pardon such litigants, who have not only abused the process of law, but have shown scant respect for the majesty of law and have manipulated even government officials.” After observing that the twins were born to the couple in 2006, the court had disqualified the couple from contesting elections. The court also initiated criminal action against the couple and disciplinary action against the official who issued five birth certificates to petitioner’s husband and had directed the couple to pay a fine of ₹1 lakh with an additional fine of ₹50,000 for disobedience of court directions. In the present hearing, the couple submitted that the demand draft for the fine amount was ready and they were willing to deposit it with the HC registry. However, government lawyer RB Bagul opposed the application contending that the intention of application was to not obey the earlier court order and hence action should be initiated against the couple. After hearing the submissions, justice Ghuge allowed the application and directed them to submit the demand draft to the court registry as expeditiously as possible and directed the registrar to transfer the whole amount to Latur district collector. The district collector has been directed to utilise the same for the treatment of Covid-19 patients and disposed of the plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/use-1-5-lakh-fine-from-guilty-couple-for-treatment-of-covid-19-patients-bombay-hc-to-latur-district-collector/story-0E4Iq6BAuUn71oPId25mJN.html
01-11-2020||Jaipur||Amid Covid-19 pandemic, Rajasthan bans sale of firecrackers||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot ordered a ban on the sale of firecrackers and their use during weddings and others events on Sunday in view of the danger to people with coronavirus disease and others from the toxic fumes. He said in the challenging times of a pandemic, the safety of people’s lives was the government’s top priority.Gehlot was reviewing the Covid-19 situation in the state and the ‘No Mask, No Entry’ and ‘Shuddh Ke Liye Yuddh’ campaigns at the chief minister’s residence. The CM also issued instructions on Unlock-6 guidelines, said a note from his office.The CM said people with Covid-19, heart problems and breathing troubles face problem due to smoke from firecrackers. “People should desist from using crackers on Diwali,” he said as he ordered a ban on temporary licenses for the sale of firecrackers. Gehlot said the use of firecrackers should be banned during weddings and other events.Gehlot said the second wave of Covid-19 has been reported from developed countries such as Germany, UK, France, Italy and Spain. “Some countries have been forced to implement lockdowns again. We need to be careful to prevent such a situation in our state,” he said.Also read: Active Covid-19 cases declining, but Kerala, Delhi not following trendUrging people to start small measures to check air pollution to complement state government’s efforts to safeguard the health of citizens, Gehlot said people should switch off engines at red lights and not burn garbage in localities. The CM ordered strict action against vehicles flouting pollution norms, and on centres which issue fitness certificates to vehicles releasing more vehicular emissions than the permissible limit.During the discussion on guidelines for Unlock phase 6, home secretary Abhay Kumar said schools, colleges and other educational institutions shall remain closed for regular academic activities until November 16. Swimming pools, cinema halls, theatres, multiplexes, entertainment parks shall remain shut until November 30, he added. The previous limit of 100 guests at weddings and 20 people in funerals shall continue to be in place.For social and political events in open places, district collectors can issue permission for a maximum of 250 people on the condition that they maintain six feet distance. At indoor halls, 50 percent of capacity with a maximum of 200 people shall be allowed on the condition that they use masks and maintain social distance, the home secretary said.During the review of ‘Shuddh Ke Liye Yuddh’ (war for purity) campaign, the CM said the government would soon amend law to make adulteration a cognisable offence||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/amid-covid-19-pandemic-rajasthan-bans-sale-of-firecrackers/story-f6o3L99ZEyHJWDx9B9frwL.html
01-11-2020||Mumbai||50,000 first-year junior college students from Maharashtra enrol for online classes||Nearly 50,000 students from the state have registered for free online classes for first-year junior college (FYJC) organised by the Maharashtra education department, which were started on Monday. With FYJC admissions still unable to restart due to the stay on Maratha quota in jobs and education, the education department decided to start online classes for students, irrespective of their admission status. “Until colleges begin, students can attend these lectures which will be held by expert teachers in each subject. We are hoping the numbers rise as more students get to know about the initiative,” said Dinkar Patil, director of secondary education. Students who wish to join the online classes can register on the department’s portal – covid19.scertmaha.ac.in/eleventh – and will later receive details about the time table and schedule for classes. All the classes will also be made available on YouTube Live, stated the education department. As of Sunday evening, nearly 9,500 students from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) had registered for the online classes. The education department has roped in several expert teachers to conduct these classes. Most registrations that have come so far are from students in the Science stream, followed by Commerce and Arts. Teachers, however, said that the online classes cannot be a solution for the admission limbo. “Students who are in FYJC are new to college, and especially in streams like Arts where every subject is new to them, they need to be taught with individual attention. Also, some students are not clear on which stream to choose and often wait for cut-offs before deciding. What classes will they attend?” asked the teacher from a suburban college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/50-000-first-year-junior-college-students-from-maharashtra-enrol-for-online-classes/story-V7rzFXAsF1jXWxxeh3DG0O.html
01-11-2020||Mumbai||Fatality rate among senior citizens still a concern, reveals data from Mumbai civic body||While the overall Covid-19 case fatality rate (CFR) has come down below 4% to 3.97% as of Friday, the fatality rate for patients aged above 60 still remains a concern as it is not coming down yet, shows data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)’s dashboard. The age wise fatality rate for age groups above 60 is between 8% and 18%.The highest fatality rate is in the age group above 80 years. According to BMC data, of 10,218 deaths in Mumbai, more than 85% (8,731) deaths are aged above 50. The data further indicates that though maximum cases are from the younger age group (between 20 and 40 years), higher fatality remains to be from those aged above 60. According to the data, fatality rate for the age group of 60 to 69 is 8.51% followed by 12.87% for 70 to 79 age group, 17.64% for 80 to 89 age group, and 18.39% for those aged above 90, as of October 30. However, fatality rate of all the age groups has improved when the above data is compared with data from July. This also helped bring down the overall fatality rate from 5.5 % in August to 4.5% in September 20, and below 4% on October 31. BMC attributes this dip in fatality rate to its ‘Mission Save Lives’ launched in June to bring down the city’s CFR. On June 30, the civic body launched a nine-point strategy called ‘Mission Save Lives’ after the city’s fatality rate had touched 5.8% on June 29. The plan included an audit of every death, video surveillance of every critical and serious case, and mandatory video conferencing or telephonic meeting twice a day to review every serious case at the hands of senior doctors, among other things. Dr Siddarth Paliwal, a city-based private health consultant, said, “The reason why the age group of over 60 continues to have higher fatalities is because of the comorbidity factor. Most of those aged above 60 have hypertension or diabetes, and when these patients report late or not report the symptoms of Covid-19 at all, there is death. The focus has to be on senior citizens whenever the vaccine arrives, considering the data is clear about who needs it first.” One of the key factors that resulted in bringing down CFR was to increase testing in the city, and subsequently from July 7, BMC liberalised its testing policy by allowing any citizen to get tested. Also, starting Monday, BMC is going to organise 244 daily testing camps for two hours wherein citizens can walk in and get tested for free. The citizens can call 1916 and get the location of their nearest testing camp. The testing camps will be operating between 10am to 12noon. Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC, said, “We are increasing daily testing by organising free testing camps. This will help us control the spread until a vaccine is found.” Earlier, on Friday BMC had said that one cannot say there will not be any surge in Covid-19 cases keeping in mind the unlocking measures, and the fact that local trains are expected to start for all citizens in coming days, along with Diwali. Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 taskforce, on Friday had told HT, “The spread and overall situation will increase with more testing. We need to do more testing with more unlocking. BMC has been conducting tests to its full capacity, and they will increase their capacity in the coming days.” As of October 30, BMC has conducted a 15.26 lakh tests with a positivity rate of 16.80%. Meanwhile, on Sunday, the city reported 908 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 258,405 while 25 new deaths took toll to 10,318. Till Sunday, 229,025 patients have been discharged in Mumbai. The city’s discharge rate is 88.63%. There are 18,522 active cases in the city and the fatality rate is 3.99%. One hot spot that has shown signs of drastic improvement is Dharavi which recorded only four new cases on Sunday. Dharavi’s tally is 3,551, of which 3,139 have been discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fatality-rate-among-senior-citizens-still-a-concern-reveals-data-from-mumbai-civic-body/story-cmnSFMXt1E1kedLUSyeUiK.html
01-11-2020||Mumbai||Air quality worsens in Mumbai; BKC, Malad record ‘very poor’ AQI||The city recorded a spike in air pollution on Sunday, with two locations recording ‘very poor’ air quality.The pollutant-measuring indicator – air quality index (AQI) – shot up to 156 (moderate) for PM2.5 pollutant (particulate matter that can enter the lungs and cause ailments), according to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). This is the worst AQI since before the Covid-19 lockdown in March. On Saturday, the AQI was 111 (moderate), and on March 19, it was 130 (moderate). On March 17, the AQI was 272 (poor), and on March 18 it was 172 (moderate).On Sunday, of the 10 locations where AQI is monitored and predicted, Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) and Malad recorded ‘very poor’ AQI at 325 and 301, respectively. Mazgaon (156), Chembur (139), and Navi Mumbai (121), all recorded ‘moderate’ AQI, while the remaining areas recorded ‘satisfactory’ levels.SAFAR categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor and above 400 as severe. An AQI of 97 (satisfactory) has been predicted for Monday.Researchers said air quality worsened due to falling temperatures. “The increase in air pollution can be attributed to the change in meteorological conditions, with the minimum temperature dropping below the normal mark in Mumbai during early hours of the day. This is allowing pollutants to be suspended close to the surface. However, human-induced factors such as vehicular pollution are aggravating levels in areas like BKC and Malad,” said Gufran Beig, project director, SAFAR. He added that levels are expected to remain in the ‘moderate’ category for the next week and may further deteriorate if temperatures continue to drop.On Sunday, the concentration for PM10 (larger coarser particles) was 122 micrograms per cubic metre (μg/m³), against the safe limit of 100μg/m³ for 24 hours. PM2.5 levels were 68μg/m³ against the safe limit of 60μg/m³ for the 24-hour mark. An AQI of 149 (moderate) has been predicted for Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/air-quality-worsens-in-mumbai-bkc-malad-record-very-poor-aqi/story-BN151R4LwaHmPm2ZOm4YvK.html
01-11-2020||Mumbai||CR, WR to start operating 753 more local train services in Mumbai from Monday||Moving a step forward towards resuming local train services for all commuters, the Central Railway (CR) and Western Railway (WR) on Sunday announced plans to operate additional 753 suburban train services from Monday. The railways will now be operating a total of 2,773 train services, of which 1,572 are on CR and 1,201 are on WR. Of the additional services, CR will introduce 552 on its lines while WR will add 201 services from Monday. “Railways are hoping that the state government will soon revert after deciding the modalities for providing services to the commuters in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR),” said a statement from CR and WR. On Saturday, 610 more local train services — 314 on CR and 296 on WR — were introduced. “Railways has been ready to augment suburban services. We are working closely with the state government for providing services, keeping in view the social distance norms and safety of public at large,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, CR.Train services will also be operated towards Khopoli on CR main line and on the harbour line towards Goregaon. Before the Covid-19 lockdown was imposed, the railways were operating 3,141 suburban services — 1,774 on CR and 1,367 on WR. Train services resumed for employees working in essential care on July 15. Later on October 21, women commuters were allowed to travel on local trains between 11am and 3pm and after 7pm. The Maharashtra government had on Wednesday proposed time slots to allow general public to use suburban train services. In a letter to the general managers of the zonal railways, Maharashtra relief and rehabilitation department had proposed three slots for general public, two slots for the workforce in essential services, and one women-only train every hour.The proposal stated any person with a valid ticket or pass can travel in the day’s first service up to 7.30am then between 11am and 4.30pm and between 8pm and the last local train of the day. It had also proposed to operate women-only trains every hour||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cr-wr-to-start-operating-753-more-local-train-services-in-mumbai-from-monday/story-w4DmlMCdN4NFayD7NheunK.html
01-11-2020||Mumbai||With slight drop in Covid-19 deaths, Maharashtra toll crosses 44,000 mark||Maharashtra recorded 5,369 cases on Sunday, pushing the state’s case count to 1,683,775. It was the 15th consecutive day when less than 10,000 cases were recorded. After a steady decrease over the past weeks, the number of active cases slightly increased to 125,109, which means that at present, 7.43% of patients are receiving treatment at various hospitals and Covid-19 care centres in the state.On Sunday, the state death toll breached the 44,000 mark with 113 casualties reported in the last 24 hours. The toll stood at 44,024, health officials said.As the state has been recording a downward trend in Covid-19 cases in recent weeks, it has also recorded a slight drop in related deaths. In the last week of October, 759 mortalities were reported, as opposed to the previous week when 1,187 deaths were reported.In early October, it took three days for the death count to increase by 1,000. It has now stretched to nine days as the state crossed the 43,000-mark of Covid deaths on October 23. Maharashtra crossed the 42,000-mark on October 18, 41,000 deaths on October 15, 40,000 deaths on October 10, 39,000 deaths on October 7, 38,000 deaths on October 4 and 39,000 deaths on October 1, according to statistics by the state health department.Despite a decline in cases, the number of deaths has not reduced in the same ratio. As a result, the case fatality rate (CFR) is yet to come down. Maharashtra has maintained second position in the country, after Punjab, with a CFR of 2.61%. The CFR of Punjab was 3.14% (with 4,203 deaths) till Saturday, according to the information shared by the state medical education department.Dr Rahul Pandit, member of the state-appointed task force for the clinical management of critical patients said that the number of deaths in the first 24 to 48 hours of testing positive has come down but they have yet to confirm if the deaths occurring in the second or third week have reduced.“There is a bimodal pattern for Covid-19 deaths. In the first pattern, patients die within the first 24 to 48 hours, or they succumb to the illness in the second or third week. As per our observation, the number of deaths occurring in the first pattern has declined, but for the second pattern, we need to wait for a week or more to examine if there is a drop. If there is a drop proportionate to the cases, then we can say that the deaths from the second pattern are also going down. But if not, then we need to make sure that comorbid patients are taken care, and secondary infection problems in patients, if any, have to be recognised,” said Dr Pandit, who is also the director, critical care at Fortis Hospital, Mulund.Mumbai continues to record the highest number of cases in the state, with 908 fresh infections reported on Sunday. The case count now stands at 258,405. The number of active cases in the city reduced to 18,522 and the city’s toll reached 10,318 after 25 casualties were reported on Sunday.Pune city contributed the second-highest number of daily infections in the state with 346 cases, taking its tally to 172,575.Pune district recorded 278 cases, pushing its case count to 77,492.The state has completed 90 lakh Covid-19 tests with 57,468 conducted on Sunday. Its tally stood at 9,024,871. The positivity rate for the day was 9.34% against the overall positivity rate of the state which stood at 18.66%. The number of recovered patients reached 1,514,079, with 3,726 recorded in the last 24 hours. The recovery rate stands at 89.92%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/with-slight-drop-in-covid-19-deaths-maharashtra-toll-crosses-44-000-mark/story-tNiTumgdQ8Bu3NdcxbGmBM.html
01-11-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram abandons caution despite Covid surge||Social distancing and wearing masks seem to have taken a back seat for city residents, who are crowding shopping areas, buses, parks and other parts of the city without taking necessary precautions to stop the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The number of Covid-19 cases has surged drastically over the last few days, with the active case count currently at 3,707, as of Sunday. The district also reported a record single-day spike in cases — 529 new cases on Sunday — since the outbreak of the pandemic. In the last 10 days, the positivity rate of Gurugram has remained at about 12%, higher than the positivity rate recorded in August and September.Studies show that preventive measures, such as maintaining six feet distance and mask discipline, are important to practice as the virus spreads when an infected person talks, sneezes or coughs. Even an asymptomatic Covid-19 patient can equally spread infection.Despite the only solutions to handle pandemic, photos captured by HT show many, without masks, crowding the Khandsa wholesale market. Visitors to the Leisure Valley Park in Sector 29 were also captured on lens walking close to one another, without wearing masks.Similarly, the situation of local buses and in city markets reflect the current attitude of city residents towards the pandemic.According to the health department officials, behavioural change is required to slow down Covid-19 cases. “Visit any market in the evening and one can see people are no longer scared of the coronavirus. Cases will continue to rise as more people are moving out due to festival shopping or work,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer.The precautionary norms for Covid-19 are self-regulatory, said Vinay Yadav, district secretary, Haryana Agriculture Marketing Board (HAMB), in charge of Khandsa mandi. “Social distancing and masks cannot be enforced upon anyone, especially in wholesale markets like Khandsa. The department has not issued any challan till now, owing to the rush in the market. The majority of the people coming to Khandsa are least careful about masks and social distancing even if our teams try to explain (importance of norms) to them.”With markets witnessing a spurt in footfall due to the festive season, those running shops and trade associations said that people are only cautious to avoid being penalised for not wearing masks, and that most of them are not concerned about the virus.Tej Singh, president, Vyapar Kendra association, said, “People are callous in wearing mask and maintaining physical distance. There is no fear among them unless they see police issuing challans for not wearing masks. Since people are actively coming to market for festival shopping, we have told the shopkeepers to practice safety norms. It is, however, difficult to keep an eye on everyone.”The president Udyog Vihar phase 1 market association, Harinder Rana, agreed with Singh. “There has been no social distancing in markets. Some are defiant in wearing masks. But nothing can be said to them.”The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has issued about 30,000 fines for mask violation, of which 12,000 fines were issued from August till October. Almost Rs 15 lakh has been collected in challans, according to MCG officials, but people still continue to flout norms.Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that they are issuing fines of Rs 500 to those found not wearing a facemask. Each station house officer has been directed to ensure there should be no gathering of more than 50 people in areas under their jurisdiction. “Awareness campaigns are going on in all the sectors through resident welfare association members and we are appealing to the residents not to move without masks and to maintain social distancing,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-abandons-caution-despite-covid-surge/story-XQHGQAwMEGK0CrFf2nbDQJ.html
01-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra Police recorded lowest Covid-19 deaths in October||After witnessing an alarming spike in Covid-19 mortalities in September, the state police force in October recorded its lowest-ever Covid deaths since June. The department recorded 37 fatalities in October, down from 91 deaths in September, 54 in August, 43 in July and 33 in June. There has also been a steady decline is coronavirus cases in the force.According to the police department, in October, 3,041 new cases of Covid-19 were reported across various police commissionerates and district police units in the state. In September, the spread of the contagion in the police department was highest with 8,254 cases. In August the case count was 6,077 and around 5,000 in July. “Fatalities kept on increasing and were maximum in September. They have reduced significantly in October,” said Sanjeev Singhal, additional director general of police (administration). In October, 4,574 policemen recovered from Covid-19 and many of them resumed duty. According to the state police, 194 new police personnel got infected with Covid-19 in the last four days, taking the overall caseload to 26,589. According to information provided by Manoj Patil, superintendent, state police control room, 1,386 infected police personnel are active patients while 24,919 have recovered fully. At present 10,247 policemen are in quarantine. Mumbai Police, which has reported the most Covid-19 cases and casualties, has witnessed significant improvement in the last few weeks. On Saturday, the city police recorded just 10 new cases among its personnel. The total caseload of the force now stands at 6,797, with 92 Covid deaths. “Mumbai Police has only 274 Covid active cases. Cases have gone down significantly in the past week. In the last seven days, the force recorded 10, 13, 21, 16, six, 12, and eight cases daily. The mortality rate of the Mumbai Police stands at 1.35%,” said Rajkumar Vhatkar, joint commissioner of police (administration). Vhatkar said that over 85% of the infected policemen in the Mumbai Police have already recovered and resumed duties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-police-recorded-lowest-covid-19-deaths-in-october/story-5dBsq5eitJXAyc7wXN79DK.html
01-11-2020||Mumbai||40-year-old dupes government official of ₹61 lakh after promising medical seat for daughter, held in Mumbai||A 40-year-old man was arrested on October 30 by the airport police at Vile Parle on Sunday for allegedly duping a government official of ₹61.25 lakh on the pretext of getting his daughter an admission to a medical college in Pune. According to the police, the official’s 18-year-old daughter was seeking admission to a medical college for the MBBS course. Though she had appeared for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) exam, she was unable to secure a seat owing to low scores. “Her father came in a contact with the accused, Sudip Syama Chakrabarty, who promised the official that he has good contacts in reputed colleges. They then later met at Vile Parle, where Chakrabarty asked for ₹30 lakh as a token amount so that the admission process could be initiated,” said an officer from the airport police station. The accused later asked the government official on various pretexts for the admissions and until September, he had taken a total amount of ₹61.25. However, there was no progress in the admission process of the aspirant, the officer said. “The official later searched for the accused’s name on the internet and discovered a news article in which a man with the same was arrested by the Jammu and Kashmir Police for duping several students, collectively to the tune of ₹1 crore, by promising them seats in medical colleges. The official then approached the police,” the officer said. Following the official’s complaint, the police registered a case under sections 419 (punishment for cheating by personation), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 120 (B) [punishment of criminal conspiracy], and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and sections 66 (C) [punishment for identity theft], and 66 (D) [punishment for cheating by personation by using computer resource] of Information Technology Act. The police traced Chakrabarty to Versova and arrested him. He was produced before a local court, which remanded him in police custody till November 2. The police are looking for two of his accomplices. “Chakrabarty is a history-sheeter and there are more than eight cases of cheating registered against him at Goregaon, Oshiwara and Bangur Nagar stations in Mumbai as well as at Kothrud (Pune) and Hanehalli (Karnataka) police stations and the Jammu and Kashmir crime branch.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/40-year-old-dupes-government-official-of-61-lakh-after-promising-medical-seat-for-daughter-held-in-mumbai/story-fxiFfWdnusiQKY9lwLrPgI.html
01-11-2020||City||Balbir Singh Sidhu flags off sewer cleaning machines in Mohali||Health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu flagged off four sewer cleaning machines at phase 5 on Sunday. The machines, purchased at Rs 1.45 crore, include two-sewer suction-cum-jetting machines, one-mini super suction machine, and one-mini jetting machine. The minister said the jetting machines were handed over to the municipal corporation to put a stop to manual scavenging in the district.Sidhu also laid the foundation stones for various development projects worth Rs 1.50 crore in the city. The projects include, development of SCL Employees Cooperative House Building Society in Sector 70 at Rs 14.82 lakh; Darshan Vihar Society in Sector 86 at Rs 25.70 lakh; United Cooperative Society at Rs 23.96 lakh; and beautification of paver block, LED lights, and parks at Rishi apartment at Rs 29.76 lakh.The department of health and family welfare launched an awareness campaign on non-communicable diseases at the government dispensary in Sohana on Sunday. Sidhu flagged off two special awareness vans equipped with awareness material, an LED, and an audio-visual address system. These will reach out to different villages of the state to make people aware of non-communicable diseases like diabetes, blood pressure, heart diseases, paralysis, cancer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/balbir-singh-sidhu-flags-off-sewer-cleaning-machines-in-mohali/story-JJ9zBGY0jFbtocCPeGZtKJ.html
01-11-2020||Gurugram||Online classes for college students to start from November 2||The state higher education department plans to start online classes for college students from November 2, while physical classroom sessions may start from November 16 in a staggered manner, said officials on Saturday. Last month, the University Grants Commission (UGC) had shared a revised academic calendar in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. As per the amended calendar proposed by UGC, the new academic session of 2020-21 may commence from November 1 for first-year students. Haryana’s academic calendar is expected to be on the lines of the proposed UGC calender. Hemant Verma, deputy director (coordination), higher education department, said that while online classes were already taking places in some colleges across the state, formal classes as per the revised academic calendar will start from November 2. “The academic schedule had to be modified this year to incorporate the delays that were caused due to the pandemic. Currently, admissions are underway in higher education institutes in all states. Results of some examinations are also awaited due to which the commencement of the academic session might take some time,” said Verma. He said while online classes would start from November 2, physical classes would take place in a phased manner, as part of which students facing queries will be able to visit colleges and universities post-Diwali. “We can expect the regular classes to start from November 16. The semester is expected to continue until March next year. The second semester might start in April and continue till August,” said Verma Pooja Khullar, principal Dronacharya college, said that while classes through EDUSAT had been initiated earlier, formal online classes were yet to be started as per the academic calendar. “We are expecting colleges to open from November 16. With the pandemic disrupting the normal academic calendar, adjustments needed to be made to complete the semester. Whenever physical classroom sessions are initiated, they will take place in a staggered manner. Classes may take place in batches on two days,” said Khullar.She said while the schedule for online classes had not been shared so far, some teachers have already been conducting online classes. “Some teachers have uploaded lecture videos on YouTube. Students have also been responding to these classes, especially at the post-graduate level,” said Khullar. Classes at the undergraduate level are yet to take off for all courses. Due to the ongoing admission formalities, not all staff members had been able to conduct online classes.“Hundreds of students are coming for open counselling due to which even the teaching staff has been put on duty. We have appointed staff members to keep a check on discipline and enforcement of social distancing rules. Once the counselling and subsequent admission formalities are over, the staff will be in a position to create a structured lesson plans for online classes,” said Khullar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/online-classes-for-college-students-to-start-from-november-2/story-KBjrJleZDk1M6hbwEEt2WN.html
01-11-2020||Gurugram||26 people arrested for betting on IPL match||Twenty six men were arrested from different residential areas of Gurugram late on Saturday evening in police raids for running a betting racket involving an Indian Premier League (IPL) cricket match. Six others managed to escape, said the police. The raids were conducted after the police received a tip-off regarding this online betting racket. Since the start of the festival season and the beginning of the IPL tournament, the police have come down heavily on various betting rackets operating in the city. Since the beginning of the tournament last month, separate raids have been conducted at 24 different locations across the city. These include Manesar, Sohna Road, Badshshpur, DLF phases 1 and 4, Palam Vihar, Sushant Lok , South City 1 and 2, and sectors 56, 57, 45, 107, 51 and 69. All the suspects have been booked under relevant sections of the Public Gambling Act. The alleged bookmakers had been on the police radar since the IPL began on September 19.On Saturday, the crime branch of Gurugram Police received a tip-off about bookmakers, operating from different areas, who had taken bets on a match between Sunrisers Hyderabad and Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB). The police formed raiding teams and arrested the suspects, while they were taking bets over the phone during the match. Six mobile phones, a notebook, a laptop and a pen were recovered from their possession. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that typically, such betting takes place whenever a domestic or international sports league is underway. This year, the start of several sporting tournaments, which usually take place during the summer months, was delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. With sports returning to television, networks of illegal betting operations, have once again become operational. In most cases of betting, the modus operandi is the largely the same, said police officials. Typically during a live match, the suspects are connected to a live line where one of their ‘contacts’ is physically present at the match location. He informs them about the odds over phone. The ‘local’ bookmaker takes bets from the punters — people who place bets. There is an entire chain of bookmakers who communicate over the phone. The odds keep changing as the match progresses. Sangwan said, “We are cracking down on all such illegal operations and more arrests are likely. The probe so far has found that these bookmakers take bets on all such sporting activities. They mostly use encrypted communication and have contact with fellow bookmakers at different locations. We are trying to crackdown on the whole network.” “Since betting is a bailable offence, several accused return to gambling after they are released. It is yet to be established if the accused in these 10 cases have a common link or they were running independent operations. Ten separate FIRs have been registered at respective police stations,” said Sangwan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/26-people-arrested-for-betting-on-ipl-match/story-X4lToKyzmLaqeoityuCEVM.html
01-11-2020||Gurugram||Haryana CM inaugurates U-turn flyover at Shankar Chowk||Haryana chief minister (CM) Manohar Lal Khattar inaugurated the newly constructed U-turn flyover near DLF Cyber City on Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway on Sunday, which also marked the Haryana Day. The CM inaugurated the flyover through video conferencing from Karnal. Speaking on the occasion, Khattar said with the opening of this flyover, one more step has been taken towards making Gurugram free from traffic congestion.Khattar said that this three-lane flyover has been constructed at a cost of about ₹52 crore and will provide relief to both the residents of Gurugram and commuters coming from outside. “This will help in preventing traffic congestion and facilitate U-turn for vehicles coming from Delhi and travelling towards Jaipur. It will also prevent vehicles coming from the side of DLF Cyber City or Ambience Mall from accidentally moving towards Udyog Vihar or Delhi. Besides, it will also help in reducing pollution and saving time of commuters,” said Khattar.Citing various steps taken by the state and Central governments, Khattar said issues of congestion and traffic jams at Iffco Chowk, Signature Tower and Rajeev Chowk have been resolved by constructing underpasses and improving road intersections on NH-48. Similarly, the flyover at Hero Honda Chowk has also helped it to make congestion-free. Likewise, this U-turn flyover will also make Shankar Chowk free from traffic snarls. Khattar added that a four-lane U-turn underpass is also being constructed on NH- 48 near Ambience Mall, which is at the final stages of its construction. The total estimated cost of these projects — the U-turn flyover and the underpass near Ambience Mall— is approximately ₹122 crore. Out of these two, the flyover has been completed at a cost of about ₹52 crore. The cost of the entire project is being borne by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and the state government in a 75:25 ratio. During the e-inauguration, NHAI project director Shashi Bhushan said that the flyover is 675 metres in length and 12.5 metres in width. He added that despite the challenge of Covid-19 lockdown, the construction of this flyover has been completed within the stipulated time period of 18 months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-cm-inaugurates-u-turn-flyover-at-shankar-chowk/story-T6DtGqAal7ST8rZV3anzKL.html
01-11-2020||Gurugram||Three, including Bhondsi inmates, arrested for supplying drugs||The police on Saturday night arrested three men, including two Bhondsi Jail inmates, for allegedly supplying drugs to the jail warder for over three months, said the police. According to the police, the suspects were identified as Inderjeet alias Churri, Deepak alias Deepu, and Pradeep alias Doctor of Rewari. The police said Inderjeet and Deepak are already lodged inside Bhondsi Jail for supplying drugs and mobile phones and were taken on production remand by the police on Saturday. Pradeep was arrested from Rewari. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that the suspects were involved in selling drugs and mobiles to the inmates inside the Bhondsi Jail through Prem Chand, the jail warder, who is already behind the bars. “Last month, we had arrested two people including the jail warder. We recovered 110 grams of sulfa and 24 grams of smack in a packet from their possession,” he said. Sangwan said that one of the inmates, identified as Deepak alias Deepu, is lodged inside Bhondsi Jail for over 10 cases of loot, drugs , assault and smuggle of mobile phones. “Deepu had contacted his brother, Dharambeer alias Mota of Rewari, via a mobile phone from Bhondsi Jail to request for drugs through the jail warder. He had arranged for the drugs to be sent to his brother through one Ankit Kumar. However, the jail warder was caught before he could enter the jail premises and the consignment was recovered,” he said. Sangwan said the crime investigation unit of DLF Phase-4 was keeping a close watch on the jail warder after the arrest of 53-year-old deputy superintendent of police (DSP) of Bhondsi Jail in July for allegedly smuggling drugs and supplying SIM cards to inmates over the last two years. A raid party was formed, and the police recovered 240 grams of sulfa and 11 SIM cards from his government accommodation in Bhondsi. “Chand was posted inside the jail premises 10 days ago. Earlier, he was posted in the surveillance room to monitor CCTV cameras but was transferred due to a change of staff to keep a close watch on inmates and their movements,” said Sangwan. The police said smuggling of drugs, mobile phones and SIM cards is increasing inside jail premises, and various means are being adapted for the purpose. The inmates plan crimes under the influence of drugs and connect with their aides outside the jail to execute criminal activities, such as extortion, murder, loot and dacoity. Sangwan said inmates contact their close aides outside the jail through mobile phones and order drugs, for which they coordinate with jail officials. “Smuggling of drugs inside jail premises has increased in recent times. Since the outbreak of Covid-19, inmates are being produced to courts through video conferencing and are, therefore, unable to get drugs during their court visits.Further, visitors are also not allowed inside the jail premises any longer, forcing inmates to look for alternate means for their supply of drugs,” he said. The police have arrested six people so far in this case, three of whom have been produced before the local court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/three-including-bhondsi-inmates-arrested-for-supplying-drugs/story-tRe2bH4KLlcc5NlVhhjf8J.html
01-11-2020||Gurugram||MCG seeks land from developers in lieu of revenue roads||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) in a survey has found that there are 47 revenue roads being occupied by private developers across the city. The MCG has now initiated the process of sending notices to builders to give land amounting to the same monetary value to the MCG, in exchange for “legally” taking over revenue roads or else face legal action.Last month, during an MCG House meeting, the agenda allowing the exchange of MCG’s revenue roads with the land of private builders, amounting to the same monetary value was approved. Following this, the MCG initiated the survey to identify revenue roads occupied by builders across Gurugram, more than 12 years after its formation.The issue regarding revenue roads is a long-standing one. Originally built with the aim of providing connectivity between villages and agriculture fields, such stretches have been completely engulfed by private townships, condominiums or gated societies over time.In the late 1990s and early 2000s, the city urbanised significantly, resulting in village land being sold to private builders and revenue roads being occupied from all sides and becoming redundant.As per MCG officials, during their survey, they found most of such stretches located next to urban villages, with each of them having a high real estate value.“From the survey, we have details of each and every revenue road in the city. MCG joint commissioners, in their respective jurisdictions, have sent notices to private developers on at least two occasions. We will be issuing another notice, the third one, after which we will initiate necessary action as per the law to reclaim revenue roads from builders,” said Hariom Attri, joint commissioner, MCG.MCG has already received a proposal from private builders to take over their land in Garhi Harsaru, in exchange for the civic body’s revenue roads in Sihi and Ghata villages respectively.With developers or resident welfare associations (RWAs) unable to “legally” barricade or fence revenue roads, such stretches also become a matter of security concern in several residential areas.“Revenue roads have been a major issue in the city, not only for builders but for residents as well. While we want such stretches to be transferred to private builders, we want the MCG to put a clause with private developers that they cannot charge any collection fees from residents in any regard, both for the taking over process or for any future construction on such stretches as these are being developed much later than residential projects have been built,” said Dhruv Bansal, spokesperson, Gurgaon Citizens Council, an umbrella body for all RWAs in the city.Although the MCG House approved the land exchange policy only last month, it was in March 2018 that the directorate of Urban Local Bodies (ULB) issued a notification allowing the exchange of revenue roads for private land of the same value. A month later, MCG also wanted to introduce this policy, with internal discussions on the matter taking place among officials. However, it largely remained on paper and never came to fruition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-seeks-land-from-developers-in-lieu-of-revenue-roads/story-Pc9zBX2qYhFa0zjQrDKS2L.html
01-11-2020||Gurugram||DTCP seeks applications to licence affordable housing projects||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) has started seeking applications for licencing real estate projects under the affordable housing category. The department issued a notice on October 27 and has given one month to interested developers, who want to develop affordable housing projects. The development follows the decision of Haryana government to increase the area earmarked for affordable projects to almost double of what was available earlier. The state government in August had increased the area available for affordable category from 15 to 30 acres. As per a rough estimate by the department, around 1,500 acres of land would be available for affordable housing in Manesar alone, which would make space for an additional 40,000 to 50,000 flats. Developers whose applications were rejected earlier would also be considered again if the deficiencies are rectified. As per the Haryana government norms, affordable housing licence can be given for a minimum of five acres and the size of the apartment is to be fixed between 28 square metres (330 sq ft) and 60 square metres (645 sq ft).The affordable housing policy was launched by the Haryana government in 2013 to promote low-cost housing and make it accessible to the lower-middle class. The price at which these plots can be sold is fixed at ₹4,000 per sq ft.“The affordable housing sector has been attracting lot of developers and this is the reason the state government has changed area norms. More houses in the affordable segment will give more option to buyers to purchase houses at a reasonable price. This is a positive move of the state government,” said RS Bhath, district town planner, enforcement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/dtcp-seeks-applications-to-licence-affordable-housing-projects/story-xbaub8Od35tenxnVmpAZCM.html
01-11-2020||City||Bathinda doc improvises implant for breast cancer survivors||Bathinda To help women patients overcome emotional challenges of post-mastectomy or surgical removal of the breast, oncological surgeon Dr Parvinder Singh has improvised a breast prosthesis (artificial body part). Posted at the Advanced Cancer Institute (ACI), the only state-run institute dedicated to cancer treatment in the state, the doctor has already distributed 70 of these to survivors of breast cancer.Made from simple foam and fabric, he got the prosthesis stitched from a local tailor. “An external silicon prosthesis costs about Rs 10,000 and most patients at ACI cannot afford it. It is also heavy and leads to perspiration and irritation. Cloth-based prosthesis is comfortable and will give confidence to breast cancer survivors,” he said. ACI medical superintendent Dr Deepak Arora credits his surgeon colleague with taking a proactive social initiative. “Apart from the trauma accompanying the diagnosis of cancer, the pain, scars and side-effect of treatment is an emotional and challenging time for survivors and patients. Most of our patients hail from the rural background or are from economically marginalised sections. They cannot afford external or internal breast implants,” said Arora.Dr Parvinder learnt about this possibility from a US-based voluntary organisation ‘Knitted Knockers’ that tipped him about handmade breast prosthesis for women during a professional webinar.“To suit their cold climate, Knitted Knockers were knitting wool-based prosthesis. After getting complimentary samples from the US, I discussed the concept with my mother and wife. Finally, the idea of an inexpensive fabric-based prosthesis took shape. I took the assistance of a tailor to make about 150 prostheses from cloth. This is softer, lighter, washable and more comfortable than silicon,” said Dr Parvinder.He added, “If a doctor has to decide between a complete or partial removal of the breast, it impacts a woman emotionally. In our male-dominated society, breast implant or external prosthesis does not even become a point of discussion in most cases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bathinda-doc-improvises-implant-for-breast-cancer-survivors/story-9CJuoVmn0QxpYfSncCm46N.html
01-11-2020||Gurugram||City air still ‘very poor’; minimum temperature dips five degrees below normal||The city’s air quality remained in the ‘very poor’ category on Sunday, with the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) bulletin recording the air quality index (AQI) value at 306. Sunday’s reading was, however, an improvement from the previous day’s AQI reading of 358 in the same category. The level of particulate matter (PM) 2.5 — the city’s primary pollutant — was 360.52µg/m³ on Sunday, as per the data recorded by CPCB’s air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan in Sector 11. As per the CPCB’s classification, an AQI reading between 301 to 400 is categorised as ‘very poor’ and can lead to breathlessness and respiratory illnesses in cases of prolonged exposure. According to the early air quality warning system for the National Capital Region (NCR), the air quality is likely to remain in the ‘very poor’ category on Monday. The air quality is expected to deteriorate marginally but nonetheless remain in the ‘very poor’ category on Tuesday as well. As per the warning system, a significantly large number of fire counts were observed over Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh on Sunday during the daytime, which is likely to impact the air quality over Delhi/NCR. However, a higher wind speed and better ventilation index were favourable for dispersal of pollutants till Monday. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) regional weather forecasting centre, said that air quality has improved due to a higher wind speed over the past few days and better air could prevail till Monday.On Sunday, the city recorded a maximum temperature of 29 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature was recorded at 11 degrees Celsius, roughly five degrees below the normal and a degree below Saturday’s minimum temperature. Both the minimum and maximum temperatures are expected to be in a similar range on Monday. Clear skies during the day with fog and mist in the morning are expected to prevail this week, as per the IMD’s weekly forecast. “The fall in minimum temperature will continue as we move into November and the winter sets in. The sky is also clear due to which there is a cooling effect,” said Srivastava||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/city-air-still-very-poor-minimum-temperature-dips-five-degrees-below-normal/story-HEXPUYxHKTrpT6KU8KSdOO.html
01-11-2020||City||3 booked for duping Mumbai-based woman of ₹13 lakh by promising to cure her daughter’s illness through rituals||Mumbai A 70-year-old from Mazagaon was cheated of ₹13 lakh by three men from Uttar Pradesh (UP) who duped her on the pretext of curing her mentally ill daughter by performing rituals in an ashram. The Sewri police are on the lookout for the three men. According to the police, the complainant’s 43-year-old daughter has been undergoing treatment for the illness for the past 25 years. The complainant has been exploring all possible options for the treatment of her daughter and had performed several kinds of pujas for her daughter to get cured. She used to thus often get phone calls from priests, said the police. Last year in November, the complainant received a call from a man, identified as Krishnanand Shastri. He told the complainant that he works in a UP-based ashram, where many people suffering from several serious illnesses were cured. Shashtri told the complainant that he knew about her daughter’s illness and offered to provide cure for it by reciting prayers and performing a special puja at the ashram. The complainant agreed and in December 2019, Shastri asked her to pay ₹5,000 for the puja. She transferred the money into his bank account, stated the police complaint filed by the woman. Later, Shastri began calling her frequently and under the pretext of conducting rituals asked her to deposit money in his account, the police said. Seeing no progress in her daughter’s condition, the woman began raising suspicion about Shastri. When he called her the next time, she refused to pay him. He then threatened her and said that if she stops the puja abruptly, her daughter would end her life and her family would face several serious problems. Worried about the consequences, the woman continued transferring the money into Shastri’s account, the complaint stated. This year in April, the woman received a call from a man named Vinod Kumar who informed her that he was the man who was calling for so many months by posing as Shashtri. He also told the complainant that he was doing so at the behest of two people – Abhishek Pandey and Prashant Pandey – who have been duping her under the pretext of performing puja for her daughter’s illness, said the police. The woman then filed a police complaint, following which a first information report (FIR) under sections 420 (cheating) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and section 3 of Maharashtra Prevention and Eradication of Human Sacrifice and Other Inhuman, Unwholesome and Aghori Practices and Witchcraft Act, 2013 was filed against Pandey and Prashant. “We suspect that someone known to the family may have helped the fraudsters in learning about the illness of the complainant’s daughter. We are in the process of obtaining the details of the transactions and will try to locate the suspects based on the information provided by the bank,” an officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-booked-for-duping-mumbai-based-woman-of-13-lakh-by-promising-to-cure-her-daughter-s-illness-through-rituals/story-tMqEvkDRGcELfdp1F5uUuI.html
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||Citing winter, Chandigarh MC puts off road recarpeting work again||Work to begin after March next year; earlier, the civic body had postponed it due to Covid-induced lockdown and monsoon After Covid-19 lockdown and monsoon, the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) has hit another hurdle in starting road repair and recarpeting works in the city—the onset of winters.MC officials say they will now be able to start road repairs for the current financial year (2020-2021) only by the end of February or March, when the winter season ends. The civic body has not even finished last year’s pending works, worth Rs 23 crore, the deadline for which has now been revised to November-end. Speaking at the general house meeting on October 29, MC commissioner KK Yadav stated that MC would complete the pending road works from the previous years. “But for this year’s road recarpeting, work will start after winter season ends. MC will prioritise road recarpeting as per the condition of a road.” He also directed the MC engineering department officials to consult councillors while making the priority list of roads which require urgent repairs. Even with funds, MC can’t complete workThe delay in road recarpeting comes even though the UT administration has allocated dedicated funds for the work. The MC had floated 13 tenders worth ₹40 crore in June but failed to get any bidders. It re-invited the applications by floating the tenders again in July. The tendering process is still going on.“The delay in road recarpeting work is not because of paucity of funds. Earlier, the tender couldn’t be floated because of the pandemic outbreak Later when the lockdown was eased and the work from previous years for resumed the monsoon hit the city. While MC has now started road repair works pending from the last year, the allotment of tenders for this year’s road work is still under process. Even if these are allotted, the work is unlikely to start till February/March 2021,” said an MC official.Of around, Rs 33 crore allocated last year for financial year 2019-2020, the MC has completed works worth Rs 10 crore while works worth Rs 23 crore are still outstanding. The MC plans to complete this by November-end.Questioning the way the MC is approaching the road recparting work in the city, Vinod Vashisht, convener of the City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisations (CFORWO),said, “While dilapidated roads in the city are not being repaired, the MC has taken up the recarpeting of paid parking areas. Similarly, roads in good conditions are being repaired. Also, roads repaired only a few months back have already started to break.”Criticising the MC for its failure to complete road repair works, Hitesh Puri, chairman, Chandigarh Resident Association Welfare Federation, said, “Generally, MC officials give excuse that they don’t have funds but in this case, they have abundant funds and still can’t finish the work. They should at least complete the repair of V6 roads.”105 roads to get attentionIn the current financial year, as many as 105 major and minor city roads will get the MC’s attention, officials said. On 61 roads, major recarpeting will be undertaken, while 44 roads will undergo repair and maintenance. Widening of some existing roads will also be carried out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/citing-winter-mc-puts-off-road-recarpeting-work-again/story-pOq1ObDZjvWB2HL0WOrudN.html
01-11-2020||City||Punjab health department launches awareness campaign on non-communicable diseases||The department of health and family welfare, Punjab, launched an awareness campaign on non-communicable diseases at the government dispensary in Sohana on Sunday. Health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu flagged off two special awareness vans on occasion.The vans are equipped with awareness material, an LED, and an audio-visual address system. These will reach out to different villages of the state to make people aware of non-communicable diseases like diabetes, blood pressure, heart diseases, paralysis, cancer, etc.The minister stated that blood pressure and diabetes tests would be done free of cost in these vans and informed that the elderly and patients already suffering from non-communicable diseases were at greater risk of getting Covid. He appealed to the people of the state to make the most of this campaign and be aware of non-communicable diseases so that they can be prevented.Sidhu said that he had sent letters to patients suffering from high blood pressure and diabetes in which he had urged them to take all preventive measures to protect themselves and get timely treatment during the pandemic.He said that to avoid non-communicable diseases, people should avoid fast food, alcohol, tobacco, and drugs and control their weight with the help of daily physical exercise. He urged all to get routine medical check-ups done and informed that diabetes and blood pressure tests and treatment are provided free of cost in all the government hospitals of the state.He said that treatment of up to Rs 1.5 lakh is provided free of cost for cancer patients under the Chief Minister Punjab Cancer Relief Fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-health-department-launches-awareness-campaign-on-non-communicable-diseases/story-vcFdwsvHoWlxoEyNPJplGN.html
01-11-2020||City||Traffic snarls on Mumbai-Ahmedabad road after accident||A 52-year-old driver of a container was killed in an accident after he collided with another container on a busy Mumbai-Ahmedabad national highway at Vasai, on Sunday at 6am. The victim driver was headed towards Gujarat.The victim Surjit Singh Amar Singh Samra is a resident of Lakhanpur village in Gurdaspur district. The driver of another Mumbai-bound container sustained injuries and is admitted to a private hospital.Huge traffic snarls were seen on both sides of the lanes post the incident.“The victim driver lost control of the multi-axle truck, swerved and broke the divider. He then collided with another container moving towards Gujarat. The container was carrying construction materials,” said senior inspector, Vilas Chowgule of Waliv police station.We have registered a case under section 304(a) of the Indian Penal Code against the Gujarat-bound truck driver, said Chowgule. The traffic department and the Vasai fire brigade cleared the container wreck, and traffic on both lanes was hit, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/traffic-snarls-on-mumbai-ahmedabad-road-after-accident/story-DIE6PG2uJqEGDdRKgnoXaK.html
01-11-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 pandemic to hit Centre’s ambitious regional connectivity scheme Udan||Udan, or Udey Desh Ka Aam Naagarik (Udan, let the common man fly), was launched by the civil aviation ministry in October 2016 with the objectives of connecting Tier-2 and Tier-3 cities and the hinterland with the metros, making air travel affordable, improving regional connectivity and developing regional airports.Four years on, the ambitious initiative has made little headway in achieving its objectives because of tardy implementation and the lackadaisical attitude of state governments and hit now by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic that has curtailed flights to 45-to-60% of their pre-outbreak levels.Even so, the aviation ministry went ahead and announced 78 new Udan routes in late August. Data from the Airports Authority of India (AAI) accessed by HT show that only one-third — 285 of 766 — routes opened to Udan operators earlier are operational. AAI is overseeing the implementation of the scheme. For instance, in Maharashtra, only 28 of the 48 routes had been made operational until February. With airlines currently struggling to fly at their full capacity even on profit-making routes in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic, Udan is likely to take a worse hit, officials said.“It will take a minimum of two years for passenger traffic under the scheme to go back to the pre-Covid level. There are routes such as Belgaum-Chennai that were witnessing good passenger traffic and are now facing issues, which implies that confidence-building measures are required,” said a senior AAI official, requesting anonymity.-Airlines like SpiceJet, Alliance Air, Air Odisha, Air Deccan, Pawan Hans, Trujet, Zoom Air and IndiGo are the airline’s that participated in UDAN. Few UDAn routes include: Delhi- Shimla- Delhi, Mumbai- Kandla-Mumbai, Jaipur- Jaisalmer- Jaipur, Delhi- Pathankot- Delhi, Pantanagar- Dehradun- Pantnagar, Hubli- Chennai- Hubli, Hyderabad- Nasik- Hyderabad, Cochin- Kannur- Cochin, Pithoragarh- Hindan- Pithoragarh, Allahabad- Pune- Allahabad, Amritsar- Jaipur- Amritsar, Gwalior- Bengaluru- Gwalior, Guwahati- Dimapur- Guwahati, Rajahmundry- Vishakhapatnam- RajahmundryAfter Udan was announced in October 2016, the first flight under the initiative took off in April 2017. Fares for flights were capped at ₹2,500 per hour. Airlines were asked to offer half their seats at discounted rates. In return, the government offered a subsidy or viability gap funding -- the difference between the cost of operations and the return earned -- to airlines. To be sure, Udan has had problems right from its inception, Covid-19 is only the latest blow. The official cited above said: “Even before the pandemic hit India, few airlines participated in Udan. Before Covid-19, airlines did not have adequate aircraft in their fleet for regional routes. With the pandemic, both the aircraft manufacturing industry and their deliveries have been impacted, leading to a shortage of planes which will not be resolved anytime soon.”Alliance Air, a subsidiary of Air India, operated flights to only 64 of its total 200 (around 35%) Udan routes before the pandemic. Chief operating officer CS Subbiah said it would take a long time to get back to pre-Covid operations.“For Alliance Air, 70% of our pre-Covid Udan flights have commenced after domestic operations resumed. The rest is yet to start, mostly due to restricted air movements and different mandatory quarantine rules in various states which is an issue. Though the number of passengers wanting to travel these days has reduced, the situation is better than what it was in June,” said Subbiah.In Phase 1 of Udan, 128 routes were allotted to the airlines. Another 325 routes were opened up in January 2018. In the third phase, 235 routes were announced in January 2019, and 78 new routes were announced on August 27 this year under the fourth phase. These routes are spread over mainly the northeast, hilly areas and islands, thereby also adding helicopters and seaplanes.According to the ministry of civil aviation, 285 routes connecting 45 airports and three heliports had been operationalised until September 29, 2020. These include 10 seaplane routes too.Experts say Udan also suffered because of the shutting down of a few airlines in addition to infrastructural issues such as land acquisitions and delays in construction of runways and terminal buildings at regional airport sites. Air Odisha and Jet Airways, for instance, have been grounded. Similarly, airlines such as Air Deccan and Zoom Air failed to operationalise most of the routes they won. SpiceJet is yet to commence operations on two seaplane routes it won.Acceptance by and involvement of all state governments is required for successful implementation of Udan, said Kinjal Shah, vice-president at ICRA, a rating company.“As long as state governments are in compliance and in acceptance of the scheme, success rates are higher. But like in past, in cases where it is otherwise, the success rates of the schemes are limited because not all do want to participate in those subsidies etc.,” said Shah.She added, “The pandemic is also adding to the situation. Currently, profit-making routes, too, are struggling. It will take more than a year for the situation to stabilise, but it would depend on the state governments’ involvement. ”There has also been a delay in commencing flights from many airports such as Solapur, Kolhapur and Sindhudurg. Although work on the infrastructure at Solapur airport has been completed, operations have not begun after the AAI detected a chimney obstructing the flight path. AAI had, in 2018, written to the Maharashtra government to sort out the issue, which hasn’t been fixed yet.Requesting anonymity, a senior official of an airline that had to pause its flights under Udan said: “Government policies are not aligned to support the complex nature of the scheme. Besides, infrastructure is absent in many airports in addition to unrealistic regulations.”Subbiah of Alliance Air said the non-availability of landing slots and congestion at major Indian airports also hindered Udan operations.“The scheme will see much slower growth in the coming two years due to Covid-19. This is because normal domestic operations (too) are facing poor numbers of passengers and running in losses due to the pandemic. Similarly, no funds are being generated under the scheme currently. The government has no money to utilise for Udan,” said an aviation consultant, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-pandemic-to-hit-centre-s-ambitious-regional-connectivity-scheme-udan/story-z8MvtHmkSilxKdZqJqcccK.html
01-11-2020||City||15 Bangladeshis, including 2 minors held in Mira Road, near Mumbai, for illegally staying in India||The Naya Nagar police of the Mira Bhayander Vasai Virar (MBVV) commissionerate have arrested 15 Bangladesh nationals including two minors for living illegally in India.Assistant inspector Devidas Handore of anti-human trafficking wing (AHTW) said, “We received a tip-off about illegal Bangladeshi immigrants living illegally near the Rassaz Shopping Center at Mira Road and near the skywalk at Mira Road.“We set a trap at both the places and arrested the 15 Bangladeshis,” said Handore. “We also arrested two minors also who were also staying under a skywalk near the Mira Road railway station and are sent to the Children Remand Home at Bhiwandi said the officer. We have arrested the accused under the Passports Act, 1950 and Foreigners Act, 1946,” said Handore. The accused Bangladesh nationals used to work as labourers at construction sites in Mira Road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/15-bangladeshis-including-2-minors-held-in-mira-road-near-mumbai-for-illegally-staying-in-india/story-59xASOzsf3Ajl4ZnPgCZ9M.html
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||Boating at Sukhna Lake finally resumes||Boating at the Sukhna Lake finally resumed on Sunday, eight months after it was closed due to the Covid-19 outbreak. Residents gave a good response, with officials confirming that Rs 1.64 lakh was earned on the first day itself. Deputy general manager of Chef Lakeview Hotel, Vineet Chopra, said, “Even though we were functioning at half capacity, there was a good amount of rush on the first day. Boating is a major attraction at Sukhna Lake and we expect more takers in the coming days.” He added that before the lockdown, the Lake earned Rs 3 lakh a day on an average from boating. As per the standard operating procedures, single and two-seaters boats aren’t being run as of now. Four-seater boats are allowed to run with two persons, a cruise with 12 people and a shikara with three persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/boating-at-sukhna-lake-resumes-to-good-response/story-E0a3GYDSE610FLiOZWW3uL.html
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||Infighting in Himachal BJP: Dhawala to approach Jai Ram over dissolution of Jawalamukhi unit||A day after the Himachal BJP chief Suresh Kashyap dissolved the party’s Jawalamukhi block citing acts of dissidence, leaders owing allegiance to senior legislator and former minister Ramesh Dhawala have called the action ‘arbitrary’ and accused the state party chief of acting on behest of organisational secretary Pawan Rana. Kahyap had divested the party’s district vice-president Kuldeep Sharma and secretary Joginder Kaushal, block president Chaman Lal Pundhir, Dehra Yuva Morcha district president Nitin Thakur and state co-spokesperson Rakesh Thakur of their titles and responsibilities. Infighting between the party’s influential organisational secretary Pawan Rana and former minister Ramesh Dhawala had prompted the party to dismantle the Jawalamukhi block. Both Rana and Dhawala have been at loggerheads over local issues and organisational matters ever since the formation of the BJP government. Dhawala was instrumental in formation of the BJP- Himachal Vikas Congress (HVP) alliance government in 1998. Dhawala, who was an independent candidate, had enabled the BJP to topple the Virbhadra Singh-led Congress government. Dhawala had been keenly vying for cabinet berth but the party ignored his claims when BJP gained majority in 2017. Dhawala’s supporters have blamed Rana for hampering his prospects. Dhawala was appointed chairperson of the finance commission but he has been unhappy with chief minister Jai Ram Thakur and has repeatedly blamed Rana, who also hails from Jawalamukhi, for interfering in his constituency and organisation matters. Dhawala supporters allege that Congressmen were being given preference in both organisation and constituency. Dhawala has been minister twice in the Prem Kumar Dhumal–led -BJP government, while Rana has been the party’s organisational secretary for nine years and is largely credited for strengthening the organisational structure along with party’s former chief Satpal Singh Satti. Dhawala described the action as one-sided. “The action was one-sided action. I will meet the CM. Let’s see what happens this time,’ said Dhawala, adding that he had met the CM numerous times to apprise him of his grievances. The party high-command had taken serious note of the two warring leaders in Jawalamukhi and had sought a report on the matter from the state party unit and had directed Suresh Kashyap to act as they believed that indiscipline in the party was detrimental for its image.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/infighting-in-himachal-bjp-dhawala-to-approach-jai-ram-over-dissolution-of-jawalamukhi-unit/story-ssuOVskRMeNWTNvno0RkvN.html
01-11-2020||Mumbai||Son-in-law sets house on fire in Mulund, near Mumbai; family suffers burns||Mulund police on Sunday arrested a 29-year-old man after he set his in-law’s residence on fire. His brother-in-law sustained 35% burn injuries, while the victim’s parents, two sisters-in-law and five-year-old nephew who were present in the house at the time of incident, sustained minor burn injuries.According to police, the accused, Rahul Shankar Pol wanted to take revenge from his wife, Arati after she refused to stay with him and returned to her parent’s residence in Indira Nagar area in Mulund (West) a few days ago. Pol has been arrested under the charges of attempt to murder and he is in police custody till November 5.Police said Pol is a tailor and worked in a shop when he came in contact with Arati. They got married around a year ago. Pol and Arati lived for a few months in Dharavi and later shifted to Nallasopara. The accused later started his tailoring shop with the help of his in-laws.Pol has several past cases of house break-in and body offences. He often assaulted his wife under influence of alcohol. Arati had complained in the local police station at Nallasopara area, said senior inspector Ravi Sardesai of the Mulund police station. Due to the repeated harassment, she returned to her parent’s residence, said an officer.The incident occurred between the intervening night of October 25 and 26 when the family was asleep. Pol poured petrol on the door and set it on fire. Pol’s brother-in-law Prakash Kanaujia who was sleeping near the door sustained 35% burn injuries, while his two sister-in-laws Bharati and Pooja and 5-year-old nephew sustained minor injuries, said Sardesai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/son-in-law-sets-house-on-fire-in-mulund-near-mumbai-family-suffers-burns/story-lViKzojHzLvCNcnYCV5lfN.html
01-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra political parties express support to Marathi speaking people at Belgaum, border areas||Political parties in Maharashtra have expressed support to the Marathi-speaking population in Belgaum and border areas who want the merger of that region in the state. Senior ministers from the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government on Sunday sported black ribbons on the occasion of Karnataka foundation day and offered support to the Marathi speaking people. November 1 is the foundation day of Karnataka which is observed as the black day by the Marathi speaking population. The areas like Belgaum, Karwar, Bidar and many villages were merged with Karnataka on November 1, 1956, despite huge opposition from the Marathi-speaking locals who were in majority. Shiv Sena leader and urban development minister Eknath Shinde addressed Shiv Sena workers of Belgaum saying their struggle will soon bear fruit. “Belgaum will soon become a part of Maharashtra,” said Shinde. He also released black balloons at Thane to express solidarity to the border people. Water resources minister and Nationalist Party Leader (NCP) leader Jayant Patil who sported black ribbon rued that Karnataka government was suppressing the voice of the people despite the case pending in the Supreme Court. “We are with them with the Maratha speaking people in all the possible ways. Despite a case is going on in the Supreme Court, the Karnataka government have not stopped their oppression. To oppose injustice and their persecution, we have sported black bands today,” Patil said. Congress minister Satej Patil said that Samyukta Maharashtra movement will only be completed after these border areas are merged with Maharashtra. The opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was also not far away from expressing support to this struggle. “The border areas need to be merged with Maharashtra as it is a justified demand,” said state BJP chief Chandrakant Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-political-parties-express-support-to-marathi-speaking-people-at-belgaum-border-areas/story-ZNZWJHRosLYugsDat6CMRI.html
01-11-2020||City||Industries to come up over 500 acres in Mohali’s Sector 101||GMADA begins process to acquire land in Manuli and Durali villages under new land pooling policy for industrial development After the Punjab cabinet gave its nod to a new land pooling policy for industrial development, Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has begun the process to acquire 500 acres of land in Sector 101. “We have started the process of acquiring the land from two villages – Manuli and Durali – of Mohali district to develop industrial plots of 550 square yards and 1,100 square yards,” said asenior GMADA official, who wished not to be named.The department has started the process to get approvals under Section 4 (publication of preliminary notification and powers of officers thereupon) of the Land Acquisition Act, which will be done within a week’s time, said the official, adding that the entire process will be completed by March next year.Earlier, land pooling was limited to residential housing schemes. On July 22, the state government introduced the new policy, wherein against every acre of land, the owner will get 1,100 square yards of industrial plots and 200 square yards of developed commercial plot, excluding parking, in lieu of cash compensation. As per the new policy, the validity of the sahuliyat certificate, through which owners opting for land pooling can avail themselves of certain benefits during the purchase of equivalent value of land, would be counted from the date of allotment of plot. Earlier, the validity was two years from the date of announcement of the award. The certificate entitles a land owner to get exemption from stamp duty besides other benefits and privileges when he purchases agricultural land with the sale proceeds from the developed plots that he gets under land pooling. The move is in response to the demand of land owners that the validity be applied from the date that they are offered physical possession of plots, on the grounds that only when basic infrastructure is laid does a plot fetch its potential value. Yogesh Sagar, president, Mohali Industries Association, said the new land pooling scheme will promote industrial sector in the region. “But besides giving industrial plots to land owners under the scheme, GMADA should come up with a concessional price for the existing industry,” he said. GMADA has acquired 4, 484 acres of land from 2001 to 2017. Of this, 2, 145 acres has been acquired through the land pooling policy, which was introduced in 2008 and amended from time to time. The authority is currently facing the risk of paying enhanced compensation of nearly ₹9, 700 crore as per the decisions of the first reference appeal in the courts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/industries-to-come-up-over-500-acres-in-mohali-s-sector-101/story-Fq1XO9hBBXsPG2CK6MAxWL.html
01-11-2020||Mumbai||Three app-based cab service drivers arrested for duping customers in Mumbai||The Mumbai crime branch arrested three app-based cab drivers for allegedly duping customers by using an older version of the app. Police said during the ride the accused switched off and switched on their GPS for some time, which interpreted that the destination has changed by increasing the kilometres. Once the kilometres increased, the fare also increased in the bill, said a police officer.After getting a tip-off, officers of the unit one of the crime branch deployed his two officers in the civil clothes at the international airport. During the inquiry, the drivers and vehicles were identified and they mostly accept the long distances ride especially to Panvel, Kamothe and Kalamboli area in Navi Mumbai.“The officer booked an app-based cab for Panvel and the driver switched off the GPS for some times and later switched on. The driver did twice on the way due to which the kilometres increased from around 44 to 64.9 kilometres and fare which showed while booking 964 was increased 1,560,” said police inspector Vinayak Mer of the crime branch unit one. During the inquiry, the accused said there are at least 50 drivers who are operating with an old version of the app and cheating customers. We have been conducting a further inquiry to trace other drivers, added Mer.“The accused are allegedly using an older version of the app-based cab service app which was easy to manipulate to hiked fares. The latest version of the app does not allow this kind of manipulation,” said Mer. Such malpractices increased few kilometres due to which fare shoots in the bill, added Mer. We cannot reveal the name of the accused now because other drivers will get alert and they can destroy their phones and app which will be evidence in further inquiry. The accused have been arrested under the charges of cheating, said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/three-app-based-cab-service-drivers-arrested-for-duping-customers-in-mumbai/story-nmOaaGXxtrijEL4HBQCFPN.html
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||Dengue cases in Ludhiana cross 1,400-mark; health dept, MC pass the buck||With the city recording over 1, 400 dengue cases and many more going undetected, the health department and municipal corporation (MC) are passing the buck on their failure to control the vector-borne disease. While the health department blames the MC for not carrying out fogging operations effectively, the civic body says that residents are to be blamed for not following government guidelines on checking the spread of the disease.District epidemiologist Dr Ramesh said the only way to control dengue is by intensifying fogging operations and increasing the challan on people violating government guidelines. Both these measures have to be implemented by the civic body.” He added that deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma had conducted a meeting on Saturday and sought details on the measures being taken to curb the spread of the vector-borne disease.He said that 18 people tested positive for dengue on Sunday, taking the district’s tally to 1,489, while 2,078 more are suspected to have caught the disease. Of the total 1,489, as many as 1,145 are from Ludhiana city while 305 are from other districts who tested positive here. Thirty-nine patients are from other states, said Dr Ramesh. He added that 18 health teams have been deployed to conduct house-to-house survey to check accumulation of water and larvae breeding.Meanwhile, health department officials, on the condition of anonymity, said that they had shared locations of at least 1,000 dengue cases but the civic body has issued only 186 challans against violators so far. On the other hand, Dr Vipan Malhotra, health officer of the civic body, said that the department has issued 206 challans.“Due to some technical snag, I could not update the list (of 1,000 dengue cases). There are 14 big fogging machines which are used in the wards every day. Besides, there are 95 handheld machines which have been given to all councillors for targeted fogging,” said Dr Malhotra.He further added that the civic body and health department could not visit all places so people should cooperate and act responsibly. “They should not let fresh water accumulate in pots, tanks and other materials so that we can curb the spread of dengue,” stressed Dr Malhotra.Earlier on October 8, a 33-year-old resident, Angad Singh Ahuja, had died of multiple organ failure after contracting dengue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dengue-cases-in-ludhiana-cross-1-400-mark-health-dept-mc-pass-the-buck/story-20lrW1arTayxk1nDU9hU3J.html
01-11-2020||Mumbai||UP men promise Mumbai woman to cure her mentally ill daughter, dupes her of Rs 13 lakh||A senior citizen from Mazgaon was cheated of Rs 13 lakh by three Uttar Pradesh men who promised to cure her mentally ill daughter by performing a special puja in an ashram. The Sewri police officials have begun an investigation in the case. The complainant, Shobha Shetty, 70, has a 43-year-old daughter suffering from mental illness and has been undergoing treatment for 25 years. The police said that Shetty has been exploring all possible options for the treatment of her daughter. She has immense faith in religion and had been performing various kinds of pujas for the well-being of her daughter. Due to this, she often received phone calls from pujaris offering pujas to cure her daughter. According to the Sewri police, in November 2019, Shetty received a call from one Krishnanand Shastri. He told her that he works in a UP-based Vishwamitra Seva Pvt Ltd Ashram. In the Ashram, many people with serious illnesses were cured. Shashtri told Shetty that he knew about her daughter’s illness and offered to cure the same by reciting prayers and performing a special puja at the ashram. Also read: Delhi records 5,664 new infections, case positivity rate 12.69%Shetty trusted him and requested him to perform puja and offer prayers. As Shashtri also told her that the performing of puja will be chargeable, in December 2019 she paid the first fee of around Rs 5,000 and transferred it in the bank account of Shashtri, as per the complaint. Later, Shastri would call her frequently and, under the pretext of conducting rituals, would ask her to deposit money in his account, the police said. Seeing no progress in her daughter’s condition, Shetty started feeling suspicious. When she refused to pay him, he threatened her saying her daughter will commit suicide if the rituals are stopped midway and the family will face serious problems. Shetty, therefore, continued transferring him money, the complainant states. In April this year, the woman received a call from one Vinod Kumar who informed her that he is the man who was calling her posing as Shashtri. He told her that he was doing so on the instructions of two people - Abhishek Pandey and Prashant Pandey - who have been duping her under the pretext of performing puja for her daughter’s illness. The two bank accounts she transferred money to belonged to the two, an officer said. Shocked, Shetty then registered a complaint with Sewri police recently. The police have registered an FIR under sections 420 (cheating) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and section 3 of Maharashtra Prevention and Eradication of Human Sacrifice and Other Inhuman, Unwholesome and Aghori Practices and Witchcraft Act 2013. “There is a possibility that someone known to the family has tipped of fraudsters about the prolonged illness of Shetty’s daughter. We are in the process of obtaining details of the transactions and would try to locate the suspects based on the information provided by the bank,” an officer, requesting anonymity, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/up-men-promise-mumbai-woman-to-cure-her-mentally-ill-daughter-dupes-her-of-rs-13-lakh/story-fKqshYSdL91pRgIU6K7WSN.html
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||Delhi-Kullu flight now 7 days a week||Flights to Bhuntar Airport from Delhi and Chandigarh will now be available on all seven days instead of four days. Earlier this year, flights were cancelled due to the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic. Services were restored in July but only for four days a week - Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday.As per the new schedule, flights on the Delhi-Chandigarh-Bhuntar route will ply on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday while the Delhi-Bhuntar flight will ply on Wednesday, Friday and Sunday. Air India manager Akhilesh Vijayi said the Delhi-Chandigarh-Bhuntar flight will depart from Delhi at 8am and reach Chandigarh at 9am from where the flight will depart to Bhuntar from Chandigarh at 9.30am and will reach Bhuntar at 10.30 am. The flight will depart from Bhuntar at 10.45am. The Delhi-Bhuntar flight will depart from Delhi at 8.30am and will reach Bhuntar at 9:50am. It will stop there for half -an-hour. It will depart from Bhuntar at 10:20am and reach Delhi at 11.40am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/delhi-kullu-flight-now-7-days-a-week/story-yhxTTh63jAQ8qmFkJJ9QIL.html
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||Eleven Panjab University scientists among India’s top 2%: Stanford study||Eleven scientists of Panjab University have featured in the world ranking of top 2% scientists in India, the varsity stated in a release on Sunday.The subject-wise analysis has been conducted by a team of scientists at Stanford University, USA, and the database has been published in the journal PLOS Biology on October 16. The Stanford team has created a database of over 1 lakh top scientists of the world on the basis of standardised citation indicators, such as information on citations, H-index, co-authorship and a composite indicator.From the University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Prof (emeritus) SK Kulkarni, VR Sinha, Bhupinder Singh Bhoop, Kanwaljit Chopra and Indu Pal Kaur made it to the list.Professor (emeritus) Satya Prakash and MM Aggarwal from the physics department along with Harminder Pal Singh and Harsh Nayyar from the botany department have also been featured.From the University Institute of Chemical Engineering and Technology, Sushil Kumar Kansal has made the cut, besides Kewal Krishan of the anthropology department.Vice-chancellor Raj Kumar congratulated the scientists for bringing laurels to the university.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/eleven-panjab-university-scientists-among-india-s-top-2-stanford-study/story-UMUgIJ7GiYAcTvnd959D2I.html
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||Eight succumb to Covid in Himachal||Eight more patients have succumbed to coronavirus in Himachal on Sunday, taking the death toll to 320, officials said. The virus claimed three people in Shimla, two in Chamba and one person each died in Solan, Kullu and Kangra district. Meanwhile, 205 more people tested positive, taking the state’s cumulative tally to 22,264, of which 2,973 cases are active cases. As many as 102 patients recovered from the disease. So far, 18,940 people have recovered in the state.Of the new cases, 57 were reported in Shimla , 28 in Kullu, 25 in Solan, 22 in Una, 18 in Kangra, 14 each in Bilaspur and Hamirpur, 12 in Mandi, eight in Lahaul-Spiti, five in Sirmaur and two cases in Chamba district. With 3,658 , Solan remains the worst-hit district followed by Kangra (3,099), Mandi (3,037), Shimla (2,555), Sirmaur (2,284), Una (1,573), Kullu (1,578), Bilaspur (1,298), Hamirpur (1,249), Chamba (1,151), Lahaul-Spiti (395) and Kinnaur (387) .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/eight-succumb-to-covid-in-himachal/story-OjTHP9O0UPetzJgEG6KDZK.html
01-11-2020||City||Panchkula police on the lookout for child kidnapper||Three girls, aged two, four and six years, were kidnapped by a yet unidentified woman in Panchkula’s Sector 6, police said on Sunday. The incident took place on October 26 and was captured by a CCTV camera installed in the area.A picture shared by the Panchkula police on Twitter shows the woman, whose head is covered with a red dupatta, carrying one of the children. A case has been registered at the Sector-5 police station.Any lead can be shared with the station house officer on 8146630014, 8146630063 or 01722569200.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-police-on-the-lookout-for-child-kidnapper/story-inm8odxw2Ydzq2brnWBJKI.html
01-11-2020||City||Covid: Pinjore man succumbs, 145 test positive in Chandigarh tricity||A 51-year-old man from Pinjore succumbed to Covid-19 on Sunday, taking Panchkula district’s death toll to 114. Meanwhile, 23 people tested positive for the virus. The district has recorded 7,173 cases so far, of which 210 are still active. As many as 6,849 (95.5%) patients have been cured and discharged. The neighbouring Chandigarh and Mohali districts reported no fatality, though 61 fresh cases each surfaced on Sunday.In Chandigarh, 14,476 people have tested positive so far, of whom 13,632 (94.2%) have recovered, including 81 discharged on Sunday. While 226 patients have died, 618 remain hospitalised or in home isolation. The infection count has climbed to 12,440 in Mohali district, of which 566 cases are still active.With 78 more people being discharged, the number of recoveries has reached 11,647 (93.6%). As many as 237 people have died so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-pinjore-man-succumbs-145-test-positive-in-chandigarh-tricity/story-QKwEJSgOVm2SbHX24oPh7M.html
01-11-2020||City||High fatality rate a concern as Panchkula fears second Covid wave in festive season||The high Covid fatality rate in Panchkula, when compared to Haryana, remains a concern for the district health authorities, which are fearing a second wave of infection during the ongoing festive season. The fatality rate stands at 1.59%, while the state average is 1.06% and the national is 1.49%. Even in the last week’s weekly Covid-19 status report (till October 25), Panchkula (1.6%) had second-highest fatality rate among districts, after Fatehabad and Jind (1.9%). Panchkula recorded only two deaths till July 31 after the first infection was reported in March. While 18 people died in August, September saw a surge in both cases and deaths, with 66 casualties reported. It was followed by 27 deaths in October. Another fatality reported on Sunday (November 1) has taken the toll to 114.“Panchkula’s fatality rate has been pretty high as compared to other districts, but we are working to contain it,” said Dr Jasjeet Kaur, civil surgeon.Dr Kaur cited the absence of a medical college in close proximity as one of the main reasons. “We have tied up with the Maulana medical college, but it is not suitable for emergency cases as it is too far from Panchkula. Also during the pandemic, Chandigarh stopped taking patients from Haryana.”The health department coordinated with three tertiary level private hospitals in the city and got readied 61 ICU beds for emergency. Also, 15 ICU beds were arranged at the civil hospital, Sector 6, which had none before the pandemic.“We got 15 ICU beds, but did not have experts for tertiary (critical) care. As there is no medical college in the city and private hospitals got overburdened with patients from across the region, we were left struggling for beds on some days,” said Dr Kaur.12 more ICU beds added With festive season posing the danger of second wave, the health department is on its toes.“We have added 12 more ICU beds at the civil hospital and are planning to speak to the PGIMER to take referrals in case of any emergency,” said Dr Kaur, adding that now the staff is more skilled.Also, the stress is on sensitising people and conducting home-to-home surveys to identify symptomatic cases. “Early admission and treatment will be the key to prevent any second wave. With the support of tertiary care hospitals, we will try our best to contain fatalities,” said the civil surgeon.Stating that the pandemic has come as a wake-up call, Dr Kaur said Panchkula needs at least two more hospitals to cater to its increasing population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/high-fatality-rate-a-concern-as-panchkula-fears-second-covid-wave-in-festive-season/story-ODD3XfDyHFeUzDz09rVyNO.html
01-11-2020||City||Baroda bypoll: Congress files complaint against Jind DIG for campaigning in favour of BJP candidate||The Congress on Sunday filed a complaint against Jind deputy inspector general of police (DIG) OP Narwal for ‘campaigning in favour of BJP candidate Yogeshwar Dutt’ with the returning officer for the Baroda by election.In his complaint, Mukesh Kumar, election agent to Congress candidate Indu Raj Narwal, said Jind DIG OP Narwal, who hails from Kathura village of the constituency, is campaigning in favour of Yogeshwar Dutt in violation of services and conduct rules governing him, thereby, committing sheer and blatant violation of model code of conduct.“Besides physical campaigning, he is threatening and canvassing on mobile phones to woo the voters and villagers. He is doing so on the behest of the Haryana chief minister and home minister. In view of this, a strict action should be taken against him,” the complainant added.Jind DIG OP Narwal could not be reached for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/baroda-bypoll-congress-files-complaint-against-jind-dig-for-campaigning-in-favour-of-bjp-candidate/story-0MsiZfE6LVfsWqmVAyw76L.html
01-11-2020||City||Haryana Day: CM kicks off preparations for Khelo India Games||Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday kicked off preparations for the Khelo India Games at Karan stadium in Karnal as a mark of celebrations on the Haryana Day and Rashtriya Ekta Diwas.The CM said Haryana will host the fourth edition of Khelo India Games in 2021 at Panchkula. He said since its formation in 1966, Haryana has created a new identity in fields of sports, education, agriculture, and health and information technology.“Haryana is emerging as a sports hub and a number of players from the state have made the nation proud with their achievements,” he said.He also praised the sports policy of the state government saying that it has not only provided an opportunity to the youths but also encouraged them to participate in national and international competitions.Earlier, the CM inaugurated the WiFi Chaupals facility for all gram panchayats in Karnal district. He said out of total of 382 gram panchayats in the district, WiFi facility has already been provided in 225 gram panchayats and now the fiber cable and other equipments are being installed at 288 panchayats.Khattar also announced that the internet connection will be provided to gram Sachivalya, government school, anganwadi, CHC/PHC, veterinary hospital and police station free of cost for a year.He said the WiFi chaupals will provide internet access to people in rural areas for digital works. “They can avail the benefits of 500 types of government schemes at their home,” he added.The CM also flagged off 40 tippers started in Karnal for door to door collection of garbage. On the All-India ‘chakka jam’ call on November 5 by farmer unions in the state, the CM said no one will be allowed to take law and order in their own hands. “In a democracy, everybody has a right to agree to disagree but nobody should disturb law and order of the state,” he added.A function was also held at the Raj Bhawan where governor Satyadeo Narain Arya, the CM and other cabinet ministers were present and followed the Covid-19 guidelines. An official spokesperson said the chief minister congratulated the people on this occasion and urged them to contribute to make Haryana one of the most developed and technically equipped states in future. Khattar inaugurates U-turn flyover in GurugramThe newly constructed U-turn flyover near DLF Cyber City on national highway (NH) in Gurugram was also opened for traffic after the CM inaugurated it through video conference from Karnal. Speaking on the occasion, Khattar said with the opening of this flyover, one more step has been taken towards making Gurugram free from traffic congestion.Khattar said that this three-lane flyover has been constructed at a cost of about ₹52 crore and will provide relief to both the residents of Gurugram and commuters coming from outside. Khattar added that a four-lane U-turn underpass is also being constructed on NH- 48 near Ambience Mall, which is at the final stages of its construction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-day-cm-kicks-off-preparations-for-khelo-india-games/story-AOys8XhPzlvNMgFh3l32eM.html
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||Government schools in Chandigarh reopen for Classes 9 to 12||After remaining open for academic consultations for over a month, Chandigarh’s 93 government schools will begin regular classroom teaching for Classes 9 to 12 from Monday. Schools have remained closed since March this year due to the Covid pandemic, though online classes have been going on.To prevent congestion, classes will be organised in two batches, the first from 9am to 11:30am for Classes 10 and 12, and the second from 12pm to 2:30pm for Classes 9 and 11. Students will need to submit the consent of their parents, and attendance won’t be compulsory. Online classes will continue to remain the preferred medium of teaching. Earlier, the education department had reopened schools for Classes 9 to 12 on September 21, for students to clear their doubts on fixed days every week. However, attendance remained very low. Now, the education department expects at least 20% attendance in the regular classes, with higher numbers expected in schools situated in peripheral areas.Private schools not to open, for nowMeanwhile, private schools will remain closed for the time being. HS Mamik, president, Independent School Association, said private schools will conduct a fresh survey from November 2 to find how many parents are willing to send their children. Private schools had reported very poor footfall during academic consultations. “If the number crosses 50%, we will consider reopening schools. Otherwise, we will continue with online classes only. It will be difficult for teachers to take both physical and online classes,” he said.Education department to create 1,000 more seats in Class 11The education department will be creating around 1,000 more seats in Class 11. “After the third counselling, around 1,000 students, who had completed Class 10 from government schools but could not score well, are still left to get admissions,” said Rubinderjit Singh Brar, director school education. “We will create more seats in Class 11 to accommodate them.” The seats will be created in the humanities stream, which majority of the students want to pursue, and only those government school students who had participated in all three counsellings will be eligible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/government-schools-in-chandigarh-reopen-for-classes-9-to-12/story-UoSydvuPhl6keHxWOnetnL.html
01-11-2020||City||Cinemas reopen in Ludhiana, but wait for new releases to continue||While authorities allowed cinemas and multiplexes to open with 50% occupancy from Sunday after a hiatus of seven months, it may be a while before audiences get to see a new movie. It was good news for multiplex and theatre owners, who had been demanding that it was time for the curtains to go up and also for moviegoers to return to the big-screen experience. However, no new films were released on Sunday and are also not expected to release anytime soon. At Silver Arc Mall on Ferozepur Road, the management had to cancel the morning and afternoon shows after no bookings were made. “However, people showed up to enquire about the films and their timings,” said an employee working at the multiplex.He said as no new movie had been released, so they screened three old Punjabi movies on the first day. Ajay Nayar, director, FMI Limited and Silver Arc Mall, said the government’s decision of reopening the multiplexes and cinemas with 50% occupancy had brought cheer to moviegoers during the festive season.“Cinema halls and multiplexes were shut for over eight months. Currently, people are not aware of the opening of cinemas and as they will get to know they will start booking shows,” said Nayar. He was quick to add that all mandatory Covid guidelines were being followed and special emphasis was being laid on wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. “Multi-screen cinemas are huge crowd pullers. As the government has allowed reopening of multiplex and single-screen cinemas, we are expecting more business,” said the proprietors of another shopping mall. Residents meanwhile are eager for new releases. “We are regular moviegoers. Since April, we could not watch a movie in theatre. We are looking forward to catching the latest flick soon,” said Jaskirat Singh of Gurdev Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cinemas-reopen-in-ludhiana-but-wait-for-new-releases-to-continue/story-S9D9TQFw4ReMO0DJzH3c1K.html
01-11-2020||City||1,529 govt schools in Ludhiana to get Rs 1.63 crore to set up youth, eco clubs||The Centre has released grants of Rs 1.63 crore under Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) for 1,529 government schools of the district to set up youth and eco clubs.Primary schools will get Rs 5,000 to operate youth and eco clubs, while middle schools can apply for an amount of up to Rs 15,000 and high and senior secondary school will get Rs 25,000.For eco-clubs’ grants, schools can utilise the funds to develop educational parks, plant saplings and trees, set up kitchen gardens, purchase dustbins and get the school building whitewashed. These grants can also be used to conduct debates, poem recitation, and handwriting competitions. The youth club grant can be used to level playgrounds, make athletic tracks, purchase polls for kho-kho and nets for volleyball. School authorities can also purchase sports equipment such as badminton set, skipping rope, basketball, volleyball, javelin throw, shot put etc. The schools with music teachers can purchase music instruments. These grants can also be utilised to conduct inter-house competitions, quiz contests, general knowledge competitions. School heads can also purchase display boards and boards of honour to regard the achievements of students and teachers.School principals have been told that they can buy a sound system, drums, lecture stand from the grants for the youth club.The grants have been released by the head office and all the district education officers, elementary and secondary are directed that school heads must make the best use of these grants as per directions.District education officer, secondary, Swaranjit Kaur, said, “These grants will help school principals to improve the infrastructure in schools.” There are 994 Government Primary Schools, 191 Government Middle Schools and 344 Government Senior Secondary Schools in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-529-govt-schools-in-ludhiana-to-get-rs-1-63-crore-to-set-up-youth-eco-clubs/story-UoS0EoDQRsmfB0DiEZeDcJ.html
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh RWA apex body slams authorities over burning issues||The executive committee meeting of Chandigarh residents’ associations welfare federation (Crawfed) was held on Sunday for the first time since the implementation of the lockdown in March, to discuss the current issues being faced by the city residents. The agenda of the meeting was the recent hike in water charges by the municipal corporation; regularisation of need-based changes made in Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) dwelling units; shifting of Dadu Majra garbage dumping ground and, the privatisation of the electricity department.Chairman Hitesh Puri said that bodies like MC weren’t serving the city but rather their self-interests.“We have institutions such as the CHB and the MC, but what are they doing for the city? The city would be better off without them,” he said. Rajat Malhotra, general secretary, Crawfed, spoke about the regularisation of need-based changes made in CHB dwelling units by allowing one-time general amnesty. He urged member of parliament Kirron Kher and BJP Chandigarh unit president Arun Sood to intervene and resolve the ongoing issue.Anish Garg, chief spokesperson, Crawfed, said that any permission regarding the use of parks that are maintained by RWAs/contractors should be sought from them before the MC.Major (retd) DP Singh, patron of Crawfed, spoke regarding the regularisation of street vendors and said, “Some vendors are selling vegetables and fruits above the rates fixed by the market committee. Action should be taken against them.”Speaking about the smart watches worn by the civic body staff, Surinder Sharma, vice-chairman, Crawfed, said these watches are being used in three-four cities across India and are giving desired results. He suggested that the MC staff should wear them without any fear and not raise any irrelevant issues.Puri also took up the issue of privatisation of the electricity department in Chandigarh. He said there was no need to privatise the department as it was already running in profit and residents were getting an adequate supply of electricity.He added that he, along with 15 members of Crawfed, will meet MC commissioner KK Yadav to discuss the issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-rwa-apex-body-slams-authorities-over-burning-issues/story-38jtMgRcv1hBCMacDfrpLP.html
01-11-2020||City||Eight vehicle robberies in October put Ludhiana police in a tizzy||Even as robbers struck eight times in October, snatching residents’ two- and four-wheelers at gunpoint, police continue to grope in the dark about the criminals behind these cases.In an average of two robberies per week in the district, residents lost seven two-wheelers and one car to robbers.In all cases, the accused assaulted the victims and drove away their vehicles, often containing other belongings and cash. While police are apprehensive of the robbers misusing these vehicles for bigger crimes by installing fake number plates and also sometimes changing the colour of the vehicles, they remain clueless about the gangs behind these incidents and have managed to solve only one of the eight cases.The motorcycle recovered belonged to Tibba road resident Rajinder Kumar, who was targeted on October 2. According to Rajinder, he works as a cutter master in a hosiery factory and had bought the motorcycle on a monthly instalments. After he lost his motorcycle to robbers, he could not have thought of buying another vehicle due to his meagre earnings. But, luck favoured him and the police managed to recover his motorcycle.“I used to commute to work in autos after my motorcycle was stolen,” he said.Similarly, police in September had recovered a scooter stolen in May, but its appearance was completely changed. Pankaj Bansal of Naulakha Road was robbed of his brown scooter on May 19. A case in this regard was registered at the Division Number 2 police station. The police had recovered the scooter on September 23, but found that the vehicle’s number plate was changed and its colour was switched to white.Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said in such cases, police lodge the FIRs immediately, so that the vehicles were not be misused in another crime. “Police have found involvement of local criminals in such crimes as they need to meet their need for drugs,” he added.Robbers having a field dayOctober 29: Two men robbed a Machhiwara resident of his motorcycle and mobile phone at Kohara-Machhiwara roadOctober 29: Four men snatched a farm labourer’s motorcycle in Kaunke Khosa villageOctober 28: An elderly man was robbed of his scooter, cash and mobile phone while he was visiting his plot in Mani Shah Colony near Alamgir villageOctober 23: Two miscreants robbed a Samrala resident of his brand new Hyundai Aura car at gunpoint near his house. The man was parking the car in the parking space of his apartment complex when the robbers struck. The victim had bought the car only five days agoOctober 14: A 32-year-old man was robbed of his motorcycle near Arya College for BoysOctober 10: Three armed robbers made off with a scooter containing Rs 3.42 lakh in cash after hitting the vehicle with their car and injuring its rider near the Advanced Training Institute (ATI) on Gill RoadOctober 9: A coloniser was robbed of his motorcycle at gunpoint on Jassiyan Road October 2: Two scooter-borne men robbed a Tibba Road resident of his motorcycle and fled. The motorcycle was later recovered with the arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/eight-vehicle-robberies-in-october-put-ludhiana-police-in-a-tizzy/story-Xui2DJ3Unzb4g9CzYdvEkL.html
01-11-2020||City||Ludhiana: Financial constraints of family due to pandemic driving schoolchildren to work||The coronavirus pandemic has forced many children studying in government schools into child labour. Many children of Classes 9 to 12 have refused to attend school and decided to continue with online classes post lockdown to support their families. The Covid-19 outbreak has resulted in a potential income loss to families forcing children to help them earn a livelihood. Consequently, children engaged in work do not wish to return back to schools even after many of them have reopened on October 19.In the last four months, children aged between 14 years to 18 years have started working and earning Rs 3,500 to Rs 6,000 per month. Principals of government schools have stated that children have been working in factories, shops, selling vegetables and earning money to support their families. Parental unemployment due to economic shocks has led children to step in to provide support, they said. Teachers have also confirmed that very few students attend online classes as a majority of them are engaged in work. Many school-going children were found working at shops in Ghumar Mandi, Chaura Bazaar, Model Town.Sunil Kumar, 15, has been working in a factory since June to earn a livelihood. When his school reopened on October 19, Sunil decided to continue work in order to survive. He said, “My parents were working as labourers in a factory and both lost their jobs during the lockdown. I was forced to sell vegetables for two months in order to survive. I am unable to attend classes on a daily basis as I have to go to work.”While 17-year-old student, Inderjot Singh, a student of Government Senior Secondary School, Multipurpose, was forced to work at a chemist shop for the last four months due to financial constraints. Being a non-medical student, it is tough for him to manage both studies and work. Singh said, “To support my family, I started working for nine hours a day, so to cope up with the syllabus take help from my friends as I am unable to attend online classes during the day.”Government Senior Secondary School, Multipurpose, has 2,949 students studying in Classes 9 to 12 and only 80 are attending school. As per sources, many students are working in Chaura Bazaar and have not been able to attend the classes physically and online. Principal, Navdeep Romana, said, “Teachers are making sure that students are attending online classes. Few teachers are taking classes after 8 pm so that children do not miss classes.”Government Senior Secondary School, Dhandari Khurd, has 540 students studying in Classes 9 to 12 of which 68 are attending the school. Principal Ujjalveer Singh, said, “Many students prefer attending online classes as they are working during the day due to financial constraints.”Requesting anonymity, a teacher at a government school said, “Of the total 68 students, 14 are attending online classes and four are coming to school regularly. The remaining students are not regular with online classes as over 15 of them are working to support their families.”District education officer, secondary, Swaranjit Kaur, said, “I am aware that many students are engaged in work and do not attend online classes. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, children and their families are facing a tough time due to which many of them are forced to work and are not attending school.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-financial-constraints-of-family-due-to-pandemic-driving-schoolchildren-to-work/story-CtVUnT172w3nbmDPamuEqN.html
01-11-2020||City||J&K registers 4 deaths, 540 new virus cases||Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday recorded four deaths and 540 fresh coronavirus infections. The Union territory’s tally of positive cases has mounted to 95,325 and the death toll is 1,482.Officials said 369 more people have tested positive in Kashmir and 171 in Jammu. Three people succumbed to the disease in Kashmir and one in Jammu division. So far, 87,517 people have recovered from the disease in the UT and the recovery rate has increased to 91.8 %—the highest so far. There are 6,326 active cases in J&K.The total number of tests conducted in the UT have crossed 23.24 lakh.In Jammu division, the highest number of cases were recorded in Jammu district at 108, followed by 22 in Udhampur. In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 153 more people tested positive, followed by Baramulla at 87.Till date, 6.57 lakh people have been enlisted for observation – 15,437 in home quarantine, 6,326 in isolation, and 44,977 under home surveillance. Besides, 5.89 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-registers-4-deaths-540-new-virus-cases/story-IUPwBEhw9N4QO3wBdYlTLL.html
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||J&K: October registers lowest Covid death toll in 3 months||Jammu and Kashmir’s Covid crisis seems to be abating with October registering the least fatalities in three months, as per the administration’s health records. Data indicates that October witnessed a 38% decrease in fatalities as compared to September and 10% decrease as compared to August. As many as 293 people lost their lives to Covid in Jammu and Kashmir in October, while there were 326 fatalities in August and 478 in September. Nodal officer for Covid and Government Medical College, Srinagar, head of community medicine Dr Muhammad Salim Khan said, “Overall the mortality rate was less in October. The number of cases is reducing. This is a positive sign as the curve is flattening.” August, September and October saw a spike in the number of infections and deaths in the UT since the Covid outbreak in March. Of the 94,785 Covid infections in the UT, 74,330 cases were reported from August. Similarly, 1,097 of 1,478 cumulative deaths were reported in the Ut over the last three months. There has also been a decline in infections with 19,619 infections logged in October against 37,372 infections in September. The UT had recorded 17,339 cases in August.The average daily cases also dropped to 632 per day in October from 1,245 cases per day in September. An average 559 daily cases were detected in August. Dr Khan said the overall positivity rate was going down. “Though the testing rate has gone down but the positivity rate to the number of tests conducted has also gone down. It has dropped to 10-12% from 18-20%,” he said.So far, the UT has conducted over 23 lakh tests. Of the 94,785 positive cases, 86,888 have recovered while 6,419 were active till October 31. Dr Khan said that the improvement was due to interruption of transmission after the spike. “Transmission gets interrupted when people are already infected. The number of positive cases in the peripheries of the UT are also going down,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/j-k-october-registers-lowest-covid-death-toll-in-3-months/story-uvNxj6b7NFsRKxZnD8mbgL.html
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||J&K excise scam: Process to frame charges against 16 accused set in motion||After a 24-year long legal battle, framing of charges against 16 accused, including a retired IAS officer and four government employees, in the Jammu and Kashmir excise scam has been set in motion, an official said on Sunday.According to a crime branch spokesperson, the state exchequer lost around ₹3 crore due to the scam related to payment of contract bid of liquor vends allotted by the government to Kuldip Singh and Company.The firm was supposed to deposit ₹13.23 crore in banks and treasuries of the excise department. The receipts and vouchers were to be presented before excise office, Jammu, to get the liquor permit. However, the deputy commissioner of excise, Jammu, found some discrepancies in the receipts and vouchers and sought their verification. A variation in the amount paid by the firm and that shown in vouchers presented to the excise office was found, the official said.“The accused deposited ₹1 lakh in the bank as revenue on account of excise duties but on the vouchers they would add one more zero, making it ₹10 lakh,” the spokesperson said.“This illegal practice continued for over a year, which caused a loss of around ₹3 crore to the excise department directly and the state exchequer indirectly,” the official added.The allegations were proven against the accused during investigation and a chargesheet was produced in court on September 10, 1996.Six of the accused, including two government employees and four shareholders of the company, have died since the registration of the case, the spokesperson said.“After 24 years of battle in the court by the crime branch represented by additional public prosecutor, Jammu, the process of framing of charges has been set in motion. This case was clubbed with yet another case registered with the then vigilance organisation,” the spokesperson said.He said additional sessions judge, Jammu, Tahir Khurshid Raina passed the order to chargesheet the accused -- retired IAS officer and shareholder of the company -- Hansraj Mangotra, his son and partner Manoj Mangotra, co-shareholders Amardeep Sharma, Kuldeep Singh, shareholders Rashpal Singh, Rameshwar Singh, Ripu Daman Sharma (chartered accountant), Ashok Agarwal, Sudershan Singh Jamwal, Thakur Shiv Ram and Moolraj, and Randeer Singh.He said excise inspectors Narinder Sharma and Sardari Lal, senior accountant at excise office, Jammu, Surinder Singh and employee Sunil Masih Matto were also named as accused.However, Rashpal Singh, Ashok Agarwal, Thakur Shiv Ram, Moolraj, Surinder Singh, and Sardari Lal have passed away, the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/j-k-excise-scam-process-to-frame-charges-against-16-accused-set-in-motion/story-Ktbs9B1RM8TFlRY3Cj1kQN.html
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||Missing Poonch boy reunited with kin after 1 year||The Childline India Foundation reunited an 12-year-old boy, who had fled from a madrasa in Delhi after being beaten up by the maulana in September 2019, with his family in the border district of Poonch here on Wednesday. The missing boy’s father, Kabir Hussain, 39, said, “It was a long nightmare for us. For nearly 14 months we had no clue about his whereabouts. We thought that he might have been killed or died in a mishap.” Hussain, a truck driver, lives in Mohra Bachai, a remote area of Poonch district. The boy was 11 when he had fled the madrasa where he studied with his elder brother.” Hussain said, “I had sent my sons to Zubaidia Madrasa from where my son fled because Maulana Shahid Iqbal brutally beat him up for not learning the lesson. His legs and arms were held by four students on the directions of the maulana while he beat him up with a bamboo stick.” He alleged that the marks of the beating were still visible on the boy’s body. “I read about Childline in a newspaper and approached them hoping that they could find my son. Subsequently, things started falling in place. They made a video of mine and uploaded it on social media forums and a TV channel with their contact numbers,” he said. Subzar Ahmad of Childline Poonch said, “It was a tough road for us but we finally succeeded in tracing him with the help of Child Line Ahmedabad and brought him back to Poonch on October 28 where district commissioner Rahul Yadav handed the child to his family.” “The boy did not return to his family because he was scared that he would be reprimanded by them for running away from the madrasa,” he said. The boy was working with a truck driver in Ahmedabad. District commissioner Rahul Yadav said, “It was heartening to see the young child with his family again. He was found by Childline Foundation with the help of Gujarat Police in Ahmedabad,” Childline can be reached at helplines numbers 1098, +91-22-68251098, 01965-222213, 01965-222214 and childlinepoonch@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/missing-poonch-boy-reunited-with-kin-after-1-year/story-CzqpNJ4o9s2O5CHfHjALMM.html
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||5 held with illegal arms at nakas in Chandigarh||Police arrested five persons with illegal arms and ammunition, from nakas set up across the city on Saturday night, in view of the recent string of shooting incidents. Most of the nakas were set up near prominent night clubs and discos. Police have seized a pistol, a revolver, a countrymade pistol and 24 live cartridges from the accused. Around 11.30pm, police stopped a white Mahindra Scorpio, bearing a Punjab registration number, for checking at a naka near TDI mall in Sector 17. Instead of stopping, the car driver tried to speed away. But the cops stopped him with barricades and on checking, found a pistol and seven live cartridges in the vehicle. The driver, Lakhwinder Singh, 31, of Bathinda, was arrested from the spot. During interrogation, it was revealed that he runs a sweet shop and a locking tile factory in Malout, Punjab.Later around 1.30am, a white Swift Car, with a Delhi number, was intercepted. This car’s driver managed to escape the naka but the police gave him a chase and caught around the Sector 7/8/18/19 roundabout. A country-made pistol and five live cartridges were recovered from the accused, identified as Amritpal Singh, 45, of Bathinda. Harpreet Singh, 29, of Mansa, who was in the passenger seat, was also arrested. Police recovered seven live cartridges and a gun holster belt from him. Both claim to be farmers but police are trying to establish if they have any links to the recent firing incidents in the city. At a naka laid near Sindhi Sweets in Sector 8, police intercepted a white Endeavour SUV around midnight. On seeing the police, the person sitting on the passenger side got off and tried to flee on foot but he was apprehended immediately. The accused, later identified as Varun Garg, 35, of Jaisurya Sunrise Green Society, Zirakpur, was found possessing three live cartridges. The driver, Kuldip Singh, 32, of Gagowal village of Mansa, was also found possessing a revolver and two live cartridges.All accused were arrested under the Arms Act and sent to police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/5-held-with-illegal-arms-at-nakas-in-chandigarh/story-tSpU2xI1mmejTWRCtIf3GM.html
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh financier stabbed, robbed of gold chain in office||A financier was stabbed and robbed of his gold chain by two masked men at his office in Sector 44, police said on Sunday.Victim Sohan Lal, a resident of Sector 51, had returned to his office situated in the market after a stroll when the assailants struck on Saturday evening. They stabbed him at least five times in the torso before fleeing with his gold chain. The victim was rushed to hospital, where his condition is said to be stable. Police have registered a case under Sections 452 (house trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint), 397 (robbery, or dacoity, with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Sector 34 police station. Officials privy to the matter said the victim claimed that the two youths had attacked him without instigation, but CCTV footage of the market showed them conversing with each other before the incident. The duo is yet to be traced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-financier-stabbed-robbed-of-gold-chain-in-office/story-DXiyAwNzkRRLAI3ow9IbqN.html
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||Pakistan violates ceasefire in Kathua, Poonch||Pakistan on Sunday opened heavy fire along the International Border and the Line of Control (LoC) in Kathua and Poonch districts respectively, prompting India to retaliate in equal measure.“Pakistan rangers opened heavy fire in Londi area in Hiranagar sector of Kathua district around 1am on Sunday. Rangers also shot mortars that hit two bunkers belonging to Londi village sarpanch Dev Raj and one Ram Lal. Two shells exploded near the houses of Parshotam Lal and Ram Lal, which left three buffaloes injured,” said officials.The exchange of fire lasted for half-an-hour. In a similar incident, the Pakistan Army opened unprovoked fire in three sectors along the LoC in Poonch district on Sunday. “At around 7.30 am, Pakistan initiated an unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing small arms and shelling mortars along LoC in Shahpur, Kirni and Qasba sectors. The Indian army retaliated befittingly,” said defence spokesman Lt Col Devender Anand. There were no adverse reports on the Indian side.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pakistan-violates-ceasefire-in-kathua-poonch/story-YYLLTsanxyUUyQeZVDlC6O.html
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||Mansar rejuvenation plan will increase tourist influx, says J&K L-G||Lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha, accompanied by Union minister Dr Jitendra Singh, virtually inaugurated the comprehensive Mansar rejuvenation and development plan worth ₹198.37 crore here on Sunday.Sinha said the prestigious project aims to increase tourist influx in the region that will facilitate socio-economic development of the area. “It will open more avenues for holistic development of the area and will generate more employment opportunities for locals.” he said. “Jammu and Kashmir has the potential to become a preferred tourist destination and this sector can support a much higher work force. The UT administration is working on a strategic plan for growth and development of the tourism sector in Jammu and Kashmir. With numerous heritage sites, world- class infrastructure and promotion of adventure sports, we can achieve the tag of India’s most preferred tourist destination,” said the L-G.We are also expanding the skill development programme for the hospitality industry so that tourists have a positive experience of travelling and enjoying the hospitality of our Union Territory, he added.Mansar and Surinsar are the most sought after tourist destinations. They are in the close vicinity to Katra, which is visited by around 1 crore Hindu pilgrims, annually.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mansar-rejuvenation-plan-will-increase-tourist-influx-says-j-k-l-g/story-IyEZ633vIHLRAevUy8BOLP.html
01-11-2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh by-polls: Campaign comes to end after bitter play of words||Election campaign across as many as 28 legislative assembly constituencies going to by-polls in Madhya Pradesh on November 3 came to an end on Sunday evening, as per officials. The polls will decide the fate of the incumbent Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in the state. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan government needs to win 8 seats to get to the majority mark of 115 in the 230-member state assembly, thus, retain power if it doesn’t have to be dependent on the support of non-Congress political parties’ and independent MLAs. Presently, one seat in the assembly is lying vacant. There are as many as 355 candidates, including 22 woman candidates, contesting the by-polls. More than 63.5 lakh voters are expected to exercise franchise on November 3. The candidates include 25 such who resigned from the state assembly and later joined the BJP earlier this year. The campaign saw a bitter fight mainly between the ruling party BJP and the Opposition Congress with a good number of complaints being lodged with the Election Commission on the use of alleged unparliamentary language or objectionable remarks being made by political leaders against their rivals. While the EC deprived state Congress president Kamal Nath of his star campaigner status a couple of days back for his “Kya item hai ye” remark against woman and child development minister Imrati Devi, the constitutional body debarred higher education minister Mohan Yadav and Imrati Devi from holding and addressing any public meeting for a day on Saturday and Sunday. Also read: Bihar polls - High stakes for NDA, Grand Alliance in 2nd phase, campaigning endsSimilarly, the Commission warned BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya and BJP candidate from Anuppur constituency Bisahulal Singh while it issued notices to BJP candidate Girraj Dandotia, BJP MLA Usha Thakur and Congress leaders Sajjan Singh Verma and Acharya Pramod Krishnan on complaints that they used objectionable remarks during their meetings. It was during the campaign that the Madhya Pradesh High Court’s Gwalior bench, in its interim order dated October 20, expressed its displeasure over the conduct of politicians in the context of Covid-19 situation in the state and banned physical public meetings, subject to availability of possibility of virtual campaign, in 9 districts under its jurisdiction, which includes 8 districts in Gwalior-Chambal region. The Supreme Court later granted stay on the execution of the order. Through its earlier interim order, the high court ordered lodging of FIR against Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar and state Congress president Kamal Nath for violations of Covid-19 protocol. Mythological characters like Ravana, Kans, Mareech, Shakuni were used as adjectives by the leaders for their rivals apart from several diatribes hurled against each other as the campaign gained momentum. Social activist in Bhind, Sanjeev Barua, said, “It is unfortunate that whenever elections are held casteism and controversies decide the fate of elections and the real issues like those on development are hardly raised by the political parties.” Another social worker from Gwalior, Umesh Vashishth, said, “For Gwalior-Chambal, the poor sex ratio is a major problem but none of political parties or politicians talk on this issue or any other issue related to women and children in the region.” Jayant Singh Tomar, head of journalism department in a university, is contesting the by-polls and said, “It appears the real issues are deliberately suppressed by the political parties to ensure that they don’t have to answer the people as to what they have done in the name of development. Hence, unemployment, poor sex ratio, malnutrition, etc., never become issues in the elections.” On the last day of the campaign on Sunday, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan held roadshows and addressed election meetings in Biaora, Agar, Suwasra and Hatpipaliya constituencies, all in Malwa region. Similarly, senior BJP leader and Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia addressed election meetings in Mehagaon, Bhander, Karaira and Ashok Nagar constituencies in the Gwalior-Chambal region, his home turf. State Congress president Kamal Nath held a roadshow in Morena before addressing a meeting and later addressed party workers in Gwalior. Addressing the public meeting in Ashok Nagar, Scindia said, “The crowd in meetings show the BJP is going to achieve a massive victory in the by-polls.” He said, “I don’t aspire for chair and positions. Scindia family has never been in politics for the sake of power. We have always taken politics as a responsibility to secure the bright future of people.” Chouhan in his meetings said, “I am committed to rebuilding Madhya Pradesh and make it self-reliance (Atmnirbhar) to make people’s lives better and bring a new ray of brightness in the life of my sons and daughters in the state.” State Congress president Kamal Nath said in Gwalior, “People are eager to teach a lesson to those who betrayed the voters by resigning from the state assembly and later imposing by-polls on people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-by-polls-campaign-comes-to-end-after-bitter-play-of-words/story-TAQOIWl0h1cqCcl1S9KYRM.html
01-11-2020||Pune||4 districts have passed Covid-19 peak: state health department||A trend analysis of four districts in western Maharashtra shows a decline in the number of Covid-19 cases. However, the peak period of the virus, as evidenced by the data (see graphic) has been different for each of the districts. The case fatality rate of each of these four districts – Satara, Sangli, Solapur and Kolhapur - is higher than the state average. State officials, however, believe that the Covid-19 infection has peaked in these districts . Satish Pawar, director, state health department, said, “All the four districts have surpassed their peaks, which was somewhere in September - either in the beginning or in the middle. None of the districts saw an explosion of cases like Pune and Mumbai because of multiple reasons; because of the population density in these two major cities. Also, the number of cases being detected in the beginning was directly linked to the population density of a city or district, and later, with the floating population leaving Mumbai and returning to their native places, the infection spread instead of being concentrated in one city.” Satara has recorded a recovery rate of 87.65%; a case fatality rate of 2.9%; and as of Sunday, the district has recorded 47,753 Covid-19 of which, 4,484 is the active case count. Satara saw its peak with respect to the highest number of active Covid-19 cases on September 17, with nine thousand cases. Since then, cases have been on a decline. Sangli recorded a recovery rate of 90.61% and a case fatality rate of 3.2%. As of Sunday, the district recorded 46,965 Covid-19 cases, of which 2,866 are active cases. Sangli reported its peak of active cases on September 19, with 10,000 cases. Since then, the curve has been irregular, but overall, on the decline. Solapur reported a recovery rate of 89.28% and a case fatality rate of 3.2%. As of Sunday, the district reported 44,193 Covid-19 cases, of which 3,288 are active cases. The district saw its peak September 26, with 7,835 active cases. Since then, numbers have been declining. Kolhapur has reported a recovery rate of 94.04% and case fatality rate of 3.4%. The total number of Covid-19 cases went up to 47,300, of which 1,207 are active cases. Kolhapur saw its peak on September 9, with 10,000 active cases. Dr Pawar further added, “Also, as Mumbai bore the brunt of being densely populated, the infection spread widely during the initial months. Health experts were caught off guard which helped other districts to learn from the mistakes with regards to treatment protocol and management of beds.” Saurabh Rao, divisional commissioner for Pune division, which encompasses these four districts, said, “Western Maharashtra and specifically these districts got affected in the initial months of the pandemic. Now, for the past three-four weeks the situation is getting better. We did see Satara report an alarming positivity rate which has gone down to below 15% since the past 10 days. Solapur has also stabilised and brought down its positivity rate to below 15% over the past two months. It was one of the worst affected districts and the administration and the medical faculties had come under heavy criticism. Kolhapur and Sangli have also seen the same journey.” With respect to a higher case fatality rate, Rao agreed that these nearby districts are heavily dependent on Pune for critical health care. He said, “The reasons for higher case fatality rate are late detection and declaration of Covid-19 cases and a difficulty in access to the medical facilities. We did see people travel to Pune for critical care or get delayed access to health care from these districts which contributed to a higher death number.” He did say that the population density in these districts played a key role as the spread of infection, containment, liveability index, dwelling units size and category play a crucial role.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/4-districts-have-passed-covid-19-peak-state-health-department/story-GV8qlVculibQglU94ERsyJ.html
01-11-2020||Business||With worsening AQI, air purifier sales soar in country||With the overall air quality in various parts, particularly Delhi NCR, in the country fluctuating between ‘very poor’ and ‘severe’ categories, air purifier makers are logging as much as 50 per cent rise in sale numbers and expecting the momentum to gain more traction during winters. The air purifier segment, which was earlier limited to select pockets of top metro cities, is firming its foothold in smaller cities, and online channels are emerging as a key facilitator to meet the consumer demand in such places. Though air purifier as a segment is very small but it has increased in size over the last three years, and the vertical is expected to grow by another 50 per cent in 2020.“The onset of winters, smog situation in various parts of the country and the current concerns around air normally raise the alarm around deteriorating air quality and indoor air pollution. An air purifier makes the most sense now, owing to the alarming levels of increasing air pollution in major cities around the country,” Eureka Forbes Managing Director and CEO Marzin R Shroff said. Kent RO Systems chairman and managing director Mahesh Gupta said the company has already seen a 50 per cent spike in sales this season as compared to last year and is expecting this momentum to continue till the end of winters. Air purifier sales peak only when consumers see pollution rising to a dangerous level, he said adding that increased media coverage of poor air quality has led to consumer awareness, thereby resulting in more sales.“We have seen that in the past four years, there has been a sudden surge in air purifiers demand during the smog situation in Delhi.The onset of winter only further deteriorates the air quality and acts as a catalyst to push the sales for air purifiers,” said Gupta. Now a basic air purifier that simply cleans the air with the touch of a few buttons is coming packed with features such as real-time, wifi-enabled control systems.Companies have developed Internet of Things(IoT) enabled room air purifiers with multi-layers of purification filters and can be controlled from the comfort of a smartphone. Air purifier manufacturer Dyson said that air purifiers come in various shapes and sizes, remove different kinds of air pollutants in homes, come with an array of specifications, and offer different features.“Selecting the right kind of air purifier, tested for real homes, can help in creating a healthy home environment indoors”, said a Dyson spokesperson. Earlier, the sale of air purifier was just restricted to the metro cities, however, now makers are also getting demand from small cities and towns.“Air purifiers are no longer a luxury but have become a necessity as per the alarming increase in the nation’s air pollution levels,” Eureka Forbes’ Shroff said. According to Kent RO Systems’ Gupta, earlier 70 per cent sale of air purifiers used to be limited to Delhi NCR, however this year it has seen a surge in demand from other cities also. “Air purifier segment is not just restricted to the Delhi-NCR region, but there is a demand from neighbouring states and cities including Chandigarh, Ludhiana, Jalandhar, as also from various regions of Haryana,” he said. EY Partner and National Leader, Consumer Products and Retail, Pinakiranjan Mishra said air quality in India is rapidly deteriorating, especially in Delhi, Mumbai, Gujarat,Tamil Nadu and other metros.“The demand for air purifiers in India is expected to grow rapidly due to continuous air quality deterioration, growing knowledge of air purifiers, coupled with rising health consciousness among consumers. At the same time, increasing awareness of the effects of indoor pollution is creating demand in the residential and institutional sectors for air purifiers,” he said. Expressing similar views, AirOK Technologies Founder and CEO Deekshith Vara Prasad said: “This season has indeed been a phenomenal one for us for four reasons. The foremost factor is that the Covid-19 pandemic has increased the sensitivity of people to the menace of air pollution. People no longer think twice before buying an air purifier as it has become a necessity now.” The current market size of the domestic air purifier segment is estimated to be around Rs 200 crore annually, with several companies including Eureka Forbes, Dyson, Kent, Sharp, Panasonic, Philips etc competing, as it is a sunrise segment. According to TechSci Research report, market for air purifiers in India is projected to grow at a Compound annual growth rate(CAGR) of around 40 per cent during 2015-20.The category has increased in size over the last three years, and in 2020, and it is expected to grow by another 50 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/business-news/with-worsening-aqi-air-purifier-sales-soar-in-country/story-K9xLFbFaPiSbAMx6iyofaM.html
01-11-2020||Mumbai||TRP case: Crime branch recovers 13.72 lakh from residence of arrested accused||The Mumbai crime branch’s special investigation team (SIT) has seized Rs 13.72 lakh cash from the residence and office premises of arrested accused Abhishek Kolawade in the alleged television rating points (TRP) manipulation case. Kolawade works as a vendor for many channels and runs a company named Max Media.Assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze, who is a part of the investigating team, confirmed that a crime branch team conducted raids at Kolawade’s residence and office premises in Mumbai and Thane area and seized total cash Rs 13.72 lakh. “We have also seized three laptops, two hard discs and five pen drives. The Kalina forensic team has been approached to help the SIT to recover data from laptops, hard disc and pen drive if any important evidence was deleted by the accused” said Vaze.So far, the crime branch arrested a total 11 accused in the case and Kolawade was arrested on October 25. “After investigation, it was learnt that Kolawade used to get money from suspected channels through Hawala,” said Vaze.Also read: Jharkhand BJP chief charged with sedition after comment on Hemant Soren govtAfter questioning, Kolawade police arrested Ashish Chaudhary, 50, a Thane resident who was allegedly involved in payment for manipulating views for two news channels and a Bollywood music channel. Chaudhary used to work as a distributor of a Hindi News channel and runs a company named Crystal Broadcast private limited in his wife’s name and was in constant touch with Kolawade.During the inquiry, Chaudhary revealed that he used to pay Rs 5 lakh to Kolawade every month who distributed the money to other arrested accused, Ramji Varma, Dinesh Vishwakarma and Umesh Mishra, and then the money went to the households where barometers were installed to watch the select news channels maximum time. Both are in police custody till November 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/trp-case-crime-branch-recovers-13-72-lakh-from-residence-of-arrested-accused/story-Pc5JHKjBVqJMp3tN62HUlL.html
01-11-2020||Election:||PM Modi announces 1000 Farmer Producer Organisations in Bihar poll rally||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday that Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has decided to form 1000 Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs) for farmers and creation of a fund of Rs 1 lakh crores for agriculture infrastructure.BJP has decided to form 1000 Farmer Producer Organizations (FPOs) for farmers in Bihar. Also, Central Govt has created a fund of Rs 1 lakh crores for agriculture infrastructure for our farmers: Prime Minister Narendra Modi at an election rally in Samastipur.Prime Minister lashed out at Mahagathbandhan and accused them of making every move in politics for personal and family benefits.“On one side, the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) is committed to democracy, and on the other side is ‘Parivar Tantra Gathbandhan’ for purely personal benefits. NDA government stands for ‘sabka saath, sabka vikas,” Prime Minister said while addressing his second rally of the day in Samastipur on Sunday.Continuing his jibe on this line he further criticised the Congress party for not remembering or paying tribute to Sardar Patel.“Sardar Patel was a great patriot and belonged to everyone, but Congress has limited itself to a family that they didn’t remember him on his birth anniversary yesterday,” PM Modi further said.While lauding NDA’s efforts for the betterment of poor and marginalised people, the prime minister attacked the Mahagathbandhan once again.“They are not concerned with poor’s problems. During elections, they start playing the ‘poor’ cards, but after the election, they see their families only. (Chunav me Gareeb-Gareeb ka mala japne lagye hain, chunav ke baad sirf apna parivar dikhayi deta hai),” PM Modi added.“Bihar is the holy land which gave a lesson of democracy to the world. This is the holy land from where the seed of democracy sprouted. Look at the map of the country, on one side, NDA is committed to democracy, and on the other side is ‘parivar tantra gathbandhan’. NDA government is for ‘sabka saath, sabka vikas’. What have these family-run political parties given you? They made big houses for themselves, bought luxurious cars for themselves. They gave tickets to people of their own family. But have any relative of Nitish Kumar reached Rajya Sabha? People who work for Democracy give an opportunity to every citizen,” the Prime Minister said. The Prime Minister further stated that the indications from the first phase show that NDA is making a clean sweep in Bihar.”We have talked to the political pundits and some journalists and everyone believes that in the first phase NDA is making a clean sweep. If today all trends are pointing towards the victory of NDA, that is because of our mothers and sisters who are ensuring a victory of our government and Chief Minister Nitish Kumar,” the Prime Minister earlier said at Chhapra.He also thanked the people who showed up at the rally amid Covid-19 restrictions and said it is a clear indication of the results of the assembly election.The first phase of Bihar assembly elections to 71 seats was held on October 28. The remaining 172 assembly constituencies of the 243-member assembly will go to polls on November 3 and November 7.The elections for the second phase of polls for 94 assembly constituencies will be held on November 3 and the results are scheduled to be announced on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/pm-modi-announces-1000-farmer-producer-organisations-in-bihar-poll-rally/story-R07tQHgESZCBjwI8qw4ZvI.html
01-11-2020||Election:||PM Modi slams Opposition in Bihar, calls them ‘parivar tantra gathbandhan’||Continuing his attack on opposition parties in Bihar, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday termed them as ‘parivar tantra gathbandhan’ at his second rally in Samastipur and added that on the one side NDA is committed to democracy it is facing family-run political parties on the other side. “Bihar is the holy land which gave a lesson of democracy to the world. This is the holy land from where the seed of democracy sprouted. Look at the map of the country, on one side, NDA is committed to democracy, and on the other side is ‘parivar tantra gathbandhan’. NDA government is for ‘sabka saath, sabka vikas’. What have these family-run political parties given you? They made big houses for themselves, bought luxurious cars for themselves. They gave tickets to people of their own family. But have any relative of Nitish Kumar reached Rajya Sabha? People who work for Democracy give an opportunity to every citizen,” the Prime Minister said. The Prime Minister continued his attack on the opposition and said that the people like Nitish Kumar and himself, who work for democracy, live for the betterment of others and not their families. Without taking anyone’s name, PM Modi termed the opposition leader as the “price of jungle raj” and further alleged that the Congress party has shrunk to just one family.“You see the prince of jungle raj regularly. Congress has also limited itself to just one family. Wasn’t Sardar Patel a leader of Congress? Yet the party had trouble remembering him on his birth anniversary,” he said.The Prime Minister further stated that the indications from the first phase show that NDA is making a clean sweep in Bihar.“We have talked to the political pundits and some journalists and everyone believes that in the first phase NDA is making a clean sweep. If today all trends are pointing towards the victory of NDA, that is because of our mothers and sisters who are ensuring a victory of our government and Chief Minister Nitish Kumar,” the Prime Minister said.He also thanked the people who showed up at the rally amid Covid-19 restrictions and said it is a clear indication of the results of the assembly election.The first phase of Bihar assembly elections to 71 seats was held on October 28. The remaining 172 assembly constituencies of the 243-member assembly will go to polls on November 3 and November 7.The elections for the second phase of polls for 94 assembly constituencies will be held on November 3 and the results are scheduled to be announced on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/pm-modi-slams-opposition-in-bihar-calls-them-parivar-tantra-gathbandhan/story-6tf2WtBRX8N9tyCiDD50ZO.html
01-11-2020||Election:||War of words between LJP, JD(U); Chirag says CM’s party playing truant with BJP||This time around, the voters in Bihar are in a fix while deciding who is with whom. As the assembly election reaches its climax, the confusion is only confounding with the LJP accusing the JD(U) of playing truant with the BJP and the JD(U) blaming the LJP of being hand in glove with the RJD. Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) chief Chirag Paswan on Sunday hinted at the internecine battle within the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) and exhorted the LJP cadres to vote for the BJP wherever the LJP has not fielded its candidates. In a tweet, posted almost around the same time when Prime Minister Narendra Modi was completing his third leg of Bihar campaigning in Bihar, Chirag said, “Nitish Kumar and his leaders are trying to damage the prospects of the BJP on the seats it is contesting. Wherever LJP is not contesting, I appeal to all Bihar people to stand by BJP candidates. Give your blessings to LJP-BJP for a Nitish Kumar-free Bihar #ImpossibleNitish.” Chirag also attached a newspaper clip in which Bihar deputy CM Sushil Kumar accused Bhalpur JD(U) MP Ajay Mandal of resorting to anti-NDA activities. Also read: Nitish will quit NDA after polls, to challenge Modi in 2024 - Chirag PaswanHitherto, Chirag was accused of playing as the B-team of the BJP to harm the prospects of the JD(U) and the LJP leader himself never hid his aversion for Nitish Kumar and liking for PM Narendra Modi. However, there was always a lurking fear that the LJP’s gameplan of reducing the size of the JD(U) might end up increasing the size of the RJD. “It was always considered a double-edged sword as political planning can vary from people’s planning. The way BJP has been batting for Nitish Kumar goes in contrast to the LJP’s posturing which has only added to the confusion for the electorate,” said political analyst NK Choudhary. During the day, Chirag had also tweeted a newspaper clip on income tax raids on contractors involved with Bihar’s ‘nal-jal’ yojana, one of the seven resolves of the chief minister and one which has been under attack for corruption by the LJP and RJD alike, and termed it the “biggest scam”. The JD(U), on the other hand, hit back at Chirag Paswan, accusing him of being hand in glove with the RJD leader Tejaswhi Prasad Yadav and playing ‘dirty politics’. “The DNA of both the leaders matches and that is why he is openly talking in the language of Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. By questioning ‘7 Resolves’, he is also questioning his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras, who as minister also endorsed it. The ‘Chirag’ will also extinguish like the lantern in Bihar and he will lose all the assembly seats under his own Lok Sabha constituency,” said JD(U) spokesman and minister Neeraj Kumar. JD(U) general secretary and minister Sanjay Jha said that by his actions and baseless allegations, Chirag was fast losing relevance in the eyes of the people and he would realize it when his party would perform miserably in the election. Earlier, Chirag had attacked both JD(U) and RJD for their job offers at the time of election despite having ruled for 15 years each in Bihar. “In the last five years, the government could not even fill the vacant sanctioned posts and now they are giving lollypop of jobs. The LJP will fill all the sanctioned posts and clear the decks for investment,” he said, posting a clip of his vision document.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/war-of-words-between-ljp-jd-u-chirag-says-cm-s-party-playing-truant-with-bjp/story-zQwkR36nxSKv6giy2Gm3jP.html
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||Ballabhgarh: Stone pelting injures police on Delhi-Agra highway||Ten Faridabad police personnel were injured on Sunday when a group of youths allegedly pelted stones at them and tried to indulge in vandalism after being asked to vacate the Delhi-Agra national highway that they had blocked in Haryana’s Ballabhgarh, police said.Police used mild force to disperse the group and the highway, which was blocked for a few minutes, was then cleared.The incident took place just around the time a “Mahapanchayat” was being held in nearby Dussehra grounds in Ballabhgarh.The “Mahapanchayat” was organised by various social organisations to demand justice for 21-year-old college student Nikita, who was shot dead outside her college in Ballabhgarh on Monday allegedly by a man who had been pressuring her to marry him. Three men, including the main accused Tausif, were later arrested in the case.Police said the group of youths who had also reached close to the site where the “Mahapanchayat” was going on suddenly started gathering at the highway and blocked it.The protesting youth were demanding capital punishment for the accused involved in Nikita’s killing. Some among them later started pelting stones at the police when they were asked not to block the highway.Police said the organisers of the “Mahapanchayat” told them they did not know who the youths were.Faridabad Police Commissioner O P Singh told PTI over phone that 10 policemen were injured as stones were hurled at them.“Thirty of them have been rounded up. The situation was immediately brought under control,” Singh said.He said during questioning it was found that a majority of the 30 had come from places outside Faridabad district including Gurugram, Mewat, Palwal, Delhi and Noida.Some of the youths were carrying lathis and stones as well and had come with a “pre-planned intention to vitiate the atmosphere”, police said.“The intention looked to disturb peace and harmony. We are investigating if there was any conspiracy angle involved,” Singh said.“The highway was blocked by protesters for a few minutes and the road was cleared soon,” Singh said.Heavy police force was already deployed in the area in view of the “Mahapanchayat”.Asked about various protests which have been held by different outfits against Nikita’s killings, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who was interacting with reporters in Karnal, said, “Everyone has a right to hold protest in a peaceful manner. But no one should take law and order into one’s hands… If anyone tries to disturb the law and order situation, he will be dealt strictly as per law”.Meanwhile, the ‘Mahapanchayat’ decided to accord “martyr” status to Nikita and sought exemplary punishment for the accused.“Despite grave pressure put on her by the main accused to marry him and convert to Islam, she outright refused and even sacrificed herself. The ‘Sarv Samaj’ (mahapanchayat) gave her martyr status.“Further, the Mahapanchayat decided to organise a “Shradhanjali Sabha” on November 8 in her memory. We have demanded that the case should be tried by a fast track court. The woman’s family should be given compensation by the government and provided police security,” a member of the “Mahapanchayat” told reporters in Ballabhgarh.Nikita, a BCom final-year student, had come out of her college after appearing in an exam on Monday afternoon when she was shot dead outside the place in Ballabhgarh allegedly by the man who had been forcing her to marry him, according to police.Police have so far arrested three people in connection with the case. Tausif and Rehan were nabbed on Tuesday, while Ajaru was held on Thursday.A Special Investigation Team has been set up to carry out the probe.Notably, some Hindu outfits have alleged that the main accused in the case had been putting pressure on the young woman for marriage and had also asked her to convert to Islam.The woman’s family has claimed that Tausif had harassed her two years ago and had compelled her to convert to Islam in order to marry him, which she had refused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ballabhgarh-stone-pelting-injures-police-on-delhi-agra-highway/story-w6GduZlahOZTGYruBmWIgP.html
01-11-2020||Election:||Bihar polls: High stakes for NDA, Grand Alliance in 2nd phase, campaigning ends||Stakes are high for both the ruling NDA and opposition RJD-led grand alliance (GA) in the second phase of polls in 94 assembly seats for which the campaigning ended on Sunday. The polling in 94 seats, spread over 17 districts mostly in north Bihar, Patna and Kosi belt, will be held on November 3. In total, 1,463 candidates are in the fray of which 1,316 candidates are male, 146 female and one from transgender community. The total number of voters in the second phase is 2.86 crore of which 1.50 crore are males, 1.35 crore are females and 980 from the third gender. For the ruling NDA, comprising the BJP –JD(U) along with smaller allies like HAM(S) and VIP, the second phase is crucial as the BJP alone is fighting in 46 seats, JD(U) 43 seats and the VIP on five seats. In the opposition camp, the RJD is contesting 56 seats, Congress 24, CPI-ML (liberation) six while the CPI and the CPM are contesting four seats each. As per reports, the BJP contesting 46 seats is in direct contest with the RJD in 27 seats and with Congress in 12 while the JD(U) contesting 43 seats is in direct contest with RJD in 25 seats and with Congress in 12 seats. In rest of the seats, there are also contests among candidates put by Left parties and also alliances like the LJP and the Grand Secular Democratic Front led by RLSP chief Upendra Kushwaha. Also read: ‘Lantern raj vs LED bulb’ - PM Modi takes on Opposition in Motihari rallyIn the 2015 assembly polls, the Mahagatbandhan, which had the JD(U) as part of the RJD-Congress combine, had won 70 out of 94 seats going to polls in the second phase this time. The BJP-led NDA had won 20 seats while the LJP had won two seats. Among the prominent candidates whose fate would be decided in the second phase of polls include RJD’s chief ministerial candidate Tejashwi Prasad Yadav contesting from Raghopur in Vaisali, former minister Tej Pratap Yadav contesting from Hasanpur in Samastipur, former minister Alok Kumar Mehta contesting from Ujiarpur, and several ministers in the state government. In Patna, the major contestants in the fray in the second phase of polling include road construction minister Nand Kishore Yadav who is seeking re-election from Patna Saheb seat for the seventh time. Yadav is pitted against Praveen Kushwaha of the Congress. Altogether 13 candidates are in the fray from Patna Sahib seat. In Kumhrar, the contest is locked between sitting BJP MLA Arun Sinha and RJD’s Dharmendra Chandrawansi while in Danapur, again the contest is between BJP sitting MLA Asha Devi and RJD’s Ritlal Yadav. In Bankipore, the contest is between BJP’s sitting MLA Nitin Navin and Congress’s Luv Sinha, son of cine star-turned-politician Shatrughan Sinha. In Darbhanga, five assembly seats that will go to polls in the second phase on November 3, a contest will be seen between parties sans any contestants in the fray directly from the BJP. Although on two of the five seats, allotted to Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP), the BJP has fielded its functionaries- Swarna Singh from Gaura Bauram and Mishrilal Yadav from Alinagar seat respectively. In 2015 elections, JD-U’s Madan Sahni had won Gaura Bauram seat while RJD heavyweight Abdul Bari Siddiqui trounced BJP’s Mishrilal Yadav in Alinagar. Apart from Gaura Bauram, JD-U’s candidates Shashi Bhushan Hazari from Kusheshwar Asthan (SC) and Sunil Choudhary from Benipur had defeated their rival candidates while contesting the polls in alliance with party’s erstwhile coalition partners - RJD and Congress combine. As of now, three of the five seats, Kusheshwar Asthan, Gaura Bauram and Benipur are, thus, represented by JD-U MLAs whereas, Darbhanga (rural) and Alinagar constituencies are represented by RJD MLAs - Lalit Kumar Yadav and Abdul Bari Siddiqui respectively. Also read: NDA hopes welfare packages and Modi appeal will help win over OppositionCuriously enough the latter, however, has been shifted by RJD from his home turf in Alinagar to Keoti seat in the ensuing polls. Siddiqui was replaced by a Brahmin candidate. Vinod Mishra is RJD’s new choice from Alinagar seat. Meanwhile, the JD(U) has shifted sitting MLA Madan Sahni from Gaura Bauram to Bahadurpur. The VIP has, on the other hand, fielded Swarna Singh in Gaura Bauram against RJD’s Afzal Ali Khan. Swarna Singh is the daughter-in-law of BJP MLC Sunil Singh who passed away a couple of months ago following Covid-19 infection. In Benipur, the constituency was wrested by JD-U’s Sunil Chaudhary in 2015 polls. This time, the party has fielded Binay Kumar Chaudhary against Congress candidate Mithilesh Choudhary. Likewise, JD-U nominee Shashi Bhushan Hazari is pitted against Congress party’s Ashok Kumar, who had won last polls from Singhia constituency in Samastipur. Facts at a glance Total number of electors: 28611164 Number of male voters: 15033034 Number of female voters: 13516271 Third gender: 980 Service electors: 60,879 Total number of candidates: 1,463 Male candidates: 1,316 Female candidates: 146 Third gender: 1 Party wise break–up of candidates : BJP- 46, JD(U)- 43, RJD- 56, Congress- 24, LJP-52, RLSP-36, CPI-4, CPM-4 Number of polling stations: 41,362.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-polls-high-stakes-for-nda-grand-alliance-in-2nd-phase-campaigning-ends/story-zQqjAgrHa1g206Q9nc3HvJ.html
01-11-2020||Pune||Fake army recruitment racket busted in Pune||In a joint operation, the Southern Command Liaison Unit (Military Intelligence) and Pune Police’s crime branch on Sunday busted a fake army recruitment racket during a written examination here, a senior police official said.The racket was busted during the common entrance exam held at the Army Institute of Physical Training (AIPT) and three people, including a serving Army jawan, were apprehended, police said.“We had received information regarding the Army recruitment scam for today’s common entrance exam at AIPT ground from the military authorities. Acting jointly, we detained suspects- Havildar Jaidev Singh Parihar, who works in the recruitment office, Vel Singh Rawat, a tout, and interrogated them,” Bachchan Singh, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime) said.“These people had promised jobs in the Army to 17 aspirants and had also roped in one Ravindra Rathod to tutor them. He has also been arrested,” he added.The suspects had planned to take Rs 1.5 lakh from each successful student, Singh said.An offence is being registered at Wanwadi police station and involvement of these suspects in other recruitments as well as the involvement of more people is being probed by the crime branch, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/fake-army-recruitment-racket-busted-in-pune/story-M2rYEvGrrE8ohJUVPgExwK.html
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||Air quality in 11 Haryana cities ‘very poor’, turns ‘severe’ in Jind||The air quality index of eleven cities in Haryana was “very poor” while it was ‘severe’ in Jind on Sunday, as per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).As per CPCB data, the cities with “very poor” AQI were Ambala, Bahadurgarh, Ballabgarh, Faridabad, Fatehabad, Gurugram, Kaithal, Kurukshetra, Panipat, Rohtak and Sonepat. The AQI of Dharuhera, Hisar, Karnal and Manesar was “poor”. AQI between 0 to 50 is considered good, 51 to 100 satisfactory, and 101 to 200 moderate. However, AQI between 201 to 300 is classified poor, 301 to 400 very poor and it crosses over to the severe zone at 401. Meanwhile, as per the latest data of the Haryana Space Applications Centre (HARSAC), 256 fresh active fire locations had been detected in the state on Sunday, taking the total cases of farm fires during this year’s paddy harvesting season to 5,584.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/air-quality-in-11-haryana-cities-very-poor-turns-severe-in-jind/story-6lfyrRlXEXeHI1D5g93xsL.html
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana govt considering legal provisions against ‘love jihad’: Khattar||A day after Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced his government will bring a law against “love jihad”, his Haryana counterpart Manohar Lal Khattar said his government is also considering legal provisions against it to ensure “the guilty cannot escape”. Citing the recent murder of a student in Faridabad’s Ballabhgarh, Khattar said the incident is being linked to “love jihad”. Last week, a 21-year-old student, Nikita, was shot dead outside her college in Ballabhgarh. The victim’s father alleged that the accused was pressuring her to convert to Islam in order to marry him. The Haryana government has set up a three-member Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe the case. Speaking to reporters in Karnal, Khattar said, “This (Ballabhgarh) incident needs to be strongly condemned. It is being seen linked with the love jihad issue. The Centre and the state government are looking into this issue and legal advice is being taken so that such incidents are not repeated. Legal provisions are being contemplated so that the guilty cannot escape and no innocent person is punished.” Earlier in the day, Haryana home minister Anil Vij tweeted the state government “is contemplating a law against love jihad”.Reiterating that the state government is concerned about the murder, Vij said attempts are being made for religious conversion across the country through “love-jihad”. “In the Faridabad case too, the family has alleged that the accused had mounted pressure for religious conversion. This is not acceptable and therefore we will have to think about it,” Vij tweeted. He said, “We will discuss this issue with all political parties and public after which a decision will be taken.” Vij said the SIT set up to investigate the murder will also probe the conversion angle and if there is a conspiracy regarding religious conversion via ‘love-jihad” in Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-govt-considering-legal-provisions-against-love-jihad-khattar/story-Wfx4dmZv4XlfzWqKWqge1O.html
01-11-2020||City||Watch out! Police cameras keeping an eye on traffic violators in Ludhiana||Cracking the whip on commuters disregarding traffic rules, the traffic police have resumed sending e-challans to the violators.These challans are issued with the help of hi-tech cameras equipped with automatic number plate recognition (ANPR), red-light violation detectors (RLVD) and night vision.Currently, this system is installed at six locations – Old Session Chowk, Hero Bakery Chowk on Pakhowal Road, Mini-Secretariat crossing, Durga Mata Mandir Chowk near Jagraon Bridge, Dholewal Chowk and Chhatri Chowk (the intersection near HDFC bank on Mall Road).According to traffic police personnel, they daily issue up to 150 e- challans, which are sent to their postal addresses of the violators.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, traffic) Gurdev Singh said the CCTVs helped the police monitor the traffic flow and penalise violations without pressing in manpower on the roads. “Pictures of the violation are sent to the traffic offenders along with the challan. Thereon, they have one month from the date of issue of challan to make the payment,” he added.The fine can be paid at the nearest Saanjh Kendra or online at www.ludhianapolice.in. Payments can be made using credit card, debit card or net banking by using the ‘e-challan payment’ link on the website.Among the most common violations, the ACP said, were not stopping behind zebra crossing and jumping the red light. “When they don’t spot a traffic cop deployed nearby, commuters tend to not follow the zebra crossing rule and don’t stop when the traffic light is red. Both offences are punishable with a fine of Rs 1,000 under the new Motor Vehicles Act,” the official added.“During the lockdown due to the Coronavirus outbreak, the entire police department was busy imposing the curfew and handling other Covid duties. Therefore, police had stopped issuing e-challans. However, post lockdown, vehicular traffic has resumed at full scale. So, we have started issuing e-challans as well,” the ACP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/watch-out-police-cameras-keeping-an-eye-on-traffic-violators-in-ludhiana/story-9T34ZVQGVyBiGT03wLAhuN.html
01-11-2020||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath launches TB vaccination campaign in Uttar Pradesh, aims to eradicate disease by 2025||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday launched a special campaign for Tuberculosis (TB) vaccination, for the search for active TB patients and golden card distribution under the Pradhan Mantri Jan-Arogya Yojana in Lucknow. “Due to the coronavirus pandemic, TB patients have faced problems for the treatment. Uttar Pradesh has the highest number of TB patients. But now with this campaign, we will focus on 29 low-performing districts for 10 days. I urge people to come forward and get themselves tested if any issue surfaces,” Adityanath said during the inaugural ceremony. The golden card distribution campaign would cover 6,709 villages across 29 districts. On this occasion, Adityanath inaugurated a Culture and DST Lab and National Tuberculosis Eradication Program at BRD Medical College Gorakhpur. “The infant mortality is a challenge for all of us, although the situation is better than before. Consistent vaccination is a crucial aspect of the Prime Minister’s Ayushman Bharat Yojana,” he said. The UP Chief Minister lauded the health officials and medical teams across the state for their contribution in “containing” the coronavirus crisis. He further urged them to focus on eradicating TB from the state. “If we go by our plan and work persistently, Uttar Pradesh will be free of TB by 2025,” the Chief Minister said.Earlier, Dr Harsh Vardhan, Union Minister for Health and Welfare, during his meeting with ministers of Member Nations of WHO, Heads, and Representatives of UN Agencies, had also said that India has accorded high priority for ending tuberculosis by 2025.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/yogi-adityanath-launches-tb-vaccination-campaign-in-uttar-pradesh-aims-to-eradicate-disease-by-2025/story-p343II7GLDZJbXKQhihpHK.html
01-11-2020||City||Gang of robbers busted in Ludhiana, 600 sweatshirts, 511 jackets recovered||The CIA Staff-2 of Ludhiana claim to have busted a gang of robbers that stole stocks from factories after holding their employees captive.With the arrest of five members of the gang on Saturday night, police have recovered 600 sweatshirts, 511 jackets, a pickup truck and sharp-edged weapons.The accused have been identified as Mohammad Javed, Shoib, Sonu, Salim and Mohammad Mubarak. Their accomplices, Mohsin, Shahrukh, Hussain, Babar and Sohail, managed to escape during the police raid.ASI Mohinderpal Singh said the gang members were arrested from a vacant plot on Seeda Road while they were planning another robbery. While five of the gang members were nabbed, five others managed to escape taking advantage of the dark.During questioning, the accused revealed that they used to rob material from factories after restraining their employees. They then sold the booty in other states. The clothes recovered from them were stolen from a hosiery factory a few days ago, the ASI said.All accused have been booked under Sections 399 (making preparation to commit dacoity) and 402 (assembling for purpose of committing dacoity) of the Indian Penal Code. More information is expected from the accused during questioning. Efforts are on to arrest the remaining gang members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gang-of-robbers-busted-in-ludhiana-600-sweatshirts-511-jackets-recovered/story-TmF9lDOMlkNTxvsPO0SBaL.html
01-11-2020||City||Fire ravages private firm’s office at Ludhiana’s Feroze Gandhi Market||A major tragedy was averted after a fire broke out at the office of a private company at the Feroze Gandhi Market. Normally bustling with activity on the weekdays, the market was closed on Sunday, preventing any injuries.A security guard deployed at the market noticed smoke rising from the second floor of a building where the office is located and raised the alarm. Informed around 4pm, three fire brigades soon rushed to the spot and doused the flames within an hour. However, all articles and furniture in the office were reduced to ashes. Fire officer Atish Kumar said as the incident took place on Sunday, a tragedy was averted. While the exact cause behind the fire remains to be ascertained, the fire department suspects a short-circuit caused it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fire-ravages-private-firm-s-office-at-ludhiana-s-feroze-gandhi-market/story-n6827QpFfn8kmlu96mL3jP.html
01-11-2020||City||Political parties wrap up campaigns for Baroda bypoll||The campaigning for the Baroda bypoll ended on Sunday with political parties making last efforts to woo voters of the rural constituency at public meetings and roadshows.The Baroda assembly, which fell vacant after the demise of Congress MLA Sri Krishan Hooda, will go to poll on November 3.The head-to-head contest between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress is in the offing for the Baroda bypoll. While the BJP has fielded Olympian wrestler Yogeshwar Dutt, who lost by about 4,800 votes to Hooda in 2019 assembly election, the Congress has put its money on a newcomer, Indu Raj Narwal, a former member of Sonepat zila parishad. Hooda takes out roadshows The last day of the campaign was dominated by leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda and his Rajya Sabha MP son Deepender Hooda, who took out separate roadshows in the constituency.Addressing a gathering at Baroda village, Bhupinder Singh Hooda said the actual election will begin after completion of the campaign. “You (workers) should distribute your duties and inform me after seeing any suspected person in your village. The government will make all efforts to woo the voters but you will have to give your duties at night. The voters of Baroda will give a referendum to this arrogant government. This fight is to reach Chandigarh and Baroda voters will form their own government. I want to assure you that no one can snatch the steering wheel from me,” Hooda said.Deepender Singh Hooda said people are eagerly waiting to oust the BJP-JJP from the Baroda seat and then from Haryana. “The BJP-JJP has dragged the state into unemployment, corruption and crime. The youth are waiting for jobs and farmers are forced to sell their produce below the minimum support price (MSP). The price of tomato has reached the highest in past one decade,” he added.Door to door campaign for saffron partyThe saffron party’s campaign revolved around party nominee Yogeshwar Dutt, who launched a door to door campaign in the constituency. “ I urge all voters to give me belated birthday blessing on the polling day. I am very confident of winning the election on development issues of the BJP and my personal achievements. I am a wrestler and I have no caste,” he said.Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and his deputy Dushyant Chautala did not participate on the last day of campaigning.Meanwhile, INLD general secretary Abhay Singh Chautala and party supremo OP Chautala also participated in a door to door campaign to support their party candidate on the last day. However, the party nominee Joginder Singh Malik interacted with voters at various villages. The Loktantra Suraksha party chief Raj Kumar Saini addressed village-level meetings. The election campaign turned ugly at Rabda village of the constituency on Saturday evening as a liquor contractor was killed with sharp-edged weapons after a dispute over distribution by another group. Members of a group also opened fire at rivals resulting in injuries to three persons of the same village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/political-parties-wrap-up-campaigns-for-baroda-bypoll/story-K1xrGwRbuIJ2qV3TXFhTdI.html
01-11-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand govt trying to generate jobs via country’s first snow leopard conservation centre||Intending to engage local Himalayan community for conservation of snow leopards in the India-China border area of Uttarkashi district, the Uttarakhand government is trying to increase employment opportunities through the country’s first Snow Leopard Conservation Centre. Building a sustainable infrastructure, the snow leopard conservation centre aims to give employment to the local population through different avenues like the cafeteria, souvenir shop, guides for research work from local communities, among others. The project aims to secure livelihoods, conservation, sustainable use and restoration of high range Himalayan ecosystems. The conservation centre will be built at Lanka, near Bhaironghati bridge in Uttarkashi district, a bordering district. Sandeep Kumar, divisional forest officer (DFO) of Uttarkashi forest division said that the Snow Leopard Conservation Centre is being developed as a centre of excellence with orientation for conservation which will cater to different avenues like local employment, tourism opportunities and facilitate research. “This centre will help in controlling local tourism through the museums-spread information about all flora-fauna of the snow leopard landscape and use the ecological set-up for scientists to research about the landscape through which we plan to give employment to the local population,” said Kumar. Also read: Hizbul Muhajideen’s top terrorist Saifullah killed in encounter in KashmirThe senior forest official said that any researcher working in the area will need help from locals as the terrain and the landscape is extremely remote and known well by the locals. “We will encourage the locals from the adjacent eight villages to work as integrated guides. Locals from the bordering villages like Harsil, Mukhwa and others will be trained as conservation guides for trekking, bird-watching as they are accustomed to the local climate and know the flora-fauna well,” added Kumar. Professor Anne Feenstra, the main architect working on the project, said that the conservation centre is pro-ecology, pro-local and pro-people. “Local craftsmen will be involved in the construction, nature guides will be recruited locally for future training expeditions. It will also showcase the local architectural styles and designs along with making it earthquake resistant. Moreover, no trees will be cut for this project and only those trees which have been damaged in landslides will be used, making it pro-ecology,” said Prof Feenstra. He further elaborated that the design will follow the contours of the mountainous land with no cutting and is based on utilising passive solar energy (using the morning sun to warm up the spaces inside the building given the altitude of over 9,000 feet). The Centre has further been designed with double glazing and thermal insulation to reduce the carbon footprint of the buildings. In August this year, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, along with the state forest minister and officials from the forest department, took a meeting in this regard. Rawat had then said special efforts should be made to conserve and increase the number of snow leopards in the state. “Areas, where snow leopards have been seen in the last few years, should be identified by the forest department in collaboration with local people and military forces. Snow leopards should be estimated in these areas by making grids. The conservation of snow leopards and other wildlife in the area will give a boost to winter tourism in the state,” said Rawat. The snow leopard is a ‘Schedule I’ animal under the Wildlife Protection Act of India and is listed as “endangered” by the International Union for Conservation of Nature. The animal faces many threats to its existence due to poaching and habitat destruction. It inhabits the Himalayas at elevations ranging from 3,000 to 4,500 metres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-govt-trying-to-generate-jobs-via-country-s-first-snow-leopard-conservation-centre/story-NlkYlAhpVTBd4WiaJOGSkI.html
01-11-2020||Election:||Nitish will quit NDA after assembly polls, try to challenge Modi in 2024, says Chirag Paswan||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar may ditch the BJP after the assembly poll results are out, join the RJD-led Grand Alliance and make yet another attempt at posing a challenge to the NDA in the 2024 general elections, Lok Janshakti Party president Chirag Paswan claimed on Sunday.Click here for complete coverage of Bihar assembly elections 2020Paswan, who has chosen to plough a lonely furrow in the ongoing assembly elections, reiterated that the LJP was and will remain loyal towards the BJP, which was staring at the spectre of yet another “paltimaar” (volte face) by the JD(U) president.“Nitish Kumar has earned the epithet ‘palturam’ (turncoat) by virtue of his frequent acts of paltimaar. He came to power in Bihar after a long political battle with RJD chief Lalu Prasad. A few years later, he snapped ties with the BJP, an old ally and ended up forging an alliance with his arch rival,” he told a news channel.Paswan, whose late father and LJP founder Ram Vilas Paswan, joined the NDA ahead of the Lok Sabha elections, recalled “criticisms heaped on (Prime Minister) Narendra Modi” by Kumar, who had been opposed to his then Gujarat counterpart.“Fancying himself as a potential challenger to the prime minister nationally, Kumar, with Lalu Prasad by his side, spewed so much venom against Modi in the assembly polls held just five years ago. It took him just two years to dump Lalu and return to the NDA,” he said with a hint of sarcasm.“Mark my words, he has been very caustic against Lalu Prasad during his election campaign, but given his disposition he may once again cross over, try to form the next government with the Grand Alliance, and even try to project himself as an alternative to Modi in 2024,” Paswan, who is the MP from Jamui, said.Earlier, the LJP chief addressed a press conference where he repeated the allegations of corruption in ‘saat nishchay’ (seven resolves) which included, among other things, schemes for bringing piped water to every household and fortifying alleys and ditches with concrete.Also Read | ‘When government is run by leaders that respect women, it shows,’ Congress takes swipe at UP, Bihar“Corruption in these schemes ought to be thoroughly probed and we must not be surprised if the complicity of the chief minister himself comes to the fore,” he added.The LJP has fielded its candidates in over 140 seats of the 243-strong assembly, mostly against those fighting on a JD(U) ticket. Paswan’s party has shied away from taking on the BJP in most of the 110 seats being contested by the saffron party.It has also made an exception in the JD(U)’s case at Hassanpur, where interestingly, it is being felt that the LJP wants to help Tej Pratap Yadav, RJD supremo Lalu Prasad’s elder son, who is pitted against the sitting MLA belonging to the chief minister’s party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/nitish-will-quit-nda-after-assembly-polls-try-to-challenge-modi-in-2024-says-chirag-paswan/story-vkttF3BabsOZ8q5X0Tw5YI.html
01-11-2020||Election:||Bihar polls: With sharp attack on Opposition, PM Modi’s message is loud and clear||From family to fiefdom and ‘jungle raj’ to ‘double yuvraj’, Prime Minister Narendra Modi was sharp and pointed in his attack on the Opposition, equating Bihar’s political situation with that of Uttar Pradesh in 2017. The message to the voters was loud and clear – Bihar is heading for a result that UP witnessed when the hype over ‘double yuvraj’ (his indication was towards the duo of Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav and Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi) was busted and the BJP swept in the biggest ever electoral victory. PM Modi’s confidence that the NDA was set to sweep election yet again in Bihar is understandable as two crucial phases of polling remain and the Opposition, buoyed by youth’s response to RJD spearhead Tejaswhi Prasad Yadav’s 10-lakh job offer, and LJP chief Chirag Paswan’s relentless attack on Nitish Kumar, sniffs a chance. The promise of jobs remains the biggest shaker in this election, though what impact it will ultimately have will be known only after the election results are out. For Tejashwi, the election has already been a big opportunity to evolve into a leader and he seems to be enjoying the moment, trying to match every attack with a counter-attack and addressing a record number of rallies day after day, sticking to his blueprint of raising the economic issues despite questions being raised about their feasibility. Pointing to PM’s reference to double-engine government in Bihar to propel its growth, Tejaswhi wasted no time in hitting back - “But the PM did not throw light on why the unemployment rate jumped to 46.6 percent in Bihar despite double engine, why there is migration from every second house in the state and why Bihar fares poorly in education and remains high in crime rate,” he added. Also read: ‘Don’t forget those who questioned existence of Ram,’ says PM ModiLJP chief Chirag Paswan, too, found the opportunity just right to train his guns on chief minister Nitish Kumar, with a news clip about income tax raids on contractors involved with Bihar’s ‘nal-jal’ yojana, one of the ‘seven resolves’ of the chief minister and one which has been under attack for corruption. “Thanks to the IT department on behalf of the people of Bihar for exposing the corruption in the jal-nal yojana and bringing it before the people. Seven resolves remains one of the biggest scams since independence,” he tweeted, as the PM launched a scathing attack on the RJD’s 15-year rule to remind the people about the “horror tales of abduction and crime”. Chirag also had a dig at Nitish Kumar, saying the PM had to take the reins of election in his hand, as he had realized that nobody would vote for the CM. “The PM is putting a lot of effort as he knows it is all up to him,” said Chirag, who is also campaigning hard after fielding candidates against all the JD(U) candidates even while swearing in the name of PM Modi. Chirag reiterated that defeating Nitish Kumar would be the victory of Bihar. Chirag, at his rally in Alauli in Khagaria, also played the emotional card, reminding people that it was the first time he was there without his father. A large number of people gathered to listen to him. Khagaria is the native district of late Ram Vilas Paswan. Political analyst Prof NK Choudhary said that the pressure was clearly on Nitish Kumar for the first time from all sides and it is getting reflected. “The Opposition has won the perception battle and the PM, who would have anyway campaigned the way he often does, knows it and therefore he is shielding Nitish Kumar. Perception battle does not mean the Opposition can pull through, but it has certainly put enormous pressure on Nitish Kumar by raising some pertinent issues concerning his governance model and economy,” he added. Also read: Nitish Kumar govt is anti-woman, Congress ups ante in BiharAnother political analyst DM Diwakar said that with two crucial phases remaining, pm PM Modi did what any leader would do – not to lower the guard even a wee bit. “With barely a week left for the election, the NDA, as well as the Grand Alliance, are pulling all the stops out to be in the driving seat or at least send the message across. What was once considered a one-sided battle has certainly generated a lot of interest due to the manoeuvrings of two young leaders and tested the veterans,” he added. Analyst Professor Ajay Jha said that the situation in Bihar was different from UP and therefore PM’s confidence could be misplaced. “Nobody knows how far Tejashwi will go this time, but it is a fact that Nitish Kumar is at the receiving end from all sides. Batting vigorously for Nitish Kumar, against whom a fatigue factor has set in, may not serve the purpose for the BJP this time,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-polls-with-sharp-attack-on-opposition-pm-modi-s-message-is-loud-and-clear/story-PqumETvX4bv80ZxSVFEPFO.html
01-11-2020||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee likely to meet Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Binoy Tamang||Amid growing discontent in the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) faction led by Binoy Tamang, after his bete noire Bimal Gurung resurfaced and pledged support to the TMC, sources in Bengal’s ruling party said chief minister Mamata Banerjee has invited the splinter group leader for a meeting next week.Tamang, along with Gorkha Territorial Administration chairman Anit Thapa, are scheduled to meet Banerjee at the secretariat to discuss matters of concern, the sources said.Making a dramatic appearance in Kolkata on October 21, Gurung quit the BJP-led NDA and aligned with TMC, underscoring that the saffron party has “failed to find a permanent solution” for the Hills -- which had witnessed major unrest over demand for a separate state in 2017.Also read: Eastern railway, West Bengal government to discuss resumption of suburban train servicesThe ruling party in the state welcomed Gurung -- charged with over 100 cases during Darjeeling agitation over demand for a separate state in 2017 -- drawing the ire of Tamang-led faction, which had always backed the TMC.Subsequently, supporters of Tamang took out rallies in the Hills opposing Gurung’s return “Yes, a meeting has been called by the CM at the state secretariat sometime in the coming week, where Tamang and Thapa would be present. We are sure everyone will back the CM’s initiative to develop and beautify the Darjeeling hills, in the interest of its people,” a TMC leader said.The Binay Tamang faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, currently enjoying political control over Darjeeling, has vowed not to allow Gurung to enter the Hills.“The people of the Hills don’t want him to return as it would mean days of strike and violence. They want peace,” Thapa, who is also a senior GJM leader of the Tamang faction, had said earlier.According to sources, Gurung, who had been in hiding for three years, is now watching the situation closely and is expecting the state government to drop charges of murder and Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/mamata-banerjee-likely-to-meet-gorkha-janmukti-morcha-leader-binoy-tamang/story-NfLzww7Gvdf5kLJL77jWcJ.html
01-11-2020||Pune||Indian Medical Association writes to PMO on tweaked Covid-19 vaccination guidelines||The Indian Medical Association (IMA), Maharashtra chapter, has alleged a biased treatment meted out to private hospitals by the state government, which the IMA alleges has tweaked the Covid-19 vaccination guidelines issued by the central government. The health ministry recently stated that the vaccine introduction will span over multiple groups, sequentially, starting with healthcare workers. However, the guidelines issued by the state mentions that private hospitals ‘registered with the district’ will be eligible. The IMA alleges that the central government does not mention any such clause. The association has said that this will lead to the exclusion of multiple doctors from privately-run hospitals, clinics, pathology clinics, X-ray and sonography clinics. The district health offices across the state are now in the process of collecting this database for vaccination against the infection whenever the vaccine is available for administering. Alleging this bias, the IMA has now written to the PMO since earlier the association has said that multiple letters to the chief minister’s office had gone unanswered. The letter states, “The central government finalised to set up a database for this purpose and published a booklet of guidelines in this regard. In these guidelines on page no. 6 and 7, what kind of doctors will get the vaccination has been mentioned in very simple language. This includes all government and private hospitals, government doctors, as well as all health workers in private clinics, day OPDs and polyclinics. The central government has planned to vaccinate all these health workers on a priority basis. The central government, then, directed all the states to collect the information accordingly. Accordingly, the Hon’ble health secretary of the Government of Maharashtra sent an official letter, on October 23, to all district collectors, municipal commissioners and divisional commissioners. However, the Hon’ble health secretary of Maharashtra changed the guidelines given by the central government. In that letter, by changing point no. 8b, the words ‘registered with the district’ were introduced in parenthesis, while enumerating the private medical facilities. In a subsequent meeting with all the district collectors, Hon’ble health secretary of Maharashtra directed that only the doctors and medical staff of the hospitals registered under the Bombay Nursing Home Act should be registered. This has led to the exclusion of doctors from privately-run hospitals, clinics, pathology clinics, X-ray and sonography clinics.”Dr Avinash Bhondwe said, “Along with government doctors, private medical professionals have also played a key role in treating patients during the Covid-19 pandemic. Of the 61 private doctors who died of coronavirus in Maharashtra, the number of general practitioners and private clinic owners was higher. Yet, we feel that they have been left out for the reason known only to the state government. There are 25,000 hospitals in Maharashtra and one lakh allopathic doctors registered with the Maharashtra Medical Council. There are another 1.2 lakh doctors of AYUSH and so, totally around 2.2 lakh, who have been kept outside the vaccination priority.”Dr Bhagwan Pawar, district health officer, who has been nominated to organise the database from both private and government hospitals, said, “We have about 233 government facilities which are eligible as healthcare workers and 12,166 private facilities. We have distributed the template that we received from the state government to all the private and government hospitals. We have got the responses from 216 government facilities and over 3,385 private hospitals. Since the form is an exhaustive one, we send back the ones which are incomplete, we have over a week’s time to get all the information and we will be able to get it.”Dr Pawar also added that the forms have been sent to all the clinics including the sonography and even X-ray clinics and will send all the necessary information to the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ima-writes-to-pmo-on-tweaked-covid-19-vaccination-guidelines/story-Rd1HjmBpvNmH9VkUJNjp6I.html
01-11-2020||Pune||YourSpace: Pune residents share how they plan to tackle Covid-19’s second wave||The administration is taking steps like increasing hospital beds and strengthening health infra to contain the spread of the possible second wave of Covid-19, an unpredictable virus with no vaccine in sight. Readers share what steps as responsible citizens residents should take during the festive season, a possible period of mass gathering and neglect of prevention norms, to check the virus spread Avoid public gatherings at all cost Keeping the festive season in mind, residents should definitely avoid gatherings and instead enjoy at home with loved ones. Taking preventive measures and abiding by laws will definitely help all of us to remain healthy and safe in our homes. Extensive testing and contact tracing of possible cases is the main requirement. Moreover, the administration needs to ensure that rules are strictly followed in containment zones. All these precautions should be needed to overcome the crisis. A massive awareness campaign should be undertaken which includes wearing a proper mask, personal hygiene practice, social distancing, and a ban on public gathering in temples and other places. Lastly, the government should ensure compliance on the reopening of public places, including public transport. Kamna Dinesh Gandhe Social distance is the key According to the media, the numbers have been declining due to hot weather, but are expected to rise again in December. There are some things that need to be considered to prevent the possible second wave as stated by the visiting central government’s team. Festivals will take place in cities and the number of people traveling to their hometowns will increase. Public need to follow precautionary measures, along with administrative efforts, during the festive month. Diwali is just a few days away and guidelines prepared by the Union health ministry must be followed. As winter approaches, it is time for residents to take proper care. It is a critical time for the health system. Further care is required. At present, it is safe to greet with clasped hands. Avoid large gatherings. Maintain social etiquette. To reduce the risk of infection, keep a distance of at least one meter. Keep a safe distance even when you are at home or in office. When you return, take off your slippers, take a hot bath and wash your clothes. If you notice any symptoms, contact a doctor immediately and keep yourself away from others in the house. Suvarna Hitendra Deolankar Government needs to create awareness Firstly, we must accept that the second wave of Covid-19 is a reality being experienced by many countries like France and Germany which are back under lockdown. The second wave is reported to have already reached our neighbour Pakistan. As we all may remember that while reading initial news of the infection in Wuhan and Italy, the “it won’t happen here” syndrome now doesn’t hold good for any part of the world when it comes to coronavirus. The same goes for the second wave. With the unlocking underway, many are unaware or complacent of the fact that this deadly virus can make a quick comeback if we let down our guards. Because of the festive season and winter, the government needs to create urgent public awareness through the media about the second wave. It must be done in a manner that it educates the masses preparing them in case of the eventuality, but without causing fear or anxiety. With people fully aware, it is no more only the government’s responsibility to deal with this unpredictable virus. Hereafter, the public has an equal or more responsibility to keep the virus away which, even with no medicine, can be done with social distancing and sanitisation protocol. Our ethical conduct over the next few months of festivities will show whether we really have learned any lessons from the destructive first wave or not. Dhairyashil Vandekar Can’t let the guard down during festivities Festive season witnesses large gatherings in specified locations for religious worship, fairs, rallies, exhibitions, cultural functions, and processions lasting for a day or weeks together. To prevent the spread of the Covid-19 infection, it is important that citizens act responsibly while enjoying festivities. Citizens must avoid the following acts - not wearing a mask or wearing a mask improperly, not maintaining social distancing, activities which may create unclean or unhygienic conditions or affect public health and safety at the event venue. The citizens must comply with following respiratory etiquettes, self-monitoring of health by all and reporting any illnesses, citizens should ensure physical distancing at the event venue and follow specific markings on the floor made by the venue administration, citizens should ensure guidelines of queue management inside and outside the premises, while participating in mass events. Citizens should not touch statues, idols, holy books while visiting religious places and citizens volunteering in community kitchens, langars, annadan at the event venue should follow physical distancing norms while preparing and distributing food. Taking precaution is the best remedy. Deepika Fernandes - Shewale Backing the administration a must We are now more prepared mentally and socially for the apprehension of a second Covid-19 wave. Even if the administration is working round the clock to bring the situation under control, which fortunately with great difficulty they have in Maharashtra, I think as citizens, we need to be more reasonable in our conduct. We all know the do’s and don’ts of Covid-19. We must extend our support to the administration by avoiding mass gatherings, avoiding the burning of firecrackers, avoiding all ways by which there can be community spread of the virus. Covid-19 affects the lungs, so we need to be responsible and think about the senior citizens, positive patients, and those with poor immunity, as it could further worsen the situation for us. It is a difficult phase for us, but we have very little or no option in hand as the vaccine is still in the developing stage. Covid warriors are fighting to save lives tirelessly for the past so many months, I think as citizens we have to respond to the efforts of these Covid warriors by at least following all the norms laid down for us and taking good care of ourselves. Sheetal Lokhande Waghchoure Govt must strictly enforce guidelines We are aware of the weak Indian healthcare system and that the larger portion of healthcare facilities is largely concentrated in private hand and mostly in urban areas. As per the report, the Covid-19 pandemic is spreading in the rural parts of Maharashtra, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, and West Bengal. Based on the current number, India is not producing enough doctors and during the pandemic, India faced a huge shortage of medical staff. The WHO report prescribes a doctor-to-patient ratio of 1:1,000, but India has 1:1,596 which means for every 1,000 seeking medical help there is less than one doctor. The situation is going to worsen in the coming days in rural areas. Now that India is struggling with the current situation and there is an expert prediction of a second wave of Covid-19, the Indian government should now strictly adhere to the pandemic protocol. The government should look seriously into the following terms and condition such as strictly banning social gathering in festivals, concentrate on strengthening the healthcare system for early detections, containment of disease and patients. The government should also focus on the need of the hour while building the healthcare system. The production of PPE and medical product should increase with respect to the current situation, especially in rural areas. Shalini Sharma||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/yourspace-pune-residents-share-how-they-plan-to-tackle-covid-19-s-second-wave/story-dcWcnGHJJ1iqFP9g6UYr3I.html
01-11-2020||Pune||Two killed in two accidents in Mhalunge||Two people were killed in two separate accidents in Mhalunge, Chakan, on Friday. According to the police, two others were also injured in the incidents. In the hit-and-run that happened on Friday evening, a tempo rammed into three two-wheelers and one car before fleeing the spot near Nashik highway road in Kuruli. The deceased has been identified as Umesh Jagannath Mahajan (30) who was working at a company in Chakan. He was residing in Dighi and was a native of Jalgaon, according to the police. “He was riding a motorbike. All the vehicles were heading from Alandi phata to Spicer chowk. The tempo driver left the vehicle and fled after the incident,” said sub-inspector Sachin Suryavanshi of Mhalunge police outpost in Chakan police station jurisdiction who is investigating the case. “The owner of the tempo said that the driver was not under the influence of alcohol,” he said. The two injured have been identified as Girish Murlidhar Chaudhuri and Rakesh Sopan Gadekar. Both suffered fractures in their ankles, according to the police. The tempo rammed into the two-wheelers and hit the rear of the car, according to the police. A case under Sections 279, 337, 338, 304(a) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with Sections 184, 134(b) of Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Mhalunge chowky of Pimpri Chinchwad police. In another incident that happened hours before the hit-and-run, a 20-year-old man was run over by a private bus in Mhalunge on Friday morning. The deceased has been identified as Tanhaji Megha Supe (20), a resident of Nighoje, Khed and a native of Junnar. “The bus was taking a turn to enter a company gate and the motorbike rider was coming from the opposite direction. The bus rammed into him and he died on the spot. We do not know much about the deceased yet as his family is coming from Junnar,” said assistant inspector Sarang Chavan of Mhalunge police outpost in Chakan police station jurisdiction. The bus driver was issued a notice and released as the sections invoked are bailable and invite less than seven years in prison. A case under Sections 279, 304(a), and 427 of IPC was registered at Chakan police station against the driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/two-killed-in-two-accidents-in-mhalunge/story-gemED1qRyGBuOADnHrX5tO.html
01-11-2020||Pune||Laxmi road in Pune brightens up with customers ahead of Diwali||Laxmi road, one of Pune’s most frequented shopping destinations, had been bereft of customers over the last few months due to the lockdown, but with Diwali two weeks from now, shoppers are making a beeline at their favourite shops. Festive shopping, however, has made a comeback with caution.“It is good to see people walking into the store and buy items, but they are being very cautious. Right now, more youngsters and women come into our stores,” said Rajesh Parwani, owner, HyFashion, a popular shop for readymade garments.“We opened our shops in April, but there were no customers. With Diwali round the corner, we are happy to see people walking into the store and shopping. We are not allowing customers to try on the garments and if they want to exchange, then the clothes are kept aside for 48 hours and then brought to the racks, but generally people come with an idea of their sizes,” added Parwani.Swapna Divekar, a resident of Pimple Saudagar, who was accompanied by her daughter to Laxmi road, said, “We are happy to be here at Laxmi road for shopping and though we are afraid of coming into the city, we have decided to quickly get into one store, shop and return. I wouldn’t want to roam around.”According to the Federation of Trade Associations of Pune (FTAP), secretary, Mahendra Pitaliya, “Business has not picked up despite Diwali being round the corner. There is only 30 to 40 per cent business in shops on Laxmi road. We have given strict instructions to all shopkeepers that no entry should be given to those without a mask and everyone has to have a sanitiser and a thermal scanner at the entrance. We have also tested every employee of each shop on Laxmi road and they have tested negative, but we are all very careful while dealing with customers.” Though there are several customers on the road, not all are ready to go inside shops. “I decided to visit one shop, which had less crowd. I came to buy blouse pieces. I really appreciate that even small shops have kept sanitisers and masks are also on sale,” said K Vijaya, who had travelled from Nigdi to Laxmi road.Tushar Dave, owner of Kum Kum Matching centre, said, “I have a small shop and initially I was allowing only one person inside, but now two persons can enter my shop at a time. The best thing is that family members on their own stay outside the store and help maintain social distancing.”While the shoppers slowly trickle into the shops, not everyone is doing good business. Amar Dresses, who deal in men’s clothes have been waiting for more customers to come in. “The business is slow. We are only selling 10 per cent of our products, said the owner refusing to divulge his name.“Though there are people on the road, reviving the original glory of shopping on Laxmi road, however, customers are not buying so much. Sale of shoes has only been 20 per cent of my entire stock,” said Ram Misal, who runs a shoe shop.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/laxmi-road-in-pune-brightens-up-with-customers-ahead-of-diwali/story-ZZPOfwwohgQVEeYCGZ2bLN.html
01-11-2020||Pune||Five arrested, 95 booked for attempted murder, vandalism||The Pimpri Chinchwad police have arrested five men and booked 95 others, most of whom are unidentified, for attempted murder and vandalism of vehicles in Pimpri. The incident took place at Nehrunagar area of Pimpri at 11:30 pm on Friday. “We cannot reveal their identities as co-accused might become alert,” said senior inspector Milind Waghmare of Pimpri police station. A complaint was lodged by Nilesh Subhash Jadhav (35) of Nehrunagar. “The men arrived in several cars and were looking for a person. They have vandalised seven to eight vehicles in the area,” police inspector (crime) Rajendra Nikalje of Pimpri police station. The accused carried swords, choppers, wooden rods, bats and cement blocks, according to the complainant. Jadhav told the police that one of the attackers charged at him with a sword while he was keeping his laptop in his car. As he allegedly ducked the attack, the sword made a cut on his back. He also sustained injuries on his hands, neck, and head. A case under Sections 307 (attempted murder), rioting, and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of Indian Penal Code along with Section 4, 27 of Arms Act; Section 3 and 7 of Criminal Law Amendment and Section 37(1) with 135 of Maharashtra Police Act was registered at Pimpri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/five-arrested-95-booked-for-attempted-murder-vandalism/story-vGMKqakivOEEekxjp87NxO.html
01-11-2020||Pune||Dams full but demand for tankers on the rise in Pune||Despite Pune getting enough rain for the last three years, the number of tankers are on the rise in the city after every monsoon. The city has received adequate rainfall and there is enough storage in the Khadakwasla reservoir. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) water department head Aniruddha Pawaskar said, “I need to check the exact number of tankers but the reason behind the increasing number of tankers is mainly population. Mainly the population in those areas in which the city is getting water supply with low pressure.” One of the officers on the condition of anonymity said that mainly tankers are increased in areas like Kondhwa, Nagar road, Dhayari. These areas are getting less water, but tankers have also increased in city areas which is a little shocking. The officer said the main reason for this year might be due to lockdown. The entire population stayed home. Due to hygiene reasons, there might be an increase in water usage in residential areas. PMC official said on anonymity that it is accepted that the tanker use is increasing during the summer but despite having a rainy season, the tankers are increasing in the city which points out that the city needs to execute an equal water scheme 24x7 with speed. Another PMC official from the water department said, “Earlier there were allegations of PMC and builders being hand in glove and using potable water for construction activity. But this year, due to lockdown, there was no construction activity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/dams-full-but-demand-for-tankers-on-the-rise-in-pune/story-yDyl2Wd4cbMZ36SO7KrZJI.html
01-11-2020||Pune||Pune receives decade’s highest rainfall in Oct 2020||Pune has received the highest rainfall of the decade in October 2020. The city registered a record 312.4mm rainfall last month, according to the data shared by the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The second highest rainfall was received in 2010 wherein 262.99 mm rainfall was recorded while the third highest decadal rainfall was reported in 2019 when 235.5 mm rainfall was recorded at the observatory. Also, Pune received the highest rainfall in a single day on October 14 at 112.1 mm this year. The previous highest was on May 13, 2015 when Pune recorded 103mm on a single day. Pune district, along with Mumbai, was placed on “yellow alert” in October on 13th, 14th and 15th by IMD following very heavy rains and thunderstorm. A red alert was issued for districts like Kolhapur, Satara, Sindhudurg and Osmanabad while Ratnagiri, Sangli, Solapur, Parbhani and Beed had an orange alert. Weather experts have also termed global warming and climate change as influential factors which impacted the rainfall scenario in the country and the state during monsoon 2020. Weather scientists also said that due to a change in weather pattern due to climate change, intense and heavy rainfall has been reported instead of the traditional pattern of steady rains. City environmentalists believe that large-scale destruction of human lives and property has been reported during the last two years of monsoon due to factors like rising temperatures and extreme rainfall. Similarly, rapid urbanisation and construction in the flood line areas of rivers crossing the city along with dumping of concrete in nallahs has led to disastrous situation in the city during the spell of current monsoon. In June, Pune district was battered with widespread rain as cyclone Nisarga hit the western parts of the state such as Pune, Maval, Mulshi and Velhe. Other areas like Satara, Kolhapur and Sangli also witnessed rains during June. Cyclone Nisarga made landfall in the state’s Raigad district. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD Pune said, “Pune has received more than normal rainfall due to cyclonic rain due to Nisarga, good moisture incursion and again prevalence of thunderstorm and low-pressure conditions brought heavy rainfall.” For the past three consecutive years, Pune has been receiving more than normal rainfall in June. In 2017, the normal rainfall recorded was 207 mm, 2018 recorded 148mm, 2019 recorded 194 mm. City’s wet month Rainfall recorded in October 2009 104.7mm 2010 262.8mm 2011 200.4mm 2012 144.5mm 2013 34.7mm 2014 25.9mm 2015 76.7mm 2016 80.4mm 2017 180.9mm 2018 36.1mm 2019 235.5mm 2020 312.4mm||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-receives-decade-s-highest-rainfall-in-oct-2020/story-Wj1X6N5P4NfwkcVYAyiqfM.html
01-11-2020||Kolkata||Eastern railway, West Bengal government to discuss resumption of suburban train services||The West Bengal government and the Eastern Railway will hold a meeting on Monday to discuss resumption of suburban train services, railway sources said.The development comes a day after the state government wrote to the Eastern Railway (ER) seeking discussions for plying of a few pairs of suburban trains daily by observing the Covid-19 regulations.“There is a meeting tomorrow at the state secretariat. The general manager of Eastern Railway and other railway officials will be present. The chief secretary and the home secretary will be present on behalf of the state government. We will discuss various aspects related to the resumption of train services,” a senior railway official said.Also read: West Bengal govt writes to railways for resuming suburban train servicesNoting that the state government has helped the railway authorities to run metro trains peacefully and efficiently, Additional Chief Secretary (home) H K Dwivedi had urged the Eastern Railway to run a few pair of suburban trains daily.“Rather than taking resort (resorting) to unquiet means, we could and discuss how a few pairs of trains could be run locally in the morning and in the afternoon hours to serve the general commuters at large,” read the letter written by Dwivedi.The decision to write to the Eastern Railway came in the backdrop of violence at Howrah station after the railway police chased away some commuters as they tried to break open the locked gate of the Howrah-Burdwan Staff Special Train at the station on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/eastern-railway-west-bengal-government-to-discuss-resumption-of-suburban-train-services/story-pDgY2bTbeWkxq9F82YXQTM.html
01-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi Police constable, friend held over firing in road rage case||A Delhi Police constable and his friend were arrested on Saturday in connection with the firing over an alleged road rage incident in which a private bank manager was shot at in front of his three friends. The accused constable’s service pistol was allegedly used by his friend to fire the shot.The incident occurred at Baba Haridas Nagar in south-west Delhi on Thursday night, the police said on Sunday morning.Police officials probing the case said that the bullet was fired by Rajesh, who was identified by his first name, the friend of constable Surender, who was posted at the Jahangirpuri police station. The injured bank manager, Laxman Bhandari, and his three friends did not know the accused or Surender was a police constable since he was not in uniform, when the road rage incident occurred, the officials said.“The involvement of a policeman emerged in the case after the doctors who operated upon Bhandari found that he was shot at by a pistol that had a 9 millimetre (mm) bore. Usually, policemen use this kind of pistol. The investigating team scanned the footage of closed circuit TV (CCTV) cameras installed at the crime spot and identified Srurender and Rajesh. Investigators questioned Suernder and arrested him along with Rajesh after ascertaining their involvement in the crime,” said one of the police officials, who did not want to be named.Santosh Kumar Meena, deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka), Delhi Police, said: “It was a road rage incident. Surender has been arrested along with his friend (Rajesh) for the crime. He was returning home after duty and wasn’t in uniform at the time of the incident.”A case of attempt to murder under section 307 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at the Baba Haridas Nagar police station. The service pistol used in the crime was also seized. The case was registered following the complaint of Bhandari’s friend Rahul, one of the eyewitnesses of the road rage incident.Rahul in his complaint told the police that on Thursday night, he had partied with his friends – Bhandari, Dinesh and Keshav -- at Najafgarh in outer Delhi. Dinesh and Keshav left on their motorcycle after the party, while Rahul and Bhandari left on another two-wheeler, the police said. On the way, two men in a car stopped Dinesh and Keshav and asked them to lift an allegedly inebriated person lying on the road along with his motorcycle. Dinesh and Keshav refused to help the allegedly inebriated person, which led to a heated argument. Dinesh called Rahul and informed him about the quarrel. Rahul and Bhandari arrived at the spot to help their friends, said the official, quoted above.“Soon, the altercation turned violent. Surender took out his service pistol and handed it over to Rajesh, who fired a bullet. The bullet hit Bhandari’s abdomen and he slumped on the road. Surender and Rajesh fled from the spot, instead of taking Bhandari to an adjoining hospital,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-police-constable-friend-held-over-firing-in-road-rage-case/story-ceLWP5Rrn5CAjl8CJoYYsM.html
01-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi teen develops app to help those with autism spectrum disorder communicate||A Class 12 student of a Delhi school has developed “We Can Express”, a mobile-based application for people suffering from autism spectrum disorder that will help them interact and communicate easily and also provide a platform to manage a user’s daily schedule using unique images and icons. Shruti Kakar, the 17-year-old developer who studies in Springdales School, Dhaula Kuan, came up with an idea to develop this app a year ago while volunteering for the inclusive education centre at her school. “I developed the app for people with the disability or inability to communicate verbally. I had met a boy my age some couple of years ago at my mother’s clinic who suffered from mild autism spectrum disorder. It was my first interaction with someone who had this condition. Last year, I volunteered at my school’s inclusive education centre and mentored a child with the condition,” Kakar said.Autism spectrum disorder is among the most common behavioural disorders in children.It took Kakar a year to develop the application. It is fairly simple to use once one signs up. The first step is to download the app. Then one needs to create customised speech icons, and next, the app can be used to communicate.“I researched in detail on what these people like, what colours and images they are comfortable with before working on the app. It is an easy-to-use application, and some users in the spectrum who have difficulty in putting thoughts to words may find it easier to use pictures to communicate and express themselves,” she said.“The visual schedule feature is a great tool for the user to complete daily, basic tasks like self-care, visiting a barber etc.,” said Kakar.The app is available both on Google Play store and App Store for download.The app is already being used at a few places with positive feedback.“It’s being used primarily in schools as we want children to be familiar with its use. Also, it is easier for children to adapt to a new technology. We are in touch with various special needs schools and hope to make them use this app. I have conducted webinars for feedback and made changes accordingly, like including icons related to Covid-19 pandemic that has masks etc.,” she said.According to the World Health Organization (WHO), nearly one in 10 people has a mental health condition globally. And yet, more than a quarter of the world’s population live in a country where there is less than one psychiatrist for every 100,000 people. Experts in the field say apps like these may not solve everyone’s problems but are definitely a step in the right direction for people with autism spectrum disorder since they have problems in communicating verbally. “Since we are far from getting a cure for autism spectrum disorder, it helps to add even little, little things into the treatment basket that can make their life easy. Communication is an issue and these apps help in solving that problem. So the more mediums we have the better,” said Pulkit Sharma, a Delhi-based consultant clinical psychologist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-teen-develops-app-to-help-those-with-autism-spectrum-disorder-communicate/story-YKYpfJWjQTiV5oZGeOR9HI.html
01-11-2020||Kolkata||West Bengal paying price for TMC govt’s avoidable confrontation with Centre: Governor||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Sunday said people of the state are “paying price for an avoidable confrontation” between the Centre and the Trinamool Congress dispensation here. The Centre and the states are two wheels of development, and there has to be “cooperative federalism and united action” to help the people, he told reporters here.“The pandemic has exposed the state of the health infrastructure in West Bengal. It could have been good if the state had adopted the Ayushman Bharat scheme of the Centre...Unfortunately, people of the state are paying price for lack of far-sightedness and an avoidable confrontation,” he said.Under the PM-Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana, the Centre had deposited Rs 12,000 directly into the bank account of every farmer of the country, except West Bengal, the governor said. Dhankhar, who has been at odds with the government since assuming charge in West Bengal, said a total of Rs 92,000 crore has been distributed by the Centre under the programme but the farmers of the state have been deprived of such benefit.“This is a result of wrong policy, inaction and confrontation with the Centre,” the governor said, adding that he had taken up this matter with the state government and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee.Read more: West Bengal govt writes to railways for resuming suburban train services“After 21 months (from the inception of the scheme), she has written a letter to the Centre asking it to send the money to the state government for distribution among the farmers. Why the state government wants to act as an intermediary. The money is going directly to the farmers. It is not a good culture,” he said. Dhankhar also criticised the state government for “rising” crime against women in the state.“I have taken to Twitter to sensitise people against such crime,” he added. The governor is on a month-long tour of Darjeeling from Sunday. Dhankhar said the purpose of his visit to north Bengal is to assess “the ground realities”.The governor’s tour of Darjeeling comes in the backdrop of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha supremo Bimal Gurung announcing his party’s exit from the NDA and pledging support to the Trinamool Congress in the next year’s assembly elections. Speaking on GJM leader Bimal Gurung, who had recently made a dramatic public appearance in Kolkata after being on the run for three years following charges of murder and cases under the stringent UAPA, Dhankhar said, “a fugitive of the law is also a fugitive of the society”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-paying-price-for-tmc-govt-s-avoidable-confrontation-with-centre-governor/story-MEuyEQ8AghNtyyQS5rpvYK.html
01-11-2020||Gurugram||MCG survey to identify city’s dangerous buildings||On the directions of the Haryana Human Rights Commission (HHRC), the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) will be conducting a survey to identify all the dangerous buildings in the city, nearly 18 months after the collapse of two buildings. The MCG has set a 15-day deadline to complete this task.In January last year, a building collapsed in Ullawas village, claiming the lives of seven people; three months later another building collapsed in Sector 13. No injuries were reported in that incident.After the incidents, the MCG was directed both by the district administration and the Punjab and Haryana High Court (HC) to initiate a survey to identify all the dangerous buildings in the city that are unfit for human habitation. However, no steps were taken by the civic body in this regard as per the internal order issued by MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh earlier this week.According to MCG officials privy to the matter, Singh had attended a hearing before the HHRC bench last week in Chandigarh regarding the matter. In his order — a copy of which is in the possession of Hindustan Times — Singh stated that taking cognisance of the collapse of two buildings last year, HHRC has directed the MCG to submit a detailed report regarding the buildings that have not been constructed as per the building bye-laws and the safety parameters and can, therefore, be considered to be “dangerous to human habitation.”“In compliance with the orders issued by HHRC, a survey of all dangerous buildings is to be conducted and an action taken report (ATR) be prepared and submitted before HHRC for their perusal. The (MCG) executive engineers (XENs) are not sensitive to this serious problem and have not taken any step to identify the dangerous structures in their respective area so far. The matter relates to the danger to human lives, so needs utmost attention and real sensitivity(sic),” excerpts from Singh’s internal office order stated.Singh also appointed Satywan Singh, superintending engineer (SE), as the nodal officer for the survey and directed all executive engineers to support him in the matter. The SE would be preparing all reports in the matter and appearing before HHRC as MCG’s representative, the order further stated.Satywan Singh, on Wednesday evening, issued an order, to all eight executive engineers of the civic body to identify all the dangerous buildings in their respective areas within 15 days, failing which the matter could be treated as non-compliance with the orders of HC as well as those of the HHRC and “attract strict disciplinary action”.“The matter is of great public interest as it directly deals with their safety and well-being. Orders have been sent to all executive engineers to survey their respective areas so that a report can be formulated at the earliest that would help us create a database of all the unsafe structures in the city,” said Satywan.He further said that based on the report, the MCG would be directing building owners of all unsafe buildings to ensure that all occupants vacate their structures immediately, failing which the civic body would have to initiate action on its own.“We do not want a repeat of Ullawas or that of the four-storey building which tilted in Sector 46 due to heavy rains in August this year. In the latter, we had to scramble our resources at the penultimate moment and move the occupants to safety. By creating a database, we want to identify unsafe structures that can either be repaired or demolished. We want to give occupants of such structures a notice in advance so that the corrective measures can be taken and lives can be saved,” said Satywan. On January 24 last year, a newly constructed three-storey building collapsed in Ullawas village in Sector 61. The building had been built six months prior to the incident, and the building owner was adding an additional floor at the time. The lintel for the fourth-floor was erected a day before the incident leading to the weakening of the building’s structural stability and its ultimate collapse. On April 12, 2019, an under-construction basement in Sector 13 resulted in the base of the adjoining one-storey building, a cosmetic shop, to weaken and collapse. The cosmetic shop owner had closed his shop just 15 minutes before the incident. No injuries were reported in the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-survey-to-identify-city-s-dangerous-buildings/story-b0iJzGwLTOckqBnbsoaJmO.html
01-11-2020||Jaipur||Gujjar body, Rajasthan cabinet sub-panel agree on 14 points, stir called off||The Gujjar Reservation Committee and the Rajasthan government’s cabinet sub-committee agreed on 14 points following talks on Saturday.“We had a very positive discussion and we are satisfied with the 14 points that we have agreed on. There is no need for agitation and we hope the government will meet its promises,” Himmat Singh Gujjar, leader of Gujjar faction said, whose delegation met Rajasthan Minister Raghu Sharma on Saturday.One of the important agreements is that Rs 5 lakh assistance will be given to the families of three deceased during Gujjar agitation, Kailash Gujjar, Man Singh Gujjar and Badri Gujjar and municipal jobs to one member each of their families. On October 18, Gujjar leader Kirori Singh Bainsla had given an ultimatum to the Ashok Gehlot government in Rajasthan to accept their demands, including reservation in jobs and education as a ‘most backward class’ (MBC), or face large-scale agitation beginning November 1.Bainsla had made this announcement at a Gujjar Mahapanchayat in Bharatpur which was called to decide the future course of action if their demands are not met. The agitation over reservation for the community was from November 1. Ahead of the agitation, mobile internet services were suspended in Karauli, Bharatpur, Jaipur and Sawai Madhopur. Additional police forces were also put on alert to deal with any law and order situation. Gujjar Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti leader Vijay Bainsla had said, “From November 1, the movement will start in Pilupura because the government is not accepting our demands for the past two years.” He said the community was left with no option as the state government ignored their demands. He added that the Rajasthan government should get the Gujjar reservation included in the Ninth Schedule of the Constitution, fill the backlog of vacancies and give the benefit of five per cent reservation to the Most Backward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/gujjar-body-rajasthan-cabinet-sub-panel-agree-on-14-points-stir-called-off/story-terS4sD8XabbrpKed5yCZM.html
01-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi eases Covid rules for weddings: All you need to know||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has given a major relief to those planning to tie the knot, by removing the rule of allowing only 50 persons per wedding function.The new rules, implemented through an order issued on Saturday evening, allow up to 200 persons in banquet halls or closed spaces for weddings. In open spaces or grounds, the number of guests permissible will be jointly fixed by the area district magistrate and deputy commissioner of police after an assessment. Entry of guests will have to be regulated at the venue to ensure that it does not exceed the upper limit at any time.Five important points from the standard operating procedure (SOP) that has been issued:-- Wearing of face masks, maintaining social distancing, provision of thermal scanning and use of hand wash or sanitiser will be mandatory.-- An individual will have to be nominated by the organiser as the nodal person to oversee all arrangements and coordination at the marriage venue. The name and contact of the nodal person should be displayed at the entry of the venue.-- Common bins for disposal of face masks, multiple hand wash facilities, separate entry and exit gates, and not more than 50% of the capacity at a time in dining hall should be exercised.-- All public utility areas such as food stalls, stage, DJ will have to be sanitised prior to the event.-- If someone falls ill, then the guest will have to be immediately isolated and be taken to the nearest medical facility or district officials should be contacted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-eases-covid-rules-for-weddings-all-you-need-to-know/story-WVA84Rfao42D3inZ5QdIDN.html
01-11-2020||Delhi||As cases rise, Covid hospitalisations increase in Delhi: Govt data||The occupancy of beds assigned for the patients of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the national capital is increasing, with 264 beds occupied in the past 24 hours in various Covid-19 hospitals in the city.The number of patients put on ventilator also went up, with 14 more ventilator beds having been occupied on Sunday, shows the Delhi government’s data.“In our hospital, at least the beds are in great demand; and if some patient needs it (a bed) urgently, then it might not be possible to get it,” said Dr Neeraj Jain, head, department of respiratory medicine, Ganga Ram Hospital. On Friday, 6,126 beds and 774 ventilators were occupied as compared to 6,000 beds and 765 ventilators occupied on Thursday. On Saturday, a total of 6,195 Covid beds and 783 ventilator beds were occupied. According to the government data cited above, the counts on Sunday stood at 6,459 and 797, respectively.HT has reported that the Delhi government plans to add about 5,000 more dedicated beds to be able to handle up to 12,000 daily cases of Covid-19.For four days in a row till Friday, new Covid-19 cases in Delhi set single-day records, with a rising positivity rate indicating that the Capital is possibly entering the third and worst wave yet of the outbreak. On Saturday, Delhi reported 5,062 new Covid-19 cases and the positivity rate jumped to 11.42%.Doctors fear the situation is only going to get worse in coming weeks, with the demand of hospital beds likely to increase.“It is that time of the year when we anyway start seeing an increased patient load of other respiratory illnesses such as aggravated asthma, secondary bacterial lung infections etc. because of the drop in temperature and air pollution, and this year there is also Covid to deal with,” said Dr Rajesh Chawla, senior consultant, pulmonary medicine department, Apollo Hospital.However, the silver lining being that India is losing fewer patients to the viral disease, with country’s Covid-19 case fatality rate (CFR), the proportion of people who die of a disease among total number of patients diagnosed with the disease, having dropped below 1.5%. The death rate is on a decline, shows central government data.“We are managing serious cases in a far better way now that we know what therapies work. Steroids, and anticoagulants (blood thinners), for example, work really well. Not all serious patients need to be put on a ventilator as was being done earlier but oxygen therapy given in a proper way is good enough,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head, pulmonary medicine department, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/as-cases-rise-covid-hospitalisations-increase-in-delhi-govt-data/story-gABl9L6V29T8bcbXYlTYaI.html
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||J&K govt annuls Roshni Act, to retrieve land within six months||The Jammu and Kashmir government has decided to annul all land dealing under the Roshni Act, three weeks after the Jammu and Kashmir high court declared it unconstitutional and unsustainable. The principal secretary, revenue, was on Saturday asked to retrieve all such land and remove encroachments within six months. The Jammu and Kashmir State Lands (Vesting of Ownership to the Occupants) Act was enacted in 2001 with the twin objective of generating resources for financing power projects and conferment of proprietary rights to the occupants of the state land. The scheme initially envisaged conferment of proprietary rights of about 20.55 lakh kanals to the occupants of which only 15.85% land was approved for vesting of ownership rights. Against the anticipated revenue from such occupants, the revenue actually generated was meagre. Besides, there were allegations of the legislation being misused by influential persons, leading to its being challenged before the high court. PLAN TO RETRIEVE LARGE TRACTS OF STATE LAND “It is hereby ordered that the principal secretary to government, revenue department, shall pass an order declaring all actions taken under the Jammu and Kashmir State Land (Vesting of Ownership to the Occupants) Act, 2001, as amended from time to time, and rules made there under as void ab-initio,” stated an order issued by the Jammu and Kashmir department of law, justice and parliamentary affairs, with the lieutenant governor’s approval. “The principal secretary, revenue, shall work out a plan to retrieve large tracts of state land in a time-bound manner and work out modalities to evict encroachers from such state land within six months besides planning the handling of money received for these lands after annulment,” an official spokesman said in the statement. DETAILS OF ENCROACHERS TO BE ON OFFICIAL WEBSITE The spokesman said that the principal secretary, revenue, shall ensure information regarding district-wise state land as on January 1, 2001, are compiled and posted on the official website and the NIC website with details of the state land that was in illegal and unauthorised occupation of person(s)/entities with full identity of encroachers and particulars of the land. He said that complete identities of all influential persons, including ministers, legislators, bureaucrats, government officials, police officers, businessmen, their relatives or persons holding benami for them, who have derived benefit under the Roshni Act, 2001, or Roshni Rules, 2007, will be revealed. “The action shall be completed within a month,” the spokesman said, adding that the divisional commissioners of Jammu and Kashmir shall place on record before the high court district-wise details of the encroached state land not covered by the Roshni Act, rules, scheme which continues to be under illegal occupation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/j-k-govt-annuls-roshni-act-to-retrieve-land-within-six-months/story-9MANx6bWfX2IdBuZ2IcRGP.html
01-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi wakes up to chilly morning, temperature dips to 11.4°C||It was a chilly morning in Delhi on Sunday with the minimum temperature dropping to 11.4 degrees Celsius, five degrees below normal. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted that there will be fog and mist in the morning which will clear later in the day.On Saturday, the maximum temperature at the Safdarjung observatory -- considered the official reading for the city -- was 30.8 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature was 13 degrees Celsius, three degrees below the season’s normal.This October was the coldest in 58 years. “As we move into November we can expect a further fall in night temperatures,” Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, said. Meanwhile, Delhi’s air quality remained in the “very poor category” with an AQI (Air quality index) of 367, according to the data recorded by Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) at 7 am. This is the same as the average 24-hour AQI on Saturday. Scientists said air quality is unlikely to improve on Sunday.On a scale of 0 to 500, an AQI between 301 and 400 is considered very poor and could have serious health impacts, especially on those working outdoors and children.According to the air quality early warning system under the ministry of earth sciences, the air quality will continue to be in the “very poor” category on November 1 and 2. “The unusual increase in fire counts is observed over Punjab (approx 4,266 fire counts) yesterday (October 30), which is highest of this season and impacted the air quality over Delhi/NCR. Higher wind speed and better ventilation index are favourable for improvement in air quality,” it said on Saturday.Farm fires contributed to 32% of PM 2.5 (particulate matter with diameters less than 2.5 micrometres) load in Delhi on Saturday. Ambala, Baghpat, Bahadurgarh, Bhiwadi, Faridabad, Ghaziabad, Greater Noida, Gurugram and other places in northwest India also recorded very poor air quality on Sunday morning.IMD scientists said while the average wind speed during Saturday touched 18kmph, it did not clean up the air as expected.On Friday and Saturday, the number of crop stubble burning incidents spotted in the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana was the highest this season so far, which could have contributed to the air continuing to remain critical.“As per IMD’s satellite monitoring on Friday, in Punjab alone, there were 4,266 farm fire spots, while in Haryana there were 155 farm fires. On Saturday, too, the number of red dots, denoting fires, were over 3,000. Even though we had good wind speed and better ventilation index, the direction of the wind was from north-west, which brought with it smoke from the fires,” VK Soni, head of IMD’s Environment Monitoring Research Centre, said.He said the wind speed is expected to remain high on Sunday, which will keep the AQI levels in the upper ends of the “very poor” zone..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-wakes-up-to-chilly-morning-temperature-dips-to-11-7-c/story-gIHUim2aPq2GXnugL20ZTP.html
01-11-2020||Ranchi||Sedition case filed against Jharkhand BJP chief for trying to ‘destabilise’ state govt||A sedition case was registered in bypoll-bound Dumka against Jharkhand BJP chief and Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash on Saturday for allegedly trying to destabilise the JMM-Congress-RJD government in the state, police said. The BJP leader had on Friday said in a press conference that the saffron party will form the government in the state in the next two-three months.Prakash, on the other hand, dared the state government to arrest him within 24 hours. Based on a complaint lodged by Congress’s Dumka district chief Shyamal Kishore Singh, a case under Sections 124A (punishment for sedition), 120B (criminal conspiracy), 504 (intentional insult to provoke breach of peace) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) was registered with Dumka police station against Prakash for allegedly trying to destabilise the Jharkhand government, SP Amber Lakra said.The statements of all persons concerned will be recorded and a thorough investigation will be conducted. The future course of action will depend on the probe, he said. “I am prepared to get arrested. If the Hemant Soren government has guts, it must arrest me within 24 hours,” Prakash told PTI.He said the state government is taking “provocative illegal action” as it’s frustrated sensing its imminent defeat in the November 3 byelections to Dumka and Bermo seats. “The FIR lodged by the Congress and the JMM shows they don’t have faith in the Election Commission. If they had any complaint against my press conference, they should have gone to the commission. Instead, they used police power to influence the byelections,” the BJP leader said.JMM general secretary and chief spokesperson Supriyo Bhattacharya said, “We have ousted the BJP from power in Jharkhand and its rule in Bihar will also end soon.” “We will not let the BJP murder democracy and destabilise an elected government,” he added. Bhattacharya had also gone to the police station with Congress leaders to ensure that the FIR was registered against Prakash.In Hemant Soren’s home turf Dumka, his younger brother Basant Soren is pitted against former cabinet minister Lois Marandi of the BJP. It is expected to be a straight fight between BJP’s Yogeshwar Mahato and Anup Singh of the Congress in Bermo seat in Bokaro district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/sedition-case-filed-against-jharkhand-bjp-chief-for-trying-to-destabilise-state-govt/story-wqqLS1lQMvQor8khX0ReZI.html
01-11-2020||Kolkata||West Bengal govt writes to railways for resuming suburban train services||The West Bengal government has written to the Eastern Railway (ER) seeking discussions for plying of a few pairs of suburban trains daily observing the Covid-19 regulations.“GOWB is concerned to see the use of unquiet means to disperse passengers in need at railway platforms and has written a letter to railway authorities for discussions towards plying of a few pairs of trains..,” the state home department said in a tweet.“In the morning and afternoon hours for general commuters at large on observance of physical distancing norms and public health protocol,” it said in a series of tweets and shared the letter written by Home Secretary H K Dwivedi to the ER general manager.A letter by the government to the Eastern Railway general manager Suneet Sharma read, “Government of West Bengal has all along been keen to maintain/resume normal transportation services for all sections of the society. As you are kindly aware, our skylines are open for national and international flights, our assistance has been rendered for movement of special trains in, from and to the state. Our buses are giving robust public services to commuters at large.“In the meantime, you have since resumed suburban train services. It is painful to notice that you are running these trains for your staffs only, while many other sections of governmental service providers and members of the society at large are denied these services,” the letter said. Noting that the state government has helped the railway authorities to run metro trains peacefully and efficiently, the home secretary urged the Eastern Railways to run a few pair of suburban trains daily.“Indeed, rather than taking resort (resorting) to unquiet means, we could and discuss how a few pairs of trains could be run locally in the morning and in the afternoon hours to serve the general commuters at large,” read the letter written by Additional Chief Secretary H K Dwivedi. The decision to write to Eastern Railways came in the backdrop of violence at Howrah station after the railway police chased away some commuters as they tried to break open the locked gate of the Howrah-Burdwan Staff Special Train at the station on Saturday.A spokesman of Eastern Railway said some of the commuters boarded the train which was meant for railway employees during the Covid-19 time as regular train services are yet to resume. However, as these commuters were forced to disembark by the railway police, they regrouped and tried to break open the gates to board the compartments again, he said.The commuters, numbering around hundred, were then chased away by a joint team of the Government Railway Police and Railway Protection Force from the platform, the spokesman said. The commuters, however, alleged the railway police resorted to unprovoked lathi charge on them and herded them away from the station platform.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-govt-writes-to-railways-for-resuming-suburban-train-services/story-ONcxZKQ8mzAwsyzHz8FUIP.html
01-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi plans infra for up to 12,000 Covid-19 cases in a day||The Delhi government plans to add about 5,000 more dedicated beds to be able to handle up to 12,000 daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), documents prepared to augment the health care infrastructure show amid an alarming surge in infections in the national Capital.For four days in a row till Friday, new Covid-19 cases in Delhi set single-day records, with a rising positivity rate indicating that the Capital is possibly entering the third and worst wave yet of the outbreak. On Saturday, Delhi reported 5,062 new Covid-19 cases and the positivity rate jumped to 11.42%.Also Read: Centre plans to brief diplomatic corps on efforts to develop Covid-19 vaccinesThe plan to ramp up the number of beds to 20,604 by adding 4,891 additional beds in about two weeks has been prepared by the Delhi government’s health and family welfare department on the basis of projections made by an expert panel headed by Niti Aayog member Dr VK Paul. The Delhi government’s document, seen by HT, said that the panel projected the “worst-case scenario” in which the number of daily Covid-19 cases in Delhi could hit about 12,000 by the last week of November. The surge has primarily been projected on the basis of increased activity during the festival season.  Amid the worrying surge in cases in Delhi and the onset of the winter season, the Union home ministry has called a special review meeting with Delhi government officials on Monday to check the spiralling of infections, people familiar with the matter told HT on Friday. With 5,891 new cases on Friday, Delhi set a new record for the highest single-day new infections for the fourth day in a row. On Saturday, the total number of cases in the Capital stood at 386,706.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain, however, ruled out the possibility of imposing new restrictions or a lockdown in the city to control the Covid-19 outbreak. “The virus is at the community transmission stage. When a city is in the community transmission stage, it is impossible to wipe out the spread of infection with any form of lockdown. Also, it will probably take 2-3 months more for the Covid-19 vaccine to arrive here. So, till then, mask is the only vaccine and the Delhi government is conducting an intensive awareness campaign on this. Enforcement agencies have also been asked to intensify the crackdown against violators of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour,” Jain said. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “The planned escalation includes 1,558 additional beds in Delhi government hospitals, 1,092 additional beds in central government hospitals and 2,241 additional beds in private hospitals. The anticipated enhancement of beds in the private hospitals would be subject to the outcome of pending litigation in the Delhi high court as well as on need basis,” said the document, which has been presented to Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) chairperson, Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, and vice-chairperson and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal apart from the expert committee led by Dr Paul.The Delhi health minister said that as of Saturday, the Capital had over 9,400 Covid-19 beds vacant, including 445 intensive care unit (ICU) beds with ventilators and 691 ICU beds without ventilators. When asked about the need for more ICU beds, especially those with ventilators or oxygen support, an official said that these will get a boost in the coming days as the central government has sanctioned setting up of PSA oxygen concentrators in eight Delhi government hospitals. “And this is just the first phase, more will be installed later. This will be a big boost for infrastructure set-up of oxygen facilities in Delhi. In the last DDMA meeting held on October 23, Dr Paul had suggested enhancing the efforts for quarantining contacts till they are confirmed negative for Covid-19. He also advised to further increase the number of contacts traced per positive case. Districts have been asked to enquire with each positive case if they had recently engaged in any group activity and if so, they must be tracked, tested and quarantined until tested negative,” the senior official from the health department said on condition of anonymity.While the government’s response to an RTI showed that till September 30, it tracked only around two contacts per Covid-19 case in the city, the same was taken up to 13 per case during the month of October, the health official added.“Special emphasis continues to be given to the home isolation strategy and only four deaths in the last 3.5 months among home isolation cases have taken place. Moreover, the number of deaths within 72 hours of hospitalisation has also been reduced from 57.37% in June to 26.5% in October… The percentage of active cases within containment zones has increased from 15-20% earlier to 35% now,” read a document compiled by the DDMA on October 29.Dr T Jacob John, retired professor of clinical virology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, said Delhi faces the additional load of people moving in and out of the city on a daily basis. “Delhi is a mixed pot. It has 20 million people living within the city, which is equivalent to a country and on top of that there are several lakhs of people from other cities who commute through the Capital every day. So, it is natural that Delhi will continue to face the brunt of multiple waves of Covid-19 cases. But, this nature of the city also makes it equally impossible for the city to bring back the restrictions that were once in place... It also appears that the virus has now become more infectious, but at the same time it also appears that its severity has somewhat reduced resulting in a lower mortality rate...,” said John.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-plans-infra-for-up-to-12-000-covid-19-cases-in-a-day/story-t9MoMKA7SeXAc0NiiUbZxK.html
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||No MBBS classes at Mohali medical college this year too as regulator denies approval||MBBS classes at the Dr BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences, Mohali, will not start this year as well with the National Medical Commission (erstwhile Medical Council of India) denying the permission to the college for the same, citing certain shortcomings. This is the second consecutive year when the medical education regulatory body rejected the nod for starting the classes despite the state government’s tall claims. An official said the commission has raised objections over incomplete construction work and tardy process of hiring the teaching and non-teaching staff. “October 15 was the deadline for getting the permission to start the classes for this session. But the commission had some objections even as we have started hiring of teaching and non-teaching staff besides meeting other infrastructure-related requirements,” said Punjab medical education minister OP Soni “We will make renewed efforts to get the classes start in the next academic year,” he claimed. In March this year, the government had constituted a board for the college with an aim to start the classes from this session. Earlier, the medical education department had planned to start the classes from August this year but that was delayed as it failed to complete all formalities due to Covid-19, an official said. The Rs 300-crore project was sanctioned in 2012 during the previous Shiromani Akali Dal-Bharatiya Janata Party (SAD-BJP) government under the Central-state partnership with funding in the ratio of 60:40. The Punjab government had finalised the site of the existing civil hospital in Phase 6, Mohali, to set up the institute which will start with 100 MBBS seats and will be eventually upgraded to 220 seats. The state government had also announced funding of Rs 157 crore for the construction of the college in its 2020-21 financial budget. Last year as well, the state government made several efforts to start the college with 100 seats but shortcomings were pointed out by the then MCI during an inspection. This will be the fourth government-run medical college in Punjab with the Guru Gobind Singh Medical College, Faridkot, being the last that was set up in 1973.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-mbbs-classes-at-mohali-medical-college-this-year-too-as-regulator-denies-approval/story-1LbT9Jq2Teo0CvjJtQE25L.html
01-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi records traffic surge from pre-lockdown levels||The streets of the national capital are experiencing about 10% heavier vehicular traffic compared to the levels recorded before the lockdown necessitated by Covid-19 pandemic in March, according to traffic estimates, with experts suggesting that curtailed public transport and fear of infections could largely to be the reasons behind the surge.Records of the Delhi traffic police’s control room show that compared to Delhi’s peak hour vehicular volume in the month of March — before the Centre clamped a nationwide lockdown to control the rising cases of Covid-19 — there has been a nearly 10% increase in overall traffic in September and October. This development comes even as visits to markets and recreational hubs are lower compared to last year’s festival season, according to data from Google’s community mobility trends.  Another senior traffic police official said on condition of anonymity that the estimate incr-ease of 10% was calculated from the traffic volume recorded at major roads of the Capital. “We take some 50 busiest roads from across the city and assess the average volume there. It is an estimate,” he added. Another traffic official said: “One of the primary reasons behind this surge in traffic is that even though the public transport modes such as the Delhi Metro have resumed operations, many former users who have their private vehicles still prefer to use them. With the number of cases still on the rise, private vehicles seem to be a more reliable option for commuters who have that option.”At the ITO intersection, which is considered one of the busiest stretches in the city, the peak hour vehicular volume in the month of March was 350,000 a day. In September, however, with several offices in the area calling back employees after stay-at-home measures due to the pandemic, the traffic volume shot up to 600,000 a day during peak hours.The vehicular volume estimates are recorded by the control room in the first week of every month to determine the number of vehicles crossing an area during the rush hours (8am-11am and 5pm-8pm).At south Delhi’s Rao Tula Ram Marg signal, the traffic volume increased from 60,000-80,000 in the month of March to around 100,000 in September. An upward trend in vehicular traffic has also been observed in arterial roads such as the Rajouri Garden main signal, where the traffic volume has gone up from 125,000 before the lockdown to 220,000 in September. In another busy west Delhi area, Uttam Nagar main crossing (near the bus depot), traffic movement has gone up from 110,000 to 185,000 during peak rush hour. The official quoted above said that while the estimates for October were yet to be analysed completely, the department observed that the traffic around markets and shopping centres has reduced in comparison to the festival season from previous years. Google’s community mobility data shows a similar trend. The tool tracks the number and length of visits people make to certain kinds of places compared to a baseline. According to this data, in October, there was a reduction in traffic volume around retail and recreational hubs, parks and workplaces. However, there has been a spike of 3-10% in the vehicular movement around residential areas, supermarkets and pharmacies. There has also been a reduction of nearly 15% in traffic around public transport pick-up points. Experts said that this could be indicative of low footfalls for modes of public transport. A survey released by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) in May showed that the use of private vehicles was expected to increase and the ridership of Delhi Metro and public buses would reduce in the coming months. “The government will be facing the challenge of restoring commuters’ faith in public transport modes. Even after the Metro is opened for people, a person who owns a car will prefer travelling in the safe confines of their own vehicle, instead of travelling in the Metro with hundreds of people where the chances of catching the coronavirus infection is more,” said Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), CSE.Some experts also feel that in the months immediately after the reopening of schools, and with more offices calling employees back to work, there could be another spike in traffic volume. “People are slowly getting back to their normal lives but they are also wary of crowds, if they have the means. The number of cases is still on the rise and we do not know when we will see a reduction in the number of cases. But once schools and other institutions are also opened, we will surely see a surge in traffic jams,” said Madhusudhan Krishnamoorthy, transportation and road safety expert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-records-traffic-surge-from-pre-lockdown-levels/story-7cYuH46IyWVJHQOwRDfzIK.html
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: 1 dead, 3 injured in clash over liquor in poll-bound Baroda||A 34-year-old liquor contractor was killed with sharp- edged weapons as dispute over distribution of booze between two groups turned ugly at Rabda village falling under Sonepat’s Baroda constituency on Saturday. Members of a group also opened fire at rivals resulting in injuries to three persons of the same village, said police.The Baroda bypoll is scheduled for November 3. The deceased has been identified as Rashiya. Sandeep Kumar, Umesh and Aman, who received bullet injuries, are undergoing treatment at the Post-graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak. Their condition is stated to be critical. Azad Kumar, an eyewitness, said trouble started when Rashiya’s brother exchanged heated words with Sandeep’s cousin Bharu over distribution of liquor. “Baljeet asked Bharu not to distribute liquor to woo voters. Around 8.30 pm, a group of 10 to 12 persons, led by Rashiya, came in a car and two bikes and fired shots at Sandeep, Aman and Umesh. The trio retaliated, and in the violent scuffle, Rashiya was killed,” he added.A villager, pleading anonymity, said the deceased had come out of jail recently and the injured persons are supporters of a political party. Sonepat SP Jashandeep Randawa, however, said: “This seems to be a fallout of rivalry between two groups. All angles will be probed.” As tension prevailed in village, heavy police force was deployed to thwart any law and order problem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-1-dead-3-injured-in-clash-over-liquor-in-poll-bound-baroda/story-ONmMifl9FGSnjrSh78oVHJ.html
01-11-2020||City||ASI shot dead on highway in Punjab’s Tarn Taran, son injured||An assistant sub inspector (ASI) of Punjab Police was shot dead by unidentified assailants in Tarn Taran on Saturday night. The incident took place at 11 pm, said deputy superintendent of police Suchha Singh, adding that their preliminary finding has suggested that ASI Gurdeep Singh was shot dead during a robbery bid. The ASI and his son Manpreet Singh were on their way to Kaka Kandiala village, 5 km from the district headquarters, when they were attacked, he added. We have registered a case under section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code against unknown persons, said the DSP, adding that a manhunt has been launched to nab the culprits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/asi-shot-dead-on-highway-in-punjab-s-tarn-taran-son-injured/story-oU59n6PxxJOyJT22lGGW4M.html
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||Elect my candidate, this govt will fall: OP Chautala||Former Haryana chief minister and Indian National Lok Dal supremo Om Prakash Chautala on Saturday said that the BJP-JJP government will fall if his party, Indian National Lok Dal, wins the Baroda bypoll.Addressing a rally at Baroda village, Chautala also promised ₹5,400 old-age pension when his party is in power. He said the constituency has 54 villages and Haryana will complete its 54 years of formation on November 1. “I promise old-age pension of ₹5,400 per month when my party is voted to power. I will fight against the BJP and Congress till my last breath. If you elect my candidate, the BJP-JJP government will fall,” he said.Bhim Army chief extends support to INLDChautala was accompanied by Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad, who also addressed the rally in support of INLD candidate Joginder Singh Malik. Azad said the BJP government was determined to destroy the poor and farming community.“Chhotu Ram had said that we would have to stand by our community. You all belong to the farming community and you should sow a good seed (Abhay Singh) in politics. Abhay is the only leader who can improve the condition of the state after becoming the chief minister. The Congress had also created hurdles for former Prime Minister Charan Singh,” he said.INLD general secretary Abhay Singh Chautala slammed both the BJP and the Congress. “The Union government brought three laws to destroy farmers. The then United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government had also brought anti-farmer bills but they failed to pass them as their alliance partners opposed them. Deepender Hooda had also supported the laws introduced by the UPA government in 2012 and, now, he is opposing these laws. Then Gujarat CM Narendra Modi had also opposed the bills which were tabled by the UPA and, now, when he is the Prime Minister, he brought these bills to destroy the farming community,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/elect-my-candidate-this-govt-will-fall-op-chautala/story-pFVovafstOQIl636oOAjEN.html
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||Khattar targets Hooda at Baroda rallies||Beginning a joint campaign for the November 3 Baroda byelection, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and his deputy Dushyant Chautala trained guns at leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Saturday.Addressing a rally at Bhainswal Kalan, Khattar said the Congress was reduced only to Hooda and his family. “Hooda claimed to be your well-wisher and I want to tell you that, I am also yours if you will accept me. My native village falls under the Meham constituency which is adjacent to the Baroda constituency. If you elect our candidate, I will bring more developmental projects to the constituency,” he said.Dushyant said Hooda claimed that no one could snatch the steering wheel from him. “I want to tell Hooda sahib that the Congress has given steering wheel to Randeep Singh Surjewala. He (Hooda) and his son have no respect in the Congress,” Dushyant said, adding that during Hooda’s government farmers were given ₹2-3 cheques for crop loss.Reacting sharply to the allegations, Hooda said chief minister and others on his side are obsessed with attacking him. “The CM and his ministers do not have any work to show and no plan to share. The ruling party is trying to get votes by talking about non-issues and making personal comments against me. The people of Baroda have made up their mind to defeat the BJP-JJP by a huge margin,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/khattar-targets-hooda-at-baroda-rallies/story-nCyNcNvGH2Al2uRdVxuiMP.html
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||Dust, garbage burning adding most to poor air quality in Yamunanagar||As the pollution level rises in the region, stubble burning appears not to be the only reason behind the toxic air in Yamunanagar. The city has recorded fewer active fire locations (AFLs), 355, as on Wednesday, compared to 872 of Karnal and 756 of Kurukshetra, but its Air Quality Index (AQI) oscillated between “poor” and “very poor” this week. Experts feel that dust is major contributor to the air pollution in Yamunanagar. Regional officer of the Haryana Pollution Control Board Nirmal Kashyap said dust due to poor condition of roads polluted the air to such levels. “Our AQI measuring device is at the busiest intersection near Gobind Pura and we have observed that factors other than stubble burning are behind the poor air quality,” he said.Shyam Lal Dhiman, who owns a furniture outlet near Kamani Chowk, said a few days ago he saw a fire engine sprinkling water along the road. “But, was it a one-time activity? The dust is a permanent feature, but no one cares,” he said.A tea seller near the Woman Police Station on the Workshop Road said only one side of the road was carpeted outside his shop.Presence of industrial units across the Jagadhri-Yamunanagar twin towns associated with popular businesses such as plywood, mica, aluminium, utensils etc. also emit pollutants in the atmosphere. Kashyap said owners of the industrial units don’t follow guidelines. Nirmal Chauhan, a councillor of the municipal corporation, held the civic body responsible. She said the garbage burning was going on unabated in many areas. “Garbage is on fire for days at a site which is not even a designated dumping ground and the civic body doesn’t care,” Chauhan said. MC commissioner Dharamveer Singh said the corporation sprinkles water in areas prone to dust problem and the garbage fire was doused when brought to the notice of the civic body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dust-garbage-burning-adding-most-to-poor-air-quality-in-yamunanagar/story-9HBIpzkurA0OHLJyHZafAI.html
01-11-2020||Mumbai||610 more local train services to run in Mumbai from today||A total of 610 more local train services — 314 Central (CR) and 296 Western Railway (WR) — will run from Sunday, pushing the overall number of suburban train services in operation to 2020.Before the Covid-19 lockdown was imposed, the railways operated 3,141 suburban services — 1,774 CR and 1,367 WR. “Currently, 704 suburban services on WR and 706 on CR are running. Additional services will be operated from Sunday. It is requested that travellers follow medical and social protocols as mandated for Covid-19,” according to a statement from CR and WR.The railways are also in discussions to start local train services for all commuters. The state government on Wednesday had proposed to open suburban train services for the entire public.According to the proposal, any person with a valid ticket or pass can travel up to 7.30am, then between 11am and 4.30 pm, and between 8pm and the last local train of the day. It also proposed to operate women-only local train services every hour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/610-more-local-train-services-to-run-in-mumbai-from-today/story-8qHnisOKv7R4kzuNFjHDIN.html
01-11-2020||Mumbai||Radio school catches up in Thane Zilla Parishad||With online learning being inaccessible to most tribal students or those from distant villages, the Thane Zilla Parishad (ZP) has begun imparting education through radios.The ZP and an NGO, Pratham, started the ‘School outside the School’ initiative in several tribal padas in Thane district since two weeks.Here, the students are taught through radio channels while lessons are also recorded on mobile application that could be accessed by students whenever they get access to the phone.Many students from the interiors of Thane district are devoid of online education as they do not own a smartphone or have merely one phone among many siblings.At present, the ZP teachers guide the students whenever they visit the village, but they cannot reach every student.Education through radio started in tribal hamlets of Bhiwandi and Murbad two weeks ago and will soon be implemented in Shahpur.Smitin Brid, 40, founder of this programme, said, “We first send a message of various concepts to the volunteers who read it out to the students or note it on a common village blackboard. The next day, the concept is explained to the students and their parents through an hour-long radio programme broadcast from Nagpur’s All India Radio centre. The programme is either broadcast through loudspeakers or at a common meeting place in the village.”He added that they also answer two calls per session wherein the students are given an activity or a problem to solve while the speaker guides their parents on how they can help.Brid added, “We give them simple ideas closer to their day-to-day life like how a mother can draw animals in the grains to teach art to the students or how an electrician father can teach his child to change light bulbs and the concept behind it.”The parents are also asked to record how their child narrates a chapter or recites tables.Hemlata Sasane Thane, a volunteer helping ZP in this project, said, “We have received several messages in which we have broadcast the best ones on the show. This project will involve parents, villagers and social workers who also get trained automatically in how to teach children when there is no teacher. Also, we have started recording these sessions and uploading them on YouTube so that our social workers can later show it to the tribal students.”Sheshrav Bade, education officer of Zilla Parishad, added, “We have gathered a huge team for this project. The team comprises every area’s education officer, every Taluka officer, every Gramvikas department officer, Sarpanch, social worker, anganwadi workers as well as two volunteers from every village who have a phone. We have received good responses from the Sarpanch of Gram Panchayat. An SMS on the concepts is shared to the Sarpanch or volunteers and it reaches the children. In some villages, black wall is painted and on it, the education message is written and then children note down the information.”Bade said that the volunteers ensure that every hamlet has a phone though which they can tune into the programme and children can gather at one place. “Some Sarpanch of the villages have suggested that the programme could be broadcast through loudspeakers in the village shrines. In the places that have power issues, we ensure we use our social workers who have Android phones and the recorded sessions could be watched on YouTube,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/radio-school-catches-up-in-thane-zilla-parishad/story-CXoffw3JG5lu6JPkjaQYqK.html
01-11-2020||Mumbai||Free WiFi in two villages of Thane district ensure uninterrupted online classes||Two villages in Thane district have provided free WiFi to students and made arrangements for them to access it so that they do not miss online classes during the lockdown. The initiative was taken as most children in the villages did not have a good internet connection to attend classes.The common router is installed in Vehlonde and Dalkhan villages in Shahpur Taluka, Thane district.Jithesh Vishe, deputy Sarpanch, Vehlonde village, said, “We had set up WiFi, CCTV and speakers across the village in 2014 itself. During the pandemic, we made use of the speakers to make announcements. The CCTV cameras were helpful to know if social distancing was followed and the WiFi was a boon for the students to continue their studies. Most of our villages come under forest land and hence we have more of tribal population. Not everyone has the privilege of smartphones. Hence, we make use of the digitalised classroom where a few children from tribal villages come together to take notes.”Vehlonde village, which does not have a single Covid case, is situated near Tansa river, around 45km from Kalyan.In Dalkhan village, situated more than 60km from Kalyan, WiFi routers have been arranged in various parts so that the children could study from their homes and maintain social distancing during the lockdown.“There are some areas where a handful of students come together to study and help each other if they have doubts or need any help during the online classes. Some families do not have smartphones. They share with others of their same age, thus indulging in group study,” said Bhagwan Mokashi, Sarpanch (additional charge), Dalkhan Village.“Our teacher lives in a different village and it is not possible for her to travel all the way during the lockdown. So, she comes online at a stipulated time. We all gather around the phone, put it on speaker and follow her instructions daily. Initially, we had certain connectivity issues but since the WiFi has been set up, we can attend classes regularly and from our homes itself,” said Atharva Munde, a Class 4 student at Zilla Parishad School, Thane.Dr Rupali Satpute, chief executive officer (additional charge), Thane Zilla Parishad, said, “Within Thane district, there are various such initiatives taken by the village Panchayat to provide better facilities. We appreciate such efforts and also use it as a motivation for others to follow suit.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/free-wifi-in-two-villages-of-thane-district-ensure-uninterrupted-online-classes/story-WfZK2F06U0yncXOp56ITTK.html
01-11-2020||Mumbai||3 men armed with gun rob auto driver in Navi Mumbai, 1 nabbed||A 30-year-old man and his two accomplices, one of whom was armed with a pistol, allegedly barged into an auto rickshaw driver’s home and robbed him of cash and valuables early on Friday. The Rabale police have arrested the accused while two others are at large.The complainant, Sanjay Singh, 25, was alone at his Ghansoli apartment in Sector 16 when at around 2 am on Friday, he heard a knock at his door. When Singh opened, a man was pointing a gun at Singh’s chest. Threatening to kill him if he raised an alarm, the gun-wielding man entered the apartment.Singh told police that he then noticed the armed man was accompanied by Sagar Dhone, who is known to him. Singh had lent ₹15,000 to Dhone two years ago which the latter had not returned.Dhone threatened Singh that if he went to the police station to complain, he would throw him off the terrace of the four-storeyed building. The duo was joined by another accused soon after which Dhone allegedly stole ₹20,000 from Singh’s cupboard.The men also bundled a computer, a phone and a few other belongings in a bedsheet and left after locking Singh in the room.Singh sought his neighbour’s help to unlock the door. He then approached the Rabale police, where a case of armed robbery was registered against the trio including Dhone.“After registering the case, we nabbed Dhone from Airoli the same day. He has at least 10 previous criminal records against him including cases of attempt-to-murder and assault. He has been remanded in the police custody for four days,” said Ankush Chintaman, assistant inspector at Rabale police station.Police said Dhone has cases in both Navi Mumbai and Mumbai. While officials have not recovered the weapon, they are on the lookout for his accomplices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/3-men-armed-with-gun-rob-auto-driver-in-navi-mumbai-1-nabbed/story-oWSdZGz2z6jdon0KRYJNwI.html
01-11-2020||Mumbai||Cidco’s handicraft exhibition at Urban Haat in Navi Mumbai reopens||The Urban Haat, which was closed this monsoon on the backdrop of the Covid pandemic, reopened with a handicraft exhibition on October 30. The exhibition will run till November 8. The exhibition is organised with the help of grants from the Development Commissioner, Ministry of Textiles, Government of India, New Delhi. Cidco organises various events at the Urban Haat every monsoon. However this year, it was closed. Artisans from 10 states are participating in the exhibition.Priya Ratambe, Cidco PRO, said, “We are expecting more than 50 artisans from across the state. The Urban Haat is an open space and the stalls are big enough to maintain social distance. All safety protocols will be followed. Those who visit Urban Haat must wear masks and only after thermal scanning and proper sanitisation by sanitizer or hand wash at the entry gate will they be allowed to enter the premises.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cidco-s-handicraft-exhibition-at-urban-haat-in-navi-mumbai-reopens/story-C74wWdYOlQXZxk8m0GdY6O.html
01-11-2020||Gurugram||Hospital rape: No conclusive evidence in case against staffer, cops plan to quash FIR||Police on Saturday said they were planning to initiate the process of quashing the first information report (FIR) against an outsourced staffer of Fortis Hospital booked for allegedly raping a 21-year-old tuberculosis patient in the intensive care unit. A one-page statement of the woman was recorded in the hospital on Saturday and she contradicted the details of her complaint before her legal counsel, the board of doctors and her father, police said. The patient was taken off ventilator support on late Friday evening. Usha Kundu, assistant commissioner of police (headquarters), who was appointed nodal officer for the case on Saturday morning, said the victim first raised fingers at the hospital’s outsourced staff and on Saturday said she was raped by the X-Ray team. “She stated that a woman and two men had taken her for an X-Ray in the basement and told her that she was pregnant and she thought she was raped but her X-Ray was conducted through a portable machine inside the ICU in the presence of woman staff. The teams were questioned and they said they had asked her if she was pregnant before the X-Ray and had used a technical term ‘intubate’ which she presumed was intimate. Also, the team had mentioned another word ‘exposure’ which she mistook as expose. Her allegations were found to be incorrect and she gave contradictory statements and said that she is not sure if she was sexually assaulted,” she said. Kundu said they found no truth in any of her allegations written in a three-page note handed over to them by her father on Tuesday, following which the case was registered. The victim changed her statement and said she did not remember anything clearly, police said. “The victim through a handwritten note had conveyed to her father that she was raped and she was pregnant. But the dates mentioned in the complaint and written by the victim did not match with her admission in the hospital. She had also stated that no food was provided to her for two days whereas she was continuously on ventilator support and glucose drips and was facing severe breathing issues. Her medical examination was conducted by a board of doctors and she was not found to be pregnant,” said Kundu. The victim will be given psychological therapy on Sunday and regular counselling sessions have been scheduled for her, said police. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said they have monitored the entire CCTV footage of more than 10 cameras on both the floors between October 21 and 27 but they did not find any foul play nor was the footage tampered. “We are further investigating the matter. There is no other evidence against the suspect named in the FIR nor his movements were located near the ICU. The FIR will be quashed against him once all the statements are recorded and the FSL report is submitted,” he said. The case is also being supervised by the Haryana State Commission for Women (HSCW) which took suo motu cognisance of the incident on Thursday and constituted an inquiry committee. Preeti Bhardwaj, vice-chairperson of HSCW, said they have requested a judicial magistrate to record the victim’s statement in the hospital. “We have requested the hospital management not to charge her during this period as the family and victim have undergone mental trauma. Being a tuberculosis patient she will need to undergo treatment for at least 12 months and we have requested the hospital to treat her for free. We are providing a psychological counsellor for the victim and she will be given therapies to recover from the trauma. The victim mistook technical terms and presumed that the staff was threatening her. I am satisfied with the civil hospital doctors’ report and the investigation conducted by the Gurugram police,” she said, adding that they have sought a detailed report of the case from police and the hospital before they quash the FIR. The management of the hospital said in a statement: “The patient came to the hospital in an extremely critical condition and we are glad to inform that with continuous efforts of our medical team, the patient is consistently improving, and she is stable now. Post today’s development, we understand that police has issued an update on this case. We continue to support the authorities to conclude the investigation. With 58% female staff, women’s dignity and safety is our utmost priority and we have acted in accordance with this ethos from the very start. We have full faith in our system and know that truth and justice will prevail.” On Thursday, the chief medical officer (CMO) of Gurugram Civil Hospital told Gurugram Police that a sexual assault could not be ruled out. The CMO did not comment on the matter on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/hospital-rape-no-conclusive-evidence-in-case-against-staffer-cops-plan-to-quash-fir/story-ICu0tm9HUcLAJZrX0tphjL.html
01-11-2020||City||Gurugram reports highest single-day spike; tally close to 30,000 mark||Gurugram: The district on Saturday reported 498 new Covid -19 cases, the highest single-day spike so far. The surge raised total count of persons infected with Sars-CoV-2 virus in Gurugram to nearly 30,000, according to the district health bulletin. District health officials attributed the uptick in Covid-19 cases to the delay in updating the positive cases on the official portal by some private labs. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO), said that notices have been served to these labs.With the uptick in new infections, the number of active cases has also surged to 3,522, the highest so far. On Saturday, two deaths were also reported, taking the Covid-19 toll to 212 in the district. The last time when the district had reported the highest single-day spike (421 new cases) was September 16.According to Yadav, action is being taken against the private labs that are showing delay in updating positive cases. “A few private labs are not timely uploading test results of Covid-19 patients on the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) portal. We have served notices to three such labs which are collecting samples from hospitals as well as from homes,” said the CMO. He said that labs have been given two days to submit their response. “Sudden addition of numbers from last week disrupts the entire functioning. It drastically impacts the contact tracing and treating of patients. Overall, it impacts the positivity rate as infection spreads,” said Yadav. Notices have been served to Max Lab ( a unit of Max Hospital), Metropolis Healthcare Limited and MolQ Laboratory. “It was a one-time delay where a few reports were uploaded with a time lag of 24 hours. This is since a few of our data entry operators unfortunately fell ill to Covid-19 recently. The same has been shared as a written reply and conveyed to the authorities concerned,” said Max Lab in its official statement. A representative of the MolQ Laboratory said, “We are not aware of any notice issued by the health department. Once received, we will respond accordingly.” However, Metropolis Healthcare could not be contacted for comment despite several attempts.Since October 21, there has been a resurgence of daily infection, with the district reporting more than 300 positive cases every day. It reached a high of around 400 cases on a few days after October 22 onwards. For the past 10 days, the positivity rate of Gurugram is retained at around 12%, higher than positivity rate recorded in August and September.The health department data shows that there has been almost 30% increase in cases in the past 10 days (October 22-31) compared to the previous 10-day period from October 12 to 21. Experts said that cases will continue to rise due to callous approach of people in adhering to mask discipline and social distancing. Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head of community medicine and public health, PGIMER-Chandigarh, said, “Unlocking has led to mixing of population. Covid-19 will continue to increase in cities with high density population, and where people are not behaving responsibly.” Covid-19 cases in Gurugram saw the first spike in May and then June. By mid-July, a steady drop in cases was noticed, with active cases reaching a count of 650 by August first week. However, after mid-August, cases saw an upward trajectory with more than 100 new cases reported in a day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-reports-highest-single-day-spike-tally-close-to-30-000-mark/story-M46jGhjMceGXVxcFE0rVyN.html
01-11-2020||Mumbai||Post-Covid care centre in Thane gaining momentum||The Thane Municipal Corporation’s post-Covid care facility is getting a good response with more than 25 recovered patients visiting the centre on a daily basis for further recovery aid.The post-Covid care facility situated at Majiwada includes a counsellor, a physiotherapist and provides regular yoga sessions.Dr Raju Murudkar, medical health officer, Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), said, “Although we are getting a good response from people, currently there are around 25 people visiting on a regular basis while we have a capacity for more than 200. After spending days together in quarantine or in hospitals, it becomes difficult for many positive patients to visit such centres immediately after recovery. We are hoping for a better response over time.“The main aim of this centre is the physical and mental well-being of those who have recovered from Covid. As the virus affects the lungs and lowers the immunity, pulmonary physiotherapy to strengthen the lungs along with regular exercises and proper diet help revive one’s body. We have designated doctors for the same. They will guide those visiting the centre. Moreover, many find it difficult to cope up after being in isolation for long periods. We have counsellors who help such individuals as well,” added Murudkar.A helpline number 86573 97952 is also provided for those who need to make any appointment in Thane or for inquiries. On a daily basis, there are 10 to 15 such calls made on the helpline in Thane.Dr Pramod Patil, medical officer and in-charge of Post-Covid Centre, Thane, said, “Most people who visit regularly are for the yoga sessions, the various exercises focus on breathing and building one’s strength. Till now, we have mainly those between the age group of 40 and 60 years. They undergo weakness, complain of body pain, loss of appetite and chest pain.”Meanwhile, Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has also launched its helpline number - 88790 38566. The centre was inaugurated in the beginning of this week and the response is just picking up through word of mouth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/post-covid-care-centre-in-thane-gaining-momentum/story-ciZqEEbprZ0v1RPXd9JAaM.html
01-11-2020||Gurugram||High wind speeds help air quality improve marginally||The air quality in Gurugram remained in the ‘very poor’ category on Saturday, with the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) bulletin recording the air quality index (AQI) at 358. This, however, was a slight improvement from the previous day’s AQI of 367, in the same category. The level of particulate matter (PM) 2.5 — the city’s primary pollutant — was 360.52µg/m³ on Saturday, as per the data recorded at the CPCB’s air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan in Sector 11. As per the CPCB’s classification, an AQI reading between 301 to 400 is categorised as ‘very poor’ and can lead to breathlessness and respiratory illnesses in cases of prolonged exposure. According to the early air quality warning system for the National Capital Region (NCR), the air quality is likely to remain in the ‘very poor’ category on the weekend. The air quality is expected to improve but remain in the ‘very poor’ category on Monday as well. As per the warning system, an unusual increase in fire counts was observed over Punjab (approximately 4.266 counts) on Friday, which was causing an impact on the air quality. However, a higher wind speed and better ventilation index were favourable towards the improvement in air quality. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) regional weather forecasting centre, said that air quality was expected to improve further and stay better till Monday due to a higher wind speed. “Due to the same reason, we have seen improvement in the air quality over the past two days. When the wind speed is low, pollutants accumulate in the air due to poor dispersal,” said Srivastava. An average wind speed less than 10 kmph is unfavourable for the dispersion of pollutants.On Saturday, the city recorded a maximum temperature of 29.4, a degree below Friday’s 30.5 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature was recorded at 12 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature is expected to fall by a degree and stay around 11 degrees Celsius on Sunday, as per the IMD’s forecast. Clear skies will prevail on Sunday, as per the IMD’s weekly forecast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/high-wind-speeds-help-air-quality-improve-marginally/story-C9L7zf6jipna8fGmtq0IXI.html
01-11-2020||Gurugram||CM to inaugurate U-turn flyover near Shankar Chowk||Chief minister(CM) Manohar Lal Khattar will remotely inaugurate a U-turn flyover on Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway near Shanker Chowk on Sunday, the district administration said on Saturday. The CM will inaugurate the flyover through video conferencing from Karnal, which will be live-streamed via a large LED screen installed at Shankar Chowk. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has constructed the flyover at a cost of ₹51 crore.The flyover is meant to help commuters from Cyber Hub to drive towards Udyog Vihar and Delhi. It will also reduce traffic jams at Shankar Chowk, said officials.The construction of the flyover commenced in March 2019 and was completed in 18 months. Vikas Mittal, senior manager, NHAI, stated that the flyover will ease traffic movement and reduce congestion on the expressway. The U-turn flyover is a part of a project to decongest the expressway between Ambience Mall and Shankar Chowk. NHAI officials said that the construction of an U-turn underpass on the expressway is also at the final stages and work would soon be completed. The entire project is being built on a cost-sharing basis between the Haryana government, NHAI and private developers, said NHAI officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cm-to-inaugurate-u-turn-flyover-near-shankar-chowk/story-G9iRCaXoVWUemTy6WFlF9J.html
01-11-2020||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai civic body asks police to keep watch on illegal cutting of trees||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has written to police to keep an eye on anyone cutting down the tress illegally. The civic body has decided to file FIR against people who are found chopping any tree without permission.Mahendra Konde, public relations officer of Navi Mumbai, said, “Trees maintain the balance of the environment. Hence, along with giving attention on tree plantation, it is necessary to keep a vigil on the trees being chopped as well and thus the corporation has decided to take this step.”In case of any developmental needs, the civic body would assess and give permission for the cutting of trees necessary.“It takes many years for a tree to grow. In the name of trimming, people cut roots and also damage the tree. Till now, we have only been filing a non-cognisable case against people cutting the tree illegally. Even trimming can be done only after our permission. Wherever trimming is required, we would do an assessment and then guide which portion should be trimmed as the growing portion of the tree needs to be protected,” Manoj Mahale, deputy municipal commissioner, NMMC, said.The person found cutting a tree without permission, would be booked under Maharashtra Prevention of Defacement of Property Act.“We would register a FIR when someone approaches us with a complaint by keeping NMMC in the loop,” a police officer from Zone I, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-civic-body-asks-police-to-keep-watch-on-illegal-cutting-of-trees/story-s4WBATHiiOr9KJqiZJRX4H.html
01-11-2020||Gurugram||Three booked for abusing, threatening staff of private hospital||The police have booked three family members of a Covid-19 patient for allegedly abusing and threatening doctors and staff of Signature Hospital in Sector 37D and forcing the hospital authorities to discharge the patient despite being critical on June 9. An FIR was filed on the direction of a local court at Sector 10 police station on Friday, said the police. According to the police, the patient died after being shifted to another hospital, and the family members held Signature Hospital responsible for the death. The incident took place in June. Although at that time, the hospital authorities had approached the local police station, but a case was registered following which they approached the court for directing the police to register an FIR against the family members of patient for allegedly abusing and misbehaving with the hospital staff and tarnishing the reputation of the hospital. Dr Gautam (26), who goes by the first name, of Signature Hospital said, a patient named Seema Arora was brought to the hospital on June 1 with complaints of respiratory trouble and fever. “The patient was tested positive and admitted in the isolation ward on the same day. On June 9, the family members shifted the patient to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Jhajjar, despite the doctors advising them not to shift as she was critical,” he said. “The family members started misbehaving with the staff and abused them. When the staff asked them not to shout they threatened them,” said Dr Gautam. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that the family members along with other attendants violated the guidelines issued by both Central and state governments. “They have violated the directions that are required to be followed by the general public while availing the services of hospitals, doctors, female nurses and other staff members,” he said. The hospital management first filed a complaint with the police on June 13 but no FIR was registered following which they approached court. On Friday, an FIR was finally registered against three persons under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 500 (defamation), 350 (uses force to any person), 506 (criminal intimidation) 120B (criminal conspiracy) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code(IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/three-booked-for-abusing-threatening-staff-of-private-hospital/story-8iDHWC8Mp5nkg1VKz9wiCL.html
01-11-2020||Mumbai||Scolded for not studying, 13-year-old boy runs away from home; Kalyan GRP reunites him with parents||The Kalyan Government Railway Police (GRP) reunited a 13-year-old boy with his parents on Saturday.The minor who hails from Palghar left home after his father scolded him for not studying. He boarded the Ajmer-Mysore long distance train. When the train halted at Kalyan station, the GRP officials, who had spotted him boarding it on CCTV footage at Palghar, found him and reunited him with his parents.The police said the minor was in Class 7. His parents claimed that he was merely attending online class on phone and not studying. He also used to be offline during school hours.Shardul Valmik, senior police inspector of GRP, Kalyan, said, “The father of the minor scolded him for not taking his studies seriously. The minor was angry at his father. On Friday night, he left his house and boarded an express train. The parents approached the local police station to file a missing complaint. The local police also asked them to approach the government railway police suspecting he might have boarded an express train.”The GRP checked the CCTV footage and found him boarding an Ajmer-Mysore express train from Palghar. “The train halts at Kalyan railway station. Accordingly, message was circulated by the control room and also the picture of the minor was circulated on WhatsApp group. As soon as the train reached Kalyan at 1 am, our team carried out a complete search of the train. Within three minutes, he was identified from his picture. After confronting him, he denied about being the missing boy and claimed to be travelling with his uncle. He, however, later confessed to running away from his house,” added Valmik.The parents of the kids were informed about the minor being traced. He was reunited with the parents on Saturday morning. He claimed that he was unaware about which train he had boarded and only wanted to get away from home.“The express train halts for four minutes at Kalyan railway station, within three minutes he was traced,” Valmik said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/scolded-for-not-studying-13-year-old-boy-runs-away-from-home-kalyan-grp-reunites-him-with-parents/story-Y2yF8RQUrDm9LpFxxrkKRK.html
01-11-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: DTCP issues notice to five property owners in DLF Phase 1 for violation of pollution norms||The enforcement wing of the department of town and country planning (DTCP) on Saturday issued notices to five property owners in DLF Phase 1 for causing air pollution and violating norms laid down under the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap), which came into force on October 15 to curb the rising pollution in Delhi-NCR. DTCP officials said that the notices were issued, along with a challan of Rs 20,000 each, for the violations after an inspection was conducted in the area. “We conducted an inspection in the area, and wherever construction material was lying in the open or pollution was caused due to the construction activities, penalties were imposed. A number of property owners were also issued warning to adhere to the pollution norms,” said RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement wing). The department also cancelled the occupation certificates (OCs) of two houses in Suncity after it was found that building plan violations were carried out after obtaining the certificates. “The violations were found during the inspection, so it was decided to cancel the OC. More houses will be checked for any such violations where OCs were issued,” he said. A team of enforcement officials, led by Bhath, also carried out an inspection of roads under construction in sectors 58 to 62 and found encroachments due to which the construction is facing problems. The inspection followed a decision by the authorities to ensure that all roadblocks to construction of roads are removed in the developing sectors. On Friday, Jitender Yadav, administrator, Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), had said that the authority will pay compensation to landowners and ensure impediments to road construction are removed by November 15. Bhath said that sector-wise inspections will be conducted, and they will make all efforts to remove illegal encroachments on these proposed or existing roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-dtcp-issues-notice-to-five-property-owners-in-dlf-phase-1-for-violation-of-pollution-norms/story-q55UDaDrML2ThSBlrSkzWI.html
01-11-2020||Delhi||700 nursing, paramedic staff of North Delhi Municipal Corporation threaten strike from Monday||At least 700 nursing and paramedical staffers of three hospitals — Kasturba Hospital, Hindu Rao Hospital and Rajan Babu TB Hospital. all run by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation — have threatened to go on an indefinite strike from Monday for non-payment of their salaries for the last 3-4 months.The representatives of nurses and paramedic staff unions at these hospitals have also announced that they will suspend emergency services during the strike. They said that they have already given a number of notices to the north corporation authorities regarding clearance of their pending salaries, which were not heeded, forcing them to go on a strike.Doctors of hospitals under north corporation had launched a similar strike on October 5 to demand clearing of their outstanding salary dues. The strike finally was called off on October 28 after the north corporation cleared the salary of doctors till September 2020 on October 28Nursing and paramedic staff of Kasturba Hospital have already been observing “three-hour pen-down strike” everyday since Thursday to oppose non-payment of their salaries for the last 3-4 months.“We have been working without salaries for three to four months. We have made a number of communications to the civic body regarding payment of our pending salaries, but to no avail. The civic authorities have left us no option but to go on an indefinite strike from Monday,” said BL Sharma, president Nurses Union of Kasturba Hospital .He added that during the strike, all services including registrations and admission of new patients, will be stopped and medicines will also not be distributed.The nursing and paramedic staff at Hindu Rao Hospital and Rajan Babu TB Hospital will also join the protest at the their respective hospitals from Monday.The North Corporation had on Tuesday cleared salaries of paramedic staff of hospitals under its jurisdiction till June 2020, while the wages of nursing staff were paid till July 2020. The doctors, on the other hand, had been paid their salary dues till September this year, which irked the nursing and paramedic staff across north municipality hospitals.Along with nurses, other health workers such as lab technicians, X-ray technicians, ward boys, hospital clerks and fourth class employees will also participate in the strike on Monday.“This implies that it will be a complete shutdown of hospitals. You cannot operate a hospital only with doctors. It is the nursing staff and other health workers who play an important role in keeping any hospital running. The civic body should treat all the staff members equally and shouldn’t be selective. They should clear pending salaries of all employees at the same time,” Sharma added.There are nearly 200 nursing and paramedical employees at Kasturba Hospital. At Hindu Rao Hospital the number of nursing and paramedical staff is around 350, while nearly 180 such employees work at Rajan Babu TB Hospital.“We will stop emergency services as well because it is time that the civic administration clears our pending salaries. Nurses at hospitals across north municipality have not been paid the salaries of August, September and October, while other paramedic employees have not been given their salary since June 2020. Everyone needs money to survive and non-payment of wages has started taking a toll on our lives ,” Indu Jamwal, president Hindu Rao Hospital Nurses Union, said.Jai Prakash, mayor of north corporation said that strike was not the solution to the problem, as employees should also understand that despite an acute financial crisis of the civic body, their salaries were still being given.“I appeal to the workers to not to go on a strike. There is a funds crunch in the corporation, but still we are releasing salaries to various departments one by one. We are making arrangements to pay salaries of the agitating employees as soon as possible. Their salaries of June and July was released on Tuesday. The remaining dues will also be cleared soon,” Prakash said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/700-nursing-paramedic-staff-of-north-corp-threaten-strike-from-monday/story-XOmC8pJSURZYL0aQYbacMM.html
01-11-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram rape: No conclusive evidence in case against hospital staff, cops plan to quash FIR||Police on Saturday said they were planning to initiate the process of quashing the first information report (FIR) against an outsourced staffer of Fortis Hospital booked for allegedly raping a 21-year-old tuberculosis patient in the intensive care unit. A one-page statement of the woman was recorded in the hospital on Saturday and she contradicted the details of her complaint before her legal counsel, the board of doctors and her father, police said. The patient was taken off ventilator support on late Friday evening. Usha Kundu, assistant commissioner of police (headquarters), who was appointed nodal officer for the case on Saturday morning, said the victim first raised fingers at the hospital’s outsourced staff and on Saturday said she was raped by the X-Ray team. “She stated that a woman and two men had taken her for an X-Ray in the basement and told her that she was pregnant and she thought she was raped but her X-Ray was conducted through a portable machine inside the ICU in the presence of woman staff. The teams were questioned and they said they had asked her if she was pregnant before the X-Ray and had used a technical term ‘intubate’ which she presumed was intimate. Also, the team had mentioned another word ‘exposure’ which she mistook as expose. Her allegations were found to be incorrect and she gave contradictory statements and said that she is not sure if she was sexually assaulted,” she said. Kundu said they found no truth in any of her allegations written in a three-page note handed over to them by her father on Tuesday, following which the case was registered. The victim changed her statement and said she did not remember anything clearly, police said. “The victim through a handwritten note had conveyed to her father that she was raped and she was pregnant. But the dates mentioned in the complaint and written by the victim did not match with her admission in the hospital. She had also stated that no food was provided to her for two days whereas she was continuously on ventilator support and glucose drips and was facing severe breathing issues. Her medical examination was conducted by a board of doctors and she was not found to be pregnant,” said Kundu. The victim will be given psychological therapy on Sunday and regular counselling sessions have been scheduled for her, said police. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said they have monitored the entire CCTV footage of more than 10 cameras on both the floors between October 21 and 27 but they did not find any foul play nor was the footage tampered. “We are further investigating the matter. There is no other evidence against the suspect named in the FIR nor his movements were located near the ICU. The FIR will be quashed against him once all the statements are recorded and the FSL report is submitted,” he said. The case is also being supervised by the Haryana State Commission for Women (HSCW) which took suo motu cognisance of the incident on Thursday and constituted an inquiry committee. Preeti Bhardwaj, vice-chairperson of HSCW, said they have requested a judicial magistrate to record the victim’s statement in the hospital. “We have requested the hospital management not to charge her during this period as the family and victim have undergone mental trauma. Being a tuberculosis patient she will need to undergo treatment for at least 12 months and we have requested the hospital to treat her for free. We are providing a psychological counsellor for the victim and she will be given therapies to recover from the trauma. The victim mistook technical terms and presumed that the staff was threatening her. I am satisfied with the civil hospital doctors’ report and the investigation conducted by the Gurugram police,” she said, adding that they have sought a detailed report of the case from police and the hospital before they quash the FIR. The management of the hospital said in a statement: “The patient came to the hospital in an extremely critical condition and we are glad to inform that with continuous efforts of our medical team, the patient is consistently improving, and she is stable now. Post today’s development, we understand that police has issued an update on this case. We continue to support the authorities to conclude the investigation. With 58% female staff, women’s dignity and safety is our utmost priority and we have acted in accordance with this ethos from the very start. We have full faith in our system and know that truth and justice will prevail.” On Thursday, the chief medical officer (CMO) of Gurugram Civil Hospital told Gurugram Police that a sexual assault could not be ruled out. The CMO did not comment on the matter on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/no-conclusive-evidence-in-case-against-fortis-hospital-staff-cops-plan-to-quash-fir/story-QqYGqlg6EdX3PgaEfxbZRK.html
01-11-2020||Delhi||Section of JNU students announce boycott of online classes, exams||A section of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) students on Saturday announced that they will boycott online classes and exams until the administration resumed physical academic activities at the varsity. The move is in continuation of the ongoing students’ demand for the phased-wise return of all hostel residents and resumption of on-campus classes.The university on October 22 had announced that it will only reopen science schools and special centres in a phased manner from November 2 for final-year Ph.D. scholars and project staff, who require laboratory access. The students at the centre for French students at JNU’s School of Language, Literature, and Cultural studies on Saturday wrote to their chairperson saying, “A vast majority of the students are unable to attend online classes and remotely access online resources. Most of them belong to socio-economically marginalised backgrounds. They are being excluded for no fault of theirs. To avoid further academic loss it’s imperative for us to return to the university….we, hereby, collectively decide to boycott all the online classes and evaluation, which is merely a formality with no real learning.”Similarly, students of the centre for informal sector and labour studies at the school of social sciences released a statement demanding resumption of physical classes. “The academic loss has been enormous and we can no longer afford to miss out on classroom discussions, access to academic resources, research and other academic experiences...Hence, we request the phased return of all students along with the complete restoration of our hostel facilities,” the statement read.JNU has been physically closed since March 13 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and all classes since have moved online. While a majority of students have vacated their hostels following the university’s order in March, some had stayed due to the suspension of inter-state travel facilities brought about by the Covid-enforced lockdown. The students have been demanding a phased entry for research scholars on the campus since July. JNU Students’ Union President Aishe Ghosh said that more centres are likely to issue statements about their demands soon. “We want phased return of each and every student back to the campus. The students of all centres are conducting their general body class meetings and coming out with resolutions.”A senior university official said that all students cannot be allowed to return to the campus as of now. “It will take some time to allow students to return to their hostels. We have started with science students and others will also be allowed. But it will take time. Students should refrain from giving calls for boycotting online classes,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/section-of-jnu-students-announce-boycott-of-online-classes-exams/story-ZJv63UpNjFAII1cLCUWgFM.html
01-11-2020||Delhi||Coldest October in 58 years, but numerous farm fires keep Delhi air in ICU||This October was the coldest Delhi has experienced in 58 years, with the mean minimum temperature for the month settling at 17.2 degrees Celsius, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The last time it was this cold at night in the national capital was in 1962, when the mean minimum temperature for October was 16.9 degrees Celsius, weather experts said.Normally, Delhi records a mean minimum temperature -- the average of daily minimum temperatures through the month --of 19.1 degrees Celsius in October.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, confirmed that this year, minimum temperatures in Delhi have been lower than normal. “The absence of cloud cover is a major reason for such low minimum temperatures. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downwards, warming the ground. Another reason is calm winds, which allow the formation of mist and fog,” Srivastava said. On Saturday, the maximum temperature at the Safdarjung observatory -- considered the official reading for the city -- was 30.8 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature was 13 degrees Celsius, three degrees below the season’s normalBut despite high wind speed and favourable weather conditions, the national capital’s air quality continued to remain in the ‘very poor’ category on the air quality index (AQI). The AQI, as recorded by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), on Saturday was 367 (very poor). This was only slightly better than the AQI of 374 on Friday, also in ‘very poor’ category. On a scale of 0 to 500, an AQI between 301 and 400 is considered very poor. IMD scientists said while the average wind speed during Saturday had touched 18kmph, it did not clean up the air as expected. VK Soni, head of IMD’s Environment Monitoring Research Centre, said looking at the high wind speed during the day, the forecast was that the AQI would improve and reach the ‘poor’ category (between 201 and 300). On Friday and Saturday, the number of stubble burning incidents spotted in the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana was the highest this season so far, which could have contributed to the air continuing to remain critical.“As per IMD’s satellite monitoring on Friday, in Punjab alone there were 4,266 farm fire spots, while in Haryana there were 155 farm fires. On Saturday, too, the number of red dots, denoting fires, were over 3,000. Even though we had good wind speed and better ventilation index, the direction of the wind was from north-west, which brought with it smoke from the fires,” Soni said.He said the wind speed is expected to remain high on Sunday, which will keep the AQI levels in the upper ends of the ‘very poor’ zone. Union ministry’s System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) data showed that 3,471 farm fires were spotted over Punjab and Haryana, which accounted for 32% of Delhi’s PM2.5 (particulate matter with diameters less than 2.5 micrometres) levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/coldest-october-in-58-years-but-numerous-farm-fires-keep-delhi-air-in-icu/story-DGPewnEayRfm5m0esLTr8L.html
01-11-2020||Delhi||AAP rakes up pension dues of MCD employees, BJP hits back||Senior Aam Aadmi Party leader and MCD in-charge Durgesh Pathak on Saturday said that the BJP-ruled MCD should immediately release pension of 24,000 pensioners and should stop doing politics over this issue. He also said that the condition of the families of pensioners was very bad and they were being forced to take loans and fall back on their savings for survival. Pathak said that these people had also moved court to demand pension and on September 21 the Delhi high court had ordered the immediate release of pension to north corporation. Pathak claimed that despite HC’s order, the BJP-ruled municipal corporations did not release the pensions.“The BJP leaders have become so insensitive that they are only busy diverting the attention from real issues of the MCD and are only concerned about blaming the AAP government. I want to tell the BJP that you have run the MCD for the last 14 years. Now for just one year, handover the MCD to the AAP. I want to ensure that we present a different reality in front of them,” said Pathak. Replying to this, Delhi BJP spokesperson, Praveen Shankar Kapoor said the AAP was shedding “crocodile tears”. “If the AAP cares so much about the MCD pensioners, then it should ask the Kejriwal government to release all the pending funds to the civic bodies,” Kapoor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-rakes-up-pension-dues-of-mcd-employees-bjp-hits-back/story-sMOgi4ce0MncpQ2y6y4eRJ.html
01-11-2020||Delhi||From Sunday, DTC and cluster buses to run at full seating capacity||From Sunday, Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and cluster buses will operate at full seating capacity, but no passenger will be allowed to stand and travel, transport minister Kailash Gahlot said.The move, approved by lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal, is going to give a much-needed relief to commuters who have been facing a harrowing time with waiting time for buses sometimes going up to two hours and all social distancing norms being flouted at overcrowded stands. State-run buses in Delhi resumed services from May 18 as part of the gradual relaxation the nationwide lockdown imposed from March 25. But the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) had restricted bus intake and mandated that only 20 passengers be allowed per bus, thereby reducing by half the passenger intake of the over 6,000 DTC and 600 cluster buses. In March, DTC and cluster buses together carried over 3.2 million passengers daily, which went down to 1.3 million in August, DTC data showed.“From Sunday, all seats on our DTC and cluster buses will be open for passengers to sit and travel. However, no one will be allowed to stand inside the bus or sit on the floor. Wearing masks will be mandatory for entry into the buses. Our conductor and civil defence volunteers will check this and also ensure social distancing,” Gahlot said. On Saturday evening, chief secretary Vijay Dev issued an order saying in case of any violation, “disciplinary proceedings” shall be initiated against the driver and the conductor of the bus, and responsibility shall be fixed of the depot manager concerned for the supervisory lapses.”A senior Delhi Metro official said there is no plan as of now to increase the passenger capacity on Metro trains.The minister added that interstate buses and interstate bus terminals will, in all likelihood, resume services from Monday. He said the transport department has prepared the standard operating procedures in this regard. When asked if the decision to lift restrictions was appropriate in view of Covid-19, health minister Satyendar Jain said a lockdown was no solution to the spread of infection. “If the passengers are wearing masks, then increasing the seating capacity on buses will not be a problem. If even one person is not wearing a mask, then having the restriction of just 20 passengers per bus will not work. So, rather than imposing restrictions, focus should be on ensuring that people wear masks. All other states are running buses at full capacity now,” said Jain.With the addition of the festive rush, crowded bus stops underscores a new worry in Delhi’s fight against Covid-19. Buses and the Metro are the two primary mass transit options available in a city of nearly 20 million. The DTC said allowing buses to run at full capacity will bring comfort to passengers and also help the corporation marginally inch towards pre-Covid revenue collection. Earnings through tickets for the DTC dropped by almost Rs167 crore during the months of March, April, May and June as compared to the same period in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/from-sunday-dtc-and-cluster-buses-to-run-at-full-seating-capacity/story-LSTiifu1USTvMDTvhORDgM.html
01-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai saw quietest Eid-e-Milad festivities since 2013, says NGO||This year, Eid-e-Milad celebrations in the city were the quietest since 2013, according to non-government organisation (NGO) Awaaz Foundation. On Saturday, Awaaz Foundation submitted its report to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray. Eid-e-Milad-un-Nabi celebrates the birth of Prophet Mohammed and was observed on Friday.On the day between 4.15pm and 5.30pm, Awaaz Foundation recorded noise levels at four locations and found celebrations to be loudest at 66.1 decibel (db), between Byculla bridge junction and Nagapada Circle in south Mumbai.The readings at the other three locations were between 52dB to 66.1dB, which is significantly lower than previous years. For example, the stretch between Sir JJ Hospital and Crawford Market recorded 52-55db noise. Due to the use of loudspeakers, readings in this region in 2018 was 105.3 dB in 2018; 105.2 dB in 2017; 111.5dB in 2016; 103.5 dB in 2015; 108.3 dB in 2014; and 104.5 dB in 2013. Awaaz Foundation did not record noise levels during Eid-e-Milad in 2019. Noise can affect the health and well-being of citizens and continuous exposure to levels above 80dB can lead to partial hearing loss, according to the World Health Organization (WHO). According to the Noise Pollution (Regulation and Control) Rules, 2000, residential areas should have a maximum noise level of 55dB in the day and 45dB at night. Continuous exposure to levels higher than 70dB can lead to hearing loss, and exposure to levels above that can lead to sensorineural hearing loss, which usually occurs suddenlyDuring previous years, noise from pedestrian traffic and motorcycles was high with people driving recklessly and blocking major roads, especially at Mohammed Ali Road.Activists said noise was much lower this year owing to only a single procession permitted in Byculla, which did not carry loudspeakers. “I followed it on foot as it passed through various areas between Byculla and Nagpada. Since vehicular traffic was blocked along the route (except for police vehicles) there was no traffic noise. Although there were crowds in some areas but there was no shouting,” said Sumaira Abdulali, convener, Awaaz Foundation who submitted the noise report to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray.Abdulali added that the drop in noise was not just during Eid e Milad this year but followed a trend observed in other festivals including the Ganeshotsav and other celebrations as a silver lining of the pandemic. “The city demonstrated new ways to celebrate responsibly without loudspeakers across all religious and cultural celebrations this year. In the interest of controlling noise pollution and eliminating its consequent health hazards, I hope this trend continues for the years to come,” she said.The Mumbai police spokesperson deputy commissioner of police N Ambika said, “Noise abatement measures have been strictly implemented this year. The use of loudspeakers has been prohibited. Large crowds have been avoided during every festival in Mumbai this year and appropriate deployment of police personnel has been done to ensure physical distancing is maintained.”Members of the Haji Ali trust said circulars had been issued to groups carrying out processions to maintain decorum during the festival requesting sammelan - to celebrate peacefully and to not create noise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-saw-quietest-eid-e-milad-festivities-since-2013-says-ngo/story-pUdxMpP6A5VBa3xyUPmVUM.html
01-11-2020||Mumbai||Belgaum issue: Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi ministers to observe “black day” today||Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government (MVA) ministers will sport black ribbons and observe ‘black day’ on Sunday to show their solidarity to the Marathi-speaking population of Karnataka’s Belgaum region.The border dispute between the two states has been simmering for decades now.According to a letter written to the people of the region by MVA minister handling the Maharashtra-Karnataka border dispute Eknath Shinde and his cabinet colleague Chhagan Bhujbal, November 1 is considered a black day for Maharashtra as the Belgaum-Karwar region, which has around 865 Marathi-speaking villages, went to Karnataka while states were carved out on linguistic basis.Shinde said that the show of solidarity is to express the state government’s firm support to the movement to integrate the region with Maharashtra. “The Marathi-speaking people of all religions and castes consider Maharashtra as its own. Therefore, the political, economic, cultural and social issues of the people belonging to the Dalit community as well as other minorities from the border region are extremely crucial for us,” Shinde and Bhujbal stated in their joint letter. “The black day will be observed on November 1 to demand the integration of Belgaum and its bordering areas with Maharashtra. The entire MVA cabinet will wear black ribbons to show support to the people in the bordering areas… We will raise the voice of the Marathi brothers in these areas and condemn oppression,” state minister from the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) Jayant Patil tweeted.Patil also asked NCP functionaries to sport black ribbons on Sunday, while Shinde has appealed to reporters and journalists in Maharashtra to wear them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/belgaum-issue-maharashtra-vikas-aghadi-ministers-to-observe-black-day/story-dgYyOAvEVpovvBQ98Y8yAJ.html
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||Dry spell to continue in Chandigarh, may worsen air quality||With no rain likely in the coming days and dry winds blowing in the region, the air quality index (AQI) in the city is likely to go up. Director of Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) Surender Paul said, “The dry spell is likely to continue for at least the first two weeks of November, up to Diwali. The major sources of rain at this time are western disturbances, but no activity is being detected.”The normal amount of rain for the month of October is 22.2mm. In the last decade, however, very little to no rain has been recorded in October. This year saw no rain the whole month.Paul said winter was likely to be along normal lines this year and more details will be available in a long range forecast which will be issued by IMD in November.However, he said the AQI in the city could worsen especially if precautions were not taken on Diwali: “Even if there is light rain, it can clean the air of pollutants, but their concentration increases during long periods of dry weather. If crackers are burst like in the previous years, by the middle of the month the AQI can become worse.”Debendra Dalai, vice-president of the Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC), said, “This year the AQI has been considerably better owing to the lockdown. By November due to temperature inversion, AQI usually gets poorer, but this year there isn’t much difference in what the AQI is now and what it was a few weeks back.”He added that the department was working towards spreading awareness and keeping the AQI in the moderate bracket (up to 200) even after Diwali.The AQI in the city stayed between 120-130 on Saturday.The maximum temperature in the city went up from 30.7°C on Friday to 31.1°C on Saturday; the minimum temperature went up from 12.8°C on Friday to 14.1°C on Saturday. In the next three days, the maximum temperature will remain around 30°C and the minimum temperature will remain between 14°C and 15°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dry-spell-to-continue-in-chandigarh-may-worsen-air-quality/story-H5uOtTtltRGCsUVLdWHslJ.html
01-11-2020||City||Ambala couple booked for duping 6 men on pretext of job in Cambodia||An Ambala-based couple was booked for allegedly duping people on the pretext of providing employment in Cambodia, the Panchkula police said on Saturday. The accused were identified as Anil Kumar and Praveen Kumari of Tharwaa village in Ambala.Complainant Amardeep Kumar of Ambala city, a parent, alleged that “our children are stuck there without jobs and without any money.” He told the police that “the couple called six persons to Cambodia on one month’s tourist visa, promising they will get them jobs there. Later we got to know that they are staying there on tourist visas and do not have any work.”The six persons ‘illegally” sent to Cambodia are Jagdeep Kumar of Dhurkara village in Ambala; Arun Kumar of Baloli tehsil in Yamunanagar; Mohit Kumar of Yamunanagar; Sandeep Kumar of Fatehgarh village in Yamunanagar; Praveen Kumar of Raipur Rani, Panchkula; and Bau Ram of Bakkarwala in Yamunanagar.A case was registered under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ambala-couple-booked-for-duping-6-men-on-pretext-of-job-in-cambodia/story-F6rGibWXa5QdhzMOmA9l1I.html
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||Selection of stenographers: Punjab and Haryana HC puts own administration on notice on candidates’ plea for retest||The Punjab and Haryana high court (HC) has put its own administration on notice based on a plea of 20-odd candidates who had appeared in an exam for the post of senior-scale stenographers held in February this year. Advocate for the petitioners Ashish Chopra said, “Although it was spelt out in the advertisement that no candidate would be considered to have qualified the test if he/she commits more than 4% of mistakes during dictation test, but some candidates have been selected despite committing more than 4% mistakes which is evident from the result”.HC has sought a response from 11 candidates and the administration by December 3. On February 5, a grievance was raised with the HC administration seeking cancellation of the test, but to no avail, it was stated.Instructions as per the advertisement were not followed by those dictating the passage, which was dictated at a speed of 100 words per minute for five minutes; from the merit list it was clear that even in the case of selected candidates, mistakes exceeded the upper limit of 20 (4%), the court was told by the advocate.In all, 21 candidates were declared selected for the 33 posts on October 15, none were from the categories of scheduled castes, scheduled tribes, backward classes, ex-servicemen and persons with disabilities, the petition stated.The petitioners have demanded that the list of selected candidates be quashed and the test reconducted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/selection-of-stenographers-punjab-and-haryana-hc-puts-own-administration-on-notice-on-candidates-plea-for-retest/story-HFwG8OMfpC5mbzuOWrsjqK.html
01-11-2020||Delhi||Rules relaxed, more guests allowed at weddings in Delhi||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Saturday gave a major relief to those planning to tie the knot by removing the restriction of allowing only 50 persons per wedding function. In a late night order issued by chief secretary Vijay Dev, the DDMA relaxed the cap on the number of guests to allow up to 200 persons in banquet halls or closed spaces for weddings. However, the restriction in the number of guests for funerals will continue to be 20. The DDMA also issued a set of standard operating procedure (SOP) for weddings and related functions in the city on Saturday. Click here for complete coronavirus coverageIn closed spaces, a maximum of 50% of hall capacity will be allowed, with a ceiling of 200 people. In open spaces or grounds, the number of guests permissible will be jointly fixed by the area district magistrate and DCP, the order stated.The order implied that if someone is planning a bigger wedding with more than 200 persons, then choosing an open space would be a better option since there is no specific cap on the number of people mentioned in the document. Wearing of face masks, maintaining social distancing, provision of thermal scanning and use of hand wash or sanitiser will be mandatory, it stated. The SoPs also stated that an individual will have not be nominated by the organiser as the nodal person to oversee all arrangements and coordination at the marriage venue. The name and contact of the nodal person should be displayed at the entry of the venue. All public utility areas such as food stalls, stage, DJ will have to be sanitised prior to the event. Common bins for disposal of face masks, multiple hand wash facilities, separate entry and exit gates, and not more than 50% of the capacity at a time in dining hall should be exercised, the order said. While only asymptomatic persons will be allowed, the rules also stated that entry of guests will have to be regulated at the venue to ensure that it does not exceed the upper limit at any time. For closed spaces, the air-conditioners should be set at temperature of 24-30 degree Celsius with a relative humidity of 40-70%. If someone falls ill, then the guest will have to be immediately isolated and be taken to the nearest medical facility or district officials should be contacted. The order maintained status quo for all other activities and added that the relaxations meant for the festive season shall continue. Ramesh Dang, president of Delhi banquet federation, said the relaxation will give a much needed boost to their business.“We already have a dozen of bookings. With he relaxation in guest numbers, we hope our bookings will increase. The decision has come just in time as the wedding season has started,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/rules-relaxed-more-guests-allowed-at-weddings/story-QqAgvqslGPuqhWJS66O8dM.html
01-11-2020||Pune||Pimpri-Chinchwad civic admin attributes reduced Covid-19 cases to My family, My responsibility initiative||My family, my responsibility (Maze Kutumbh, Mazi Jababdari) initiative has turned out to be a trump card for the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) as they have managed to reduce the number of Covid-19 cases in the twin township, according to the civic officials.As of October 31, PCMC has had 84,519 Covid-19 positive cases and 1,200 deaths have been recorded, as per the state health department report. The mortality rate of PCMC currently stands at 1.7 per cent.“Maze Kutumbh, Mazi Jababdari played a big role in bringing down the number of Covid-19 cases in PCMC. The initiative helped a lot in early detection and spreading awareness. People also gave a very good response to initiative,” said Shravan Hardikar, PCMC commissioner.On six days - October 14, 19, 25, 26, 27 and 31- zero virus-related deaths were recorded in PCMC. On the other days, the death rate did not exceed 20. On October 16, 17 deaths had been reported which has been the highest this month. This month’s data has provided much-needed relief to civic officials who believe that the spread of the virus is being contained.The first phase of the initiative took place between September 15 and October 10 and the second phase was conducted during October 14 -24. With Covid-19 cases declining every day, PCMC has decided to continue the initiative further.“Diwali is a much bigger festival than Navratri and is round the corner, so people need to continue following norms. PCMC is continuing to take precautionary measures, but the role of people will be very important in flattening the curve,” said Hardikar.With cases declining, PCMC has temporarily shut operating of jumbo Covid-19 care centre at Annasaheb Magar Stadium, Pimpri while operations at Balnagri, Bhosari Jumbo Covid-19 care facility is still functional.“Along with Annasaheb Magar Stadium we have reduced a few hospitals temporarily from the list of Covid hospitals. If the need arises, then jumbo facilities and other hospitals will be brought into use again,” added Hardikar.“The decline in the curve has been noticed across the state. We are following all the guidelines given by the state. If people continue to follow all guidelines, then cases will keep on reducing,” said Santosh Patil, additional commissioner.Dr Vijay Natarajan, chief executive officer at the Symbiosis hospital, said, “Maze Kutumbh, Mazi Jababdari, has helped increase the detection rate, but there is no scientific explanation to a lull which we are noticing in the cases right now. Looking at the overall world statistics, the second wave could be more severe, we need to be cautious going ahead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pcmc-admin-attributes-reduced-covid-19-cases-to-my-family-my-responsibility-initiative/story-lbZsTAkSgqKbsb612gyonJ.html
