02-11-2020||Noida||Child actor’s parents cheated of ₹80,000 on pretext of landing him roles in TV serials||Noida: The family of a child actor from Noida has alleged that a “contractor” cheated them of Rs 80,000 on the pretext of landing the child a role in a major TV serial.According to the family, the suspect allegedly asked the family to make advance payments for “agreement and security deposit”. However, once the money was paid, the suspect stopped all communication with them, the family alleged.The complainant in the matter is Shalu Sharma, a resident of Sarfabad village in Noida’s Sector 73. She is a homemaker while her husband works as a cook. Her son, aged 11 years, is an actor and a hip hop dancer.She said that last week, she received an email and then a call from the suspect, who identified himself as a casting director with a leading film making company. “He said my son has been selected for two TV serials. The suspect asked us to deposit Rs 7,000 on the pretext of agreement and security deposit. Once the money was paid, he asked to pay another Rs 7,000,” Sharma alleged. She alleged the suspect’s demands started increasing and the family ended up depositing a total of Rs 80,000 in multiple transactions. “However, later the suspect switched off his phone and stopped all communication,” she said. Sudhir Kumar, SHO, Sector 49, said based on the complaint, a case was registered against the suspect under Section 66-D of IT Act on October 28. “We will take the help of cyber cell to investigate the matter and arrest the suspect,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/child-actor-s-parents-cheated-of-80-000-on-pretext-of-landing-him-roles-in-tv-serials/story-tkgpDFL2hfSJCVb8qHu2NJ.html
02-11-2020||Noida||Murder of Nithari resident: Police arrest mastermind, two others||Noida: Three suspects, including the mastermind, were arrested on Monday for their alleged involvement in the murder of a Nithari village resident, whose body was found near the elevated road in Sector 25 on October 28. According to the police, 26-year-old Kamal Sharma was murdered after he objected to mastermind Nizamul Khan’s relationship with his (Kamal’s) younger sister. Khan, 24, who is a native of Amroha, is a youtuber, the police said, adding that he engaged two accomplices -- Amit Gupta, 23, a resident of Sector 20, and Sumit Sharma, 24, a resident of Usmanpur in Delhi -- for the murder.The police have recovered a countrymade gun used in the crime, a live cartridge, one used cartridge and a mobile phone from their possession. Khan, who is also a bike enthusiast, has over nine lakh followers on YouTube and he roughly earns about Rs 50,000 a month through his videos, said the police. Love Kumar, additional commissioner of police, Gautam Budh Nagar, said that on October 28, Kamal was found wounded at the elevated road loop near Iskcon temple. Kamal was taken to the district hospital where he was declared brought dead, he said. The post mortem report revealed the victim had a gunshot wound in his back. Kamal’s brother Naresh Sharma filed a complaint against unknown persons at Sector 24 police station. Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Noida, said that the police launched an investigation and scanned CCTV footage from different spots. “The three suspects were seen conducting recee of Kamal’s workplace on October 27 in Noida Sector 63. On October 28, at 6pm, the three suspects again reached Kamal’s office on a motorcycle. Sumit was dropped at the spot while two others – Khan and Amit – started following Kamal on a motorcycle as the victim left the office on his bike,” DCP said. The police said Amit was riding the motorcycle while Khan was riding pillion. “When the victim was taking elevated road loop near Iskcon temple, the suspects approached the victim. Khan fired at Kamal from point-blank range and killed him,” said DCP. The suspects had fled the spot after the crime.During interrogation, Khan revealed that he loved Kamal’s sister. “Kamal had warned Khan to stay away from his sister. Khan had developed a grudge with Kamal over the issue. He made a plot with his two accomplices and killed him,” said Kumar, the additional CP. The police said that Khan would make videos of motorcycle stunts and putting them on YouTube. Khan had lured Amit and Sumit in the plot and promised them to help make videos and earn money. The suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody, the police said. On October 29, a day after the murder, over 100 people from Nithari village had gathered near the Sector 25 intersection under the elevated road and protested demanding justice for the victim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/murder-of-nithari-resident-police-arrest-mastermind-two-others/story-5Ijvb8OfuFBg5Q6jZJn1tN.html
02-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic chief urges citizens to maintain Covid-19 protocol during Diwali||Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) chief Iqbal Singh Chahal on Monday advised citizens to celebrate the festival of Diwali cautiously and carefully to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Chahal said while active cases have fallen down by 29.2% in the past one month and fatality rate has also dipped, citizens should still act cautiously and carefully during Diwali. He also said that the number of sealed buildings have reduced while daily testing has gone up.BMC is expecting a surge in number of cases in view of Diwali and the opening of trains in the coming days. Chahal on Monday said, “Extremely encouraging results have been witnessed in the past one month due to aggressive and successful house-to-house survey under ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ initiative.”According to BMC officials, civic health teams have visited 34.9 lakh families of the 35.2 lakh families in the city twice between September 15 and October 31 to physically check their health status and raise awareness about wearing masks, physical distancing and using sanitiser.Chahal added, “More than 1.5 lakh citizens were fined for not wearing masks and spitting, and more citizens will be fined, if found without masks or spitting in public space.”The civic chief also said, “We have decided to not lower our guard and not be complacent in this relentless fight against Covid-19. We request all eminent citizens to celebrate the festival of Deepawali with utmost care and caution.”Anticipating a surge owing to festival season, BMC also started 244 testing centres across the city wherein citizens will be able to avail free Covid-19 testing from Monday. According to BMC officials, the number of daily testing has gone up significantly from around 6,500 on an average in August to 14,000-16,000 in October. They expect the number to increase to 24,000 with the help of these testing centres. Between September 30 and October 31, the number of active cases has fallen by 29% in the city, the number of sealed buildings reduced by 30% and containment zones reduced by 13%. Further, Mumbai’s doubling rate has climbed from 66 days to 171 days during this period. Fatality rate for October was 2.5% while the overall fatality rate was 3.9%. The number of available Covid-19 beds rose from 4,986 to 7,817 beds and the same for ICU beds rose 225 to 561 beds.Meanwhile, on Monday, 706 new cases and 30 deaths were reported in the city, taking case count to 259,111 and toll to 10,348. In Mumbai, a total of 230,232 patients have been discharged with discharge rate at 88.85%.Currently, there are 17,982 active cases in Mumbai and fatality rate is 3.99%. One hot spot that has shown signs of drastic improvement – Dharavi – recorded only 11 new cases on Monday, taking the tally to 3,617, of which 3,152 have been discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-chief-urges-citizens-to-maintain-covid-19-protocol-during-diwali/story-MnS8UFayp5t8f4anFDzNYP.html
02-11-2020||Chandigarh||Cong MPs in Punjab seek time to meet PM, ministers over freight trains, RDF||Congress Lok Sabha MPs from Punjab on Monday decided to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and some central ministers over the suspension of freight trains and rural development fee (RDF) to the state. The Congress MPs, who held a meeting in New Delhi, have sought time to meet the PM, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and railway minister Piyush Goyal to take up the problems being faced by the state. Fatehgarh Sahib MP Dr Amar Singh said the suspension of goods trains has severely hit the supply of coal, urea, DAP and other essential items. “The farmer unions have vacated the rail tracks and there is no train blockade in the state. They are just using it as an excuse to suspend goods trains. We will take up all these issues,” he said after the meeting, accusing the BJP of playing politics. Singh said they are hopeful of getting time from the Prime Minister and central ministers. The Centre had suspended freight trains to Punjab, citing sporadic obstruction of tracks by the protesting farmers at several places. Goyal also sought an assurance from the state government for the safety of trains and their crew members to restore freight services. Of the eight Congress MPs, seven, including Jasbir Singh Gill, Santokh Singh Chaudhary, Gurjeet Singh Aujla and Mohammad Sadique, attended the meeting. “Patiala MP Preneet Kaur was on her way but could not reach in time. We will all go together to meet the PM and ministers,” one of them said. Last week, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh had also sought time to meet President Ram Nath Kovind to request him to accord speedy assent to the bills passed by the state assembly to amend the newly enacted agriculture reforms laws. He had also requested the MLAs of all parties to accompany. However, the state government is still to get any confirmation from the President’s office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cong-mps-in-punjab-seek-time-to-meet-pm-ministers-over-freight-trains-rdf/story-6Fm5iBrgCVAIEDzCLEzj7I.html
02-11-2020||Noida||Noida: Two weeks into opening, movie halls yet to see encouraging footfalls||NOIDA: It has been two weeks since movie theatres in Noida district threw doors open to audiences, after a gap of almost seven months, but footfall is yet to pick up pace.Movie theatres and multiplexes were shut, along with most commercial and entertainment activities in the country from March 25 due to the nationwide lockdown imposed to curb the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease. Now in the unlock mode, several activities have opened up but footfall has failed to regain its previous strength due to fears of contracting the Sars-Cov-2.The Uttar Pradesh government had granted permission to theatres to screen movies from October 16.An official of the Noida’s Great India Place mall, one of the largest commercial centres in the National Capital Region, said that taking serious note of the lukewarm response from audiences, movies are being screened in only two auditoriums out of the six. “Though footfall increased a bit last weekend, it was not more than 60 to 70 people per show. Despite regular sanitisation and maintaining social distancing, people are not very comfortable visiting theatres during this pandemic time. We hope that turnout will increase when new films are released, in the last week of this month,” the official said, requesting not to be named. A drop in the number of movies being screened has been ordered so that there is sufficient time between movies to clean, sanitise and disinfect the theatres with Ultraviolet-C for the next batch of audience. It results in increasing the turnaround time from 10 minutes to 45 minutes. To avoid overcrowding, show timings have been planned in a systematic manner so that no two films start and end at the same time. On an average, a medium sized theatre can seat up to 120 people, but since seating plans have been allowed in a chessboard fashion, so as to allow social distancing, such a theatre can accommodate only up to half the capacity, or say, 60 people. Large theatres, however, can seat about 500 people or more. The initial response of patrons was very thin, with less than a total of 100 people going to movie halls in the first week after theatres had opened up in the district, against the capacity of over 3,000 permitted seats.Angad Makan, a spokesperson of Logix mall, located in Noida’s Sector 38, said that despite running five auditoriums, the turnout is meagre. “Before the lockdown, at least 10,000 people used to visit the multiplex in a single day, which has now reduced to less than 500. We are waiting for new releases to come now,” he said.JP Chandra, the Gautam Budh Nagar entertainment tax officer, concurred, stating: “While several theatres in Noida, Greater Noida, Dankaur and Jewar have not opened yet, footfall in those which have opened is less than about 10% as a whole. Many owners say they have not opened theatre yet as they are waiting for new releases to draw in customers,” he said.He added that despite being granted permission, some multiplexes have not opened as the shops of the malls, in which the halls are located, are still closed. “According to our records, movie halls in Gautam Budh Nagar have so far incurred business of around 5% in the last 15 days, as compared to the same span of time last year,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-two-weeks-into-opening-movie-halls-yet-to-see-encouraging-footfalls/story-pA16s21C1eyIdilH8DFnFJ.html
02-11-2020||City||Thane pipeline ruptures twice in one day; MIDC announces 24-hour water cuts||A water pipeline in Shilphata, Thane, burst twice on Monday, leading to waterlogging in the area. Commuters travelling along the Kalyan-Shilphata route faced traffic snarls around 7pm, with major congestion from Kalsekar Hospital in Mumbra to Khidkali temple, and along the Shilphata-Mahape route. The traffic jam extended till late on Monday night, even after the water receded. The Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) pipe, which supplies water to Diva, Mumbra, Kalwa and Thane, burst twice on Monday, leading to water cuts for the next 24 hours in these areas. The pipeline first burst around 1am and was repaired within 12 hours. A second rupture occurred around 7pm. This is the second time in a month that the same pipeline was damaged. A similar incident took place in the first week of October. “We informed MIDC about both the bursts immediately, and repair work has begun after the evening incident. Areas like Mumbra, Kalwa, certain parts of Thane and Dombivli will be affected for over 24 hours. The flow of water will be at low pressure for the next two days,” said Santosh Kadam, chief, regional disaster management cell, Thane district. A senior MIDC official said that the ruptures occurred due to the age of the pipeline. “The pipeline is very old hence such incidents occur time and again. These pipelines supply water to Thane on high pressure. The pipeline burst earlier in the day must have caused pressure elsewhere. Both incidents occurred just a few metres apart near Khidkali temple,” said the official. Shilphata road regularly witnesses heavy traffic jams during peak hours. However, Monday’s incident proved to be a nightmare for commuters. “We do face traffic woes regularly on this stretch, but on Monday we had to drive through ankle-deep water due to the pipeline burst. The traffic was moving at snail’s pace,” said Sudhir Ghosh, 46, a resident of Dombivli. Sachin Gawde, traffic police inspector, said, “We had our staff on the spot to regulate traffic, and the water flow has receded.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-pipeline-ruptures-twice-in-one-day-midc-announces-24-hour-water-cuts/story-gbbA9RlCnpiNAu1XqqCemM.html
02-11-2020||City||10th accused in 2019 Panchkula dacoity, murder case arrested from Gurugram||The crime branch of Panchkula police arrested the 10th accused in the 2019 dacoity and murder case that had claimed one life. Said to be “most-wanted criminal”, 22-year-old Mohit alias Pappu was nabbed from Gurugram on October 31 and produced in a court which sent him to two-day police remand. The case dates back to January 2019 when at least ten armed men had barged into the workplace of Vinod Kumar of Panchkula’s Sector 20 and opened fire on him and his friends before fleeing with cash and ornaments. One of his friends had died of bullet injuries. Inspector Aman from the Panchkula crime branch said, “The police have made 10 arrests, whereas six more persons are yet to be caught for their involvement in the case. Recoveries worth ₹2.5 lakh have also been made from them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10th-accused-in-2019-panchkula-dacoity-murder-case-arrested-from-gurugram/story-Ac0j847gB9QGv9QCEJ4nHM.html
02-11-2020||Chandigarh||Delimitation of Mohali municipal wards: High court puts administration, Punjab government on notice||The Punjab and Haryana high court has put Punjab government and Mohali administration on notice on a plea seeking quashing of delimitation of wards carried out for the municipal corporation of Mohali.As per the SAD and BJP councillors, 70% seats held by them in the previous Mohali municipal corporation house have either been re-carved, reserved or de-reserved to their detriment. The five-year term of the house ended on April 26 this year. Among the 50 wards, 25 have been reserved for women, besides five for scheduled castes (including two for women) and two for backward classes (men). As many as 23 of 33 wards previously held by the SAD and the BJP have been affected, while wards of only two former Congress councillors have been converted into general category and the remaining 13 have been left untouched. The MC was led by Kulwant Singh of the SAD. “The high court has sought response from various respondents by January 6 and also asked why notification should not be stayed,” senior advocate Vikas Bahl, who appeared for these councillors said. The plea filed by five former councillors seeks quashing of July 31 notification vide which delimitation board was constituted and subsequent developments of re-carving of wards and notification on the same issued on October 28. It has been alleged that mayor, senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor were not made members of the board and no elected councillor was associated with the board as mandated. Two nominated members, who were made members of the board, are affiliated with the Congress, which is in power in the state and no member from other political parties was associated with the exercise. One of the nominated members chosen to be part of the board is facing a trial in a murder case, the court was informed, seeking quashing of board’s constitution and subsequent proceedings. The plea also says that on March 23, even as MC’s term had not elapsed, the government asked the municipal commissioner to discharge functions of the MC for which there were no compelling circumstances. The plea also demanded that objections submitted by them should be considered by the delimitation board before finalising the boundaries of the wards. In August, the high court had restrained the government from carrying out the final notification of wards of Zirakpur municipal council. The plea there too was on the violation of norms in constitution of the board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/delimitation-of-mohali-municipal-wards-high-court-puts-administration-punjab-government-on-notice/story-IWTpEVs4zViUZQjTbIBG6M.html
02-11-2020||City||Farmers blocking 7 Reliance trucks from entering Amritsar||Over 50 farmers agitating against the three Central farm laws have refused to allow seven trucks carrying products of the Reliance Group to pass through the toll plaza on the national highway-1 at Manawala village and enter the holy city, since stopping the consignment on Saturday evening. The trucks are transporting essential goods and processed food items for stores and malls in Amritsar. Farmers have taken the trucks in their custody, as their protest is also against the entry of corporate entities in the field of agriculture, that the Central laws facilitate. The driver, cleaner etc of the trucks are being taken care of by the farmers. Police are yet to intervene.  On Monday, representatives of the company arrived at the spot to negotiate, but farmers did not even meet them. “We will not free these trucks, till the company does not give us in writing that it will never deliver its goods in Amritsar in future,” said Dilbag Singh, of the Azad Kisan Sangharsh Committee, which has been on dharna at the toll plaza for past 25 days.A delegation of farmers from the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee will meet Punjab advocate general Atul Nanda at Kisan Bhawan in Chandigarh at 11am on Tuesday to discuss the constitutional validity of the bills that a special session of the state assembly passed to counter the Centre’s laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-blocking-7-reliance-trucks-from-entering-amritsar/story-qaIkjhgvFFm841KbDUzwgI.html
02-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government may reimburse fees to medical students from Maratha community in absence of reservation||Under pressure from the Maratha community over reservation to the community, the state government is now considering reimbursement of fees to the Maratha students who have applied for medical courses, to extend them the financial benefits they would have got under the quota. The state government also approached the Supreme Court again on Tuesday requesting it for the formation of the constitutional bench to hear the reservation petition.After the three-judge bench of the Apex court stayed the reservation in jobs and education to the Maratha community under The Socially and Educationally Backward Classes Act 2018, on September 9, the state government has stalled the college admissions process. Though the decision over the vacation of the stay was expected on October 27, the court adjourned the hearing for four more weeks. This has led to the unrest among the students and their parents, with other communities demanding to not delay the admissions for the Maratha community. The state government is now considering to resume the college admissions process by finding ways to safeguard the interest of the Maratha community. Medical education minister Amit Deshmukh on Monday said that his department will move a proposal before the state cabinet for reimbursing the fees paid by the students from the community for the medical courses. Deshmukh said, “The final decision will be taken by chief minister Uddhavji Thackeray after discussing it in the cabinet. We will ensure that Maratha community students do not suffer,” he said. “Under the quota, the students with family income less than ₹8 lakh to get a 50% waiver in their fees of professional courses. The benefit will be given to the Maratha students by checking legal and financial repercussions.”The option was discussed during the state cabinet meeting on Thursday. “We were tapping the option of going ahead to accord the benefit of quota to the students who had completed the formalities in the first round of first-year junior college admissions, as the round had been completed before the reservation was stayed. However, the law and judiciary department has objected to it citing that it would be against the court ruling. We are now looking at other ways out to resume the admission process by ensuring the reservation benefits for the community until the court verdict does not come. The reimbursement of the fees to the students enrolling themselves for MBBS will be one of the steps. Similarly, reimbursement was done by previous Fadnavis government when enactment of the Act had got delayed,” said another minister requesting anonymity.The state government is expected to decide on resuming the admissions at the earliest.Meanwhile, Ashok Chavan, public works department minister and head of the cabinet subcommittee on Maratha reservation, said on Monday that the Chief Justice of India has hinted that the formation of the constitution bench will be done soon. The state government, again on Monday, moved the SC with an application requesting it to form the constitution bench at the earliest. The state had earlier on two occasions made similar applications. The three-judge bench, while initiating the stay on the reservation, had referred the hearing to the constitution bench on September 9. During the hearing on the vacation of the stay on October 27, the state government had requested to hold it before the constitution bench. Chavan said that a few political parties were trying to create tension between Marathas and Other Backward Classes and it was unfortunate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-may-reimburse-fees-to-medical-students-from-maratha-community-in-absence-of-reservation/story-MML2tAl14y68mx0Q2KjUSP.html
02-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh trader alleges ₹10L extortion call from Bishnoi’s aide||A shopkeeper on Monday alleged to have received an extortion call for ₹10 lakh from an aide of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi.  The complainant, who sells spare automobile parts at Burail village in Sector 45, told police that the man, who introduced himself as Vishnu, demanded the amount as of ”protection money” and threatened to kill him if the money was not paid in two days. Vishnu reportedly told the shopkeeper that he was acting on Bishnoi’s orders.A daily diary register (DDR) entry has been made at the Sector-34 police station. Assistant superintendent of police (ASP, south) Shruti Arora said, “We are checking the authenticity of the call and are also trying to trace the caller.”On October 15, police had booked seven men for helping Bishnoi run an extortion racket after they tried to extort a hotelier in the city. Bishnoi is currently lodged in a Rajasthan jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-trader-alleges-10l-extortion-call-from-bishnoi-s-aide/story-9U4X1jrjHuehdUqYuLJU6J.html
02-11-2020||City||Minor fire breaks out at Navi Mumbai civic chief’s bungalow; no one injured||A minor fire broke out at the Nerul bungalow of Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) commissioner Abhijit Bangar on Monday afternoon. The fire brigade doused the fire within 15 minutes.The incident was reported to the NMMC’s Nerul fire brigade at 12.53pm. A team of six firemen and a tanker was sent to Bangar’s bungalow immediately.“The fire started due to a short circuit in the electricity cable at the entrance of the bungalow. We first doused the fire with sand and immediately cut the electricity supply,” said Vikas Koli, Nerul fire officer.The fire was contained within 15 minutes. No injury or major damage was reported, as per the fire brigade.Fire officers said they have not submitted any report on the cause of the fire since it was a minor incident. “The commissioner was at the NMMC office when the fire took place. He rushed to his bungalow upon hearing about the fire,” said another fire officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/minor-fire-breaks-out-at-navi-mumbai-civic-chief-s-bungalow-no-one-injured/story-CX9b9wyKJTBcWnimjs76fL.html
02-11-2020||City||Girlfriend’s family abducts man, asks ₹4 lakh ransom in Thane, near Mumbai||The Wagale Estate police have arrested seven members of a family including two women for abducting a 20-year-old call centre employee and locking him in a room. The accused was lured by his girlfriend, also one of the accused, who set a trap for him to meet her at Vasai. The other members of her family, including her father, uncle and aunt, forced her into a car and took him to an unknown spot, locked him in a room and demanded a ransom of ₹4 lakh from the man’s family. The victim was also allegedly assaulted by the accused. The man, Abhishek Pradeep Gupta, works in a call centre in a well-known IT park in Wagale Estate, Thane (West). On Saturday, around 3.15pm, Gupta received a call from Nargis Shaikh, his girlfriend, to meet her near a Dhaba in Vasai. A police officer said, “Shaikh and Gupta both hail from Uttar Pradesh. Since Gupta was in a relationship with Shaikh, he did not see the trap, He reached the spot to meet her.” There he saw few unknown persons, whom he claimed forcefully made him sit in their SUV. The accused identified as Mohammed Javed alias Nanne Madat Ali Shaikh 40, Mohammed Parvez Abdul Rehman Shaikh 29, Sabina Parvez Shaikh 31, Nargiz Shaikh 20, Amit Pirdhankar 28, Arun Panikar 24 and Lokesh Pujari 24 are all residence of Virar. The officer added, “All the seven of them were present in the car and drove with him towards Manhor Highway. He was then hit on the head and hands with an iron rod and suffered injuries. Javed, Nargis’s father, then asked Gupta to call his brother and demand ₹4 lakh. He also threatened to kill him if he did not give them the money.” Accordingly, Gupta’s brother was called at the Virar flat of the girl’s Uncle Parvez and aunt Sabina. The police during an investigation found Nargis and her family hails from Varanasi and came to Mumbai a few years ago. The police suspect his father wanted to get Nargis married and needed cash. The team of police officers from Wagale Estate raided the Virar flat and rescued Gupta who was badly injured. “We have arrested all the seven accused and also seized the vehicle used in the crime,” said DS Dhole, senior police inspector, Wagle estate police station. The Wagle Estate police have registered a case under section 364 (A), 386, 387, 342 and 34 of the Indian penal code. “The accused were arrested on Sunday and produce in court on Monday. They are remanded to police custody till November 5,” said Amol More, assistant police inspector, Wagle estate police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/girlfriend-s-family-abducts-man-asks-4-lakh-ransom-in-thane-near-mumbai/story-ciSQYX9cmPv1z6qtTtlE7H.html
02-11-2020||Gurugram||Fire at electrical store put out after 3 hours||A massive fire broke out at a furniture and electrical store in Wazirabad village in Sector 52 on Monday evening. The store was completely gutted in the incident and it took 15 fire tenders three hours to douse the fire.The flames from the spot also reached a two-storey building located behind the store. However, fire department officials managed to douse it quickly, as occupants were evacuated and flammable objects, such as LPG cylinders, were removed from the building.No injuries were reported in the incident.Satyawan Samriwal, assistant divisional fire officer (ADFO), said that the fire headquarters in Sector 29 received a call about the fire at 7.06pm.“Initially, four fire tenders were spent to the spot. Soon, the firemen informed us that the fire was getting out of control and we sent two fire tenders from each of our five fire stations, along with two fire tenders from DLF fire services, as a precautionary measure,” said Samriwal.Samriwal said that the fire broke out in a one-storey store which repaired air conditioners and fridges, and also rented out furniture to people living in the neighbourhood.He said that the store shared a boundary wall with a one-storey automobile service centre. However, the flames did not reach there. “While we were able to prevent the fire from spreading to the automobile store, flames managed to reach a two-storey residential building located behind the store. Only the windows of the third-floor caught fire and we were able to douse the same immediately. The occupants, flammable and valuable items had been removed much earlier as a precautionary measure,” said Samriwal.He said that the fire was completely doused by 10.30pm. However, the store was completely gutted.“The store was illegal and hence, it did not have a valid no-objection certificate (NOC) from the fire department. We suspect a short circuit in the electrical unit of the store as the main cause of the fire. We have kept a fire tender from Sector 29 fire station at the spot, as a precautionary measure,” said Samriwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/fire-at-electrical-store-put-out-after-3-hours/story-ip4yeYzOaoYNyNWzafz4GJ.html
02-11-2020||Mumbai||Three illegal Bangladeshi immigrants and two agents arrested in Mumbai||Sakinaka police arrested three illegal Bangladeshi immigrants and two agents for helping them in getting Indian passports using forged documents. During the investigation, police also recovered two letterheads of an MLA of a political party from the agents. Police said they are now verifying whether it is real or fake. The arrested accused identified as Mohammed Israil Hussain, 25, Fauz Ahmed Mujral, 23, Azimullah Shafi, 28, are Bangladeshi nationals while Sajid Hyder Munsi, 50 and Abdul Rahim Shaikh, 50, are the agents. The accused were arrested on October 25.Dr Maheshwar Reddy, deputy commissioner of police (zone- 10) said, “We received a tip-off about three Bangladeshi nationals staying in Sakinaka on Indian passport that they had got using fake documents. We arrested them and during their questioning, they revealed the name of the two agents who helped them in getting Indian documents. One of the agents stayed in Malegaon. We dispatched a team there and arrested him.” An officer from Sakinaka police station said, “While searching the agent’s Malegaon house we found 155 Aadhar cards, 34 passports, 28 Pan cards, 8 ration cards, 187 bank and postal passbooks, 29 school leaving certificates and 19 rubber stamps. We also found two letterheads of an MLA from their house.” “We are verifying if those letterheads are fake or the original one and for what purpose they were using it,” Reddy said.The accused were arrested under relevant sections of the Indian Passport Act and Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/three-illegal-bangladeshi-immigrants-and-two-agents-arrested-in-mumbai/story-047aS6ZQDp7KDVovy5AzLN.html
02-11-2020||Mumbai||4 Nigerians held with 750 gram cocaine worth ₹1.5 crore in Nallasopara near Mumbai||The Tulinj police on Monday arrested four Nigerians with 750gm cocaine worth ₹1.5 crore. Senior inspector Duttatray Patil said, “We received a tip-off that four Nigerians were heading towards Pragati Nagar, Nallasopara (West) to sell the cocaine. We laid a trap and arrested Aggu Osita, 28, Urji Philips, 30, Ogona Chukvenene, 29, and Chris Ajah Chukvenaka, 30, under sections 8(c),21(c) of Narcotics Act, 1985. They will be produced before the Vasai court on Tuesday.”The police also seized cash and mobiles and only one of the arrested accused had a valid passport.“We are investigating from where the cocaine was sourced and we believe a big narcotics drug cartel is involved,” said Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/4-nigerians-held-with-750-gram-cocaine-worth-1-5-crore-in-nallasopara-near-mumbai/story-OLEbLFQQLuQvi5sqcFEJ1J.html
02-11-2020||City||Message from Navi Mumbai school about reopening sends parents in a frenzy||Parents and students of Shree Swami Vivekanand Shikshan Sanstha’s (SSVSS) Navi Mumbai High School and Junior College in Vashi panicked after a message saying the school would reopen on Tuesday circulated on social media.However, the school authorities denied the message and claimed that they have asked only a handful of parents for a meeting maintaining all social distancing norms. Sanjay Mahajan, administrator, SSVSS’s Navi Mumbai branch, said, “Our school caters to students from the lower-income group. Most of them do not have access to the internet or smartphones. Throughout the lockdown, we have not been able to conduct full-fledged online classes. As many parents were worried about their children’s future, we held a meeting to discuss the same in school. We had sent out a message that clearly said that the meeting was regarding starting online classes accessible for all. However, the message was misinterpreted and forwarded by some miscreants.”The message that was shared to most parents in English said, “As a concern of your pupil’s education, the school authorities are likely to take brave steps towards the same. We are going to re-open our school from Tuesday onwards. For that, we need to discuss some important points. For the same reason, we are going to conduct a parents’ meeting on Monday.”Govind More, a parent of an eight-year-old student of the Navi Mumbai High School, said, “We do not know to read English and were shocked with such a message. We approached those who understood the language to elaborate on the agenda. However, when we reached the school on Monday, the meeting was just to assure us of how teachers would help students without access to technology to cope up with academics.”Meanwhile, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation’s education department has warned schools to maintain social distancing norms within their premises and avoid calling parents in large numbers to the school.“There are no guidelines to start school yet and we are keeping a strict watch on all schools within our jurisdiction to ensure lockdown norms are followed,” said a senior official from NMMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/message-from-navi-mumbai-school-about-reopening-sends-parents-in-a-frenzy/story-A4kkQ6bhVumkhUFY5wjBLO.html
02-11-2020||City||1,000 Mohali women awaiting government’s wedding shagun are now nursing babies||Of 1,425 newly married women in Mohali district awaiting the release of ₹21,000 under the government’s Shagun (now called Aashirwad) scheme for more than a year, 1,000 have already been blessed with children. Under the Aashirwad scheme, the state government promises to provide financial assistance for the marriage of a woman belonging to scheduled caste, backward class or economically weaker section of society. The amount is transferred directly to the bank account of either beneficiary or her family. The state government has not disbursed the amount after April 2019 for the backward class beneficiaries, while those belonging to the scheduled castes haven’t received the money since October last year. The Congress government had started the scheme in 2005 and in the run up to the 2017 assembly elections, it had promised to increase the amount from ₹15,000 to ₹51,000. In July that year, the state government had announced that it will revise the aid to ₹21,000.Mohali district welfare officer Ravinder Singh said there were at least 1,425 pending cases. “Out of them, 1,093 women are awaiting the compensation since April last year and 332 cases are from this year. We have sent the entire list of eligible people to the higher authorities, but are still waiting for the funds,” he added.One such beneficiary from Lalru, who wished not to be named, said, “I got married in October last year. Before my marriage, my father had applied for the grant, but even after one year, we have not got anything and now I am even blessed with a baby boy. My family had been making rounds of the district welfare office in Mohali, but in vain.”Punjab social justice and empowerment director Malwinder Singh Jaggi said, “I have recently joined the office, but lists of eligible beneficiaries have already been prepared and sent to the treasury. We are hopeful that money will be released by the end of November.”SR Ladhar, former IAS and in-charge of an NGO, Phule Ambedkari Gauravshali Aur Adarshwadi Muhim ( PAGAAM), said, “It is unfortunate that the government is deliberately discriminating against backward class people. We request the state government to release the grant under the scheme so that the poor might get some financial relief.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-000-mohali-women-awaiting-government-s-wedding-shagun-are-now-nursing-babies/story-631azgjVGmmit7ShuyDkuO.html
02-11-2020||Mumbai||ECI declares polls on five MLC seats on December 1; Maharashtra CM yet to send 12 names to Governor||The Election Commission of India on Monday declared elections for five seats of the state legislative council on December 1. The seats got vacant on July 19 and are from graduates and teachers constituencies. Last date for filing of nominations is November 12 and nomination papers can be withdrawn by November 17, states the notification issued by ECI on Monday.Three MLCs from graduates constituencies — Satish Chavan (NCP), Chandrakant Patil (BJP) and Anil Sole (BJP) while two MLCs from teachers constituencies — Shrikant Deshpande (Independent) and Dattratray Sawant (Independent) retired on July 19. The election commission could not hold polls in the last four months due to the coronavirus pandemic.The election commission has also issued broad guidelines for the election process to ensure basic precautionary measures are followed. It has mandated every person to wear a mask during the poll process and follow social distancing norms. It has directed thermal screening of all persons at the premises where polling is going to take place, apart from making available sanitisers. Meanwhile, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is yet to send names of 12 nominees to Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari for appointing them as Governor nominated members to the legislative council. The state cabinet on Wednesday authorized the chief minister to send the names.The term of 12 legislators nominated to the Upper house from the governor’s quota had expired in June. The seats are vacant since then as the state has not made any recommendation to the Governor. All the three ruling parties — Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress — have decided to share an equal number of seats — four — and are supposed to give their names to the chief minister.State rural development minister Hasan Mushrif on Monday alleged that the governor has planned to delay the appointment of MLCs and the same was revealed by state BJP chief Chandrakant Patil in an interaction with former minister Vinay Kore in Kolhapur recently. “A discussion over appointment of 12 MLCs took place between the governor and Devendraji (leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis) and it was decided that the list will be kept aside. Patil said this in an interaction with Kore and others in Kolhapur,” Mushrif said. Former BJP minister Girish Mahajan clarified that the decision needs to be taken by the Governor and BJP has nothing to do with it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/eci-declares-polls-on-five-mlc-seats-on-december-1-maharashtra-cm-yet-to-send-12-names-to-governor/story-cEbAun87mTBR2vEBzQxlQL.html
02-11-2020||Mumbai||MSRTC staff to get allowance, not food packets, says Maharashtra minister||The Maharashtra state road transport corporation (MSRTC) on Monday ordered a probe after frontline staff staying at a hotel in Mumbai complained of worms in food packers served for dinner.Later in the evening, state transport minister Anil Parab, who is also MSRTC chairman, directed that staff be given food allowance and asked authorities to cancel the contract of the private firm supplying food packets.A group of 350 drivers and conductors of the state-run transport body from Kolhapur and Sindhudurg, who are operating vehicles for BMC-run BEST, have been put up at a hotel in the northern suburb of Malad and they have claimed the rice served to them last week had worms, officials said.“The incident is being probed. Officials have been asked to visit the place and submit a report,” an MSRTC spokesperson said, adding fresh food was arranged immediately after the complaint was brought to the notice of authorities.Meanwhile, MSRTC staff operating out of BEST’s Kurla Depot also complained of poor quality food and a video showing them stop work for sometime was being circulated in Whatsapp groups.Seven teams have been formed by MSRTC officials to tour accommodation facilities provided to drivers and conductors and submit reports suggesting rectification measures, a release said.The MSRTC has deployed 1,000 buses and 4500 drivers and conductors in Mumbai to help BEST run its network amid the coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/msrtc-staff-to-get-allowance-not-food-packets-says-maharashtra-minister/story-Go80OPCL8COVWyArEjcmpN.html
02-11-2020||Election:||Bihar Assembly Election 2020: BJP fields heavyweight Asha Devi to retain Patna’s Danapur seat||The Danapur assembly constituency is located in Patna district. It is part of the Patliputra Lok Sabha constituency and covers the areas of Danapur and Khagaul block.In the 2015 assembly elections, the seat was won by Asha Devi of the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP). She had defeated Raj Kishor Yadav of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) by a margin of 5,209 votes.In the 2010 assembly elections, Asha Devi had contested the elections on the BJP’s ticket and won the seat. She had defeated Ritlala Rai, an independent candidate, by a margin of 17,919 votes.Located on the banks of River Ganga, the constituency has been known for places such as Gurudwara Handi Saheb and Naulakha temple. Danapur Cantonment, which is the second-oldest in the country after the Barrackpore cantonment in West Bengal, is also located in this constituency.While Asha Devi is contesting the polls from the BJP this year, the RJD has fielded Ritlala Rai.A total of 1,463 candidates are in the electoral race in the second phase of polling.The Bihar election is being held in three phases for a total of 243 seats -- the first phase for 71 seats was held on October 28, the second phase for 94 seats is scheduled on November 3 and the third phase for the remaining 78 seats will be on November 7. The results will be announced on November 10. Out of all 3,722 candidates analysed, 349 are from national parties, 470 from state parties, 1,607 from registered unrecognized parties and 1,296 candidates are contesting independently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-assembly-election-2020-bjp-fields-heavyweight-asha-devi-to-retain-patna-s-danapur-seat/story-qy29z5Ti9Fvyr6WbFEzdNP.html
02-11-2020||Mumbai||Deposit amount equivalent to losses to MMRDA for stay on tree felling on Mumbai Metro 4 line: Bombay HC to petitioner||In a setback to an NGO which had approached the Bombay high court seeking a stay on the permission granted by the Thane Tree Authority to Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), to cut over 500 trees for the Metro 4 project, the HC asked the NGO to deposit the amount equivalent to the losses MMRDA would incur in the event of a stay. The NGO has withdrawn the stay application. The court has granted the NGO permission to file a fresh petition seeking similar reliefs, however, in the absence of any stay, MMRDA will be free to go ahead with cutting the trees.A division bench of justices KK Tated and GS Kulkarni while hearing the petition filed by Thane Nagrik Pratishthan, an NGO, was informed by advocate Ankit Kulkarni that an interim application was being moved in the petition that sought the Metro 4 line which will run between Wadala – Ghatkopar- Mulund- Thane- Kasarwadavali to be underground. Kulkarni submitted that the interim application was seeking a stay on cutting of the very trees which were sought to be saved through the original petition. The original petition had prayed for the Metro line to be constructed below the ground as it would save over 500 trees, which would otherwise have to be cut to make way for the elevated line.While making submissions in the interim application on Monday, Kulkarni informed the court that the permission granted by the Thane Tree Authority on September 28, 2020, to MMRDA to cut the 500 plus trees was invalid as it had not followed the stipulated process of having the trees inspected and the order was passed in haste. He submitted that the inspection of trees by experts was mandatory as per the Act and would have a bearing on whether the trees could be transplanted or not, hence in the absence of the inspection, the NGO was seeking a stay on the implementation of the Thane Tree Authority’s order.The interim application further stated that as the original petition on whether the Metro line was to go underground or overground was yet being heard, allowing the cutting of trees would defeat the purpose of the original petition. However, senior counsel Dr Milind Sathe for MMRDA argued that the interim application was not maintainable as the cause of action was different from the original petition and hence the court could not pass any orders. After hearing the submissions, justice Tated told the NGO that it was willing to allow the interim application if the NGO would deposit the amount equivalent to the losses which MMRDA would incur due to the stay on cutting of trees. Justice Kulkarni, however, said that as issues in the interim application and the original petition were different, he suggested that the NGO file a fresh petition with specific averments opposing the Thane Tree Authority’s decision. On being faced with the two options, the NGO decided to withdraw the interim application and file a fresh petition as suggested by the court. However, in the absence of any stay by the court, the MMRDA is in a position to go ahead with the felling of the trees based on the permission by the Thane Tree Authority. Rohit Joshi, co-petitioner opposing tree cutting in Metro 4 project, said, “This is a sensitive issue and the courts have always taken a neutral stand. However we are surprised at the observation made by the court today. We are merely petitioners fighting for larger public interest and asking us to deposit huge amounts is discouraging.”“It is disheartening to see that citizens and activists voicing their concerns through the justice system are deemed to be obstructing public projects. All good democracy functions with checks and balances. However these days the government seems to be reversing all laws to make projects happen without consideration for environmental impact or safety norms; both of which are the central contentions of our main PIL. Public agencies seem to be thinking of these projects as private investments and not public good services. Such actions by Government bodies are setting wrong precedents, paving way for future violations,” Joshi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/deposit-amount-equivalent-to-losses-to-mmrda-for-stay-on-tree-felling-on-mumbai-metro-4-line-bombay-hc-to-petitioner/story-ab7yKLXwku9vfkdsipZiwL.html
02-11-2020||City||JNU begins 1st phase of entries for PhD day scholars in science schools||New Delhi: Amid demands from the students’ union to reopen the university for all students while maintaining Covid-19 safety protocols, Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) on Monday started its first phase of entries for final-year PhD students studying Science courses as day scholars.The university had, on October 21, issued a set of guidelines on campus reopening, which mentioned that final-year PhD students, along with those who had received an extension to submit their theses (known as a 9B extension), would be allowed to enter campus from November 16, the second phase of the plan which was applicable for hostellers. Day scholars were allowed on campus Monday onwards.The university had also said that the Central library, canteen, and dhabas will remain closed during the two phases of reopening, the first of which began on Monday.The JNU students’ union (JNUSU) objected to the exclusion of non-science students and has been continuing its indefinite protest inside the campus that it began on October 17. JNUSU vice president Saket Moon said, “Before the order, day scholars, who were in Delhi, were already accessing the labs. They are not being allowed since the notice was issued and now only 9B and fourth-year students are being allowed.”The students’ body also protested at the Dean of Students (DoS) office on Monday. “We met the DoS to place our demands and ask him to reopen the mess and dhabas and arrange for a proper phased entry of all students. He said he had put forward the demands of the students but the others in the administration did not agree to it.”While DoS Sudheer Pratap Singh did not respond to requests for comment, JNU registrar Pramod Kumar said the university was following the guidelines put forward by Union ministry of home affairs (MHA).“Since the reopening is happening in a phased manner, in the first phase beginning today, only 200 students will be allowed to enter the campus and they are all day scholars pursuing science courses as final-year PhD students. Deans and chairpersons across schools and centres have submitted the details of their laboratories and how many students can be accommodated while maintaining social distancing and we are following that plan,” Kumar said.He added that students not wearing masks, exhibiting symptoms, or students found to have above-normal temperatures during thermal checks will not be allowed to enter campus. “We are also setting up a Covid-testing camp on the campus for students from Tuesday,” he said.“Since faculty members were accessing the labs in the past few months, we have sanitised all labs and deans and chairpersons have been instructed to follow all guidelines on the matter,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jnu-begins-1st-phase-of-entries-for-phd-day-scholars-in-science-schools/story-92n6le1rujC6E0veUbmyyM.html
02-11-2020||Election:||Bihar Assembly Election 2020: BJP eyes victory in Digha, to fight CPI-ML||Digha is an assembly constituency in Patna district and falls under the Patna Sahib Lok Sabha constituency. It was added as an assembly segment in 2008 after the implementation of the recommendations of the Delimitation Commission of India.The Digha assembly constituency has six panchayats and 21 wards of the Patna Municipal Corporation, which includes the areas of Digha–Mainpura, Patliputra Housing Colony, Badalpura, Sabazpura, Khalilpura and Nakta Diara Gram Panchayats of Patna rural community development block.In the 2015 assembly elections, Digha was among the four assembly constituencies in the Patna district which was won by the BJP. Sanjeev Chaurasia, the BJP’s candidate, had defeated Rajeev Ranjan Prasad of the Janata Dal (United) by a margin of 24,779 votes.In the 2010 elections, Punam Devi of the JD-U had won this seat. She defeated Satya Nand Sharma of the Lok Janshakti party by a margin of 60,462 votes.A total of 1,463 candidates are in the electoral race in the second phase of polling.Sanjeev Chaurasia is contesting as the BJP candidate from the constituency in the current polls. The CPI-ML’s Sashi Yadav is also contesting the elections.There is one more phase to go in the Bihar Assembly election. In the third phase, polling will be held in 78 seats and the results will be announced on November 10.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has also joined the campaigning, addressing rallies for NDA candidates. He has highlighted the good work done by the NDA government in the state and compared it to the jungle raj of the previous regime.Chief minister Nitish Kumar has also promised good governance for the people of the state, with his JD(U) launching seven fresh promises in its manifesto for this year’s election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-assembly-election-2020-bjp-eyes-victory-in-digha-to-fight-cpi-ml/story-iqUvWcIWCdUb4Ae5s4qRMO.html
02-11-2020||City||Photographer kills man, hangs himself in old Delhi||New Delhi: A 27-year-old photographer died by suicide after strangulating to death a man, whom he suspected of having an extramarital relationship with his wife in old Delhi’s Hauz Qazi on Sunday night, the police said.Before hanging himself, the man also thrashed his mother and brother who tried to stop him from committing the murder, said Sanjay Bhatia, deputy commissioner of police (central). The alleged killer lived with his wife and two children. The DCP quoted his family as saying that he was under depression and shared a strained relationship with his wife. “He suspected his wife of being in an extramarital relationship with her relative. That would lead to frequent domestic violence for which he had also been jailed in the past,” said the DCP. The situation escalated a month ago, leading to his wife and their two children leaving for her paternal home in east Delhi’s Welcome. “On Sunday, the man visited his wife at her paternal home. While returning, he asked his wife’s relative (who he suspected of having a relationship with her) to accompany him,” said the DCP. Back home, they drank together, but the drinking session ended in the relationship issue getting raked up. “The suspect went on to strangle his wife’s relative to death,” said the DCP. When the alleged killer’s mother heard the commotion, she ran into his room to find the victim lying motionless and the suspect revealing that he had murdered him, said the DCP. “When his mother tried to separate him from the dying man, the suspect thrashed her. When his brother tried to save their mother, he too was assaulted,” said the DCP. His mother and brother ran into the street to call for help. “But the local residents decided not to intervene as they were aware of his violent nature,” the DCP said. By the time his mother and brother returned home, the alleged killer had hanged himself from a rod using a curtain, the officer said. The alleged killer’s family made a call to the police control room around midnight and the police rushed both the men to a hospital, but they were declared brought dead. The police have registered a murder case at Hauz Qazi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/photographer-kills-man-hangs-himself-in-old-delhi/story-RyOFjgseqsykIzTShJRZDO.html
02-11-2020||City||Delhi woman lands in Panchkula police net, 3 abducted girls rescued||The Panchkula police on Monday arrested a Delhi woman for abducting three girls, aged 2, 4 and 6, from a park in Sector 6 here on October 26. The woman has been identified as Preeti Dhillon from New Delhi’s Patel Nagar, who claimed to have worked with several multinational companies and spoke fluent English. Preeti told the police that she “took these children along because their parents were not taking care of them”. ACP Noopur Bishnoi said, “This morning, we got information that a woman resembling the abductor was roaming with three children near Nada Sahib gurdwara. Our team rushed to the spot and found her with the missing children.”As per the police, Preeti’s in-laws lived in New Delhi, but for the past six months, she had been roaming in and around Panchkula. “She took refuge in gurdwaras or other shelter homes. She told us that she had a master’s degree in English and experience of having worked with MNCs. It is an unusual case, where a kidnapper is a well-read woman with knowledge of English literature,” the ACP said. The police are now verifying whether she is mentally fit or not. She has been, meanwhile, sent to an Ambala jail under judicial custody.Medical reports of the children are pending, but as per the police, they bear no injury marks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-woman-lands-in-panchkula-police-net-3-abducted-girls-rescued/story-UGEjUaQjiLDxPiLWeXjsyI.html
02-11-2020||City||Cotton arrival in Punjab’s mandis this season double than last season||As the third and final phase of harvesting of cotton balls is gaining momentum in the semi-arid region of Punjab, the arrival in mandis this season is already nearly double when compared with the corresponding period last season.According to the Punjab Mandi Board data till November 2, total 10.92 lakh quintal kharif crop was brought by the farmers to various purchase centres of the cotton-growing belt in south Malwa. For the same period in 2019, the arrival was 5.71 lakh quintals.Sources attribute the major spike in cotton arrival to apprehension that Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) may get out of the market where private buyers are offering much less than the minimum support price (MSP) of ₹5,745/quintal with 8% moisture level. Sources said traditionally farmers used to hold back crop harvested after October 15 for sale in mandis after the paddy harvesting phase.“But the ongoing farmers’ agitation panicked cotton-growers and they rushed to mandis in an unprecedented manner. But the purchase by the central agency is going on smoothly and payments are being released in farmers’ bank accounts within a week,” says a government functionary.Official data says a major chunk of the produce was purchased by the CCI and the private players have bought only 2.36 lakh quintals and nearly 99% of the crop reaching mandis was purchased.CCI assistant general manager and Punjab in-charge Neeraj Kumar on Monday said that a sharp spike of cotton arrival was unexpected. “As it was analysed that private players may hardly play any role in the cotton purchase as the global market was unstable due to Covid-19 outbreak, the CCI made elaborate arrangements to buy the almost entire cotton production. It is probably for the first time after 2008-09 season that this year by October-end, mandis are flooded with cotton,” he said.Sensing high-target of purchase, the CCI increased the number of ginning and pressing mills from 42 in 2019 to 83 this time.“By buying more than 80% of total arrival at the MSP, CCI has rubbished the unfounded speculations that the central agency will back out from the market,” said Kumar.Officials say the surge in cotton arrival may weaken this week as paddy harvesting in the area has entered the last stage and farmers may resume taking cotton to the mandis after Diwali on November 14.Record production unlikelyState cotton coordinator Rajnish Goel said this year, the cotton production may remain on a par with last year’s figure of about 45 lakh quintal.“About 17,000-hectare cotton-growing area in Abohar area of Fazilka district witnessed widespread flooding. Though the extent of crop damage is being assessed, the situation may impact overall production,” he said.Punjab this year had set a record by bringing 5.01 lakh hectares under cotton cultivation, which is the highest since 2010-11 kharif or summer-sown crop season. Following the addition of 25% area under cotton, the state authorities were expecting to touch record 50 lakh quintal production.Yield stableOfficials of the state agriculture department say this year’s yield was between 7-10 quintal per acre. “Like the last year, this season also did not see any major pest infestation. But the average per acre yield remained 8 quintals,” said Bahadur Singh Sidhu, chief agriculture officer of Bathinda, the district with the maximum area under the cotton cultivation.According to the progressive farmer from Bathinda’a Bajak village, Baldev Singh, said untimely rains during ball-burst period affected the yield.“The rains led to unwanted extra growth of plants that adversely affected the fruit. Farmers were expecting higher yield but the climatic conditions were not conducive,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cotton-arrival-in-punjab-s-mandis-this-season-double-than-last-season/story-GPuqxZ6ttHCO7Xagwngj1O.html
02-11-2020||Chandigarh||Attendance doubles after regular classes resume at UT government schools||Attendance in Chandigarh government schools has doubled after regular classes resumed for Class 9 onwards on Monday, with 3,288 students showing up on the first day.As per data shared by the UT education department, 1,525 students of Class 10 and 501 of Class 12 attended their classes in the first shift, while 922 students of Class 9 and 340 of Class 11 were present across 93 government high schools and model senior secondary schools of the city.Terming the response positive, UT director school education Rubinderjit Singh Brar said, “When schools were opened for academic consultations in September, about 1,500 students would come in a day. Now, the number has doubled for regular classes. We are expecting it to increase in the coming days.”On the first day of regular reopening of government schools after March, teachers were seen at the entrances, checking the consent forms of children and taking them to their classes after they underwent thermal screening and hand sanitisation. Some students had to be sent back as they didn’t have the requisite consent forms or weren’t wearing the uniform prescribed by officials.Most of the students expressed happiness over returning to schools, with several claiming that they weren’t comfortable with online classes. Navpreet Singh of Class 11 at the government model school in Sector 46 said regular classes provided him better learning opportunities. Another student of Class 11 of the same school, Upkaar, said students were happy that all safety protocols were being meticulously followed by the management and they will be returning for classes now. Attendance in regular classes isn’t compulsory and online classes will continue to be the primary mode of instruction to the students. The education department is now mulling conducting offline mid-term tests once students in sufficient numbers start showing up for classes and begin to feel comfortable studying with the SOPs in place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/attendance-doubles-after-regular-classes-resume-at-ut-government-schools/story-KnNMFbrODTNfwzeAm96tQO.html
02-11-2020||Gurugram||City shivers as mercury drops to 10.2 degrees Celsius; air remains toxic||The minimum temperature in Gurugram hit a season low of 10.2 degrees Celsius on Monday, which, coupled with slow winds, has halted the diffusion of airborne particles, retaining Gurugram in the ‘very poor’ category of the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) air quality index (AQI).Gurugram’s AQI on Monday, as per the daily bulletin, was 304, a marginal improvement from Sunday’s AQI of 306. Experts and officials said that the change in meteorological conditions — which had brought down pollution levels on Sunday from Saturday, when the city had an AQI of 358 — has affected dispersion of particles. The minimum temperature recorded on Monday is the lowest so far this season, and a degree below Sunday’s minimum temperature. The maximum temperature was recorded at 29 degrees Celsius, same as the previous day. The minimum temperature is expected to rise slightly, and will hover around 11 degrees Celsius on Tuesday, while the maximum temperature is expected to remain stable at around 29 degrees Celsius, as per a forecast by the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Clear skies during the day with fog, and mist in the morning, are expected to prevail over the next seven days.As per the air quality warning system, “The predominant surface wind is likely to be coming Northwest direction of Delhi with wind speed up to 05-12 kmph, mainly clear sky and mist in the morning on 03.11.2020.” About 190 fire counts were also detected over Haryana on November 1, which may further exacerbate pollution levels over parts of Delhi-NCR, as per the forecast. However, as per the CPCB’s central control room for air quality monitoring, Gurugram may likely see ‘poor’ air tomorrow, with an AQI reading just below the 300 threshold. “This is because the major impact of stubble burning is now passing. If we see a slight uptick in the minimum temperature as is predicted, then we can expect a few days of ‘poor’ air ahead of us,” said Sachin Panwar, a city-based independent air quality scientist. “Once temperatures drop below a certain threshold and the surface of the earth actually becomes colder than the air above it, then we can expect the situation to deteriorate again. As this will coincide with Diwali season, any relief will be temporary,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/city-shivers-as-mercury-drops-to-10-2-degrees-celsius-air-remains-toxic/story-s0R3djZ0v7QfBkjhxp2zfP.html
02-11-2020||Gurugram||MCG working on action plan for 14 most-polluted areas in the city||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) and the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) are together working on individual action plans for reducing air-pollution at 14 hot spots across the city. These spots comprise the city’s 10 most-polluted spots, the three most-congested stretches, and the solitary landfill at Bandhwari, said officials on Monday.Officials of the civic body and CSE visited these areas on both Friday and Saturday to identify the hot spots in each areas and understand the different types of violations that can be found in these areas. Based on their findings, remedial measures would be taken and enforcement of Grap measures would be strengthened if necessary. Ten most-polluted spotsThe 10 most-polluted spots in the city, as per MCG’s air lab data, are Sector 14, DLF-4, DLF-5, Sector 44, Sector 49, Sushant Lok-1, Udyog Vihar, Sadar Bazaar, Basai Chowk, and areas around Sirhaul toll plaza. The air lab, which opened on October 15, monitors air-pollution data from 24 air-monitors located across the city.CSE programme officer Shambhavi Shukla said that the types of violation found at each of these 10 spots were almost similar in nature.“We found large-scale constructions at these sites, generating construction and demolition (C&D) waste and accumulation of dust caused by uncovered construction material. In each of them, illegal dumping of C&D waste in vacant areas could be easily spotted. Another common feature was large-scale waste-burning,” said Shukla.Three most-congested stretchesOn Monday, the teams also visited the three most congested spots in the city, namely Subhash Chowk, Hero Honda Chowk, and Sohna Road, with the aim of finding the need for engineering changes that can reduce congestion and fix potholes and broken roads. Shukla said that although the road construction at these stretches, barring Sohna Road, was largely of superior quality, the presence of road dust and high traffic volume were the primary causes of air pollution.“Pollution caused by vehicular traffic was high at each of these three points. However, we also found that a lot of excavated soil, which had been piled up on the footpaths at these three stretches, is leftover from infrastructure projects recently undertaken. These were leading to a lot of suspended particles in the air and causing further deterioration in the air quality,” said Shukla.At both Sohna Road and Subhash Chowk, large-scale construction activities are currently being undertaken as part of the Sohna elevated road project. Hero Honda Chowk has also witnessed several engineering changes over the last two years, leading to the construction of a bi-directional flyover and an underpass at the junction.Shukla further said that the teams also found the presence of the highly-polluting diesel auto-rickshaws at both Subhash Chowk and Hero Honda Chowk and would recommend appropriate action against them in the report. City solitary landfillThe team also visited the Bandhwari landfill on Monday to take stock of the situation.“We had received a lot of complaints about open waste-burning around the Bandhwari landfill. Although we didn’t find such cases at the landfill itself, we spotted few such instances in the nearby areas. In addition, the MCG had also received complaints with pictures of open waste-burning in the area,” said Shukla, who added the action plan for each of the 14 spots would only be compiled following a meeting with senior MCG officials, where all the findings would be discussed and analysed with remedial and enforcement measures being suggested. Although enforcement teams from the civic body have been fining on-ground violations of the Grap measures, officials said that they needed additional measures to curb rising air pollution in the city.“MCG believes in an inclusive approach to ensure that we check and penalise all violators. We hence felt that there was a need for greater supervision on the matter along with a scientific approach. Thus, the MCG has initiated several new measures in this regard such as observing pollution data through its air-lab, involving residents and non-profit organisations such as CSE to assist in this endeavour,” said Chahat Sanghvi, consultant, MCG commissioner office.Last week, the civic body formed civil defence teams, comprising of around 60 resident volunteers, to scan the city for polluting activities, such as waste-burning and dust pollution. Since the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) measures came into effect in the city on October 15, MCG has issued 129 fines worth ₹29.70 lakh to violators. MCG has issued 13 fines and recovered ₹65,000 for open waste-burning. Twenty fines have been issued by the MCG for illegal C&D dumping leading to the recovery of ₹5 lakh. As many as 11 fines have been issued by the civic body for littering while 80 fines have been issued for dust mitigation leading to penalties worth ₹23.50 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-working-on-action-plan-for-14-most-polluted-areas-in-the-city/story-w63bEwEFlqnES4mCxsX9kK.html
02-11-2020||Gurugram||Antigen tests down, more kits to arrive this week||Due to insufficient availability of rapid antigen testing kits with the district health department, the antigen testing has declined in the district over the last week. The diagnostic test used for rapid detection of SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19 has declined from 900 tests a day to as low as 176 on some days over the last one week, according to the district health bulletin.The test, which delivers results within 30 minutes, detects proteins found on or within the virus by testing samples collected from the nasal cavity using swabs. It has, however, been under the scanner for its specificity and accuracy, having a higher chance of a false-negative result. In many cases, it fails to detect the active infection, in comparison to the Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction(RT-PCR), the gold standard for Covid-19 testing.As per the health department data, on October 26, the health department and private lab together conducted 716 antigen tests. The number slumped to 428 on October 27 and reached 193 on October 31 and 176 on November 1, the lowest till now. On Monday, 259 antigen tests were conducted.In the total antigen test, the share of the health department is higher than that of private labs, as reported by HT earlier. Private labs mostly conduct the RT-PCR test, which costs Rs 900, while antigen test costs Rs 500.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “The antigen kit stock is limited. It is only being used in emergency cases. Presently, sufficient stock is not available at the warehouse. But there is no downfall in overall testing as we have increased RT-PCR. The testing continues to be above 3,000 every day, except on Sunday.”The state health department provides kits at the district level, while private labs have to procure kits on their own. Senior state officials were unavailable for comment when contacted by HT.Earlier, companies were donating kits under Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). “Donations cannot be relied upon. It is likely that we can get the kits this week,” Yadav said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/antigen-tests-down-more-kits-to-arrive-this-week/story-YSXIdbqDRwf2vHj2vyQ3FL.html
02-11-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram focuses on increased awareness, enforcement and testing as cases spike||Due to the surge in Covid-19 infection over last two weeks, the health department, in coordination with the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) and the police department, is planning to intensify testing and increase awareness and enforcement drives in the district.On Monday, Gurugram reported 398 new infections, after crossing the 500-mark on Sunday. The total tally now stands at 30,925, of which 3,799 are active cases. In the last two weeks, the test positivity rate — the percentage of the total tests that come back positive — has grown exponentially, from 12% to almost 16% on November 2. As reported by HT earlier, the impact of easing curbs can be seen in market places, parks, local buses and wholesale markets, where people are moving around without masks and social distancing norms.“Health department can only focus on administering tests. An appropriate number of people are being tested. To reach out to more people, the health department is holding over 100 testing camps this week, higher than before. A detailed date-wise plan has been prepared for these camps. Also, containment zones will be increased,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer.Dr MP Singh, nodal officer for organising testing camps, said that testing camps held under each Urban Primary Health Centre (UPHC) has increased, with nearly 15 camps being held every day. “This time, almost 100 camps are being conducted in high-risk and containment zones, where cases are repeatedly increasing. With the help of RWAs and health workers, people are made aware of these camps. The team mostly administers RT-PCR test based on the symptoms,” said Singh.Yadav said that it was decided in a meeting of district administration officials that the MCG will continue to focus on awareness campaigns, while the police would focus on enforcement of norms.Earlier this month, a Covid-19 action team was set up by the MCG to increase the awareness outreach by figuring out various measures to sensitise people with problems related to coronavirus disease. The agency had also issued a letter to residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) for the awareness campaign to combat Covid-19 pandemic. They shared pamphlets mentioning dos and don’ts, along with the important helpline numbers.SS Rohilla, public relations officer (PRO), MCG, and a member of the action plan, said, “About 50,000 pamphlets have been shared with various RWAs to educate residents. Posters are pasted outside RWA offices. Since October, over 200 hoardings on mask discipline, plasma donation and increasing immunity have been put up at major junctions, crossings, parks and government buildings. Almost 250 Ecogreen vehicles for collecting door-to-door waste are also playing pre-recorded messages in different areas.”Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, on Monday, issued a statement asking citizens to take precautions against Covid-19 due to changing weather. “Citizens should be cautious as Covid-19 numbers are not yet down. The district administration with the help of the health department is working on providing facilities like testing in a planned manner. But people should also wear masks, sanitise or wash their hands and maintain social distancing. People should follow these basic precautionary measures, which would be helpful in controlling the spike.”For the enforcement, Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that they are increasing vigilance on major roads and crossings. “We will continue to issue challans for mask discipline violation. Our local teams are keeping a check on gathering and visiting market places.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-focuses-on-increased-awareness-enforcement-and-testing-as-cases-spike/story-enCzo0QwhTZJObJIdjcB5J.html
02-11-2020||Gurugram||Government schools in city resume regular classroom sessions||Government schools in the city opened for regular classes on Monday four days after the state government issued an official notification for their resumption. While schools had already initiated regular sessions from October 15, no official notification had been issued. As a result, schools were continuing with the schedules that they had individually adopted for the guidance sessions. Across the district, 7,078 students from classes 9 to 12 turned up for the sessions out of a total strength of 40,273. The highest attendance was recorded in class 10, with 2,260 students across the district visiting their respective schools out of a total strength of 9,694. District education officer Indu Boken said that the numbers were expected to increase in the coming days. “Today is only the first day of the regular classroom sessions. We expect the student strength to increase subsequently in the coming days,” said Boken. Unlike the classes that have been taking place since September 21, sessions on Monday were structured and divided into periods of fixed durations for different subjects. Further, the roster system being followed so far was disbanded. Teachers were required to report full time for work from Monday. Suman Sharma, principal of Government Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 4/7, said that different subjects were taught for 30 minutes each on Monday. “Around 300 students came for regular classes today. In order to observe physical distancing norms, a limited number of 15 students were seated in one classroom and one subject was taught for 30 minutes. Earlier, students could leave after clarifying the doubts,” said Sharma. She said that the turnout was the highest since the beginning of the academic guidance sessions since September 21. Teachers of classes 6 to 8 were also roped in by the school for teaching the senior students. “With students occupying multiple classes, we had to involve more teachers. We, therefore, asked teachers of classes 6 to 8 to take sessions,” said Sharma. A few of the city schools, however, saw a lukewarm response on Monday. School heads and teachers said that they were expecting the turnout to improve after Diwali. “Around 15 students came to school today. We expect the numbers to increase post-Diwali since many students are yet to return back to the city and might do so after the festival session,” said Arun Kumar Raghav, vice-principal, Government Senior Secondary School in Islampur. Kumar said that although classes had been taking place for over a month now, we are now conducting regular lessons for board classes. “While too many students are not visiting the school ever day, our sessions for classes 10 and 12 are going well since we are able to give individual attention to students. We will be able to complete the syllabus in time if students continue to visit regularly,” said Kumar.Most private schools in the city are continuing with online classes with parents refusing to send their children to school for physical classroom sessions. Successive feedback sought from parents by private schools have shown that parents were in favour of continuing with online classes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/government-schools-in-city-resume-regular-classroom-sessions/story-8ED23caOCl0Uyt4XHpH3AO.html
02-11-2020||Gurugram||Three of thirty-two rioters held for protesting over death of F’bad student test Covid positive||Three of the thirty-two people arrested by the Faridabad Police on Sunday for allegedly pelting stones, damaging shops and blocking the Delhi-Agra Highway tested positive for Covid-19, said the police on Monday. The suspects were demanding justice for the family of 20-year-old Nikita Tomar, who was shot dead by her alleged stalker outside Aggarwal College in Ballabhgarh, Faridabad, on October 26. The police said the three Covid-19 positive suspects have been sent to the isolation ward of ESI Hospital in Faridabad and health officials have been informed to start contact tracing. OP Singh, police commissioner, Faridabad, said that they have appealed to the people who had attended ‘Mahapanchayat’ to follow home quarantine for 10 days to ensure they do not infect others. “We got antigen test conducted for all 32 suspects, who were arrested. Twenty-nine of them have been sent to judicial custody and three have been admitted at the isolation ward of ESI hospital,” he said. On Sunday, a ‘mahapanchayat’ was called at the Dussehra ground over the murder. The assembly later turned violent as 200 people created ruckus and attacked police personnel. The police said the mob blocked the highway and started pelting stones at them, leaving 10 policemen injured. A case under sections 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting with deadly weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly), 152 (assaulting or obstructing public servant), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 189 (threat of injury to public servant), 188 (disobedience to order ), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease), 283 (danger or obstruction in public way), 332 (voluntarily causing injury to public servant ), 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant), 427 (mischief causing damage), 435 (mischief by fire or explosive substance ) of the Indian Penal Code, Section 8B of National Highway Act, and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act was filed on Sunday. Singh said they have provided 24-hour security to the victim’s family members and her brother has been provided the licence to hold arms for self-defence. “We have provided police protection to father, mother and brother to ensure their safety,” he said. The police also that while 32 people were arrested, police are also searching for others who had instigated violence and had given the demonstration a communal colour. The suspects had come from Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar, Delhi, Nuh, Palwal and Gurugram to attend the ‘mahapanchayat’. Plans were afoot to disrupt the peace and create communal tensions, said the police. On October 26 afternoon, Touseef Ahmad, a resident of Kabeer Nagar in Sohna, and his friend, Rehaan (who goes by his first name), a resident of Riwasan in Nuh, arrived in a Hyundai i20 and tried to force Nikita Tomar — a B. Com final-year student — into the vehicle as she came out of the college after writing an exam, the police added. After their attempt failed, Touseef chased the victim down and shot her in the head from a close range at around 3:48pm as passersby watched, showed a video. The suspects escaped from the crime scene, leaving Tomar, who was accompanied by a friend, in a pool of blood. She was rushed to a government hospital, where she was declared dead on arrival. Both the suspects were arrested within 36 hours and the weapon and car used in the crime were recovered from Nuh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/three-of-thirty-two-rioters-held-for-protesting-over-death-of-f-bad-student-test-covid-positive/story-IWJESGF6FOKhvPW7Y5tNtI.html
02-11-2020||Gurugram||16.5% of 800 respondents have antibodies, shows sero survey||At least 16.5% of the district population surveyed for a serological study last month has developed antibodies to fight the SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), as per the results announced on Monday.This was the second round of serological survey in the state, conducted on October 19 and 20 among 800 people in the district. In the first round held in August, the district had a seropositivity rate of 10.8% among 1,049 people. Although the sample size has decreased in the second round, seropositivity rate has increased.The survey found the overall prevalence of the virus to have increased, with about 90% of the respondents in Gurugram claiming not to have any history of Covid-19 symptoms.The overall seropositivity of the state has also increased by over six percentage points, compared to the first survey. This time around, at least 14.8% population in the state has developed antibodies against the virus without showing any symptom, which is higher than the 8.1% recorded in August.Haryana health minister Anil Vij said, “The sero prevalence of Haryana is found quite less than the other sero surveys conducted in various states. The health department has been on its toes for the last seven to eight months and has done commendable work in controlling the spread of Covid-19 as shown by the two rounds of sero survey conducted in the state of Haryana.”Similar surveys in Delhi showed that the prevalence of antibodies increased from 22.8% in July to 29% in August. Likewise, in Ahmedabad, it increased from 17.68% in June to 23.24% in August.In Haryana, across the 22 districts, 16,512 samples were collected (720-800 samples in different districts), out of which 35 were rejected. As per the data, 2,432 of 16,477 samples were positive, 23 had inclusive results, while the remaining were negative. The data of the survey was collected using a digital tool — COVID19 Sero Survey Mobile Application — developed by the Haryana IT department.Dr Usha Gupta, director, Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), said, “A stratified multistage random sampling technique was used. Twelve rural and four urban clusters were randomly selected for taking samples in each district. Blood samples were collected from selected individuals after taking written consent and their sera were tested for IgG antibodies using ELISA test kit approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research.”Gupta, said, “The SARS-CoV-2 seropositivity observed in urban area is 19.8% and in rural area is 11.4%, which were 9.6% and 6.9% in the first round. Rural areas of Faridabad and Jind were found to have highest positivity rate of 25.5%, while urban areas of Faridabad, Yamunanagar and Panipat had the highest seropositivity rates of 40.2%, 37.1% and 36.3%, respectively.”The survey covered population from different age groups, with the majority in the 28-47 age group. Nearly 91% of the sample size had no co-morbidity issues. Those with co-morbidity were patients of diabetes and hypertension.In Gurugram, a total of 800 were tested for IgG antibodies, which are developed in the body a week after the infection. Since a high proportion of asymptomatic or Covid-19 patients with mild symptoms are missed from the data of laboratory-confirmed cases, the serological survey covers this section to study the prevalence of the virus.The findings show that at least 131 (16.5%) of the 800 had antibodies, while 81% of the samples tested negative for the antibodies. The remaining 2.6% showed inclusive test results. Nearly 632 people who gave their blood samples for the survey never got tested for Covid-19 before, while 146 had tested negative for the virus.High prevalence in urban areasSince the sample size of the survey covers nearly 60% of rural and 40% urban population, Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, health department said, “It has been observed that the risk of transmission is higher in urban areas as compared to rural areas. This only means that a larger portion of the population must continue following Covid appropriate behaviour.”He said, “A sero survey is about testing a group of individuals for the presence of antibodies as it helps in understanding the number of people affected by the disease. The study helped us to determine the burden of COVID-19 at the community level in the state and monitor the trends of transmission of SARS-CoV-2 infection.”Dr SB Kamboj, director general of health services, said, “Although 14.8% population of Haryana has developed antibodies, a significant proportion of the population is still vulnerable. Therefore, the containment measures need to be continued with the same rigor. Further, other non-pharmacological interventions, such as physical distancing, use of face mask, hand hygiene, cough etiquette and avoidance of crowded places, must be followed strictly and must not be overlooked.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/16-5-of-800-respondents-have-antibodies-shows-sero-survey/story-GZX6eSJdt74inEA4kNQhuK.html
02-11-2020||Chandigarh||Complete all projects to mark Guru Nanak Dev’s birth anniversary: Capt||As the year-long celebrations head to a close, Punjab chief minister (CM) Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday directed all departments to conclude pending works initiated to commemorate the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev. He also asked them to highlight the 550 projects completed in 65 villages during this period. The closing functions will take place over three days at the end of this month, culminating on November 30, when the CM will visit Sultanpur Lodhi and Dera Baba Nanak to pay respects in the historic towns associated with the Guru. Chairing a high-level meeting to discuss the programme, the CM asked various departments to avoid events with large crowds and instead to organise virtual functions amid projections of a second Covid wave in the state. At a virtual meeting, attended by cabinet ministers Charanjit Singh Channi, Tript Bajwa and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Amarinder also released a coffee table book based on the 550th Prakash Purb celebrations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/complete-all-projects-to-mark-guru-nanak-dev-s-birth-anniversary-capt/story-Q14w63iJQnXlnxbYf37W5O.html
02-11-2020||Chandigarh||Freight train service off track, Punjab exhausts gunny bale stock||With freight trains service not available due to the ongoing farmers’ protest, the Punjab food and civil supplies department has fallen short of gunny bales for the ongoing paddy procurement. Over 150 lakh tonne paddy has been procured and the state says another 25-30 lakh tonne is still to be procured. “Procurement can take place only when the gunny bags are made available,” said a food department officer. A bale has 500 gunny bags, with each used to fill 37.5kg paddy. Sources in the state food department said 1,154 containers of gunny bales are stuck on rail tracks in and around Delhi. There is, however, no sign of freight trains resuming service. Protesting against the Centre’s three farm bills, farm organisations started their blockade of tracks on September 24. In October, the Centre announced stopping trains, including freight, seeking assurance from the state government for safety and security of tracks.The shortage has occurred even as state food department has increased the quota for rice millers to use gunny bags from the previous season to 70% from 50%. “Paddy can be filled in old bags, but rice (after shelling) has to be filled in the brand new bags to check damage to the grain,” said an officer in the food department. The state government is contemplating bringing gunny bales via roads from places where freight containers are stuck. The Jute Corporation of India supplies gunny bales and the Container Corporation of India, a subsidiary of the railways, supplies gunny bales to different mandis of Punjab from jute mills in West Bengal. “We are planning to bring bales to Punjab via road. The bales come on advance payment, so if they remain stuck in transit it is our loss,” said state food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu. With no freight service, the government has also missed out on transportation of about 20 lakh tonne of wheat and rice from the state in October. “Had the trains been allowed, we would have been in a comfortable position as far as storage space for food grain is concerned,” said an officer, adding that 136 lakh tonne of wheat and 55 lakh tonne of rice is stuck in the state’s godowns. After paddy procurement in complete, at least 120 lakh tonne more rice would need storage in godowns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/freight-train-service-off-track-punjab-exhausts-gunny-bale-stock/story-mSnzcGwJHniEoGnmFoB4LO.html
02-11-2020||City||Naib tehsildar, 4 others held for land fraud in Mohali||The Punjab Vigilance Bureau on Monday arrested five people, including Zirakpur naib tehsildar Varinder Pal Dhoot, after booking 11 for illegally usurping a village common land in Majri block of Mohali district.The case dates back to 2017, when Dhoot was posted as the naib tehsildar in Majri. He allegedly in connivance with subordinate revenue officials and private individuals fraudulently sold off 99 acres of shamlat land in Seonk village, leading to losses to the government exchequer in crores.Others arrested have been identified as kanungo Rughubir Singh, patwari Iqbal Singh, nambardar Gurnam Singh and property dealer Sham Lal. The vigilance had been probing the case since 2017.According to the FIR, the accused prepared forged land documents and got the village common land registered in the name of people known to them in lieu of high amounts of money. Later, the plots were sold at high rates.In his statement to the VB, the block development and panchayat officer has stated that, as per land records, the land in question was shamlat (owned by the panchayat, and not any individual) from 1946 to 2000 and was never an agricultural land.‘Remaining six will be arrested soon’A senior VB official, who did not wish to be named, said the five arrested persons will be produced in court on Tuesday. “We are still investigating the case and trying to find how much loss has been caused to the state government. We will be arresting the remaining six people in this connection soon,” he said.The accused have been booked under Sections 7 (offence relating to public servant being bribed) and 7A (taking undue advantage to influence public servant by corrupt or illegal means or by exercise of personal influence) of the Prevention of Corruption Act besides Sections 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant), 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 466 (forgery of record of court or of public register), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 471 (fraudulently or dishonestly uses as genuine documents) and 120B (criminal conspiracy ) of the Indian Penal Code.In a similar case of corruption registered against revenue officials in the district, the VB in May 2018 had arrested the Bassi Pathana tehsildar and block development and panchayat officer for embezzling funds pertaining to acquisition of shamlat land in Jheourheri village for the international airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/naib-tehsildar-4-others-held-for-land-fraud-in-mohali/story-SGKDPEW7ysJHEo5MNa4bXK.html
02-11-2020||Chandigarh||President’s office yet to confirm meet with Capt-led delegation||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh has not received any response to his request for an appointment with the President of India on November 4. The CM had sought to meet the President to request him for speedy assent to the bills passed by the Vidhan Sabha to counter the central farm laws. An officer in the chief minister’s office (CMO) confirmed that there was no communication from the President’s office. Last week, the CM had appealed to the MLAs of all political parties to accompany him to meet the President, asking them to rise above party lines in safeguarding the interests of Punjab. “I am not aware as to what is the official confirmation from the President. However, I am anyway going to Delhi tomorrow and join my party colleagues in the national capital on Wednesday (Nov 4),” said rural development and panchayats minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa. Cooperation minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa too said he had no knowledge about the status of the appointment with the President. “We are with our CM and will do whatever directions come from him,” he said. There’s uncertainty: SAD Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema said there was uncertainty over the meeting with the President. “There has to be confirmation about the programme first. But there is no news,” said Cheema, adding that there was no point going to Delhi under such circumstances. Govt invites farmers for meeting The Punjab government on Monday invited representatives of 31 farmer bodies for a meeting on Wednesday to discuss the impact of the suspension of goods trains on the state’s economy due to the rail blockade agitation. Farmer leaders have been called to Punjab Bhawan in Chandigarh at 10am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/president-s-office-yet-to-confirm-meet-with-capt-led-delegation/story-2B99MqcMAKxcHD5kzsP4IP.html
02-11-2020||Chandigarh||OPD services resume at Chandigarh’s PGIMER||The outpatient department (OPD) services resumed at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research after more than seven months on Monday.The services are restricted to five departments — general surgery, internal medicine, paediatric medicine, obstetrics, gynaecology and ophthalmology — and the number of patients to be seen daily has been capped at 50 in each of them.Dr Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER, said restoring OPDs to their full capacity will take time, but the number of patients being seen physically will be increased after Diwali.On Monday, 700 patients visited the OPDs, including radiotherapy, obstetrics and related clinics that were not closed during the lockdown. Meanwhile, 1,200 patients consulted the doctors through telephone.Before the pandemic, OPDs witnessed a footfall of more than 10,000 patients a day. The services were abruptly shut on March 19 due to fear of infection spread among patients and for diverting more health workers to Covid duties. From May 19, tele-consultation started, and around 2,100 patients are using it every day. Even now, patients are first being evaluated through tele-consultation and only those requiring physical examination are being called to the OPDs through an appointment system.“I have directed the officials to see what issues are faced at OPDs in the next 10 days, and to resolve them, so that the number of patients allowed at OPDs can be increased gradually. After Diwali, we expect to provide physical consultation to more people,” said Dr Jagat Ram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/opd-services-resume-at-chandigarh-s-pgimer/story-qoXmMMlXKQvAD7s20Pu4LJ.html
02-11-2020||City||Cinema halls get green signal in Mohali, but moviegoers will have to wait||On directions of the Punjab home department, the Mohali administration on Monday allowed more activities in areas outside containment zones from November 1 to 30.The orders passed by district magistrate Girish Dayalan allows opening of cinema halls, theatres and multiplexes with 50% capacity, after having remained closed for over seven months due to the Covid pandemic. Similarly, entertainment parks and similar places outside containment zones can also open according to standard operating procedures issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare.While multiplexes in Chandigarh had reopened on October 16 under the Centre’s Unlock 5 guidelines, the Punjab government had deferred the decision before giving the green signal this month.However, moviegoers will have to wait, as owners say it will take time to open the cinema halls.In Mohali district, there are three malls with multiplexes — VR Punjab in Kharar, Bestech in Sector 66 and Paras Downtown in Zirakpur.Rishab Malhotra, centre head, VR Punjab, said: “Though we have got the orders, we will opening the cinemas in a week’s time, as we need time to make preparations.” Mohit Goyal, vice-president, sales and marketing, Bestech Group, said: “We need some time, and hopefully, cinemas will be operational before Diwali.”As per the orders, the cinema halls will have to follow SOPs issued by the Union ministry of information and broadcasting as well as advisories issued by the Punjab health and family welfare department. Any violation will be punishable under Disaster Management Act and the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cinema-halls-get-green-signal-in-mohali-but-moviegoers-will-have-to-wait/story-Mr0IOrMZAvcZvSZqHqln6I.html
02-11-2020||Election:||Bihar Assembly Election 2020: Kuchaikote set to see fierce battle between JD(U) and Congress||Kuchaikote is an assembly constituency in Gopalganj district of Bihar and part of the Gopalganj Lok Sabha seat. It will go to polls on November 3 in the second phase of Bihar Assembly election. The result will be declared on November 10.In 2015, the seat had 298,698 registered voters. Of these, 52.01% were male voters and 47.98% were females.In 2015, 10 candidates had contested the elections from Kuchaikote. Janata Dal (United) candidate Amrendra Kumar won the election, defeating Congress candidate Kali Pandey by 3,562 votes.In 2010, Kumar had defeated Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) candidate Aditya Narayan by 19,518 votes.While Pappu Pandey is contesting from the JD(U), Kali Pandey has filed his nomination as a Congress candidate for the upcoming polls from the constituency.In the three-phased Bihar election, which kick-started on October 28 and will be entering the second stage on November 3 and then the final stage on November 7 for 243 seats, the opposition alliance of the RJD, Congress and the Left is taking on the combined might of the ruling JD(U), BJP, Jitan Ram Manjhi’s HAMS and Mukesh Sahni’s Vikassheel Insan Party (VIP).A total of 1,463 candidates are in the electoral race in the second phase of polling.The Bihar Assembly polls, seen as a mammoth exercise by political experts, are the first in the country to be conducted by the Election Commission amid a raging coronavirus disease outbreak.The commission has introduced several guidelines keeping the viral contagion in consideration. People have been instructed to wear a mask during all election related activities and thermal screening of everyone involved in the election exercises is being carried out by EC officials.In a departure from the previous polling practices, only 1,000 voters will exercise their franchise at a particular booth, instead of 1,500. The polling will be conducted from 7 am to 6 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-assembly-election-2020-kuchaikote-set-to-see-fierce-battle-between-jd-u-and-congress/story-Mzww0V7Ees905hYk6XqFJK.html
02-11-2020||Chandigarh||October gone by was warmest in six years in Chandigarh||Even as there is a nip in the air with winter knocking on the door, the October gone by was warmest in the past at least six years.According to data readily available with India Meteorological Department, average maximum temperature in Chandigarh in October was 33.7°C, highest in the past six years. The weatherman attributed it to more sunny days and improved air quality. “The higher maximum temperature this year can be attributed to more sunny days during the month. Cloud cover remained scanty and we had bright sunny days almost every day,” said IMD, Chandigarh, director Surender Paul. “The comparatively improved air quality also had a role to play. Pollutants in the air, especially particulate matter, reflect sunlight, which is why smog can reduce the temperature. The cleaner air this year led to more sunlight reaching the surface and thus higher temperatures during the day.”The month also remained dry, with no rain recorded on any of the days, as both western disturbances and low-level easterly winds, which cause light showers during October, remaining elusive this year.Mercury to plunge post DiwaliOctober’s average minimum temperature of 17.6°C was a notch below that recorded in previous years. After Diwali on November 14, it is expected to drop below 10°C. Minimum temperature on Monday went down to 12.5°C from Sunday’s 13.6°C . Even maximum temperature fell to 29.5°C from 30.5°C, dropping below the 30°C mark for the first time since the end of monsoon. In the next three days, the maximum and minimum will remain around 29 and 13 degrees, respectively.Meanwhile, the air quality index (AQI) continues to remain between 110 and 130 according to the monitoring station in Sector 25, much lower than 280 recorded on November 2 last year. With no rain likely in the first two weeks of November, it is expected to go up after Diwali.The IMD has predicted an “average winter” this season, with the peak period likely to start towards the year end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/october-gone-by-was-warmest-in-six-years-in-chandigarh/story-EV5l57sW0yjoEuIoNXxtyI.html
02-11-2020||City||7 drug peddlers arrested, narcotics, Rs 1L recovered||Jammu and Kashmir Police foiled a bid to smuggle narcotics in Udhmapur and Poonch districts and arrested seven drug peddlers on Tuesday.Udhampur police recovered nearly 6kg charas-like substance and Rs 1 lakh cash from six smugglers at Thard on the Jammu-Srinagar highway. “A Tavera vehicle and two scootys were checked and the said drug and cash were recovered from the possession of six smugglers, who were arrested on the spot,” said a police spokesman.The drug peddlers were identified as Nissar Ahmed Butt, of Anantnag, Irfan Pal, of Shopian, Samrat Mugal, of Gujjar Nagar in Jammu, Amir Choudhary, of Gujjar Nagar, Nazir Mohammad, of Sunjwan, and Azam Mohammad, of Bathindi in Jammu.Case has been registered under Sections 8/20 of the NDPS Act at the Udhampur police station.Police have also recovered 2.5kg heroin-like substance from a drug peddler in Mendhar area of Poonch. The accused was identified as Karan Dutta, 24, of Dharana.“During frisking, three packets were recovered from his possession,” said an officer. Investigation is on to ascertain the source and customers of the peddlers, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/7-drug-peddlers-arrested-narcotics-rs-1l-recovered/story-47Bk4nOZjlfns6Ri5TtYcL.html
02-11-2020||City||Fire ravages chemical factory in Ludhiana’s Payal tehsil, none hurt||Intense plumes of smoke filled the sky as a fire broke out at a chemical factory in Dugri village in Payal tehsil on Monday. Fire brigades from Ludhiana, Khanna and Samrala rushed to the spot on being informed. The fire was doused in around two hours, preventing death or injury. The reason behind the fire remains uncertain.Ludhiana sub-fire officer Maninder Singh said, “We received information about the fire around 11am and two fire tenders were pressed into service. Soon after we reached, fire brigades from Khanna and Samrala also arrived and the fire fighting operation was commenced. Four fire tenders put out the flames in around two hours.No fire safety NOC Khanna fire station officer Yashpal Rai Gomi said fire safety arrangements were missing at the factory. While the hydrant was non-functional, the owner did not have a fire safety certificate despite housing large volumes of chemical. “Action will be taken against the factory as per norms,” he added.Residents also demanded action against the factory owner and demanded that the unit not be allowed in the area due to the dangers involved owing to the huge quantity of chemicals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fire-ravages-chemical-factory-in-ludhiana-s-payal-tehsil-none-hurt/story-eL09v1IKUGJ39gZaqvoMwL.html
02-11-2020||City||Roshni land scam: CAG report was trigger behind petition, says HC lawyer||Following J&K administration’s directions to retrieve over 22 lakh kanals of state land from the illegal occupation of beneficiaries and encroachers within six months, prominent high court lawyer and petitioner in the Roshni land scam Ankur Sharma said a Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) report of 2014 triggered him to move the court.The CAG had found irregularities in the implementation of Jammu and Kashmir State Lands (Vesting of Ownership to the Occupants) Act, 2001, also known as the Roshni Act, which came into effect on March 1, 2002 and was later amended in 2004 and 2007.“The government had estimated (November 2006) that total state land was 1,25,03,973 kanals, of which 20,64,972 kanals with estimated value Rs 25,448 crore was under encroachment,” the report had said.The CAG, however, observed that only Rs 76.24 crore (24%) was reportedly realised against a demand of Rs 317.54 crore raised by the end of March 2013 against the actual transfer of 3,48,160 kanals of land.“The CAG in its 2014 report had mentioned names of beneficiaries that included headquarters of political parties, politicians and former bureaucrats. According to an estimate, there are around 30,000 beneficiaries,” said Sharma.The progress in the case is being monitored by the high court, he said.“On the basis of CAG report, I moved a petition in the high court against the open loot of the state land under the garb of Roshni Act. I also challenged the constitutional validity of the flawed Act in a separate PIL,” he informed.Sharma said that the high court has asked the J&K administration not to only retrieve land allotted under the Act but also other state land under illegal occupation in Bhatindi, Sidhra and Tawi riverbed in Jammu district.“Roshni Act was used to change Jammu’s demography. Unabated capture of forest and river lands by Muslims, settlements of Rohingyas and Bangladeshis exclusively in Jammu, clandestinely issuing SROs, handing over state lands to Auqaf was all part of a deep conspiracy,” he alleged.However, principal revenue secretary Pawan Kotwal has claimed that the total land allotted under the Roshni Act was only 3.44 lakh kanal.On October 10, the J&K high court had ordered CBI probe into the Rs 25,000-cr Roshni land scam and directed the investigating agency to file status reports every eight weeks.More than 90% land cannot be sold to outsiders: UT admn The UT administration on Monday said that it has repealed 11 land laws that existed in the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir and replaced the “old, regressive, intrinsically contradictory and outdated” legislations with a set of modern, progressive and people friendly provisions.“The new land laws will not only afford protection to over 90% of the land in J&K from being alienated to outsiders but will also help revamp the agriculture sector, speed up industrialisation, aid economic growth and create jobs in J&K,” said principal secretary and UT spokesperson Rohit Kansal, while allaying apprehensions among the people related to the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation (Adaptation of State Laws) Fifth Order, 2020.The repealed laws were made to serve the old agrarian-based economy and were required to be modified for modern economic needs, said Kansal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/roshni-land-scam-cag-report-was-trigger-behind-petition-says-hc-lawyer/story-aDfySRJsi3zfsqfLbA1J0N.html
02-11-2020||Chandigarh||Covid claims 3 lives in Chandigarh tricity, 96 test positive||The daily Covid count in the tricity went below 100 on Monday, with 96 people testing positive for the virus. Meanwhile, three people succumbed to it.Chandigarh reported 55 new cases and the death of an 87-year-old man from Sector 40. As many as 14,528 have tested positive in the UT so far, of whom 227 have died and 13,708 (94.4%) have recovered, including 76 discharged on Monday. There are 593 cases still active.In Panchkula district, two men, aged 62 and 70, from Sector 12A and Kalka, respectively, died, while 14 people tested positive. The infection count and death toll have climbed to 7,187 and 116, respectively. While 6,862 (95.5%) patients have recovered, 209 cases remain active.Mohali saw no casualty for second consecutive day, while 27 fresh cases and 57 recoveries were reported in the district. Of 12,467 people who have tested positive so far, 237 have died and 11,704 (93.9%) have recovered, leaving 526 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-claims-3-lives-in-chandigarh-tricity-96-test-positive/story-C07M83OjKugRoXzeGQZYnM.html
02-11-2020||Bhopal||Mohan Bhagwat, Murli Manohar Joshi to mark presence in RSS’ regional meet in MP||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh chief Mohan Bhagwat and general secretary Suresh Bhaiyyaji Joshi will take part in the organisation’s two-day regional working committee meet beginning here on Thursday.Its ‘Madhya Bharat Prant’ spokesperson Omprakash Sisodia said national office bearers of Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh would participate in the working committee meeting of the organization’s Madhya Kshetra.The RSS’ all-India working committee meeting takes place annually ahead of Diwali and some 400 functionaries take part, but this year, due to the Covid-19 outbreak, regional levels meets are being held, sources said.The RSS organisational set-up has 11 ‘khsetras’ or regions.Sisodia said Bhagwat and Joshi would stay in Bhopal on Wednesday and Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/mohan-bhagwat-murli-manohar-joshi-to-mark-presence-in-rss-regional-meet-in-mp/story-Rs3XtUdiErbrBN3Rjz92PN.html
02-11-2020||Chandigarh||Kathua rape case: HC denies parole to key conspirator Sanji Ram||The Punjab and Haryana high court (HC) has rejected the parole plea of Sanji Ram, the key conspirator in the Kathua rape and murder case of January 2018.Ram had approached HC seeking eight-week parole to attend the marriage ceremony of his son. The court declined to grant him parole following a report from SSP, Crime Branch, Jammu, in which it was stated that if the petitioner is granted parole, there is apprehension of community clashes and protests in J&K.“Consequently, given the genuine apprehension expressed as regards the possible law and order consequences if the petitioner’s prayer for parole is granted, the court is not inclined to accept such prayer at this stage,” the bench of justice S Muralidhar and justice Avneesh Jhingan said.On June 10, 2019, the Pathankot special court, while holding that strained relations between the local Hindu community and nomadic Bakarwal Muslims was strong motive behind the rape and murder, had convicted Sanji Ram, Parvesh Kumar and Deepak Khajuria and awarded them life term.Ram was the village head and priest of the temple where the crime took place. The Supreme Court had transferred the case from Jammu in May 2018. The rape and murder of the girl had resulted in widespread chaos in J&K. The trial court had also convicted three cops for destroying evidence and helping the accused. Appeals of all convicts are pending in the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kathua-rape-case-hc-denies-parole-to-key-conspirator-sanji-ram/story-CmY2iMSQwsqNdQqSZsTGYL.html
02-11-2020||City||8-year-old boy attacked by stray dogs in Ludhiana’s Tajganj area, residents hold protest||In a shocking incident, an eight-year-old boy was viciously attacked by a pack of stray dogs without any provocation in Tajganj area.As the CCTV footage of the incident started being circulated on Monday, the incident, which took place on October 30, invited protests from the area residents.As per information, the boy, Ekam, was returning home alone after attending tuition classes. Suddenly, four stray dogs resting nearby attacked him, dragging and pulling him in different directions.Hearing his screams, locals rushed out of their houses and rescued the boy, but he had already suffered severe bite injuries on his legs, arms and back by then.He was rushed to Christian Medical College and Hospital, where he remains under treatment.“Given the scale of injuries on my son’s body, I can’t even muster the courage to see the CCTV footage of the attack. He has been in immense pain, which breaks my heart. The civic body needs to take swift action so such incidents are not repeated. We are fortunate that neighbours rushed to my son’s aid or it could have ended in a tragedy,” said Ekam’s father, Amanpreet Singh.He added that the stray dog menace in their street had not been tackled despite several complaints. “Senior deputy mayor Sham Sunder Malhotra told us there is no solution to the problem, as MC’s hands are tied by law. But, should the civic body continue to sit on its hands? The dogs attacked another child the very next day, but still MC took no action. The stray dogs need to be removed before they cause a casualty,” Singh demanded.On Monday, area residents held a protest and raised slogans against MC authorities. They accused the senior deputy mayor of turning a deaf ear to the issue. A resident, Pritam Singh, said, “Malhotra even visited the area a day after the incident, but failed to provide any solution. The fear of stray dogs has forced people to stay indoors.”On his part, Malhotra said, “The stray dogs don’t leave the area as some residents shelter and feed them. MC cannot relocate or cull the dogs as per the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act. But, the civic body is already taking up the stray dog sterilisation project to rein in the menace.”He, however, admitted that the project was moving at a snail’s pace and he will take up the matter with MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal.Despite several attempts, MC senior veterinary officer Dr Harbans Dhalla was not available for comments.Dog sterilisation stalled due to shortage of manpowerMeanwhile, amid the rising dog bite cases, the city’s dog sterilisation project being taken up at the Animal Birth Control (ABC) Centre at Haibowal Dairy Complex has come to a halt for want of manpower.Work has been stalled since the last week of September, when the workers and doctor involved in the project left citing personal reasons. This is the second time that the project has been affected in the last three months. It was also stopped in August due to shortage of workers.Since the project started in 2015, over 42,000 dogs have been sterilised to curtail their population.An average of 35 to 40 dog bite cases are reported at the civil hospital on a daily basis. While 15,000 cases were reported in 2019, another 8,951 cases were recorded till July this year.No let-up in dog bite casesJanuary 27, 2020: Four-year-old Viraj Kumar was mauled to death by stray dogs in Bahomajra village of Khanna May 30, 2019: A six-year-old girl, Dania, was bitten by a stray dog in Sector 32 on Chandigarh RoadMay 25, 2019: Mehtab Singh, aged four, was bitten by a stray dog on the cheek in Barmalipur villageDecember 31, 2018: A stray dog ripped off the finger of a workshop owner in Gurdev Nagar December 5, 2018: Stray dogs attacked a four-year-old at Bhamiyan RoadOctober 2018: A five-year-old girl allegedly died of rabies in Sarabha Nagar after stray dogs attacked herJanuary 2016: A stray dog ripped off the ear of a 12-year-old boy when he came out of his school bus in South Model Gram area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/8-year-old-boy-attacked-by-stray-dogs-in-ludhiana-s-tajganj-area-residents-hold-protest/story-MgNgYQ6iNhr0Rxbn2c3bwN.html
02-11-2020||City||J&K logs 623 Covid recoveries, 8 deaths & 385 new cases||A large number of Covid patients are on the recovery path as more people were discharged than were tested positive for the disease in Jammu and Kashmir on Monday.As per the official bulletin, 623 patients recovered and were discharged from the hospitals. Eight Covid deaths were reported while 385 new cases surfaced in the UT, taking the total cases so far to 95,710 and death toll to 1,490.Officials said that 251 people tested positive in Kashmir and 134 in Jammu. Three people died in Jammu and five in Kashmir division.The number of recovered patients in the UT is now 88,140. The recovery rate has increased to 93%. Presently, there are now 6,080 active cases in J&K.A total of 991 people have succumbed to the disease in Kashmir and 499 in Jammu. Also, the total tests conducted in the UT have crossed 23.43 lakh.In Jammu division, the highest number of cases was recorded in Jammu district at 108. In Kashmir, the maximum fresh cases were witnessed in Srinagar where 71 more people tested positive.Srinagar continues to top the case tally with 19,592 infections and 360 deaths followed by Jammu district with 17,784 cases and 259 deaths.Till date, 6.59 lakh people have been enlisted for observation – 15,765 in home quarantine, 6,080 in isolation, and 45, 588 under home surveillance. Besides, 5.90 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-logs-623-covid-recoveries-8-deaths-385-new-cases/story-AwaZaj2krp3V0r9v0O6hcI.html
02-11-2020||City||Police foil another protest over new land laws in Srinagar||The police on Monday prevented members of J&K Civil Society Forum from holding a protest at the Press Enclave here. The forum was protesting against the new land laws, removal of Article 370 and limiting of employees’ service tenure to 22 years.The forum members led by former trade union leaders Abdul Qayoom Wani and Farooq Trali had assembled at the Press Enclave and started sloganeering against the new land laws and removal of J&K’s special status.Before being detained by the police, Wani, who had contested the last parliamentary elections from Baramulla on the PDP ticket, told the media that they would never accept the new land laws. “These laws are not only against the people of Kashmir but also unfavourable for those living in Jammu and Ladakh,” said Wani, chairman of the forum.He said that due to the government’s new order that limits the service of government employees to 22 years, the sword of unemployment will be hanging over all of them, which is against the service rules.A senior police officer said some civil society members were taken into preventive custody.This is the second protest against the newly introduced land laws that was prevented by the police in the past 10 days. Last week, a dozen PDP leaders were detained for taking out a similar protest in Srinagar. On Saturday, the valley had observed a shutdown against the laws on the call of the Hurriyat Conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-foil-another-protest-over-new-land-laws-in-srinagar/story-s6Ah1oslh52vDMOv4Rvv4M.html
02-11-2020||City||Recoveries crosses 19,000 mark in HP||With 339 more patients getting cured on Monday, the Covid-19 recoveries in Himachal Pradesh have crossed the 19,000 mark and now stand at 19,279.The highest number of recoveries was witnessed in Solan district (3,340) which continues to be the worst-hit district in the hill state till date.Also, 10 people succumbed to the virus on Monday taking the state’s death toll to 330. Of these, two each were reported in Kangra, Mandi Kullu and Shimla districts, and one each in Chamba and Kinnaur districts. These new deaths included five men and five women.Meanwhile 334 more persons were tested positive for the virus on Monday, taking the case tally of Himachal to 22,598 out of which 2,958 are active. Of the new cases, 33 have been reported in Hamirpur out of which 24 were of inmates and staff of the district jail in Hamirpur.Hamirpur CMO Dr Archana Soni said among those who tested positive, 26 were males and one female. A 10-year-old was also found to be positive, she added. This is for the first time that such a large number of Hamirpur jail inmates or staff have been tested positive.Apart from this, 88 cases were reported in Shimla, 47 in Kullu, 43 in Mandi, 41 in Kangra, 32 in Chamba, 25 in Bilaspur, 18 in Solan, four in Solan, two in Una and one case in Sirmaur district.With 3,676 cases, Solan remains the worst-hit district, followed by 3,140 cases in Kangra, 3,080 in Mandi, 2,643 in Shimla, 2,285 in Sirmaur, 1,575 in Una, 1,625 in Kullu, 1,323 in Bilaspur, 1,282 in Hamirpur, 1,183 in Chamba, 395 in Lahaul-Spiti, and 391 in Kinnaur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/recoveries-crosses-19-000-mark-in-hp/story-UDsz8FkgKgix62BIJ7fdEP.html
02-11-2020||City||2 UP residents among 4 held with 1.06kg cannabis||Four persons including two Uttar Pradesh residents have been arrested with 1.06kg cannabis in Kullu district, said police.The accused have been identified as Faizan, 19, of Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh, Nassiruddin, 24, of Takita village in Bahraich (UP), Paras Gupta, 21, of Mandi, and Dev, 30, of Kamand in Mandi.The accused were arrested on Monday. Kullu police had set up a checkpost near Dolhu Nallah when the accused’s car reached there from Fozal side. It was stopped and during the checking, police recovered the contraband which was hidden in the car.Kullu superintendent of police (SP) Gaurav Singh said case has been registered under Section 20 and 25 of the NDPS Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-up-residents-among-4-held-with-1-06kg-cannabis/story-8FX9ELt2a9noZHNLu6abfM.html
02-11-2020||Chandigarh||Public grievance redressal system launched in Ludhiana||The Punjab government has launched a digital public grievance redressal system (PGRS) as a one-stop web portal to address complaints of residents in a time-bound manner.Divulging the details, Ludhiana deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Kumar Sharma said that with the PGRS operational now, citizens can submit their grievances to the government departments concerned by logging in at connect.punjab.gov.in.He added that the single-technology interface PGRS developed by the department of governance reforms and public grievances will bring in accountability and transparency into the system.He said that once the grievance is resolved, the applicant will receive an automated feedback call. In case the applicant is not satisfied with the resolution provided, the issue will be further escalated to higher authorities, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/public-grievance-redressal-system-launched-in-ludhiana/story-4gmqWZKSnYpPdwjyuobaGJ.html
02-11-2020||City||Five dead, 1 injured in two mishaps in Shimla||Five persons were killed while one sustained injuries in two separate road mishaps in Shimla district, police said on Monday.In the first accident in Chaupal, three persons were killed on the spot after the car that they were travelling in plunged into a deep gorge. The deceased were identified as Ramesh Kumar, 39, his brother Suresh Kumar, 31, and Sanju, 31, all of Charail village in Theog subdivision of Shimla.The accident took place when they were travelling back to their village after attending a marriage in Bamta village. The driver lost control of the vehicle near Maraog village. Postmortem have been conducted and the bodies have been handed over to the families.In the second incident, two persons were killed while one sustained injuries. The deceased were Surender Kumar, 30, of Mundaghat, and Pawan Singh, 31, of Dighat village. The injured is Nittu, 31, of Kamati village in Shimla.The accident took place near Patgeher, when the driver lost control of the vehicle and it plunged into a deep gorge.Police reached the spot, rescued the injured and recovered the bodies. The injured was rushed to IGMC, Shimla, where he is undergoing treatment. Postmortem of the deceased will also be conducted. Shimla ASP Praveer Thakur said police are conducting probe in the cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-dead-1-injured-in-two-mishaps-in-shimla/story-Ouh0hfpDRn3x84MPxcZpUN.html
02-11-2020||City||Ludhiana: Approvals given for abstracting groundwater||With an aim to get clearance/NOC for the pending applications for groundwater abstraction from Central Ground Water Authority (CGWA), the Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) organised a special camp for the industry at the CICU office in the Focal Point area on Monday. Officials from CGWA and the department of industries and commerce participated in the camp and approvals were issued to the industry after verification.CICU president, Upkar Singh Ahuja said, “Many industrialists had applied for the NOC but the cases were pending for a long time. We have been pursuing them and a special camp was organised on Monday to dispose of/clear the pending cases. Over 300 industrialists participated in the camp and many were given approval by the authorities.”CICU general secretary, Pankaj Sharma said deliberations were also done to make it easier for the industry to get the NOC and more such camps will be organised in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-approvals-given-for-abstracting-groundwater/story-oJaFhhcHacGbCxYKR4ygZN.html
02-11-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana Improvement Trust to digitise records||The Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) has started the process of computerisation of records with an aim to promote digitisation and increase transparency. This will benefit residents as they will not have to make rounds of offices and can get their work done online.A meeting between LIT chairman Raman Balasubramaniam and officials from a private IT company in this regard was held at the LIT office on Monday.Officials said that records pertaining to building branch, water/sewer department, establishment etc will be computerised so that there is transparency in the system.”LIT is the biggest trust in the state and we have already started the work to computerise the record of different branches. Now, it has been decided to cover all branches under one system. The IT company officials have been told to develop a system/software with the help of which residents will be able to get work done online including paying taxes and getting building plans sanctioned. The company will submit a report in the coming few days which will be sent to the local bodies department for final approval,” Balasubramaniam said. An official, requesting anonymity, said the chairman wants the records to be made online to avoid any manipulation. As most of the work is done manually, the LIT has received complaints in the past wherein the residents accused staff of manipulating records.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-improvement-trust-to-digitise-records/story-w4Gp3QKreYCAZ6bF0OY7gJ.html
02-11-2020||City||A little less glitz on Karva Chauth in Ludhiana this year||With Karva Chauth just a day away, very few women are flocking mehendi stalls in the city due to Covid fear. Earlier, women used to stand in queues alongside roads to get mehendi applied, however, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, very few women are visiting henna stalls.Henna artists in the city said that customers either prefer to visit after taking an appointment or get the services at home. The artists said that their business has gone down by 70%.To maintain social distancing, henna artists have put up stalls at a distance of at least 2 metres and were seen sanitising frequently.A visit to various markets such as Ghumar Mandi, Kipps Market, Sarabha Nagar, Shahpur road, Field Ganj and Chaura Bazaar revealed that very few customers are showing up at henna stalls and artists were getting calls from customers asking them to visit home. This year, very few special henna artists from Mumbai, Mathura and other cities have turned up here.Sagar Nayak, a mehendi artist from Ghumar Mandi said, “We are receiving more bookings for home service and very few customers are interested in visiting the stall. Last year, I got 50 artists here to handle the rush during Karva Chauth but this time we have only 20 artists as very customers are visiting the stalls. We have made proper seating arrangements and conducting a thermal screening of my employees. Due to the pandemic, our business is severely affected.” Another henna artist from Lucknow, Sunil Kumar in the Kipps Market area and Sarabha Nagar said, “I am into this business for the last 20 years and this is the first time very few women are visiting the stall. I have 15 other artists to manage the rush at the stall but half of them are sitting idle as in the daytime, only five customers showed up and in the evening 20 came to apply mehendi. Last year, two days before Karva Chauth women had to stand in queue for their turn apply mehendi.” Meanwhile, the artists were seen charging about Rs 100 to Rs 5,100 per hand and for bridal mehndi designs, the charges are Rs 1,100 to Rs 7,000.Trendy patternsIn the last years, designs such as Arabic, floral patterns, and peacocks were very popular among customers but now stylish theme patterns such as clip art, portrait and life photos are in trend.Images of a newlywed bride looking at the moon, Radha and Krishna designs that symbolise marriage and love are also an in-thing.Ridha Chawla, a resident of Civil Lines, said, “I booked a henna artist and asked him to visit my home as I do not want to visit the stall due to heavy rush.”Many artists could be seen showing various designs on their iPads, tabs and cell phones, hence replacing display boards and books.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/a-little-less-glitz-on-karva-chauth-this-year-in-ludhiana/story-878uoSHoD70BEMBFN0LloL.html
02-11-2020||City||Schools reopen in Himachal, few students turn up on Day 1||Schools opened for higher classes in Himachal Pradesh after eight months of closure due to Covid-19 outbreak on Monday, but only few students turned up.In the cabinet meeting held on October 15, the state government had decided to reopen schools for Classes 9 to 12. The government had made it mandatory for students to seek consent from parents to attend regular classes while the attendance was not compulsory.On the first day of resumed schooling, not more than 25 students attended the classes at Government Senior Secondary School for Girls in Shimla’s Portmore, where 1,240 of them are enrolled in the higher classes.Despite the fear of contagion, students were elated to be physically present in their classrooms after a gap of eight months. “It feels nice to be back to school after so long. As Covid cases are still on a steady rise, we are taking all precautions to safeguard ourselves against the disease,” said Ishika Singh of Class 9.“Online classes were fine too, but learning is more effective in school and we can directly raise our queries to the teachers,” said added.Similarly, Ashima Sharma of Class 10 said, “I am happy to be out of my home after eight months. I missed my friends and the active classroom environment. As it is the first day of school resumption, only a few students came, but more will turn up in the coming days.“The school authorities sanitised the classrooms and premises ahead of time. Students were scanned at the gates. However, it appears that parents are still sceptical about sending their wards to school,” said the government school principal, Narendra Kumar Sood.Many students also faced transportation problems as less number of buses are plying in the morning hours in Shimla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/schools-reopen-in-himachal-few-students-turn-up-on-day-1/story-yrluMCf6eTFqBnw9AR4OpI.html
02-11-2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh by-poll: Every 3rd polling centre declared critical, heavy security in place||With every third polling centre declared as critical, Madhya Pradesh is to witness by-polls in 28 assembly constituencies across 19 districts on Tuesday to decide the fate of as many as 355 candidates including 22 women, as per the Election Commission’s reports. As per the chief electoral officer’s office, polling will begin at 7 am and conclude at 6 pm amid heavy police and paramilitary force deployment in all the assembly constituencies. More than 63.51 lakh voters are expected to exercise franchise across 9,361 polling centres in the 28 constituencies, 16 of which fall under the Gwalior-Chambal region. Additional chief electoral officer, Madhya Pradesh, Arun Kumar Tomar said, “Polling will be conducted with full security arrangements and compliance with Covid-19 guidelines.” He said, “As many as 84 companies of Central paramilitary have been deployed at the polling booths besides 2,500 special armed force (SAF) jawans, 10,000 police personnel from the district police force, 7,000 home guards and 10,000 special police officers.” Also read: Nagaland by-polls - 43k electorate to decide fate of 8 candidates in fray“Out of the total polling centres 3,038 polling centres have been declared as critical and 358 hamlets have been identified as vulnerable. To ensure a free, fair and peaceful polling, 250 flying squads and 173 static surveillance teams are in place. There are 293 police check-posts. As many as 1,493 illegal weapons have been seized and more than 1.52 lakh licenced arms were deposited in police stations.” Collector and returning officer in Indore, Manish Singh said, “There will not be any queue of voters given Covid situation as per instructions from the ECI. Instead, voters will be given coupons on entering the polling centres and a voter will be called to cast his vote in accordance with the serial number on his coupon. Besides, there will be separate teams of poll personnel to provide masks to voters, record their temperature and for sanitisation.” He said, in a unique experiment, this time as many as 12 video films were made on 12 different subjects related to polling that the poll personnel would be able to watch anytime for any kind of curiosity or apprehensions about their duties. The poll personnel were provided with a QR sheet with a specific QR code for a specific video. In an appeal to voters on Monday, through a video posted on his Twitter account, senior BJP leader and Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia said, “I request you all to vote in favour of the BJP candidates and thus strengthen Shivraj Singh Chouhan government. Every vote cast in favour of BJP will contribute to making of a prosperous Madhya Pradesh and strong India.”State BJP president VD Sharma, under whose leadership the state BJP is facing elections for the first time, also appealed to people to vote for the BJP on November 3. State Congress president Kamal Nath said, “By-polls will be known as a different chapter in MP’s history. People will definitely give a befitting reply to those who betrayed them.” By-polls on 28 assembly seats will decide the fate of the incumbent Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government which has 107 MLAs in 230-member state assembly against the Congress’ 87, Bahujan Samaj Party’s two, lone Samajwadi Party (SP) MLA and 4 independent MLAs. One of the seats is vacant. Thus, the BJP will need 8 MLAs to reach the majority mark of 115 and the Congress needs to win all the 28 seats to get to the majority mark if these parties don’t need any support from other parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-by-poll-every-3rd-polling-centre-declared-critical-heavy-security-in-place/story-dIStsuW4hk99LzTC1gOUWP.html
02-11-2020||City||Rabi production to be hit as state sees driest October after 2017||Shimla: With nine of 12 districts in Himachal Pradesh witnessing a deficit in rain of 100% (zero actual rainfall received) in October, production of Rabi crops is expected to be hit this season. Light snowfall and rainfall were recorded in Lahaul-Spiti, Chamba and Kullu districts. Chamba and Kullu, however, witnessed 99% rain deficit with 0.3mm actual rainfall each while Lahaul-Spiti witnessed 95% less rainfall as it received 1.5 cm rain.Overall, October rain of 0.4 mm precipitation was recorded in Himachal, which was 99% less than normal. In 2019, the state witnessed 18% less rain than normal, in 2018 the state saw 73% less rain than normal, while in 2017, Himachal witnessed 99% less rain than normal.HP agriculture department director NK Badhan said crops like cereals, vegetables and rabi crops will suffer due to the rainfall deficit in October as this is the sowing period. “Dry weather delays the process of sowing the seeds, which is going to impact the yield of these crops between 10% and 15%,” Badhan added. Agriculture makes a major contribution to the economy of the state. Over 90% population is residing in rural areas, and of which 62% are associated with agriculture activities and are dependent on agriculture for making their living. Agriculture and allied sectors contribute 12.7% to the state’s gross domestic income, with the government emphasising the strengthening of agriculture sector.State’s meteorological department director Manmohan Singh said there were only two rainfall and snowfall spells witnessed on October 29 and 31 in the state, with the rest of the days remaining dry. “On October 29, light rain was witnessed in Manali and Kothi, while traces of snow were recorded in Keylong. On October 31, light snow fell in Keylong, while light rain occurred in Manali and Chamba. On October 22, Snow occurred in Kinner Kailash Mountains Ranges,” added Manmohan. The maximum temperature in the state, 36.4°C, was recorded in Una on October 3, while the minimum temperature of -1°C was recorded in Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district on October 26. The highest rain in the state has been recorded at 92.8 mm (+102%) during October 2004. In 2017, the state record lowest rainfall of 0.3mm (-99%).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rabi-production-to-be-hit-as-state-sees-driest-october-after-2017/story-gZGu7AM9KM1Nv6k4w8FI6H.html
02-11-2020||City||1600 Chandigarh traders apply for 96 licences to sell firecrackers||The Chandigarh administration will hold the draw of lots for firecracker traders on Tuesday for 96 licences. More than 1600 traders applied for licences till Monday, a dip of around 300 from last year.The traders have been permitted to sell crackers on November 12, 13, and 14. Shopkeepers will not be allowed to put up stalls in markets. The administration has designated 14 sites for selling firecrackers in the city this year, against nine of last year. The number of sites has been increased to ensure social distancing in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.The designated sites include Sector 43 Apni Mandi ground, Sector 46 New Ramleela ground, Sector 33 open ground, Sector 37-C open ground near the temple, Sector 24 Dussehra ground, Sector 29 Apni Mandi, Ramdarbar Car Bazzar ground, Manimajra open ground, Sector 20 open ground near the mosque, near Ryan International School in Sector 49, near Banyan Tree School in Sector 48, Sector 45 Sabzi Mandi ground, in front of the gurdwara in Sector 28 and Sector 43 Dussehra ground.In the Covid-19 review meeting, UT administrator VP Singh Badnore stated that doctors had opined that toxic air arising out of crackers is likely to affect the lungs and, hence, citizens should avoid or minimise bursting of crackers during the festive season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1600-chandigarh-traders-apply-for-96-licences-to-sell-firecrackers/story-nbbmmlNPldBWvtTIaDGM8O.html
02-11-2020||Chandigarh||NTS exam: 4,000 students from Ludhiana dist register online||As many as 4,000 students from Ludhiana district have applied online for the National Talent Search Examination which is scheduled to be held on December 13. Last year, 5,285 students had applied.Over 41,000 students from Punjab have registered online for the scholarship test. To give students an idea of the paper pattern, the state education department has sent a first revision test to help students prepare.Last year, 25 students from the district managed to clear Stage 1, of which two belonged to government schools.Student who qualify are eligible for an annual scholarship of Rs 15,000 (Rs 1,250 per month) for two years (Classes 11 to 12) and Rs 2,000 per month at the undergraduate level.Nodal officer for NTSE, Balwinder Kaur, said, “The free coaching sessions being conducted by the state education department will prove beneficial for students as subject teachers are focusing on the key areas to make maximum students clear the first stage of NTSE. The revision test will also give students an idea on how to attempt the paper in the allotted time. The three-hour coaching is helping students clear their doubts and assignments and tests are helping them build confident ahead of the exam.”The exam will be conducted in two stages––Stage 1 and Stage 2. Stage 1 will be conducted by the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) and Stage 2 will be conducted by the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT).There is no prescribed syllabus for the Stage 1 examination. However, the standard of questions will be conforming to the level of Classes 9 and 10 and there will be no negative marking. There will be 200 multiple-choice questions (MCQs) of one-mark each. Stage 2 will be conducted in two parts––mental ability test and scholastic aptitude, each comprising 100 MCQs.Mental ability test or part 1 will consist of logical and analytical reasoning-based questions. Scholastic aptitude test or part 2 will comprise questions from science, mathematics, social science and English language. Important dates:Exam on December 13Timing: 10 am to 2 pmStudents can download the admit cards: December 1||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nts-exam-4-000-students-from-ludhiana-dist-register-online/story-8igLsXQreMF44mfg39rMCJ.html
02-11-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Punjab CM orders expansion of contact tracing to 15 people||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday ordered the expansion of contact tracing of positive patients to 15 persons and made it mandatory for hospitals and radiology labs conducting CT scans to report such patients to the state administration in case of suspicion of coronavirus.As per the official release, the move is part of a slew of measures taken by the state government to strengthen the Covid management systems amid the apprehension of the second wave.“Further, to streamline and prioritize the process of Covid vaccination, the chief minister ordered a state-level 3-tier vaccine supervision mechanism, comprising a steering committee as well as state and district task force, to be put in place,” the release said.It said that ‘in sharp contrast to some other states that are depending heavily on the less reliable Rapid Antigen Testing (RAT)’, the chief minister directed the Health Department to make RT-PCR the rule, with RAT to be treated as an exception, while ordering another Serro Survey to assess the ground situation.In other steps, Singh directed 24x7 testing facility to be made available at district hospitals, all fever cases, and other symptomatic coming to health facilities to be tested with RTPCR, and all patients attending the flu corners to be tested with RTPCR.“He stressed the need to make arrangements for walk-in testing at multiple points and asked the Health Department to consider branching out testing by scaling up local initiatives like Mohali’s out-door testing,” the release stated.The chief minister further asked the state Health Department to get information from private and public hospitals regarding Covid mortality and complete the audit by November 9, so that remedial action can be taken by mid-November.“Emphasising the importance of ensuring preparedness for a second wave, he also directed the Department to meet manpower shortage, especially in L-II facilities, by filling all gaps in mission mode. Those who have been selected must be immediately given appointment letters and asked to join, he said, in response to a concern expressed on this count by Health Minister Balbir Sidhu,” said the release.chief minister also urged organisers of social and religious congregations, that have been permitted, to also encourage the participants to get themselves tested.“He asked officials to encourage citizens organisations and NGOs, and also to reach out to people through the Lok Sanjhedari program, to discourage the use of firecrackers this Diwali season,” it said.To ensure that distribution of the vaccine, once available, is prioritised among the vulnerable groups, including health workers and people with co-morbidities, Amarinder Singh ordered the constitution of a State Steering Committee, to be headed by the Chief Secretary, with monthly meetings to supervise the progress.He also ordered that a State Task Force, headed by Principal Secretary Health, shall hold meetings every fortnight, while at the district level, the Districts Magistrates will head the District Task Force, which will meet on a weekly basis.“Stressing the need for extreme caution and extensive testing so that the situation, which has improved in recent weeks, does not aggravate, the chief minister said the positivity rate had come down to around 2% but the state could not afford to be lax under any circumstances. He stressed the need to increase surveillance and strictly follow Covid-appropriate behaviours till a safe and effective vaccine is available,” it stated.The chief minister asked the concerned departments to dedicate the month of November to carry out testing of all staff, including health, police, revenue, and other civilian staff.“He said his government had already sanctioned approximately Rs. 900 Crore for Covid response and added that funds will not be allowed to become a constraint for ensuring full preparation and best response. He directed the Health Department to increase testing to 30000 a day, with at least 100 tests per lakh population,” the release stated further.The focus areas for monthly testing in the state would be healthcare workers, government staff, industry workers, migrant labor (Mandis, residential areas of labor, brick-kilns, etc.), office and commercial establishments, markets, schools/colleges, m multiplexes, containment/micro containment zones, persons with comorbidities, dhabas and restaurants.The chief minister said at least 50 per cent samples should be from these categories and directed the Health and Medical Education departments to come up with weekly sampling and surveillance plans indicating focus area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-punjab-cm-orders-expansion-of-contact-tracing-to-15-people/story-GQGnGvPKefO5rUH5Ki6fQM.html
02-11-2020||City||Straw burning incidents 5% lesser as compared to previous years: PAU||Even as pollution monitoring bodies claim that incidents of paddy straw burning are higher this year as compared to the last four years, data by Punjab Agricultural University’s (PAU) states that the area under stubble burning in the state has declined by 5.23%.“The Punjab Remote Sensing Centre data shows the area under paddy straw burning (which is more reliable parameter than a number of fire incidents) during this year as 749.43 thousand hectares as compared to 790.77 thousand hectares last year, clearly showing a decline of 5.23%,” claimed GS Manes, additional director of research (farm mechanisation and bioenergy).He said that this decline in the paddy straw burnt area despite early harvesting clearly showed improvement in the adoption of paddy straw management technologies as compared to last year.Manes added that the harvesting of paddy had just crossed its peak in Punjab with 62.5% area harvested on October 30. The arrival of paddy during the same period this year was higher than last year by 32.46% for parmal and 29.47% for parmal and basmati combined, indicating early harvest.Elaborating this, Manes said, “Some farmers, who have adopted in-situ straw management technologies over the past few years, will complete three or more years of this practice this year. It will be interesting to see whether there is an improvement in wheat yield as shown in experiments conducted by PAU, Ludhiana, which is observed in farmers’ fields. Such a trend of yield enhancement and a further possibility of a reduction in fertiliser use can become a major incentive for the adoption of paddy straw management technologies on a large scale.”As many as 2,799, stubble burning incidents were reported on October 30, the second-highest in a day in the ongoing season. As many as 2,989 cases were recorded on October 28.In the Malwa belt, Sangrur, Patiala, Ferozepur, Bathinda, Mansa and Barnala, notorious for using long-duration PUSA-44 varieties of rice seed, recorded a high number of cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/straw-burning-incidents-5-less-as-compared-to-previous-years-pau/story-4lGskn7k3uSpOWBk94LJyO.html
02-11-2020||Delhi||ICU beds with ventilators occupied at most leading private hospitals in Delhi, reports Data||ICU beds with ventilators at most top private hospitals in Delhi have been fully occupied amid a massive surge in Covid-19 cases in the last few days, according to official data.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The online Corona Dashboard of the Delhi government showed that at 5:20 pm on Monday, out of 1,244 ICU beds with ventilator facility, only 394 were vacant.At Max hospitals at Saket (51 total ICU beds with ventilators) and Shalimar Bagh (15), Fortis hospitals at Vasant Kunj (seven) and Shalimar Bagh (five), Apollo Hospital, BLK Hospital (seven), the vacancy showed nil.At the Delhi government-run LNJP Hospital, a dedicated Covid-19 facility, out of the 200 ICU beds with ventilators, only eight were vacant, according to the dashboard.However, at Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH), another dedicated Covid-19 facility, 196 of the 200 such beds were vacant as at 5:20 pm.The number of vacant ICU beds with ventilators again ran low at Safdarjung Hospital (one out of 54) and AIIMS Trauma Centre (five out of 50), RML Hospital (six out of 28), the data showed.Also Read | As cases rise, Covid hospitalisations increase in Delhi: Govt dataDelhi recorded 5,664 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the infection tally in the national capital to over 3.92 lakh, even as the positivity rate jumped to nearly 12.69 per cent amid festive season and rising pollution in the city.This was the fifth consecutive day when over 5,000 cases have been reported in a day in the city.The highest single-day spike till date - 5,891 cases - was recorded on Friday.According to the Delhi government bulletin on Sunday, out of the total number of 15,775 beds in Covid hospitals, 9,314 were vacant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/icu-beds-with-ventilators-occupied-at-most-leading-private-hospitals-in-delhi-reports-data/story-PbvrD8b0m3lZFEXPxkdQ3L.html
02-11-2020||City||Sangrur facing 80% urea shortage in wheat sowing season||With goods trains suspended in Punjab due to farmers’ agitation, Sangrur is facing an 80% shortage in urea supply amid the wheat sowing season.The district cultivates wheat crop on 2.9 lakh hectares, which require about 1.1lakh metric tonne (MT) urea, but currently, only 25,000 MT is in stock.Agriculture department officials say that they are trying to arrange more urea but they have a sufficient supply of diammonium phosphate (DAP), which is another important fertiliser. Sangrur chief agriculture officer Jaswinder Pal Singh Grewal said that farmers initially need DAP, but after 21 days of wheat sowing, the crop demands urea.“We have sufficient stock for the first dose of urea. However, if goods trains are not started soon, we will face a shortage of fertiliser as we need 30% urea by November-end, 30% in mid-December and 15% in January,” said Grewal.“The government will arrange urea for farmers. However, some farmers are also purchasing it from Haryana,” he added.On Monday, a few farmers from the district met agriculture department officials, seeking adequate supply of urea. The farmers alleged that the central government is targeting Punjab due to its opposition to farm laws.“If the Modi government is taking anti-farmer decisions, the state government should come forward to provide urea by road. It is the responsibility of the Congress government to address farmers’ concerns,” said Gobinder Singh, Sangrur block chief of BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sangrur-facing-80-urea-shortage-in-wheat-sowing-season/story-8XQJUiLfeyl65QUYGuuJhN.html
02-11-2020||Chandigarh||Second sero survey: Covid antibodies found in 14.8% population of Haryana||The second round of serological survey conducted by the health department in October has revealed that 14.8% of the population in Haryana has developed Covid-19 antibodies as opposed to 8% of the population in August. The serological survey was conducted to determine the extent of coronavirus spread in the state and helps in measuring the proportion of population exposed to the infection including asymptomatic people. State health minister Anil Vij on Monday said sero-positivity during the second round was 19.8% in urban areas and 11.4% in rural areas. It was 9.6% in urban and 6.9% rural areas during the first round of survey. Vij said rural areas of Faridabad and Jind districts were found to have the highest positivity rate of 25.5%. The urban areas of Faridabad, Yamunanagar and Panipat have the highest sero-positivity rates—40.2%, 37.1% and 36.3%, respectively. The districts which had lower sero-positivity of less than 10% were Hisar (9.7%), Mahendergarh (8.6%),Charkhi Dadri (7.7%), Sirsa (7.5%), Palwal (5.5%) and Bhiwani (3.1%). Additional chief secretary, health, Rajeev Arora, said these finding will guide the officials in planning and implementation of appropriate measures to contain the spread of virus. Arora said a sero-survey is about testing a group of individuals for presence of antibodies as it helps in understanding the number of people affected by the disease. The study helps in determining the burden of virus at the community-level and monitor the trends of transmission. Arora said that it has been observed that urban population was more affected than people in rural areas. “Overall low prevalence findings can be attributed to the proactive measures taken by the government to prevent the spread of infection including prompt lockdown, testing strategies, containment and surveillance measures including contact tracing and tracking,” he said. Director health services, IDSP, Dr Usha Gupta said 720 samples were collected from each of the 22 districts covering both urban and rural population. “A stratified multi-stage random sampling technique was used. We had selected 12 rural and four urban clusters randomly for taking samples. Blood samples were collected from selected individuals after taking written consent and then their sera were tested for immunoglobulin antibodies using ELISA test kit approved by Indian Council of Medical Research,’’ Dr Gupta said, adding that 16,512 samples were collected from the 22 districts. Director general health services Dr SB Kamboj said though 14.8 % population has developed antibodies but still a significant proportion of the population is vulnerable. Therefore, the containment measures need to be continued with same rigor. Other non-pharmacological interventions such as physical distancing, use of face mask, hand hygiene, cough etiquette and avoidance of crowded places must be followed strictly, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/second-sero-survey-covid-antibodies-found-in-14-8-population-of-haryana/story-3PPRCuc3ubZdAmT0Vx9B6K.html
02-11-2020||City||Baroda bypoll: 1.78 lakh voters to decide fate of 14 candidates tomorrow||A total of 1.78 lakh eligible voters will decide the fate of 14 candidates who are in the fray for the Baroda bypoll in Haryana on Tuesday.Polling will be held from 7:00 am till 6:00pm in the assembly seat of Sonepat district, officials said.The counting will be held on November 10.A total of 1.78 lakh voters—97,819 males, 80,429 females and two transgenders will exercise their voting rights, according to figures released by the election commission officials. Of these, 5,092 voters are above 80 years of age and 1,860 service electors. As many as 280 polling booths have been set up and 151 of them are categorised as vulnerable. Security personnel, including three companies of paramilitary forces, have been deployed to ensure peaceful by elections, officials said.One lakh single-use gloves for voters to put on when they press the EVM button to cast their votes, 57,500 surgical masks, 3,500 face shields, 1,650 bottles of hand sanitiser (500 ml each) and 3,500 each personal protection equipment (PPE) kits and N-95 face masks have been arranged as polling takes place amid the Covid-19 pandemic.A head-to-head contest between the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress is in the offing for the constituency. The seat fell vacant following the demise of Congress MLA Sri Krishan Hooda on April 12. While the BJP has fielded Olympian wrestler Yogeshwar Dutt, who lost by about 4,800 votes to Sri Krishan Hooda in the 2019 assembly election, the Congress has put its money on a newcomer, Indu Raj Narwal, a former member of Sonepat zila parishad.Seven Independents and four candidates belonging to other parties are also in the fray from the constituency. Om Prakash Chautala’s Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) has fielded Joginder Singh Malik,41, a candidate who lost the 2019 assembly election from Baroda. Former BJP MP from Kurukshetra, Rajkumar Saini, who had floated his own outfit last year has also thrown his hat in the contest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/baroda-bypoll-1-78-lakh-voters-to-decide-fate-of-14-candidates-tomorrow/story-fVMjMj1r40egrkOAOEX2mN.html
02-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt to launch anti-firecracker campaign amid rise in Covid-19 cases, air pollution||In the wake of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and rising pollution in the national capital, the Delhi government will launch an anti-firecracker campaign from November 3. Under the campaign, 11 special squads of the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) and city police will inspect firecracker manufacturing units to ensure that there is no old stock left. The government has also urged people to not burn crackers at all this year as the city battle surge in Covid-19 cases.On Wednesday, Environment Minister Gopal Rai had said that only ‘green’ firecrackers can be manufactured, sold and used in the national capital. Every year in winters, Delhi’s air turns hazardous due to bursting of firecrackers and stubble burning in neighbouring states. On Monday, Delhi’s air quality was in the “very poor” category, as per the data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The capital recorded an Air Quality Index (AQI) of 310 at 7 am.Meanwhile, Delhi is witnessing a surge in cases of Covid-19, a respiratory disease. On Monday, the city saw a drop in cases after recording more than 5,000 cases for five consecutive days. According to the state health department, 4,001 fresh cases were detected in Delhi in the last 24 hours, pushing the total tally more than 3.96 lakh.The death toll mounted to 6,604 with 42 more fatalities, it also informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-launch-anti-firecracker-campaign-amid-rise-in-covid-19-cases-air-pollution/story-ZIjL7kOHwppcvZADWlmU4I.html
02-11-2020||City||Custom Hiring Centres fail to put a check on farm fires in Haryana||There has been no respite from stubble burning in Haryana even as the state government has spent a whopping ₹1,300 crore to set up Custom Hiring Centres (CHCs) to provide machinery at subsidised rates and help farmers manage paddy straw.As per the data provided by the Haryana Space Applications Centre (HARSAC), the state has reported 27% rise in farm fires this year. The state registered 5,584 Active Fire Locations (AFLs) till October 31 this year against 4,280 AFLs as compared to last year. More than 80% farm fires have been reported from six districts—Kaithal, which tops the list with 1,027 incidents followed by Karnal 920, Kurukshetra 806, Ambala 729, Fatehabad 605 and Jind 403. As per the official data, 13,236 machines were provided on 80% subsidy to farmers in the state. Last year too, the government had spent huge amounts on the subsidised machines for management of crop waste. A subsidy of around ₹329 crore was provided to set up 1,320 custom hiring centres (CHCs) for in-situ and ex-situ crop waste management the previous year. Most CHCs were set up by big farmers as marginal farmers cannot afford these machines. The owners of CHCs, who had purchased these implements at 80% subsidy, were charging rent from all farmers.Farmers have demanded that the government should ensure that these machines, purchased by the CHCs, are provided to small and marginal farmers as well so that they can be used to manage crop waste and avoid stubble burning. Jagminder Nain, joint director (agriculture engineering) at Haryana agriculture department said, “The equipments provided by the government for management of crop waste are very helpful and farmers are reaping benefits from these machines. As per the HARSAC data, the AFLs in the state are more than last year. However, as per our data, the area under stubble burning has decreased as compared to last year.” Karam Chand, deputy director agriculture department, said, “Around 50% Active Fire Locations shown by HARSAC are not found on the ground. Out of 974 locations provided by the HARSAC, 447 farm fires were not found during physical verification.” He said this has led to a confusion on the AFLs and actual cases of stubble burning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/custom-hiring-centres-fail-to-put-a-check-on-farm-fires-in-haryana/story-7pTB6Jwv2tmsqoAImN0OYP.html
02-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana’s air quality improves but still ‘very poor’ in 7 cities||The air quality in Haryana improved on Monday with the number of cities registering ‘very poor’ air quality index (AQI) coming down to seven and those with ’moderate’ air quality increasing to five. On Sunday, 11 cities in Haryana had registered ‘very poor’ air quality and the AQI of Jind was ‘severe’. However, on Monday, no city in Haryana was in the ‘severe’ AQI zone.As per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the AQI of Yamunanagar, Panchkula, Palwal, Narnaul and Bhiwani was ‘moderate’ while the AQI of nine cities including Bahadurgarh, Dharuhera, Faridabad, Hisar, Karnal, Manesar, Rohtak, Sirsa and Sonepat was ’poor’. Most cities where AQI on Monday was “poor” were in the ‘very poor‘zone earlier. Ambala, Ballabgarh, Gurugram, Jind, Kaithal, Kurukshetra, and Panipat cities had ’very poor’ air quality on Monday. AQI between 0 to 50 is considered good, 51 to 100 satisfactory, and 101 to 200 moderate. However, AQI between 201 to 300 is classified poor, 301 to 400 very poor and it crosses over to the severe zone at 401.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-s-air-quality-improves-but-still-very-poor-in-7-cities/story-rZ5GmPcYu6e8VLU6ShiZ5M.html
02-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana bans sale, storage and supply of imported firecrackers||The Haryana government has declared possession and sale of imported firecrackers as illegal and punishable in the state. An official spokesperson said deputy commissioners (DCs) of all the districts have been directed to be vigilant in this regard and take strict action against the sale and distribution of imported firecrackers. The government has also directed the DCs to ensure that there is no storage of imported firecrackers by conducting inspection at all the establishments and taking preventive actions. The spokesperson said according to a letter issued by the Union ministry of commerce, firecrackers import is prohibited. “The firecrackers cannot be imported without obtaining a license or authorisation from the directorate general of foreign trade and during recent years no license or authority has been issued by the directorate-general for import of firecrackers,” he added. The sale of firecrackers requires a license issued by the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation. He said all the DCs, commissioners of police and superintendents of police in the state have been directed to take stringent measures to stop the sale of imported firecrackers and alert people not to use it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-bans-sale-storage-and-supply-of-imported-firecrackers/story-NGdbnVOQ7Zf3HcUQ3z467N.html
02-11-2020||City||No Kapal Mochan Mela in Yamunanagar this year due to Covid-19||The five-day Kapal Mocha Mela, which was likely to begin in November-end at Yamunanagar’s Bilaspur, has been cancelled this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic.A large number of devotees from Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan take a holy dip in the sarovar at the Kapal Mochan Gurdwara Sahib every year. As per the official website, the Kapal Mocha Mela is held every year on the eve of Kartika Purnima. The decision was taken after a meeting chaired by deputy commissioner Mukul Kumar with senior officials and religious leaders in Bilaspur. The meeting was attended by former Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) chief Baldev Singh Kayampuri, Jat Dharamshala head Jagir Singh, Kapal Mochan Shrine Board member Subhash Gour, Brahmin Dharamshala head Subhash Moudgil and others. They have unanimously urged the administration not to organise the mela this year.The DC said he will inform his counterparts in other districts from where most people come to attend the mela. “Police will be deployed on all the routes towards the site, to ensure no outsider enters the shrine and it has also been decided that the water in the sarovar at the Kapal Mochan Gurdwara Sahib will be drained,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-kapal-mochan-mela-in-yamunanagar-this-year-due-to-covid-19/story-NIAg953wUjDQmDalTe65ZI.html
02-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi pollution unchanged despite high wind speed, air quality still ‘poor’||Pollution levels in the national capital dipped on Monday with high wind speed aiding dispersion of pollutants, even as farm fires continued to rage in neighbouring states.  The city recorded a 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) of 293, which falls in the ‘poor’ category.It was 364 on Sunday, with stubble burning contributing 40 per cent to Delhi’s pollution and negating the effect of better ventilation.An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’,201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.  The Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi said a “significantly” large number of fires were observed over Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh on Sunday which is likely to impact the air quality in Delhi-NCR and northwest India.Also Read | Farm fire share in Delhi’s pollution but opposition parties are in denial: Gopal RaiHigher wind speed and better ventilation index will be favourable for dispersion of pollutants on Tuesday, it said.According to the Ministry of Earth Sciences’ air quality monitor, SAFAR, the share of stubble burning in Delhi’s pollution was 16 per cent on Monday. It had soared to 40 per cent on Sunday, the maximum so far this season.Stubble burning accounted for 32 per cent of Delhi’s PM2.5 pollution on Saturday, 19 per cent on Friday and 36 per cent on Thursday.Last year, the farm fire contribution to Delhi’s pollution had peaked to 44 per cent on November 1, according to SAFAR data.According to Punjab Pollution Control Board, the state has recorded 33,165 “fire events” this season so far, while Haryana has reported 6,034 farm fires during the period.NASA’s satellite imagery also showed a large, dense cluster of fire dots covering Punjab and parts of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.  According to the India Meteorological Department, the predominant wind direction was westerly-northwesterly and the maximum wind speed was 18 kilometers per hour on Monday. The city recorded a minimum temperature of 10.8 degrees Celsius, the lowest in the season so far.Calm winds and low temperatures trap pollutants close to the ground, while favourable wind speed helps in their dispersion.According to the central government’s Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi, the city’s ventilation index – a product of mixing depth and average wind speed – was around 12,000 meter square per second on Monday – favourable for dispersion of pollutants.Mixing depth is the vertical height in which pollutants are suspended in the air. It reduces on cold days with calm wind speed.A ventilation index lower than 6,000 sqm/second, with the average wind speed less than 10 kmph, is unfavourable for dispersal of pollutants.Earlier during the day, Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai targeted the BJP and the Congress on the issue of stubble burning, saying the share of farm fires in Delhi’s pollution has soared to 40 per cent but the opposition parties were in denial.“We have been saying it again and again that stubble burning is a major reason behind severe levels of pollution in Delhi around Diwali, but the BJP and the Congress say the share of farm fires in Delhi’s pollution was just 4 to 6 per cent, whereas statistics show it has increased to 40 per cent,” Rai told reporters. In Delhi, the administration sprayed the bio-decomposer developed by Indian Agricultural Research Institute, Pusa, in non-Basmati rice fields to prevent stubble burning. “The preliminary reports have been extremely positive. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will ascertain the ground reality on November 4,” he said.In a bid to control pollution, the Delhi government has also said that only “green firecrackers” can be manufactured, sold and used in the national capital in accordance with a 2018 Supreme Court order. The ‘green crackers’ are not as polluting as the conventional types of firecrackers and they contain at least 30 per cent less particulate matter such as Sulphur Dioxide and Nitrogen Oxide.Fireworks can take place between 8 pm and 10 pm only on festivals like Diwali and Gurpurab etc. On Christmas eve and New Year eve, it would be from 11:55 pm till 12:30 am only, according to the Delhi Pollution Control Committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-pollution-unchanged-despite-high-wind-speed-air-quality-still-poor/story-31itI4FxQ77WC0DYgkF0VK.html
02-11-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan assembly passes three bills to negate farm laws enacted by Centre||The Rajasthan assembly on Monday passed three bills by voice vote to counter the farm laws enacted by the Centre recently.The BJP MLAs staged a walkout ahead of the voice vote.Replying to a debate on the farms bills, Rajasthan Parliamentary Affairs Minister Shanti Dhariwal said that entire country is against the farm laws enacted by the Union government. “I can say it with guarantee that all three farm laws will have to be withdrawn just like the Land Acquisition Act,” Dhariwal said.Defending the central laws, Leader of Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria said the Centre’s farm laws were not introduced in Parliament all of a sudden.Kataria said the laws were made after taking into account recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission, which talked about one nation, one market; contract farming; and abolition of indirect mandi taxes.The Congress has brought the bills in the Rajasthan Assembly just to make their leaders in New Delhi happy, he said.”If someone has worked to bring a change in farmers’ life, it is Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” Kataria said.Following the debate, the House passed the Essential Commodities (Special Provisions and Rajasthan Amendment) Bill, 2020; Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services (Rajasthan Amendment) Bill, 2020; and Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation and Rajasthan Amendment) Bill, 2020 by voice vote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-assembly-passes-three-bills-to-negate-farm-laws-enacted-by-centre/story-IpsuPJq5CKquBjXCMyzY2O.html
02-11-2020||City||79-year-old gatekeeper found hanging in Ludhiana factory||A 79-year-old gatekeeper from Nepal was found hanging on the premises of a factory that he guarded in New Deep Nagar, near Haibowal Kalan.Investigating officer Damanpreet Singh from Kailash Nagar police post said they received information around 8.30am about a man hanging from the ceiling fan in a factory. Police reached the spot and sent the body to the civil hospital for autopsy.The deceased’s wife had died about four years ago and he had been suffering from depression ever since, he added. His children, live in Nepal, and often visited him in Ludhiana. They have been informed. No suicide note was found. Police have initiated inquest proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/79-year-old-gatekeeper-found-hanging-in-ludhiana-factory/story-2DASkXzfpVYaurqmedXG3M.html
02-11-2020||Lucknow||Parents axed daughter to death in UP’s Pratapgarh||On finding their young daughter pregnant out of wedlock, her parents allegedly axed her to death and threw the body on the rail tracks here, police said on Monday. According to police, the body was found on rail the tracks on October 25 and it was identified by her father, following which an FIR was lodged against unknown people. During investigation, police got inputs about the involvement of her parents in the crime. The parents told police that they had taken their daughter for an ultrasound on October 24 and on finding her six-month pregnant, they tried for an abortion but no doctor was ready for it. On returning home, they took the woman to a place near the Alapur railway tracks and hacked her to death with an axe, police said, adding that they threw the body on the tracks hoping that some train would run over it. The axe used in the crime has been recovered. Both were arrested on Saturday, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/parents-axed-daughter-to-death-in-up-s-pratapgarh/story-Z20OKCk9JRZnWEpi8DiMoJ.html
02-11-2020||City||12 arrested in Ludhiana for illegal lottery trade||Continuing their crackdown on illegal lottery businesses operating gambling rackets, police arrested 12 people in three separate cases over the past 24 hours.The Division Number 6 police arrested nine people and recovered Rs 2,800 from their possession at a shop near Dholewal Chowk. ASI Binder Singh said the accused were identified as Alam Shah of Vishwakarma Colony, Rajinder Kumar of Prabhat Nagar, Amarjeet Kumar of New Shivaji Nagar, Baba Dev of Dholewal, Sanjay of Guru Angad Dev Nagar, Balveer Singh of New Shivaji Nagar, Gaganpreet Singh and Ranveer Singh of Jamalpur, and Ravi Kumar of Vijay Nagar.Another man, Shiv Kumar, a resident of Vishwakarma Nagar, Tajpur Road, was arrested with Rs 8,210 in Kuldeep Nagar.Similarly, Division Number 6 police nabbed two men, who claimed to be running a government-approved lottery business in Miller Ganj.ASI Jagir Singh said the accused, identified as Kuldeep Singh of Islam Ganj and Deepak Kalra of Prem Nagar, had Rs 5,260 in their possession.The arrests came following specific directions from commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal, who directed SHOs of all police stations to ensure that no illegal lottery business was running in their jurisdiction, else they will face action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/12-arrested-in-ludhiana-for-illegal-lottery-trade/story-CzvNPfnVVsRF9Vmmhka8fO.html
02-11-2020||City||Elderly farmer assaulted, robbed of Rs 5.5 lakh in Tarn Taran||Three bike-borne men snatched a bag, containing Rs 5.5 lakh, from an elderly man after assaulting him with sharp-edged weapons in Sadhra village of Bhikhwind subdivision on Monday afternoon. The victim, Jarnail Singh, 70, a farmer of Bood Chand village, said that he, along with his son, Balwinder Singh, 45, were on their way back home after withdrawing cash from State Bank of India’s Bhikhiwind branch, when the incident took place. “We had recently received payment for the crop that we sold to a trader. As the money was credited into my son’s account, we had gone to withdraw it. The cash was to be used to extend the contract of the land we have taken on lease,” Jarnail told the police. “When we reached near Sadhra village, three masked men came on a bike and started attacking us. When we fell off our bike, the men snatched the bag from me and fled,” he said, adding that he received injuries on his hand and leg in the attack. Jarnail’s son, Balwinder, said that he chased the miscreants and tried to nab them with the help of some passers-by, but failed. A case under Section 379-B (snatching) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against unidentified persons, Bhikhiwind station house officer Gurcharan Singh said. District sees rise in crimes The incident comes two days after an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of Punjab police was shot dead by armed robbers when he resisted the snatching of his son’s mobile phone near Kaka Kandiala village, situated on the outskirts of Tarn Taran city. There has also been a sudden spurt in cases of loot, snatching and theft in the district, leaving the residents anxious. According to information, as many as 16 cases of robbery and theft have been reported from the district in the last month alone. Besides, six murders and nine cases of attempt to murder have also come to fore from the district in the corresponding period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/elderly-farmer-assaulted-robbed-of-rs-5-5-lakh-in-tarn-taran/story-UjErWzXaJ5pXm1rRMD2YHJ.html
02-11-2020||Chandigarh||World Rankings: 10 PGIMER doctors rank among top scientists||Ten Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) doctors, five serving and five retired, have been featured in World Rankings of ‘top 2% scientists in India’, the medical institution announced on Monday. The rankings include Dr Arunaloke Chakrabarti (microbiology), Dr Ritesh Agarwal (respiratory systems), Dr Pranab Dey (pathology), Dr KS Chugh (urology and nephrology, retired), Dr Amod Gupta (ophthalmology and optometry, retired), Dr RK Dhiman (gastroenterology and hepatology), Dr Sunit Singhi and Dr Pratibha Singhi (paediatrics, retired), Dr AJ Kanwar (dermatology and venereal diseases, retired) and Dr Ravindra Khaiwal (environmental Sciences). PGMIER director Jagat Ram said, “This is a momentous occasion as 10 of our scientists have brought laurels to the institute by being recognised in the top World Rankings. Their unwavering commitment and incessant hard work has paid rich dividends and we are proud of their achievement.” A subject-wise analysis was conducted by a team of scientists at Stanford University, USA, led by Dr John PA Ioannidis. The database has been published in PLOS Biology. The scientists at Stanford University have created a database of around 1,00,000 top scientists of the world on the basis of standardised citation indicators such as information on citations, H-index, co-authorship and a composite indicator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/world-rankings-10-pgimer-doctors-rank-among-top-scientists/story-5IHV1GnTzFJCLHPARfoj2O.html
02-11-2020||Chandigarh||Covid: Panjab University asks departments to cut expenses||With Panjab University taking various measures to curtail spending this year to minimise the loss in revenue due to pandemic, it has also asked all departments to cut down their expenses. In a recent communication from the assistant registrar (budget), the teaching and non-teaching departments were told to adopt the austerity measures taken by the varsity on the recommendation of a special panel. PU is not expecting to earn any revenue from the various sources, including hostels, amid the pandemic. The annual fee hike was put on hold this year and, a concession of 5% in semester fee for all students resulted in losses to the tune of ₹2 crore. As per the communication, the heads of all departments and branches, except the dental institute, have been asked to reduce the budget provision meant for lab expenditure by 40%. It also stated that there will be a general cut of 10% in the budget provision of office and general expenses instead of 20% as had been recommended by the austerity committee. Moreover, the departments have been asked to not use budget provision under the head ‘Books of Journals’, to purchase of books. However, the department may use the same for the purchase of online textbooks and reference books only. NO NEW DEMAND TO BE CONSIDERED The varsity also stated that to curtail the spending, the finance department will not consider any new or additional demands in the revised budget estimates of 2020-21 and the budget estimates of 2021-22. However, the decision will be reviewed at the time of the formulation of revised estimates of 2021-22 in July 2021. Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) president Mritunjay Kumar said, “We have put forth several demands during the budget estimates meeting keeping in view the problems faced by the teaching community. We have also demanded ₹1 crore for streamlining the online teaching facilities.” PU has already suspended the leave travel concession/ home town concession to its employees for 2020-21 and, libraries have been asked to cut short the online journal subscriptions based on their usage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-pu-asks-departments-to-cut-expenses/story-d4yxOlJ2Eoc41UUpfmXG4M.html
02-11-2020||Pune||Tea-stall owner shot at, injured by three unidentified men||A tea stall owner was shot at thrice by three men who arrived near his stall on a motorbike in Velha, on Sunday morning.The injured man has been identified as Vilas Natu Borge (42), a resident of Dapode village, where the incident took place.The three men are suspected to be around 19-20 years of age each, according to the police. The three were wearing masks which concealed their faces, according to the police.They fired three shots from a revolver and one of the three shots misfired while two hit Borge in the chest. “The reason for the shooting is not yet known. They did not order tea or anything. The injured underwent a surgery and is still unconscious and these three are on the run,” said senior police inspector Padmakar Ghanwat of local crime branch of Pune rural police who visited the spot.A case under relevant Section 307 (attempted murder), 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of Arms Act has been registered at Velha police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/tea-stall-owner-shot-at-injured-by-three-unidentified-men/story-PLvbri1qNrYbIrUyCakYXN.html
02-11-2020||Lucknow||Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri, 9 others elected unopposed to Rajya Sabha from Uttar Pradesh||Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri and nine others were elected unopposed to the Rajya Sabha from Uttar Pradesh on Monday. Eight of them belonged to the BJP while one each from the Samajwadi Party and the BSP. Ten candidates were declared elected to the Rajya Sabha and were also given their certificates, Assistant Returning Officer Mohd Mushahid said. Besides Puri, those elected to the upper house of Parliament are BJP’s Neeraj Shekhar, Arun Singh, Geeta Shakya, Haridwar Dubey, Brijlal, B L Varma and Seema Dwivedi; Samajwadi Party’s Ram Gopal Yadav; and BSP’s Ramji Gautam, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/union-minister-hardeep-singh-puri-9-others-elected-unopposed-to-rajya-sabha-from-uttar-pradesh/story-Nel9ZJoUnTxSQkWz8JFvJP.html
02-11-2020||Bhopal||9 booked for pre-poll violence in Madhya Pradesh||In pre-poll violence witnessed in at least three assembly constituencies going to by-polls in Madhya Pradesh, at least seven people sustained injuries while nine were booked in connection with the incidents in the past 24 hours, the police said.Groups of BJP and Congress workers allegedly clashed in Badnawar in Dhar district on Monday resulting in injuries to at least six people. The injured were rushed to a hospital, the police said.According to the police, BJP candidate from Badnawar, Rajvardhan Singh‘s brother Harshvardhan Singh lodged a complaint against seven Congress workers, including MP Congress Committee secretary Kuldeep Singh Bundela and a local Congress leader Abhishek Modi, for attacking his vehicle and injuring six people.However, Kuldeep Singh also lodged an FIR with Tilgara police station in the district blaming the BJP workers for an attack on them.Also read: Over 200 militants killed by forces in Jammu and Kashmir since January this yearSuperintendent of Police (SP), Dhar district Aditya Pratap Singh said, “A clash took place between BJP and Congress workers when the vehicle of one of the groups was allegedly hit by another group’s vehicle in Tilagara area.”“Later, Congress workers attacked BJP workers and injured six people. They fled the spot. Police have identified four of the seven accused and are trying to nab them,” said the SP. In another incident, BJP candidate from Gwalior Pradyumn Singh Tomar’s son Ripudaman Singh registered a complaint against Manu Sharma, nephew of Congress candidate from Gwalior, Sunil Sharma, for allegedly attacking him and consuming alcohol in public, said police. Ripudaman Singh said he lodged a complaint with the police in the wee hours on Monday when he received information late night on Sunday that Congress workers were distributing liquor in a car in Gwalior’s Padaav area.“When I reached there, I was attacked by a group of six people. I sustained injuries when their car driver attacked me. I sustained injuries on one of my hands, said Singh.Gwalior Superintendent of Police Amit Sanghi said, “An FIR has been registered against Manu Sharma and another person for voluntarily causing hurt and consuming liquor in public.”Similarly, in Mandhata constituency of Khandwa district, a group of Congress workers staged a sit-in at Punasa police station on Sunday night alleging that a party worker Abhishek Thakre was attacked by a group of BJP workers when he objected to the act of the latter distributing money and liquor.The worker, in a written complaint to police, accused the BJP candidate’s son and some other people of attacking him at village Khutlakala.Punasa police station in-charge OP Singh said, “We are looking into the complaint.”MP Congress committee spokesperson JP Dhanopia said, “Police are taking action against Congress workers at the behest of the BJP-led state government. The BJP leaders are nervous because they have realised that they are going to lose the by-polls.” BJP spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal said, “Congress workers are trying to create disturbance during the by-polls but they won’t be allowed to disturb the peace in the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/9-booked-for-pre-poll-violence-in-madhya-pradesh/story-3d2HLrtmvawuDTbntVY1HI.html
02-11-2020||Chandigarh||Want to make a mark in Women’s T20 Challenge, says Chandigarh-based fast bowler Kashvee||Chandigarh Chandigarh-based fast bowler Kashvee Gautam, the first Indian woman cricketer to have taken a perfect 10-wicket haul, will be playing for the Trailblazers in the Women’s T-20 Challenge to be held in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) between November 4 and 9.Seven months ago, Gautam, then aged 16, had made ripples in the women’s one-day tournament being held in Andhra Pradesh where she took 10 wickets against the home team in a plate group game at Kadapa. Taking note of her feat, BCCI’s newly appointed selection panel led by Neetu David selected Gautam to play for the Smriti Mandhana-led Trailblazers. Two other teams — Supernovas and Velocity — will also participate in the T20 challenge in Sharjah.Ask Gautam how she feels and she says, “Life has been strange over the last six months. I only started training a fortnight ago. I was excited to play in the women’s U-19 World Cup that was to be held in January 2021 in Bangladesh. However, it was postponed in the wake of the pandemic. Now, the Almighty has given me another chance to exhibit my skill among senior women. I have been following the Indian Premier League matches. I aim to do well by my team and also make a mark.”Gautam, who said this before leaving for Mumbai ahead of the tournament, had scored 350 runs and scalped 66 wickets for Chandigarh in plate group one-day U-19 and U-23 tournaments last season.Apart from Kashvee, Chandigarh’s Taniya Bhatia will also be seen in action during the tournament. She will play for the Supernovas led by Harmanpreet Kaur. Meanwhile, Mohali-based Harleen Deol will also be part of the Trailblazers.Gautam eyes Indian team berth While Gautam was with Punjab, she seldom got a chance to represent the state in different age categories but once Chandigarh got BCCI affiliation, Gautam was unstoppable.“I would not get many chances to play for Punjab. When Chandigarh became a BCCI unit, it was a big thing. I gave my best shot and at the end of the season, I was peaking at the right time. Using pace well along with variations will be key in UAE. Shafali Varma did well in the last edition. I, too, want to make an impression and make the Indian team berth,” said Gautam, who trains with Coach Nagesh Gupta at Government Model Senior Secondary School cricket academy in Sector 26.She had missed bagging a second perfect 10 in the same tournament against Sikkim by a single wicket. “Things were clicking for me. I bowled aggressively and bagged nine wickets. That is in the past now. The plan will be to get used to the UAE heat ahead of the matches and bowl well,” says the Class-11 student, who idolises England’s Jofra Archer.Praising Gautam, Chandigarh senior women team coach and former first-class cricketer Khyati Gulani said, “She is talented and electric on the field. India needs such a multi-talented cricketer. She can bat well and is a superb fielder. India lacks in the fast-bowling department, Kashvee can be groomed well and included in the national team. She will be an asset. She should make most of the UAE experience.”Harmanpreet Kaur and Mithali Raj will be captains of Supernovas,and Velocity, respectively.The 2020 Women’s T20 Challenge will begin with last year’s finalist Supernovas taking on Velocity in the opening game.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/want-to-make-a-mark-in-women-s-t20-challenge-says-chandigarh-based-fast-bowler-kashvee/story-FA6UWm6yD5NNXqE8BSEhIJ.html
02-11-2020||City||Goa: Midnight protest against railway expansion gets huge support||Hundreds of protesters gathered at Chandor in south Goa and camped along the railway track with candles, beating drums and raising slogans against the state government’s move to push through railway expansion through a stretch located between Margao and Sanvordem. The conversion of a single-track route into a double line is being opposed, which protesters allege will cause irreparable damage to the fragile Western Ghats ecosystem. The expansion work is aimed at transportation of coal from the Mormugao port to steel plants located in north Karnataka via a protected forest in the Western Ghats. The vigil was attended by prominent members of the leading opposition parties. “Work is in progress, even though all the permissions are yet to be granted. The Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change’s (MoEFCC) guidelines stipulate that for linear projects, the construction work should not begin until all the permissions have been granted,” said Abhijit Prabhudesai, who is leading the agitation against the expansion under the banner of Goyant Kollso Naka, which loosely translates to we don’t want coal in Goa. The South Western Railway Line that runs between Londa in north Karnataka and Vasco da Gama in Goa was built in the late 19th century by the colonial Britishers to connect the Mormugao port with the hinterland via the Western Ghats. The railway track has become saturated ever since the Mormugao port emerged as a focal point for the import of coal. In 2010, the Union Ministry of Railways had sanctioned the doubling of the existing Hospet-Tinaighat-Vasco railway line in Karnataka and Goa. The construction work in the first phase between Hospet and Tinai ghat, which involved easier terrain atop the largely flat Deccan plateau, has been completed. The second phase between Tinaighat and Vasco da Gama involves crossing steep slopes, raging rivers and thick forests of the Western Ghats and densely populated parts of coastal Goa are being contested. Earlier this year, the standing committee of the MoEFCC recommended the grant of clearance for diversion of forest land to construct the railway line, along with permission for two other projects such as expansion of the existing state highway and a power transmission line. All three projects are being opposed on environmental grounds. The clearances have been challenged before the Bombay high court (HC) at Goa and the Central Empowered Committee (CEC), which was set up by the Supreme Court (SC) to adjudicate environmental matters. “The Congress and other opposition parties have spoken in one voice against the doubling of the railway track, which is being carried out for facilitating transportation of coal through Goa,” said Digambar Kamat, leader of Opposition in Goa legislative assembly, after taking part in the vigil. The protest was organised to coincide with the Rail Vikas Nigam Limited’s (RVNL) bid to carry out the laying of a track at Chandor village, which lies along the stretch of track between Margao and Sanvordem.The stretch involves three distinct sections. The easternmost part that passes through wildlife sanctuaries crossing steep slopes, raging rivers and thick forests of the Western Ghats, a middle section involving easier terrain and the coastal stretch between Margao and Vasco, which is densely populated. The project is also beset with land acquisition troubles and stiff opposition by local residents living along the track.However, the RVNL authorities have refused to stop the construction work on grounds that unless a government authority or a court of law directed them to do so.Though the agitation was the biggest amid the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant is not willing to accede to the protesters’ demands. Initially, he claimed that the project was not aimed at transportation of coal and later changed his tack to allege that expatriate Goans was behind “these agitations”. “The infrastructure is not being created for the transportation of coal alone. Stop these agitations. We have not started importing coal. Coal has been imported for many years. We have not even increased the import of coal. We are carrying out the construction work in a bid to develop industries and give a boost to exports and imports,” Sawant had said at a function last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/goa-midnight-protest-against-railway-expansion-gets-huge-support/story-iSI3uqWalQZa1gZyc9pW0M.html
02-11-2020||Lucknow||FIR lodged against poet Munawwar Rana for ‘promoting enmity’||A first information report (FIR) was lodged against noted Urdu poet Munawwar Rana at Hazratganj police station in Lucknow for allegedly promoting enmity after his recent comments over the killing of a French school teacher Samuel Paty by a radical Islamist.Paty was killed outside Paris on October 16 for showing caricatures of Prophet Mohammad made by a publication called Charlie Hebdo in his class on freedom of expression.The FIR was lodged on Sunday on the complaint of a sub-inspector of Lucknow Police. Confirming it, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Hazratganj, Raghvendra Kumar Mishra said,” We have registered an FIR against Munawwar Rana after a complaint was lodged against him for promoting enmity.”The complaint mentions a recent interview of Munawwar Rana, 67, to a private news channel over the killing of Samuel Paty and spike in attacks by radical Islamists in France.“A clip of the interview in which Munawwar Rana seems to be supporting violent acts like murder has gone viral. It has been doing rounds on various social media platforms. The veracity of the video will be checked before taking action against anyone,” said the ACP.Also read: MHA holds Covid-19 review meet, discusses ways to check surge in DelhiBased on the complaint, the police booked Rana under Sections 153A (promoting enmity between groups on grounds of religion), 295A (deliberate and malicious act intended to outrage religious sentiments), 298 (uttering words deliberately with intent to hurt religious feelings), 505 (statement conducing public mischief) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) besides under relevant sections of the IT Act.A police team of Hazratganj police station is investigating the matter. Rana could not be reached for a comment on the FIR despite repeated calls and text messages.Rana said that he “cannot even think of supporting an act of murder”. “I am against what the French teacher did and also against the person who took the life of the teacher for that,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/fir-lodged-against-poet-munawwar-rana-for-promoting-enmity/story-LdFHah6BVpoKzwGoMZDRxI.html
02-11-2020||City||Rajasthan’s Gujjar quota stir: One faction continues agitation, the other calls for ending it||As the Gujjar quota stir entered its second day in Rajasthan, one faction continued its protest on the railway tracks of Delhi-Mumbai passing through Peelupura village of Bharatpur district on Monday, while the other called a meeting of the community members to form a strategy to end the stir. Compared to earlier years, this time the protesters are divided into two factions — one led by Kirori Singh Bainsla and his son Vijay Bainsla, and the other, by Himmat Singh. Singh, along with a delegation of 41, had met a government panel where the administration reportedly agreed to meet all their demands. The meeting was organised around 12noon in Gargara Nagla village where many panch and heads from different villages of the community participated and appealed for an end to the agitation in order to maintain peace. Gujjar leader Deewan Singh Sherpur, who was part of the delegation, said it was wrong on the part of Kirori Singh Bainsla to blocked a rail route while the state government had agreed to fulfil all demands of the community. “People of the Gujjar community of Bharatpur will not allow Bainsla to break law and order. To launch a stir without any reason is not favourable for community,” he said. Meanwhile, Vijay Bainsla said they were not ready to leave railway track on any condition. “We have jammed Bayana Hindaun road...Agitators in large numbers have been on the rail route and are cooking here itself. We would not approach any representative of the government...they need to come here to talk to us,” he said.Meanwhile, the agitation found echoes in Ajmer where roads were blocked on Monday afternoon for a couple of hours. Routes of at least 60 trains, including 40 freight trains, had to be diverted on Sunday because of the agitation and two trains were cancelled. Also, about 220 buses from five major roadways depots of Dausa, Hindaun, Karauli, Bharatpur and Bayana were stopped. Bharatpur inspector general of police Sanjiv Narzary said police force in adequate numbers has been deployed in Bayana. Internet services have also been snapped in the Gujjar dominated areas across Dausa, Hindaun, Karauli, Bharatpur, Sawai Madhopru and Jaipur rural to check the spread of rumours. Collectors of eight districts in Rajasthan have been authorised to make preventive detentions under the National Security Act 1980. Different state governments have brought in laws to give Gujjars (and four other communities) 5% reservation under special backward classes (SBC) and later, as the most backward classes (MBC) but the Rajasthan high court struck down the laws .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rajasthan-s-gujjar-quota-stir-one-faction-continues-another-calls-for-end-to-agitation/story-e29wy4zlhIIKOtmzVmfspI.html
02-11-2020||Delhi||‘Metro travel in Delhi should be regulated’: Home ministry after Covid-19 review meeting||The ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Monday said that the surge in active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in national capital Delhi is due to the festival season and the laxity shown by people in adhering to safe Covid behaviour.“The recent surge in the number of active cases was attributed to the festival season, which has witnessed greater movement of people, accompanied by laxity in adhering to the basic principles of safe Covid behaviour,” the ministry said in a statement.The home ministry further said that hospital bed situation is comfortable in Delhi with 57 per cent of 15,789 dedicated Covid-19 beds being vacant.It also said that the government will focus on efforts like targeted RT-PCR testing in sensitive zones such as restaurants, markets and salons.The statement came after a Covid-19 review meeting conducted by Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla with health ministry and other experts. Decreasing temperature and rising pollution was discussed as part of the strategy to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease.It was emphasised in the meeting that Metro travel in Delhi should be carefully regulated, strictly in accordance with the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) that have been issued in this regard, the MHA said.The national capital on Sunday recorded 5,664 new cases of Covid-19 and 51 fatalities, as the positivity rate soared to 12.7 per cent, according to Delhi government’s health bulletin.So far, 392,370 people have contracted Covid-19 in Delhi, of whom 352,635 have recovered, the bulletin said.With 44,623 total tests recorded on Sunday, the positivity rate shot up to 12.7 per cent - up from an average of 5.3% recorded for the week ending October 8. The positivity rate stood at 11.42 per cent on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/metro-travel-in-delhi-should-be-regulated-home-ministry-after-covid-19-review-meeting/story-QCl0QKPQciRp2ujJ1NYcrI.html
02-11-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka by-polls: BJP looks to wrest Sira, RR Nagar; Congress hopes for upset wins||All the three main parties in Karnataka – the BJP, the Congress and the Janata Dal (Secular) - have made it a prestige battle to win the Sira and Raja Rajeshwari (RR) Nagar assembly constituencies which will go to polls on Tuesday. The fate of 31 candidates who are in contention for the two seats will be sealed tomorrow even as the Election Commission has made elaborate arrangements to ensure a peaceful and safe polling in light of the Covid-19 situation.The Sira seat fell vacant after the sitting JDS MLA B Satyanarayana died due to Covid-19. The RR Nagar seat is witnessing by-polls as MLA Munirathna resigned and crossed over from the Congress to the BJP helping topple the JDS-Congress coalition government in the state.Both the constituencies are Vokkaliga dominated. While the BJP, which has never won either constituency, is looking to break into new territory and expand its base, for Congress this is the first poll the party is facing under new Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar who wants to prove a point.For the regional JDS, it is an existential question as any loss would diminish the party’s historic role as a key third pole in the state politics. Also, the role of HD Deve Gowda and HD Kumaraswamy as the traditional voice of the Vokkaliga community is likely to be challenged by Shivakumar who also belongs to the same community.The outcome of the polls though is unlikely to affect the power balance in the state as BJP enjoys a clear simple majority with 117 members in the 225 member assembly apart from the support of three independents. However, a win for the BJP in Sira, where CM Yediyurappa’s son BY Vijayendra is leading the party’s campaign, would help cement his position in the party.Also read: Kejriwal announces ‘historic step’ for industrial areas of DelhiFor Shivakumar, it is a prestige fight too as RR Nagar is part of the Bengaluru Rural parliamentary seat represented by his brother DK Suresh. A win in either or both of the seats could propel his claim to be the Congress party’s candidate for the Chief Ministership at the cost of Siddaramiah.JDS too wants to defend what it sees as its turf. In Sira, it is hoping for a sympathy wave that would help its candidate Ammajamma, the widow of Satyanarayana. In RR Nagar, it is hoping to emerge as the player who decides who will be the winner.Leaders of all three parties have expressed confidence that they will win both seats. CM BS Yediyurappa even announced that Munirathna would be made a minister after he wins the polls and in Sira, he promised several developmental works if the party were to win.Congress PCC chief DK Shivakumar and Leader of Opposition Siddaramiah, both of whom have been campaigning relentlessly, say that despite BJP’s best efforts, they are confident of winning both the seats. ‘The ruling party has unleashed money and muscle power but we are still confident of winning both the seats,” Shivakumar told media.Political analyst Manjunath says that though the survival of the state government is not at stake, the outcome could influence the political tenor for the near future. “If BJP loses both the seats, it might accelerate the party high command’s desire to replace Yediyurappa. A heavy loss in both seats by the JDS would push it further to margins. For Congress, if they lose both seats, there might be a blame game between Shivakumar and Siddaramiah factions.”Manjunath says in case of Congress’ victory in either or both seats, Shivakumar’s hold on the party is likely to increase. In case BJP pulls off victories in both seats, it would help Yediyurappa to further consolidate his position, he added. The results of the by-polls will be declared on 10 November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-by-polls-bjp-looks-to-wrest-sira-rr-nagar-congress-hopes-for-upset-wins/story-xCE8FCcPdD1kO84W7L8zXK.html
02-11-2020||City||Covid-19 still here, need to exercise caution in festive season||Festival shopping at brick and mortar stores during Deepavali has always had its charm. So also melas and special exhibitions that have become part of the celebrations of festival of lights. But this year, both retailers and consumers need to exercise utmost caution when it comes to Deepavali shopping.Usually, this is the time when retailers go all out to draw huge crowds -- the bigger the better. And what can be better than offers of special discounts and gifts to attract consumers ? But Covid-19 has unfortunately changed all that. In fact, several outlets that offered huge discounts and attracted massive crowds in Tamil Nadu were forced to down their shutters by the local administration for violating the Standard Operating Procedures meant to contain the spread of Covid-19.What were these inducements that got the consumers so excited and rush to the venue, throwing caution to the wind? While in one instance, the bait was an inaugural offer of ‘buy any dress for Rs 25’, in the other, it was a T-shirt for Rs 9 and a set of three shirts for Rs 999. But one saw a similar rush even in an upscale saree shop in Chennai that had announced clearance sale. Here too, the local administration had to shut down the outlet after videos of the crowd inside the shop made the rounds on social media. Here again, there was no social distancing and many of the shoppers were sans the mandatory mask. State health authorities should in fact test all those who went to these ‘sales’.Going by the crowd frenzy at these outlets, it seems like even the threat of contracting Covid is not a deterrent when it comes to grabbing goodies at a marked down price. Or may be such discounts are even more valuable in these times when people have considerably less disposable incomes to spend on clothes for the festival.With Deepawali just a fortnight away, there is every likelihood of shoppers and the shopkeepers forgetting the precautions against Covid and committing similar blunders. While consumers are suffering from Covid-fatigue, the retailers, whose businesses have taken a huge hit on account of the pandemic, are desperate for business. Besides, with online shops organising massive festival sales, the brick and mortar stores are really in a panic.So the civic authorities have to be highly vigilant and prevent super spreader events such as exhibitions and deep discounts that attract huge crowds. They have to ensure all businesses follow the mandated precautionary measures, particularly in respect of staggering the number of visitors or customers, ensuring social distancing norms outside as well as inside the outlets, allowing only those customers who are wearing masks to enter (or providing them with masks) , ensuring the availability of sanitizers at the entrance, etc. Let us not forget that we are finally seeing a decline in the number of coronavirus cases in the country and any let up at this time could well reverse that trend.Several studies have shown that when a number of people come together, particularly in a closed environment, even one super spreader in the group can infect a very large number of people. And this person may well be asymptomatic or the symptoms may not have manifested as yet. This is the reason why gatherings such as these that would contribute to increasing number of positive cases are to be shunned. I must mention here, a yet to be peer-reviewed, pre-print article in medRxiv, which puts considerable emphasis on the need for anticipating and preventing superspreading events to cut down on overall transmission rates . “A skewed distribution where few individuals or events are responsible for the majority of transmission, can result in explosive, superspreading events which produce rapid and volatile epidemic dynamics, especially early or late in epidemics”, says the article. (‘Chopping the tail: how preventing super spreading can help to maintain Covid-19 control’)A good advice indeed, particularly in these festival times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-still-here-need-to-exercise-caution-in-festive-season/story-fxyfa6pIwTa1KsDrv70yZO.html
02-11-2020||Delhi||North-east Delhi riots: HC sets aside trial court’s order granting bail to private school principal||The Delhi high court on Monday set aside a trial court order granting bail to Rajdhani School principal Faisal Farooq, an accused in the north-east Delhi riots, while stating that “the entire country is aggrieved by the action of such offenders who tarnish the basic secular fabric of the nation and needs to be punished severely”.Cancelling the bail granted to Farooq on June 20 by additional sessions Judge Vinod Yada, Justice Suresh Kait said that the lower court had failed to appreciate that while deciding an application for bail, the society’s interest is also to be safeguarded. He said that “personal liberty of an individual, though precious, is of little value if the larger interest of the people and nation are at stake.”Also read | ‘Not allowed to meet anyone’: Delhi riots accused Umar Khalid tells courtThe Delhi police had challenged the bail granted to Farooq who had been charged for hatching a conspiracy to precipitate and aggravate riots, in and around his school. According to the police, it was on his directions that the adjacent convent school, two parking lots run by the other party and the building of one Anil Sweets were destroyed by the mob. The police claimed in the charge sheet that the call detail analysis of Farooq suggested that the he had links with prominent members of Popular Front of India, Pinjra Tod group, Jamia Coordination Committee, and other persons, which indicate the depth of the conspiracy.While cancelling Farooq’s bail, the judge said, “The accused has been charged with criminal conspiracy. His absence from the spot does not absolve him of his liability in this case.” In their charge sheet, the police had claimed that the rioters had camped inside and fired bullets from the terrace of Rajdhani School. They also threw petrol bombs, acid, bricks, stones and other missiles using an improvised large iron catapult, specially installed for the purpose, from the terrace. Police also said that on February 24, the day of the riots, many children had been told to leave the school early, along with their parents, during the half time recess, which showed that the riots were premeditated. At least 53 persons died and 607 were injured when clashes broke out in parts of north-east Delhi. The riots had started on the evening of February 23, after a clash between supporters and protesters of the Citizenship Amendment Act. Farooq’s counsel was yet to respond to HT’s calls. The copy will be updated once he does that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/north-east-delhi-riots-hc-sets-aside-trial-court-s-order-granting-bail-to-private-school-principal/story-O4SiXMxUiRhvW2vGccuitJ.html
02-11-2020||Pune||NGO seeks performance audit of 39 public promises of Pune MP Bapat||A city-based non-governmental organisation (NGO), Punevotes, has sought performance audit of city Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Member of Parliament Girish Bapat related to public announcements he had made in the spheres of environment, infrastructure, culture and other parameters.The NGO has come up with a detailed analysis of the pronouncements made by MP Bapat since getting elected to the Parliament through a questionnaire ranging from his public spending through MP Local Area Development Fund, bills proposed, questions asked and membership in parliamentary committees. The report specially deals with the promises made by him related to improvement of education, health, environment, transport, housing , infrastructure, women and child welfare, law and justice including sanitation.Of the 39 promises assessed by the NGO related to the public announcements made by him, the NGO claims that none of them have been answered by the parliamentarian despite sending a detailed questionnaire to him on August 14.HT sent Bapat sent a detailed a copy of the report seeking his response on Sunday. Phone calls to his contact number went unanswered. His close aide and secretary Sunil Mane, said, “The MP is extremely busy with graduate constituency election related to work. I will see to it that you get a response soon.”The NGO has focused on his public promises like setting up a skills university in Pune, working towards improvement of sports and education system in Pune, river cleaning and development projects, starting hyperloop project.Avinay Sanyogita, researcher, MumbaiVotes, said, “If the MP made promises before elections, he should also declare the status of those promises after elections. Had MP Bapat declared his performance since his election, he would have set an example strengthening democratic principles of accountability and transparency of elected representatives. Simply put, if you made promises, it’s not only an ethical, but also a constitutional duty to fulfil those promises. The people have a right to know what their elected representative has done since they voted him to power.”PuneVotes is a branch of MumbaiVotes.com which is a not for profit, independent info-bank. The portal is the outreach arm of the informed voter project which is a registered non-profit institution with the charity commissioner’s office in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ngo-seeks-performance-audit-of-39-public-promises-of-pune-mp-bapat/story-Tar9kuxoK71OJLyGE5Bc2K.html
02-11-2020||Chandigarh||Surge in Covid-19 cases in Haryana amid festive season||Haryana is seeing a new surge in Covid-19 cases with the state reporting 2,305 more infections last week as compared to the week before. The spike between October 26 and November 1 comes after a five-week decline in the infection rate.Though the 10,576 fresh infections reported last week were way below the all-time high of 17,616 infections reported in the second week of September when the virus spread was at its peak, health officials fear a gradual surge in numbers in the coming weeks.Additional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora said at present the surge is concentrated in districts bordering Delhi but there are concerns that the virus may spread to other parts by November-end. “It is according to our projections. We anticipated a surge during the festival season since there is a tendency of people to lower their guard and shun safety measures during festivities. Further, the resumption of activities such as the opening of schools, colleges, cinemas, multiplexes, entertainment parks, allowing social, religious and political congregations are also factors that contribute towards increasing the spread,” the ACS said.Districts in Delhi’s neighbourhood worst affected Four national capital region (NCR) districts abutting Delhi – Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat and Rohtak – contributed 53% of the 10,576 new infections reported last week. In fact, Gurugram (2,912) and Faridabad (1,692) alone accounted for 43% of the new infections.Hisar, a district in the north-western part of the state also reported a sizeable 1,160 new infections, primarily due to it being a commercial hub. “Once the numbers start increasing in Delhi, the bordering districts also see a spike because of inter-state movement of men and material,” health officials said.Dr Dhruva Chaudhary, the nodal officer for Covid-19 in the state, said that a surge is expected in winter due to the opening up of educational institutions, increase in air pollution and festival season.RT-PCR sampling picks up Statistics show that the health authorities have stepped up the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests, considered the gold standard test for detecting new infections and reduced the rapid antigen tests (RAT) significantly.While the total number of samples tested last week was less than the week before, the number of RT-PCR tests done was stepped up by 16,500. Also, only 29,787 rapid antigen tests were done last week as compared to 48,653 the week before, a decrease of over 18,000.The last time the RT-PCR testing was conducted at this intensity was in mid-September.“We are ramping up the RT-PCR testing again. The RAT will be significantly reduced. Civil surgeons have been directed to organise sampling camps for two weeks. Crowded areas, markets, slums and the vulnerable groups such as frequent travellers will be the focus of our stepped-up testing,” the ACS said.Nine districts have less than 1% fatality rate While the infections have started increasing, health officials say the case fatality rate in the state was low at 1.1% last week. In fact, nine districts – Gurugram, Faridabad, Charkhi Dadri, Jhajjar, Mahendergarh, Palwal, Rewari, Rohtak and Sonepat – have either 1% or less fatality rate, a desirable value as per the Union health ministry’s parameters. None of the remaining 13 districts have shown critical value of more than 6% fatality rate so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/surge-in-covid-19-cases-in-haryana-amid-festive-season/story-zX05qgKnsAfbHAduTNQbCK.html
02-11-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand starts snow leopard population estimation process||As part of the national protocol, Uttarakhand forest department on Monday started an estimation of the snow leopard population in the state, officials said. Ranjan Mishra, additional principal chief conservator of forest for wildlife, said the process started with a ground survey in areas above 3000m height.“We are starting with a survey where locals from snow leopard habitat areas will be asked to complete a questionnaire on direct and indirect signs for the presence of snow leopards. This will include information about domestic animals being killed, direct sightings, pug marks,” said Mishra.The process is being carried out in ten forest divisions of the state in the higher reaches of districts like Uttarkashi, Chamoli and Pithoragarh.Also read | Uttarakhand govt trying to generate jobs via country’s first snow leopard conservation centre“This estimation process is not just an exercise in finding the number of snow leopards in the area but also about studying the landscape. We want to know about the prey base, the ecology of the area and what improvements are needed. Along with the process, we will also be training the locals on how to earn a livelihood by combining conservation with ecotourism,” added Mishra.From the ground survey, areas will be identified and broken down into grids for installing camera traps with the help of experts from Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun. Snow leopards are found in about 23% of the geographical area of the state which is about 13,000 sq km and for preliminary investigation, this area is likely to be divided into 80 grids of 15 sq km each.Mishra said that an estimate of the number of snow leopards in the state will be released by December 2021Last year in October, the first national protocol for snow leopard population assessment in five Himalayan states, including Uttarakhand, was released by the union environment ministry. The protocol is titled ‘Snow leopard Population Assessment in India (SPAI). Snow leopard (Panthera uncia) is facing many threats to its existence due to poaching and habitat destruction. It inhabits the Himalayas at elevations ranging from 3,000 to 4,500 metres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/uttarakhand-starts-snow-leopard-population-estimation-process/story-CgpEwq67rNvlx5LJ1u2CGP.html
02-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: HC sets aside trial court’s order granting bail to school owner||The Delhi High Court Monday set aside the trial court order granting bail to a private school owner in a case related to communal violence in north-east Delhi during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act in February. Justice Suresh Kumar Kait said the trial court has granted bail to accused Faisal Farooq at a pre-mature stage while ignoring the relevant material on record.The high court allowed the plea of Delhi Police challenging the trial court’s June 20 order granting bail to Faisal Farooq.Also Read: North-east Delhi violence reminiscent of carnage during days of partition, court observesThe accused was not released from jail as there was a stay on the bail order. Farooq, owner of the Rajdhani School in Shiv Vihar locality was among the 18 arrested, for alleged involvement in burning and damaging property of the adjacent DRP Convent School.The police had challenged the trial court bail order saying the decision was ex-facie unwarranted.Delhi Police had on June 3 filed a charge sheet before the court against Farooq and 17 others in the incident in which the building of a private school was burnt down in north-east Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-riots-hc-sets-aside-trial-court-s-order-granting-bail-to-school-owner/story-6sloLLWg75ITIvcStawjMN.html
02-11-2020||Lucknow||Poet Munawwar Rana booked over remarks on France killings||An FIR has been registered against Urdu poet Munawwar Rana for allegedly defending the recent killings in France over a caricature of Prophet Muhammad, police said on Monday. The case has been lodged against Rana at the Hazratganj police station in Lucknow under various Indian Penal Code sections, including 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony), 295A (deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings), an officer said. The poet has also been booked under IPC Section 505 (statements conducing public mischief) and Section 66 of the Information Technology Act, the officer said. In a purported video clip of an interview to a news channel that went viral on social media, Rana can be heard saying: “If any person makes such a bad cartoon of my father or mother, then I will kill him.” When specifically asked if he is supporting the entire incident, he said: “I will kill him...” Rana’s comments came after three people were killed in a knife attack at a church in Nice last week. A few weeks ago, an assailant decapitated a French middle school teacher who showed caricatures of Prophet Muhammad for a class on free speech. Police have lodged the FIR taking cognisance of the interview and a probe is on, the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/poet-munawwar-rana-booked-over-remarks-on-france-killings/story-CwLVGAwhI6KMLVY5kEoj4I.html
02-11-2020||City||Former Assam CM Tarun Gogoi hospitalised with Covid-related complications||Former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi was readmitted to the Guwahati Medical College Hospital (GMCH) at night on Sunday due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-related complications. He was discharged from the hospital a week ago.Gogoi (86) had spent the past two months in hospital after he tested Covid-19 positive in August. He was discharged from the GMCH on October 25. Also read | Assam: Educational institutions reopen after 7 month-Covid break“We got a call at around 10.30pm on Sunday that he was feeling restless. He was brought to GMCH and is on non-invasive ventilation. His condition is serious,” Dr Abhijit Sarma, superintendent, GMCH, told mediapersons. “The restlessness was due to carbon dioxide retention, which led to a spike in his ammonia level. He is conscious and is responding to treatment,” he added. A team of senior GMCH doctors are monitoring Gogoi’s condition round the clock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-assam-cm-tarun-gogoi-hospitalised-with-post-covid-complications/story-m0oVTDOURw3VvHzkBuhaCJ.html
02-11-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death: Why is CBI silent on status of probe, asks Maharashtra Congress||Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC) has questioned the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for its radio silence regarding the probe into actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case and the New Delhi-based All Indian Institute of Medical Sciences’ (AIIMS) panel report that was made public in October. The party has questioned if the central investigating agency is under political pressure to keep mum in the case, which has caught the nation’s imagination, till the ongoing three-phase Bihar elections end on November 7.Sachin Sawant, general secretary of the MPCC and a party spokesperson, tweeted on Monday morning: “Is the CBI following code of conduct for Bihar elections in the #SushantSinghRajputCase? Why no action and statement has been made even after the AIIMS panel submitted its report? It has been a month since the AIIMS panel report was made public. Has the Narendra Modi-led government told them (CBI) to keep matters in abeyance until Bihar elections are over.”Also read | ‘We didn’t leak information,’ CBI, NCB, ED tell Bombay high courtSawant found it strange that the CBI did not utter a word on the status of the probe in the case after more than two months of taking it over and a month after the AIIMS panel report was submitted. “We have two questions for the CBI. Is it silent because of the prevailing code of conduct for the Bihar elections? We would also like to know if there is any pressure from the Modi government directing the CBI not to issue any statement in the case until the elections are over. The political use of the CBI in this episode and an attempt to defame Maharashtra has been established. It is high time for the central probe agency to speak up,” he said.Rajput (34) was found dead at his Bandra apartment on June 14. The investigation of the case was handed over to the CBI from Mumbai Police in August after an order from the Supreme Court (SC). The AIIMS panel report ruled out the possibility of poisoning as the cause Rajput’s death.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the main opposition in Maharashtra, had criticised Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition government, comprising the Shiv Sena, the National Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress, and Mumbai Police for their inept handling of the investigation into Rajput’s death.Meanwhile, BJP leader Atul Bhatkhalkar said the Congress leaders should not be impatient as the CBI is doing its job professionally and will soon come out with the report. “There is no question of political use of the investigating agency. Had it been the motive of the BJP, there could have been arrests of political leaders here. CBI has been doing the probe very professionally and will soon come out with the report in the SSR death case. Congress leaders should not forget that there was not a single arrest for nine months in rationalist Narendra Dabholkar’s killing in 2013 when Congress was in power here,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-why-is-cbi-silent-on-status-of-probe-asks-maharasthra-congress/story-2618B09yveoG1uIMWT9StN.html
02-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Bike-sharing facility suspended during lockdown resumes service again||The public bike-sharing facility from Jagruti Nagar Metro Rail station, which was suspended because of the lockdown restrictions that was enforced from the end of March in a bid to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, was restarted on Sunday. Commuters, who travel by Metro rail, can ride the bikes for Rs 2 per hour. The MyByk services were inaugurated in February amid plans to expand the network to other Metro rail stations. The Metro-1 corridor, which stretches between Versova and Ghatkopar via Andheri, was restarted on October 19. Arjit Soni, founder of MyByk, said, “We will be sanitising the bikes and their grips daily. However, users are urged to sanitise their hands before and after using the bikes.”Also read | Starting today, citizens can call BMC control room for nearest Covid-19 testing centreSoni said that around 100 bikes would also be available at the Jagruti Nagar Metro Rail station. “Bikes are the safest commute option for first and last-mile connectivity because of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic,” he added.MyByk won a mobility challenge launched by the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) and other agencies, including Mumbai Metro One Private Limited (MMOPL), last year. MMRDA, along with Yulu bikes, has recently started public bike-sharing services at the Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-bike-sharing-facility-suspended-during-lockdown-resumes-service-again/story-8nyAt4jaHmfLeK4rw8w21L.html
02-11-2020||Lifestyle||Theatres reopen: Private screenings in Delhi-NCR excites denizens||With guidelines in place and strict SOP’s, state governments allowed theatres and multiplexes to reopen. Closed for the last eight months, multiplexed resume operations in Unlock 5 in Delhi-NCR and some other parts of the country. However due to various reasons, the turn-out was very low and there seems to be no relief for multiplexes for the upcoming months too. According to a survey conducted by Local Circles, Only 7% citizens plan to visit movie theatres in the next 60 days. Sachin Taparia, founder, says, “We conducted a survey to know if citizens if plan on visiting movie theatres in the next two months. The survey received 8,274 responses from across the country. In response, only 4% said they would go to watch if any new releases come and 3% said they will go regardless of new or old movie. 74% said they will not go while 2% were unsure and 17% said they don’t watch movies in theatre.”Since people are taking no interest, multiplexes wants to experiment with private screening. They have rolled out a plan and movie lovers are already excited about it. Kunal Sawhney from Carnival Cinemas says, “Due to the re-runs and pandemic crisis, there are not much viewers. So we have recently started private screening of movies to make it convenient for people who loves theatre experience. College students and families are booking with us. There are various plans for the private screening that includes food, without food, type of screen and the standards. We are getting lots of queries regarding it and we feel it would be a hit.”Even in the private screening, all the norms are followed strictly. Saurabh Varma from INOX, says, “Anyone can book for private screenings to experience it in an exclusive and personalized manner, while maintaining social distancing. The guests can choose the content, either from the current play list, or an old blockbuster. We believe that a large segment of our audience would feel more comfortable enjoying a movie with their family members and friends.”Those who watched the movies in private settings are elated to have that experience. “My family wanted to watch a movie in theatres but we were unsure due to the presence of so many people, but we got to know about private screening and booked for eight people. It was cool to book it entirely and it was more fun indeed.” Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/theatres-reopen-private-screenings-in-delhi-ncr-excites-denizens/story-ZUFdrYUpQQ5Li8d8oZB4gP.html
02-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: HC grants bail to man arrested with 84kg poppy straw||The Bombay high court (HC) last week granted bail to a Nashik resident arrested by local police authorities for allegedly possessing 84 kilograms (kg) of poppy straw.Acting on a tip off, police had intercepted Ratan Morade on August 6, 2018 and had found three polythene bags in his scooter that allegedly contained 3 kg and 150 grams (gm) of poppy straw. Police claimed that he later led them to a house from where another 81 kg of poppy straw, kept in three bags, was seized.Morade’s arrest also led to the arrest of one of his accomplices, from whom another 18 kg 400 gm of poppy straw was recovered.Morade and his accomplice were booked under relevant sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985.Morade had moved HC for bail.His counsel, advocate Ayaz Khan, pointed out the discrepancies in weight and seal on the samples drawn from six bags, allegedly containing poppy straw, recovered from the scooter of the accused and the house pointed out by him. Khan also pointed out that there was nothing on record to show ownership of the house from where 81 kg of poppy straw was recovered and that Morade was in exclusive possession of the contraband material.Justice CV Bhadang accepted the argument and granted bail to the Nashik resident.The judge noted that though the police claimed that they had drawn separate samples from each of the six bags recovered from the accused. However, the record of the inventory prepared before the judicial magistrate on August 8, 2018, showed that the samples contained between 0.4gm and 0.6 gm of poppy straw.Also read | SC rejects PIL seeking to withdraw Mukesh Ambani, family’s Z+ securityJustice Bhadang noted that the record mentioned that the samples were resealed with the seal of the magistrate.But, the covering letter of the police and the chemical analyser’s report also indicated that the samples were bearing seal of the police station and weight of the samples ranged between 49.9 and 50.2 gm.“Prima facie it appears that the samples which were produced before the magistrate, were not weighing 50 gm. At any rate the samples which were produced and resealed before the magistrate are not the ones, which were sent to the chemical analyser,” said Justice Bhadang.At this stage there is also no evidence about the ownership or possession of the house from where 81 kg of poppy straw was recovered, said the judge and ordered Morade to be released on executing a personal recognisance (PR) bond of Rs 25,000 with one or two solvent sureties in the same amount.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-hc-grants-bail-to-man-arrested-with-84kg-poppy-straw/story-uwMxx2T9n0PfZ807jxUxLJ.html
02-11-2020||Chandigarh||Snow in HP’s higher reaches disrupts traffic on Manali-Leh highway||Traffic on the strategic Manali-Leh highway was disrupted after a fresh spell of snowfall in the higher reaches of Himachal Pradesh on Monday. Kullu superintendent of police (SP) Gaurav Singh said that vehicles are not being allowed beyond Gulaba towards Rohtang Pass though the newly inaugurated Atal Tunnel is functional. Gondla witnessed 15cm of snowfall, while Keylong got 10cm. The higher reaches of Lahaul-Spiti, Kinnaur, Kullu and Chamba districts have been witnessing snowfall for the past few days. Light rainfall occurred in isolated parts of the state since Sunday morning. State meteorological department director Manmohan Singh said snow and rain is forecast on Monday after which the weather will clear up for the next few days. MINIMUM TEMPERATURE DIPS ACROSS STATE The minimum temperature in Shimla on Monday morning was 10.2° Celsius, while Kufri, 14 km from Shimla, recorded a low of 9.1° Celsius. Manali, Dharamshala and Dalhousie recorded a minimum of 6.2°C, 11.2°C, and 9.6°C, respectively. Solan recorded a low of 8.8°C, Bilaspur 11°C, Hamirpur 10.7°C, Nahan 14.1°C, and Kalpa, 3.2°C. Una recorded a minimum of 9.8°C, while Keylong was the coldest as it recorded a low of minus 0.9°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/snow-in-hp-s-higher-reaches-disrupts-traffic-on-manali-leh-highway/story-7zKK2hjQL9XLSntlduItrN.html
02-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi Police sub-inspector kills himself with service pistol||A sub-inspector (S-I) of Delhi Police allegedly killed himself with his service pistol at his residence in Outer Delhi’s Mohan Garden near Ranhola early in the morning on Monday.Police officers said they have learnt that the 26-year-old S-I, who was posted at a police station in outer district, killed himself due to some financial trouble. A Koan, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), (outer), Delhi Police, said that the Ranhola police station authorities received a call at 5.15 am regarding death by suicide by a man at his home. The caller was the brother of the deceased. A police team reached his home and found that the deceased was an S-I of Delhi Police. “The S-I took the extreme step in a room on the ground floor of his house. His body was on the bed. He used his service pistol,” said a police official, requesting anonymity. DCP Koan said that the S-I had worked on Sunday. “We have learnt that he killed himself over some financial trouble. Further investigation is in progress,” he said.The police are probing how the S-I managed to bring his service pistol home after his work got over on Sunday. It is being investigated whether the in-charge of the malkhana – a store room in a police station where arms and ammunition are kept – of the police station where the S-I was posted was aware that deceased did not return his service weapon after his duty got over, the officer added.If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-police-sub-inspector-kills-himself-with-service-pistol/story-yW6Je4GfddAQWcZIC55QjL.html
02-11-2020||Mumbai||Harassment case: Bombay high court grants anticipatory bail to Bollywood actor’s brother||The Bombay high court (HC) last week granted anticipatory bail to the brother of a Bollywood actor, who was booked for outraging the modesty of his sister-in-law. The complainant is the estranged wife of the actor.Justice Sarang Kotwal granted pre-arrest bail to the actor’s brother on the grounds that the victim’s version of the incident appeared doubtful.The actor’s brother was booked under sections 354 (assault or use of force with an intent to outrage modesty of a woman), 354A (sexual harassment), 354D (stalking), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult modesty of a woman) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and a case was registered on the basis of his sister-in-law’s complaint at Versova police station in Mumbai. Also read | Authorities can’t scuttle down welfare schemes: Bombay high courtThe woman purportedly got acquainted with the accused in 2003, and through him she got in touch with the actor in the same year. The complainant was in a live-in relationship with the actor and they got married in March 2010.However, two years after the marriage, the couple started squabbling frequently following which she started living separately from 2012. The accused allegedly used to pass indecent remarks about her and also sought sexual favours from her.She further alleged that in 2012, the accused had posted her morphed picture online because of which she received several indecent phone calls, and the harassment stopped after the matter was reported to Mumbai Police’s cyber cell department. She also alleged an inappropriate behaviour by him, when he had come to hand over the maintenance amount sent by her estranged husband in 2012.She claimed that the accused not only stalked her between 2014 and 2016, but was also instrumental in illegally obtaining her call data record.However, Justice Kotwal was unimpressed with her accusations. The judge said her modesty was allegedly outraged in 2012. “However, she neither took any steps, nor made any allegations since the incident occurred in 2012 and a complaint was filed subsequently,” said the judge.HC noted that even after the last alleged incident, which had occurred April 2019, when the accused offered her air tickets, no complaint was filed for around a year. “In this view of the matter, the informant’s story appears to be doubtful,” said the court and granted anticipatory bail to the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/harassment-case-mumbai-high-court-grants-anticipatory-bail-to-bollywood-actor-s-brother/story-Camy1T3IXiyH7mbrDZYWmK.html
02-11-2020||City||UP bypolls: Campaigning ends, stage set for multi-cornered fight||Campaigning for the by-election on seven assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh ended on Sunday, setting the stage for a multi-cornered contest on Tuesday. On Tuesday, voting will be held for the seats of Naugawan Sadat, Bulandshahr, Tundla, Bangarmau, Ghatampur, Deoria and Malhani. The results will be declared on November 10. “Polling will be held according to the Covid-19 guidelines. Central paramilitary forces and district police have been deployed at the booths. The Election Commission has decided to conduct live webcast of polling at sensitive booths,” an election commission official said. The Election Commission has set up 3,655 polling stations and 1,755 polling centers in the seven assembly segments where 2,427,922 voters are expected to exercise their franchise. The highest number of voters, 388,466, are in Bulandshahr assembly segment. Also read | Mayawati begins work to regain lost ground in UPBulandshahr has the highest number of candidates, 18. Malhani has 16 candidates, Deoria and Naugawan Sadat have 14 each, Tundla and Bangermau have 10 each, and Ghatampur assembly seat located in Kanpur district has six candidates in the fray. Of the seven seats, Naugawan Sadat, Ghatampur, Bulandshahar, Deoria and Malhani fell vacant due to the demise of sitting MLAs -- Chetan Chauhan, Kamal Rani Varun, Virendra Singh Sirohi, Janmejai Singh and Parasanath Yadav respectively. Bangarmau assembly seat in Unnao district fell vacant after the disqualification of the sitting MLA, Kuldeep Singh Sengar, following his conviction in a rape case on December 20, 2019. While six seats were held by BJP, one was won by the SP in the 2017 assembly election. Samajwadi Party national president said Akhilesh Yadav exuded confidence in his party’s ability to emerge victorious. He said the SP, along with its partner Rashtriya Lok Dal, would get massive support on all the seats. The SP has left the Bulandshahr seat for RLD and is contesting from the rest of the six seats. “The bypolls are significant and the results be indicative of 2022 UP assembly polls,” Akhilesh said. While several top BJP leaders, including chief minister Yogi Adityanath, have campaigned in the poll-bound constituencies, none of the top Opposition leaders, including Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, SP chief Akhilesh Yadav or BSP chief Mayawati has done so. Mayawati has issued an appeal to voters to help her party win. “We will win by a huge margin,” said UP BJP secretary Chandramohan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-bypolls-campaigning-ends-stage-set-for-multi-cornered-fight/story-imQYXyw2Ou8FEqhSnQ4qhN.html
02-11-2020||Lucknow||UP: After losing son to liver cirrhosis, BJP MP, wife to launch campaign against alcohol abuse||Weeks after losing his 28-year old son to liver cirrhosis due to excessive drinking, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP from Lucknow’s Mohanlalganj Lok Sabha constituency, Kaushal Kishore, has decided to roll out a campaign to save the young from “getting consumed by the brew”. Cirrhosis is a late-stage liver damage caused by a variety of factors, with chronic alcoholism being among the leading causes, say doctors. From December 3, Kishore and his wife Jaya Devi, a BJP lawmaker from Malihabad assembly segment, would administer a pledge against alcohol consumption to a thousand young people. He said he intends to run it as a regular campaign under which each of the participants would be tasked with taking the campaign forward. He said his three other sons will be a part of the campaign that would be launched from Lucknow’s Gandhi Bhawan auditorium on December 3.The MP’s son, Aakash Kishore, died on October 19 and he regrets how he couldn’t save his own child. “One of the biggest regrets of my life is that I got so many young people to give up liquor but failed to do so with my own son. Liquor ruined his life. He has left behind his wife and a two-year-old son,” he said. “When I was admitted for coronavirus infection, my son again resumed his drinking and it proved fatal. He died due to liver cirrhosis. I lost my son but now I don’t want any other parent to suffer the same,” he said. While praising Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar’s decision to ban liquor in his state, the BJP MP, however, said such bans aren’t of much help unless the will to refrain from drinking comes from within.“We need to motivate young people to be able to say no to those who entice them to take to drinking. I want to build it into a nationwide movement, and for that purpose, we have decided to take Rs 100 from each person who commits himself for the cause,” said the BJP MP. His wife, Jaya Devi, said, “Someone must have got my son to drink for the first time. That first time is when one needs to stay strong. This strength can come from one’s own conscience.” The couple has also shared about their campaign on social media. “People have been writing their appreciation for our move. Someone had to make a start somewhere,” they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-after-losing-son-to-liver-cirrhosis-bjp-mp-wife-to-launch-campaign-against-alcohol-abuse/story-AUkhIdx1o2LsvDFGr7JwBP.html
02-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Starting today, citizens can call BMC control room for nearest Covid-19 testing centre||Starting today, Mumbai’s citizens can access free Covid-19 testing at 244 civic body-run walk-in testing locations across the city. To know the nearest testing facility, they can call up the control room of their local ward office or Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) disaster control room at 1916. The details of these facilities are also available on BMC’s Covid website, www.stopcoronavirus.mcgm.gov.in.Those developing Covid-like symptoms or those who have recently come in contact with a positive case can approach these facilities and get tested free of cost. Covid symptoms include cough, cold, fever, breathing issues and pneumonia. HT had reported on Saturday about these walk-in testing facilities at all 24 administrative wards.Also read | Over 45,000 new Covid-19 cases, 496 deaths take India’s tally to 8.22 millionThose who want to get tested will get a two-hour window from 10 am to 12 noon to get themselves tested at these facilities. While some facilities have RT-PCR testing, others have rapid antigen testing. Antigen kits deliver test results in less than 30 minutes but are less sensitive as compared to the RT-PCR tests.Along with the 244 testing facilities, there are 54 private laboratories, approved by BMC, that conduct Covid-19 tests. These labs cost Rs 1,800 for sample collection at home and Rs 1,400 for getting tested at their facility. Apart from this, government-run and municipal hospitals conduct Covid tests for free. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said, “Increasing testing will help timely diagnosis of the infection and early treatment is the key to better recovery. These testing facilities will have a team of medical professionals. The move will scale up our daily testing capacity.”Authorities had also anticipated a surge in Covid-19 cases in this festive month for which strict adherence to Covid-19 norms will be enforced. BMC has planned to scale up its testing capacity. Since September, the BMC has been conducting anywhere between 8, 000 and 15,000 tests on a daily basis, 30-40% of which comprised rapid antigen tests. The civic body is now targeting up to 24,000 daily tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-starting-today-citizens-can-call-bmc-control-room-for-nearest-covid-testing-centre/story-Co5GsBitRRFdVFSoJ14s1O.html
02-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi government mulls ban on sale of loose cigarettes, beedis||The Delhi government is mulling to ban the sale of loose cigarettes and beedis to discourage people from consuming such items as they are injurious to health.A senior government official said on condition of anonymity that the Maharashtra government had imposed a similar ban in September last year. “This matter is still being discussed and is at a very initial stage at the moment. Legally, it is possible. The rule laid down by the central government states that no person can trade or do commerce in cigarettes or any other tobacco product, unless when such product is sold, supplied or distributed by him/her, it bears thereon on its label the specified health warning,” said the official.Also read | Health warnings on each cigarette may help reduce smokingThe ban can be imposed under sub-section 2 of section 7 of the cigarettes and other tobacco products (prohibition of advertisement and regulation of trade and commerce, production, supply and distribution) Act, 2003, the official added.However, with such products readily available across the city, a second official said it would be difficult to ensure strict compliance if the ban is actually put in force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-government-mulls-ban-on-sale-of-loose-cigarettes-beedis/story-WkkB7saORCP6wZfqs7JcdP.html
02-11-2020||Election:||Bihar Assembly Election 2020: Debutants, veterans among women candidates in second phase||The second phase of polling on Tuesday in the Bihar assembly elections will see 146 women candidates, out of 1,464, from various political parties trying their luck. Among these 146 women candidates, only 27 have been fielded by leading political parties with eight women from the Grand Alliance, 13 from the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) and six from the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP). Rest of them are fighting the Bihar Assembly Election 2020 as Independent candidates or on the tickets of smaller political parties. Polling on Tuesday will be held in 94 assembly constituencies in 17 districts. The third and final phase of polling will be held on November 7. Results will be announced on November 10.Here’s a look at the most prominent women candidates in the second phase of Bihar assembly elections:1.Manju VermaManju Verma has been an MLA from Cheria-Bariarpur constituency, which falls under Begusarai Lok Sabha constituency, in 2010 and in 2015. Her father-in-law and her husband also represented the seat earlier. In 2015, she was the only woman member of Nitish Kumar’s cabinet where she was given the portfolio of social justice ministry. But she was expelled from the Janata Dal(United) after her alleged involvement in the notorious Muzaffarpur shelter case but the JD(U) has fielded her again from the seat.2. Pushpam Priya ChaudharyPushpam Priya Chaudhary, who has a masters’ degree in development studies from the Institute of Development Studies at the University of Sussex and a masters’ in public administration and political science from the London School of Economics, launched her own Plurals Party and is contesting from Bankipur in Patna against the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) Nitin Nabin and Congress’ Luv Sinha. She is the daughter of former JD(U) MLC Vinod Chaudhary.Read more: Will skip voting: Transgenders rue lack of facilities at polling booths3. Mangita DeviThe Runni Saidpur constituency in Sitamarhi district is currently held by Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Mangita Devi, who defeated Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) candidate Pankaj Kumar Mishra by a margin of 14,110 votes in the 2015 assembly elections. She comes from the Yadav clan and her father-in-law Bhola Rai has represented the seat in the past. She is fighting against Guddi Devi from the Runni Saidpur seat. 4. Guddi DeviGuddi Devi is the major challenger against Mangita Devi from the Runni Saidpur constituency. The former MLA was a member of the JD(U) but did not get the seat from the party and therefore decided to contest from the LJP. Her husband Rajesh Chaudhary is also contesting in the election as an Independent candidate.Click here for the complete coverage of Bihar Assembly elections 20205. Punam Devi YadavPunam Devi Yadav is the JD(U) candidate from Khagaria. She was elected to the Bihar Legislative Assembly from Khagaria in the 2005 Bihar Legislative Assembly. Her husband Ranveer Yadav was also elected to the Bihar Legislative Assembly from Khagaria in 1990-1995. She is fighting against Renu Kumari from the Khagaria seat. 6. Renu KumariRenu Kumari was Bihar’s industry and disaster management minister in Nitish Kumar’s cabinet but she resigned from the post and the party in 2014 and joined the LJP. She is now facing Punam Devi on the Khagaria seat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-assembly-election-2020-debutants-veterans-among-women-candidates-in-second-phase/story-OvYayvlVbXCYWiOsVPebLK.html
02-11-2020||Election:||Will skip voting: Transgenders rue lack of facilities at polling booths||A large number of transgenders living in Patna are unhappy with inadequate facilities for the community members at the polling stations and mulling to skip voting on November 3. As per the district administration, there are 137 transgender voters 94 assembly constituencies which will go to polls on November 3.Several transgenders said that they would skip voting as no political party has included transgenders’ welfare in their manifesto nor polling booths have arrangement of third line for them.Reshma Prasad, transgender activist and also member of National Council for Transgender Persons, said, “Not a single party has mentioned transgenders’ welfare in their manifesto. Apart from this, no awareness drive was conducted among transgenders. Election commission has also not given adequate facility to transgenders for casting their votes.”She said, “10 years back, I was living with a male identity in the same colony. Now I wear saree. Standing in female queue may cause discomfort due to unfavourable public reaction. Who will take responsibility if anybody makes mockery or misbehave?”Similar woes echoed 26-year-old dancer transwoman living in Danapur constituency. She said, “If there can be ‘pink booths’ for women voters and special arrangements for physically disabled voters, why can’t we get just a separate queue to stand in public? We often face humiliation while mixing in male or female queues.”Another transwoman of Digha constituency said, “I would press NOTA as none of the political party has visited us nor any candidate has promised betterment of our community. If they are boycotting us, we will do the same.”“Our struggle will continue until we get social acceptance at educational institutions and workplaces. Contesting political parties have not considered us for seeking vote, how can we expect they will stand for our community?”, said 28-year-old third gender who works in an NGO.As per electoral rolls released by the Election Commission, there are altogether 2,344 transgender voters eligible to exercise their franchise in the Bihar Assembly election.Prasad said, “There are around 40,000 transgenders in voting age across Bihar. However, many of them have voter’s ID card with male or female identity due to various reasons like lack of awareness or fear of social boycott ”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/will-skip-voting-transgenders-rue-lack-of-facilities-at-polling-booths/story-eNFxttYy4eXgdt6ooNCEtN.html
02-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi AQI continues to remain very poor, at 310 on Monday||Delhi’s air quality remained in the “very poor” category on Monday morning as per the data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The capital recorded an Air Quality Index (AQI) of 310 at 7am on Monday.The 24-hour average AQI was 364 on Sunday. Except for Thursday, when AQI had dropped to 297, the air quality remained in very poor category all of last week.An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.Scientists said over 3,000 incidents of stubble fires in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh on Saturday contributed to 40% of PM 2.5 load in Delhi’s air -- the highest so far.Vijay Soni, scientist, IMD, air quality division, said, “The only reason Delhi escaped the impact of severe air quality is because of favourable meteorological conditions. Wind speed ranged from 10 to 18 kmph on Sunday which aided dispersal but air quality can deteriorate if the high number of farm fires persist.”Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary, Bharatiya Kisan Union, agreed that the number of farm fires is unusually high. “This is because of two reasons. One is that farmers are agitating against the farm bills. They are not in a mood to comply with directions. They are also looking to complete harvesting in the next 10 days. There is little monitoring by law enforcing agencies also because of widespread agitation. Farm fires are particularly high in Barnala, Bhatinda, Ludhiana and surrounding areas,” he said.Meanwhile, IMD predicted that the city will experience a minimum temperature of 11 degree Celsius on Monday with fog and mist in the morning which will clear later in the day. At 30 degree Celsius, the maximum temperature is also predicted to be marginally lesser than Sunday’s 30.6 degree Celsius.Indicating an early onset of winter, the minimum temperature in Delhi dropped to 11.4 degree Celsius -- 5 degrees below normal -- on Sunday morning.This came after October was the coldest Delhi has experienced in 58 years, with the mean minimum temperature for the month at 17.2 degrees Celsius. November also started on a very cold note suggesting colder days ahead.“A western disturbance is impacting the higher reaches of the Himalayas. The minimum temperature has dipped because of that. Colder conditions are likely this month,” said K Sathi Devi, head, National Weather Forecasting Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-aqi-continues-to-remain-very-poor-at-310-on-monday/story-AiHrqTjOpn3plX7sfxqwHJ.html
02-11-2020||Election:||Over 15% candidates did not file I-T returns||With the end of election campaign for second phase of elections for 94 assembly constituencies going to the polls on November 3, some startling facts have come to the fore about the nominees of the these seats.Nearly 15 per cent candidates did not file their income tax returns irrespective of their incomes.It has come to light during analysis of their affidavits, submitted with their nomination forms before the election department officials and uploaded on the websites of the Election Commission of India (ECI) as well as the districts’ official sites.Altogether 1,463 persons have filed their papers for contesting the elections for these seats. However, more than 200 contestants have not filed their income tax return before filing the papers for the election. The candidates from 11 constituencies of Muzaffarpur district have topped the chart of this list as nearly 42% of them have not filed their income tax return. “There are 95 candidates in the battle for ballot this time for 11 seats. Forty out of them have admitted through affidavits that they had never filed their income tax,” said Pramod Kumar, a social activist and an independent data analyst from Muzaffarpur.“We have analysed the data from entire state, filed by the contestants for second phase elections. And many interesting facts have come out. This fact is one of them. They have not furnished their permanent account number (PAN), issued by the Income Tax Department for financial transactions, even after they showed their income over Rs 5 lakh per annum, the lower limit of filing an ITR for any financial year. It indicates that most of the candidates are illiterate on their financial management front,” said Kumar.“Ironically, three toppers of the list of the richest candidates, too have never filed their ITR and they have asserted it through their affidavits. Jagdish Prasad Verma, an RLSP candidate from Patna Sahib is one of them. Chandrika Rai of JD(U) from Parsa in Saran and Suman Kumar Mahaseth of VIP are other two candidates. Verma admits that his income is Rs 11 crore per annum, while Rai and Mahaseth earn Rs 11 crore and Rs 9 crore respectively,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/over-15-candidates-did-not-file-i-t-returns/story-MMNPvPdGMT9XvpEZJOoEBM.html
02-11-2020||Election:||In Bihar, PM Modi warns against ‘jungle raj’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the third leg of his Bihar assembly election campaign in Chapra on Sunday and urged the electorate to defeat the opposition which, he said, had presided over “jungle raj” in the state during its 15-year reign.Without naming the Congress and the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Modi said that some parties were working for the welfare of their families instead of the development of the state. “Self-serving dynasts treat the state and government as their personal properties. No one from the families of Modi or Nitish Babu has reached the corridors of power,” the PM said in a speech in Samastipur.Addressing the people of 24 assembly constituencies from Chapra and 21 assembly seats from Samastipur, PM Modi said the high turnover in the first phase of Bihar assembly polls on October 28 had proved political pundits wrong.“The trends from the first phase of polls show the NDA is coming back to power again. It is clear that {chief minister} Nitish Kumar is all set to form government again,” said the PM.The second phase of elections on November 3 is crucial in the NDA’s quest to return to power. Out of the 94 seats going to the polls in the second phase, the BJP is contesting 46 and Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United), or JD(U), 43. The remaining five seats are being contested by their smaller partners. In 2015, the JD(U) had won 30 of the seats that are up for grabs on November 3. This time, it has fielded 19 new faces; the fate of two ministers will be decided in the phase.For the BJP, the second phase is equally crucial in its quest to emerge as the single biggest party in the assembly. The party contested 29 seats in first phase and will contest 35 more in the third phase on November 7.Without taking the name of any political party, but in an oblique reference to the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) of the late Ram Vilas Paswan, Modi said efforts by some to create confusion in the minds of the voters had been nullified by the people of Bihar. LJP leader Chirag Paswan has pulled the party out of the NDA in Bihar, citing ideological differences with Nitish Kumar, while remaining in the alliance at the Centre“On one hand, you have a government with double engines {at the Centre and state}; on the other hand, there are two prince (referring to RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and Congress’s Rahul Gandhi). While the double engine government of Bihar is committed to the state’s development, the two princes are busy saving their thrones,” he added.“You must have seen 3-4 years ago during UP elections, double Yuvarajs there as well, climbed on top of the bus, wore black jackets and used to visit villages while waving,” he added in an apparent reference to the Samajwadi Party’s Akhilesh Yadav and Rahul Gandhi.Targeting young voters who are seemingly distancing themselves from the present government, Modi asked women of the state to tell them about the situation that existed in Bihar 15 years ago. “First-time voters should remember how much effort it took to pull out the state out of this situation. Ask your mothers how they feared kidnappers...The lantern has only spread darkness,” he said, referring to the RJD’s election symbol.“I am sure that with your vote you will save Bihar from getting bimaar {sick} again,” the PM said.The PM said the government had opened up 30 passport centres, including one in Gopalganj, for those aspiring to go abroad, adding that now there was no need to travel all the way to Patna to secure a passport.The region has one of the populations employed in West Asia.“We have removed the language barrier by emphasising the {importance of the} mother tongue as the medium of instruction in the new education policy,” he said.“The Bihar government laid special emphasis on providing electricity, water and road connectivity to people across the state,” Modi said, adding that the Centre had implemented railway projects worth Rs 2,500 crore in the state.PM said that the BJP has decided to form 1,000 farmer producer organisations in Bihar. “Also, the central government has created a fund of ₹1 lakh crore for agriculture infrastructure for our farmers,” the PM said.With the biggest festival of Bihar, Chhath Puja, taking place after the election results are out on November 10, Modi appealed to the sentiments of women. “I want to tell the mothers in Bihar, your son in Delhi will make sure you celebrate Chhath Puja with pride. I won’t let your family sleep hungry at night. We have ensured free grains for the poor till Chhath puja,” he saidModi accused the Opposition of politicising the February 14, 2019 Pulwama terror attack, which left 40 paramilitary troopers dead, and demoralising the armed forces. “The Pakistani admission has shown the real face of opposition,” he said in an apparent reference to an admission by a Pakistani politician that Pakistan had a hand in the attack.He paid rich tributes to the 20 Indian troops who died in a June 15 clash with Chinese soldiers in the Galwan valley in Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/in-bihar-pm-modi-warns-against-jungle-raj/story-FAuU1mvs3cqIW6etIbqosJ.html
02-11-2020||Delhi||‘Baba Ka Dhaba’ owner accuses YouTuber of misappropriation of funds||Kanta Prasad, the owner of popular eatery ‘Baba Ka Dhaba’ in south Delhi’s Malviya Nagar, has filed a complaint against Instagram influencer Gaurav Wasan for misappropriation of funds, police said on Sunday.Prasad (80) had shot to fame after a video of him tearfully recounting the desperation of the months since the lockdown was shared widely across social media platforms recently.Ironically, Prasad’s despair had come to light when Wasan captured the eatery owner breaking down as he talked about his struggles in a video shared on the YouTuber’s social media account.In his complaint to police, Prasad said Wasan shot his video and posted it online and convinced the public on social media to donate money to the eatery onwer.He further alleged that Wasan “intentionally and deliberately shared only his and his family/friends bank details and mobile numbers with the donors and collected huge amount of donation through different mode of payments i.e bank account/wallets without providing any information to the complainant”.The owner of the food joint also accused the YouTuber of not providing details of the financial transactions to him.“We received the complaint yesterday at the Malviya Nagar Police Station and the matter is being probed. No FIR has been registered yet in the case,” Atul Kumar Thakur, Deputy Commissioner of Police (South), said.After the video went viral, Baba ka Dhaba was the cynosure of many eyes across the country, including celebs from showbiz who posted appeals asking people to go there and get themselves a meal.A day after the heartbreaking video, #Babakadhaba was trending on Twitter and the food joint was flooded with more customers than it had seen in 30 years of being in business.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/baba-ka-dhaba-owner-accuses-youtuber-of-misappropriation-of-funds/story-soByr6xKWyZDkjhFjD5AxN.html
02-11-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: The republic of pink||Pink, but slightly faded—this is their colour. The flowers of floss-silk — or kurejia — trees are blossoming across Delhi. A brash display stands near the ITO crossing. Another is showing off adjacent to the Defence Colony flyover. There’s also a stunning row running along the driveway to Ambience Mall in Gurugram. A most magnificent spectacle is inside the Shantinath-Satya Marg roundabout in Chanakyapuri.The most heart-touching sight of these trees, currently in blossom, is by the lakeside in Lodhi Garden. This weekday afternoon there’s no one in this secluded corner of the park — except for a duck stranded in the middle of the water, like a motorboat without fuel.The surface of the lake is crowded with the inverted images of the many trees reflecting into its still water. You can see the sun too, as well as the birds flying above. The lake appears to be aglow, here and there, with smidgens of something pink—that’s the reflections of the kurejia flowers above. Under the sun’s momentary glare, some of these blurs momentarily burn into utter whiteness before regaining their pink. The fragility makes the kurejia reflections look more delicate.And then some more magic.Like most flower-laden trees, kurejia’s flowers keep falling off their branches. Even as we talk, they are dropping off one after another, noiselessly, into the water. Each detached flower occasionally floats across the reflected image of the tree it was recently a part of. The sight is surreal, as if a freshly departed soul was surveying the details of its dead past. In a corner of the lake, a solitary pink kurejia happens to be lying atop a mass of slow-drifting dry leaves, as if being carried to its funeral by a crowd of professional mourners.The most unlucky of these pink flowers have fallen on the shrubberies skirting the lake. There, they have crash-landed most crudely, their petals squashed across leaves and grasses. Distorted into weird shapes, the flowers are looking ugly. Some of these must have died a day or two ago, for they have turned brown. And now you again look up at the trees to see the kurejias, still alive and so pretty. They too will soon fall.“The flowers are in season for some more days, and then they will go away,” says a gardener. Come before it gets too late. And if it gets too late, then come in February when they will be back, briefly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-republic-of-pink/story-TZf0vMG3w44p9ecWDBluZK.html
02-11-2020||City||Dustier the field staff’s shoes, better their performance! Minister Ashu tells Ludhiana MC commissioner||In an unusual directive, Punjab food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu has asked the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) commissioner to check the shoes of civic body’s field staff to see whether they actually went to the field or were whiling away their time in office or at home. MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal was briefed by the minister on the sidelines of a cycle rally on Saturday and was told to direct all officials and employees to visit the field to ensure proper compliance in various projects being undertaken in the city. “I told the commissioner that it is easy to check the efficiency of field officials. Check their shoes. If their shoes are carrying enough dust, you will get to know that they are out on the field,” said minister Ashu, who is MLA from the Ludhiana (West) constituency. Also, he asked the commissioner to direct the officials to give an hour (11am to 12noon) to address the grievances of the councillors. Sabharwal said he has instructed the zonal commissioners and superintendent engineers to conduct public dealings between 9am and 11am from Monday so as to address the grievances of residents. “This will boost understanding between the officials and the councillors as the majority of the public representatives have a grouse that the former are not available on this or that pretext. More interaction will bring an end to the unnecessary confrontation and dharnas,” said Ashu. Sabharwal said to improve the efficiency he has directed the officials to conduct a meeting after 5pm on Wednesday besides telling all supervising engineers to check the ongoing development works in the city on a daily basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dustier-the-field-staff-s-shoes-better-their-performance-minister-ashu-tells-ludhiana-mc-commissioner/story-AOKCZv5uvHC2yM70v8KTTI.html
02-11-2020||City||70 lakh smuggled foreign-brand cigarettes worth ₹14 crore seized from Navi Mumbai port||Officers from the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI), Mumbai zone, intercepted a container at Nhava Sheva in Navi Mumbai on Friday and seized 70.39 lakh smuggled foreign-brand cigarettes valued at ₹14 crore in illicit international markets. An Uttar Pradesh (UP)-based syndicate is suspected to be behind the smuggling. The consignment was to be transported to UP’s Moradabad city. The officers are on the lookout for the accused who are a part of the racket. Recently, DRI officers had received inputs about a syndicate from UP that was involved in the smuggling of cigarettes from Dubai to India. Based on intelligence inputs, the officers learnt that a live consignment, declaring the contraband as aluminium powder, will be imported by the syndicate through Nhava Sheva port in a container. Based on the inputs, the container was seized under the Customs Act, 1962, said DRI. “The cigarettes were found concealed cleverly under the aluminium scrap of motor vehicle engine parts and other waste,” a statement from DRI read. An officer said, “Foreign-brand cigarettes are in high demand in party circuits at metro cities. The cigarettes had to be taken to New Delhi from UP. As there is strict vigilance at the Tughlakabad port (in Delhi), the syndicate had planned to store the consignment at a facility in Moradabad before transporting it to Delhi via road. The consignment had to be transported from Navi Mumbai to UP by the railways’ freight service.” This is the third major consignment of foreign cigarettes seized from the Nhava Sheva port by DRI Mumbai during the Covid-19 pandemic period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/70-lakh-smuggled-foreign-brand-cigarettes-worth-14-crore-seized-from-navi-mumbai-port/story-duD2rEKGyhsNG1RMl7iDvN.html
02-11-2020||City||Five persons arrested for IPL betting in Greater Noida||Greater Noida: The police on Sunday night arrested five persons for betting on Indian Premiere League (IPL) matches in Greater Noida. The suspects used to connect to people online and then take money for each ball and over, the police said. The police have recovered 11 mobile phones, one laptop, one car, seven registers, and 60 gram narcotic products from their possession. The suspects have been identified as Mohammad Abad, Mohammad Azad, Ishtekhar, Rishabh Yadav, all residents of Meerut and Mujahid, a resident of Bhojpur in Ghaziabad. They lived in a rented accommodation in Greater Noida. Bhuvnesh Kumar, SHO, Ecotech III police station, said that a gang of bookies had been active in IPL betting in Greater Noida. “The suspects used to connect local people through phone and convinced them to join IPL betting and promised good returns. A number of people paid Rs 5,000 to Rs 10,000 to suspects through different money transfer apps. The suspects used to offer bet on each ball, each over and the match,” he said. Kumar said that police received information about the betting racket and conducted a search at their rented accommodation near Eidgah in Ecotech III area. “We arrested five suspects from the spot red-handed. We also seized seven registers in which the suspect had maintained money transaction details. We also seized 60 gram of narcotic products from their possession,” he said. During interrogation, the suspects revealed that they used to frequently change their hideouts to escape surveillance. The SHO said that the suspects had been involved in the IPL betting in this season which started from September 19. “We have found that the mastermind is Saddam, a resident of Haldoni village in Ecotech III. We have launched a search to arrest the suspect who is absconding,” he said. Police said a case is being registered against the suspects at Ecotech III police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-persons-arrested-for-ipl-betting-in-greater-noida/story-nhGoZe2CnizBPOl0xeVVDJ.html
02-11-2020||Noida||Noida: Four men arrested for stealing trucks, selling them after refurbishing||Noida: Four men were nabbed Sunday morning by the Noida police for allegedly stealing trucks in the district and then selling them after forging their documents. Six stolen trucks were recovered, said the police.The suspects were identified as Zulfikar and Rizwan, who are from Meerut; Chandar, who is from Ghaziabad; and Rakesh Kumar, who from Gautam Budh Nagar.“The suspects would steal trucks from across the district and then use tools to erase the engine and chassis numbers. They would then use fake number plates and registration certificates to sell these stolen vehicles for a profit,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Rajesh S.Explaining the modus operandi, police said Ramesh would allegedly provide fake registration certificates, each of which would cost between ₹2-3 lakh. The police are working to verify the involvement of other people with the gang.Police officers said the suspects were nabbed from near Sector 54 following a tip-off. Six stolen trucks, a stolen Santro car, several sets of fake documents, six fake number plates, seven incomplete plates, tools and a country-made pistol were recovered allegedly from the suspects.Officers said the suspects are history sheeters and have been accused in cases of theft from Delhi, while other cases against them are being identified.Police suspect the men have been active for the past couple of years and are working on identifying other vehicles which they might have sold.The suspects were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-four-men-arrested-for-stealing-trucks-selling-them-after-refurbishing/story-9xwJxa2QPfuiT9lmAGs4IJ.html
02-11-2020||Noida||Gang providing loans fraudulently via finance firm nabbed in Noida||Noida: Three members of a gang, employed with a financial firm, were nabbed by the Noida police on Sunday for allegedly profiting from providing loans fraudulently via the firm. Details of 228 customers were obtained allegedly from the suspects, the police said.According to police officers, the firm the suspects worked with provides personal loans to government employees. Eighteen people work at the Noida branch of the firm in Sector 57 and the bank in which the firm had an account is in Ghaziabad’s Modinagar.The suspects were identified as branch manager Neeraj Sharma, sales officer Ankit Tyagi and field officer Deepak Kumar, all of whom are residents of Ghaziabad.“Deepak, being the field officer, would gather information of people in need of loans. According to regulations, they are supposed to provide loans to only government officials. But the suspects would create fake IDs and pay slips for non-government officials and approve their loan requests, on which each of them got a hefty commission,” said Anil Kumar, station house officer, Sector 58 police station.Police said that doubt about the alleged scam was first reported by an official of the bank where the firm conducted its business, when some of the loan recipients did not appear to be government officials.“Following this, an internal audit was done and a complaint was filed by the firm’s regional risk context manager, following which the suspects were nabbed. At least three more people from the branch are being questioned for their alleged involvement and we will take necessary action against anyone who was a part of the fraud,” said Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, zone 1.He said that the gang has so far allegedly given fraudulent loans worth Rs 11 crore.Police said the suspects allegedly started the “scam” in June and documents of 228 fake accounts were obtained from the suspects along with three mobile phones. They will also question the loan recipients to determine their alleged role in the fraud, as police suspect some of them to be aware of the irregularities.The suspects were booked for cheating and forgery (sections 420, 467, 468, 471 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code) and produced before a magistrate from where they were sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gang-providing-loans-fraudulently-via-finance-firm-nabbed-in-noida/story-DazLWu6SsUTbWobsx0M0zO.html
02-11-2020||Noida||Noida: 35-year-old arrested for extorting money while pretending to be govt official||Noida: A 35-year-old man was nabbed by the Noida police Saturday night for allegedly extorting money from a businessman while pretending to be a senior official of the government and threatening him that he would send the victim to prison as he “knew” other senior government officials.The suspect was identified as Ankit Dwivedi. He is from Kannauj district in Uttar Pradesh and lived in a rented accommodation in Sector 53.According to the police, a complaint was filed against him by a man named Rajveer Singh, a departmental store owner, who alleged that the suspect had been extorting ₹40,000 monthly from him for the past six months and had also taken expensive liquor bottles from him. Based on his complaint, a case of extortion and cheating had been registered at the Sector 58 police station. “Two of the complainants’ sons are history sheets with cases against them under the Narcotics Drugs Act. It seems the suspect was threatening him as well that he’ll send him to prison, in order to extort money from the victim,” said Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, zone 1.Police officers said the complaint alleged that the suspect allegedly claimed to be acquainted with senior government officials and often used that to intimidate the victim.Dwivedi allegedly had a Honda Civic car on which there were fake government department stickers, said the police. He also claimed to be a frequent guest at a five star hotel located under the Sector 58 police jurisdiction and would often meet the victim in that area to show that he was really living there.The suspect was nabbed from in Sector 55 near the hotel at 11.50pm, hours after he had allegedly taken ₹10,000 from the victim, the police said. The money and the car were recovered, along with gold jewellery and an expensive wrist watch, the police added.The suspect also writes a social media blog, said officers.“He would specifically target people with some criminal background in order to threaten and intimidate them, while pretending to be a government official who knew other government officials. We are verifying his criminal history from other districts as well to determine how many other people he duped. We are also finding out his bank account details to gather more information,” said the DCP.The suspect was produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-35-year-old-arrested-for-extorting-money-while-pretending-to-be-govt-official/story-9hio0HsW87hS40JKG2NIHO.html
02-11-2020||Noida||Noida: Road safety month launched||Noida: The Gautam Budh Nagar police on Sunday launched the road safety month aimed at raising awareness among the public about the traffic rules.According to police officials, the month-long programme will focus on five Es – education, enforcement, engineering, emergency and environment. On the occasion, a bike and car rally for traffic awareness was flagged off from the police commissionerate in Sector 108. The officials said that the traffic awareness programme this year will emphasise on environment friendly initiatives. People will be asked to keep their vehicles in good condition to check air pollution, they said.Ganesh Saha, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), said that this year ‘environment’” has been added to the traffic programme as Noida’s air quality continues to deteriorate. “We have planned different initiatives considering all the five Es. We will organise awareness programmes in different schools and colleges for road safety. We will also do enforcement and seek people’s participation,” Saha said. The DCP said that residents can join the traffic police as traffic volunteers and traffic wardens. “We will coordinate with the residents welfare associations (RWAs) and select traffic volunteers. They will be deployed near their housing societies and sectors to manage traffic with the police,” he said. On enforcement part, the police will launch intensive drive to check traffic violations such as riding bike without helmet, speeding, drunken driving, using mobile phone while driving, wrong-side driving, and unauthorised parking. Saha said that the Noida traffic police have already launched a control room to establish communication with the residents. Alok Singh, police commissioner, Gautam Budh Nagar, said that the UP government has already announced to pay Rs 2,000 to the good Samaritans who help road accident victims reach hospital and save lives. “The police will not question the good Samaritans. We will reward them for their noble works,” Singh said. The police last year had identified 33 ‘black’ (accident-prone) spots in the district. “In the one-month drive, we will take initiatives and try to remove the black spots and ensure no accidents take place there,” the police commissioner said.Singh said that the Covid-19 lockdown had forced people indoor for a few months and the city’s air had become clean. “But again people have started their normal activities. We should mend our ways and not wait for another such pandemic to learn a lesson,” he said. Rohit Baluja, director, Institute of Road Safety Education, who attended the Sunday’s event, said that most road accidents take place due to indiscipline by road users. “People violate traffic rules which lead to accidents. In 2019, a total of 1.54 lakh people had died in road accident in India as per National Crime Records Bureau. Every year, around 23,000 people die and 28,000 are injured in road accidents in Uttar Pradesh only,” he said.A number of local residents and school children also attended the inaugural programme. Alok Singh, a resident of Sector Alpha-1 in Greater Noida, said that the violators should be made to do community service. “The cash penalty does not yield good result. The traffic violators should be engaged in community service for one-two hours. They should also attend traffic orientation programme so that such violations are not repeated,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-road-safety-month-launched/story-h1vSkgYL9fpELP8jkPXF8J.html
02-11-2020||Noida||Anti-Human Trafficking Units notified as police stations in Uttar Pradesh||Noida: The Uttar Pradesh government has notified the Anti Human Trafficking Units (AHTU) as police stations in the state. UP has AHTU’s in 35 districts, including Gautam Budh Nagar, Ghaziabad, Meerut and Lucknow. On October 20, Awnish Awasthi, the state additional chief secretary, issued an order for setting up AHTUs in the rest of the 40 districts in UP. All these units will be developed as separate police stations which will facilitate rescue and rehabilitation of children and other persons. The ministry of home affairs guidelines state that the trafficking of human beings is a crime committed in order to target/drive a human being into an exploitative situation, with the aim to make profits; such exploitation may take many forms, for example commercial sexual exploitation, child labour, forced labour, bonded labour.Devendra Kumar, inspector at AHTU, Gautam Budh Nagar, said he has received the information about government notification making the unit a police station. “This will facilitate the process and the team will be able to help the victims efficiently. There are eight persons in the unit including one inspector and two sub-inspectors, at Noida. We hope the team size will be increased and infrastructure will be augmented after the new initiative,” he said.The government has sanctioned ₹12 lakh to each existing AHTU and ₹15 lakh to set up the new units in the state.As of now the unit operates from the Noida Police office in Sector 14 A. Love Kumar, additional commissioner of police, Gautam Budh Nagar, said he will go through the government order and take necessary measures. Satya Prakash, programme manager of FXB India Suraksha – Childline, an NGO that works towards child rights, said that the government order notifying AHTUs as police stations will definitely help in the rescue and rehabilitation of these people. “At present, the police and Childline rescue people but sometimes face problems in jurisdiction issues. Sometimes, two police stations pass the buck in registration of FIR over jurisdiction. The AHTUs will be able to register FIRs in cases which will facilitate the process,” he said. Prakash said that sometimes, a missing child from one district is found in the neighbouring district. “In such cases AHTUs in one district can swiftly contact their counterparts in other districts” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/anti-human-trafficking-units-notified-as-police-stations-in-uttar-pradesh/story-4useTt5pTVLkLWR5Q3RGEO.html
02-11-2020||Noida||Trial for ‘e-corridor’ on Yamuna Expressway to start on November 25||Noida: A month-long high-tech trial for electric vehicles (EV) will be conducted Yamuna Expressway beginning November 25 to examine the viability of EVs on expressway and the charging stations and other basic facilities for the project. The ‘e-corridor’ on the Yamuna Expressway is proposed to be the first under the Ease of Doing Business programme of the Advance Services for Social and Administrative Reforms (ASSAR), a private entity supported by the central government.On Sunday, Gautam Budh Nagar police commissioner Alok Singh flagged off three e-taxis in a traffic rally from the commissionerate office in Sector 108. “The e-vehicles are environment friendly. The use of e-vehicles will lead to a healthy environment as they are better than petrol/diesel powered vehicles. A trial for EVs on the Yamuna Expressway is scheduled for later this month. A private firm engaged three of its e-taxis in the traffic rally on Sunday,” he said. The taxis were provided by Gurugram-based cab aggregator Blue Smart Mobility. “We displayed three e-cabs (Tata Tigor models) in the programme. In one-and-a-half hour charting, the e-vehicle can run up to 220 km. We have also placed a Covid safety sheet inside the vehicles to separate riders and drivers. We have launched our services in the National Capital Region. People can download our app from the Google Play Store too books cabs,” said Akash Grover, executive assistant, Blue Smart Mobility.Abhijeet Sinha, director, ASSAR, said that his organisation associated with the Noida police in the traffic safety month. “From November 25, we have planned to conduct a trial of EVs from Greater Noida to Agra on National Highways to test the EV viability. This will be a one month trail on the Yamuna Expressway. A similar trial will be conducted on NH 48, which connects Delhi to Jaipur,” he said. The programme will be launched on the 96th birth anniversary of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee on November 25. In the first phase, trials will be conducted on the Yamuna Expressway only. Once this is completed, trials on the Delhi-Jaipur route will be started.He said that in the trial, the number of charging stations needed, total charging points, cafeteria, budgeting, etc. needed on the route will be examined. The combined strength of corridors which will be examined on the Yamuna Expressway (Noida-Agra) and NH 48 (Delhi - Jaipur) will be 500 km. According to an estimate, eight-10 charging stations will be set up along the Yamuna Expressway and a similar number on NH 48.Sinha said that the e-highway project can be developed in 90 days. “The e-highway will be technology-led. The e-vehicles will be connected to nearest charting stations digitally. If a vehicle breaks down, help will reach within 30 minutes,” he said. Pratap Chandra Sarangi, minister of state for Animal husbandry, dairy, fisheries and MSME, will flag off the trail on November 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/trial-for-e-corridor-on-yamuna-expressway-to-start-on-november-25/story-pVhcqt6vqW0lqVpfecQh2O.html
02-11-2020||Mumbai||Beer sales in Maharashtra drop 62.5% from pre-Covid||The sales of beer in Maharashtra fell by 62.5% per day last month, compared to the period before Covid-19, which officials attributed to people avoiding cold products. Sales fell to 3 lakh litres per day in October, down from 8 lakh litres per day in January, officials said. “Due to Covid-19, people are being asked not to consume cold products. This has played a huge role in people avoiding cold beer, impacting its sale,” said Kantilal Umap, state excise commissioner. However, sales of other liquor were not impacted much. The sale of country liquor is about 9 lakh litres per day, compared to 10 lakh litres in the pre-Covid-19 days. Whiskey, vodka, rum and other sales have reached approximately 6 lakh litres, almost the same before Covid-19 struck the city in March, Umap said. The daily overall sales of alcohol in the state fell to ₹35 crore, from the average ₹38-40 crore. “Beer is the leading selling item in wine shops. However, sales have fallen in the past six months ever since liquor shops opened in May. Our customers are avoiding chilled beer as it can lead to developing a cold, one of the symptoms of Covid-19,” said Arvind Miskin, president, association of progressive retail liquor vendors.Customer said that they have stopped it for health reasons. “In Covid-19 days, we have been avoiding frozen and chilled items as it can lead to a cold,” said Satendra Chouhan, who works in a private firm. Liquor has been one of the major sources of revenue for the state government. The state has been able to garner ₹6,024 crore as excise duty in sales of liquor from April 1 to October 23, 2020. This was one of the reasons the government allowed opening of liquor shops from May 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/beer-sales-in-maharashtra-drop-62-5-from-pre-covid/story-pf0TIcW788qPwDr7PMzEQL.html
02-11-2020||Delhi||AAP calls North MCD ‘corrupt’, demands CAG probe; BJP says allegation ‘baseless’||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led North Delhi Municipal Corporation of corruption, and said the civic body has been under-recording the amount of property tax it has collected every year, and demanded the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) investigate the matter.The BJP, which governs the three municipal corporations in the city, hit back, calling the allegations “baseless”.“The North MCD should be collecting ₹2,100 crore as property tax from 12 lakh people every year, but records show that only ₹700 crores is collected annually from four lakh people. The remaining ₹1400 crore is siphoned off,” said Durgesh Pathak, AAP’s in charge of municipal corporation affairs.He also said, “The BJP leaders are looting ₹1400 crores collected by the MCD in the name of property tax, due to which they cannot pay their employees — doctors, nursing staff, teachers and sanitation workers. AAP demands that this matter should be thoroughly investigated by the CAG.”BJP’s Delhi unit spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “AAP is a bunch of people who are experts on baseless statements. The party is in power in the Delhi government, and if they feel there is any kind of scam in MCDs they are free to recommend a CBI [Central Bureau of Investigation] probe, or else they should stop churning baseless allegations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-calls-north-mcd-corrupt-demands-cag-probe-bjp-says-allegation-baseless/story-hw1vtNwgi0fBdzGIGT74UI.html
02-11-2020||Gurugram||Staffer given clean chit over rape allegations at Gurugram private hospital||A person accused of raping a woman in the intensive care unit of Fortis Hospital in sector 44 last week was given a clean chit by the city police on Sunday. Police said the suspects, who was a contractual staff at the hospital, was questioned and given a clean chit after no concrete evidence was found to prove his culpability. The woman, in her twenties, is a tuberculosis patient and was admitted to the hospital on October 21. She had informed her father about the alleged sexual assault through a hand-written note on Tuesday, following which a complaint was registered by the police. The main accused and another person were X-ray technicians who had gone to scan the patient, who was admitted on October 21. Police have now initiated proceedings to quash the FIR in the case. The police on Saturday had recorded one-page statement of the woman, and according to the investigators, she contradicted the details of her complaint before her legal counsel, police, the board of doctors and her father, police said. The woman is still recovering and is under observation. She has been provided police protection, said officers. Usha Kundu, assistant commissioner of police (headquarters), said that they have scanned all the CCTV footage and they could not get any substantial corroborating evidence to prove the crime. “The victim has alleged that she was raped by the X-Ray staff on October 7 and 8, but she was brought to the hospital on October 21. She has presumed things which never happened and such cases have been reported in the past where patients undergoing treatment hallucinate and imagine things,” she said. Kundu said the two men who came with the portable X-Ray machine had immediately left and a woman technician performed the X-Ray. She said when the woman technician, as per scanning protocol, asked the patient if she was pregnant, the woman thought she had conceived, Kundu said. Police said the main suspect and another contractual staffer, who was questioned along with him, have been allowed to resume their duties at the hospital. Police said the patient will be counselled by a psychologist. The police said the family suspected that the incident took place between October 21 (when she was admitted) and October 27 (when she fully regained consciousness). The victim had informed her father about the alleged incident through a handwritten note on Tuesday after she gained consciousness. The family then approached the police and a case was registered on Tuesday at Sushant Lok police station. A board of doctors from the Civil Hospital conducted a medical investigation on Wednesday and stated that sexual assault cannot be ruled out. A police team has been deployed in the room and protection has been provided to her. The entire area is under scanner, said police. In an earlier statement, the hospital had said: “With 58% female staff, women’s dignity and safety is our utmost priority and we have acted in accordance with this ethos from the very start. We have full faith in our system and know that truth and justice will prevail.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/staffer-given-clean-chit-over-rape-allegations-at-gurugram-private-hospital/story-9pOAqzZ6U4bxu8kru03WmM.html
02-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt lists over 800 open spaces for residents to burn crackers during Diwali||The Delhi government has published a list of over 800 open spaces across the city where people will be permitted to burn “green” firecrackers between 8pm and 10pm on Diwali.The list comes even as the Delhi government is scheduled to launch a campaign on Tuesday urging people not to burn fire crackers this Diwali in light of air pollution, which is a greater concern this year owing to the present Covid-19 crisis.Diwali this year will be celebrated on November 14.Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai, in line with a 2018 Supreme Court order, said the government has allowed the manufacture and sale of only green crackers, which contain fewer polluting substances as compared to traditional ones, and are less noisy as well.In 2018 and 2019, despite the ban on the sale of traditional crackers and due to the low availability of low-emission varieties, pollution levels in the city saw a major spike after Diwali. Till last year, green varieties of only ‘phuljhari’ (sparklers), rocket and ‘anar’(flower pots) were available. More options are available in markets this year.Rai also said, “I appeal to people to not burn any fire crackers at all this year. Because of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, health hazards due to air pollution could turn more dangerous. If anyone really wants to burn firecrackers, then please use only green crackers.”The list of 824 locations, published on the Delhi government’s website, includes parks, vacant plots, school playgrounds and open grounds covering all of the city’s 272 municipal wards. Some of the prominent locations include Buddha Park in Mayur Vihar, a park in B block of Chanakyapuri, Ramleela ground in Laxmibai Nagar, Ajmal Khan Park in Karol Bagh, Sudarshan Park in Moti Nagar, West Mehram Nagar Park in Delhi Cantonment, CBD ground opposite Hotel Leela and Gandhi Park in Saket.A senior government official said the list was released to ensure that even if people choose to burn green firecrackers, they do it in common locations that are more open, instead of streets, lanes and parking areas in residential areas.Local police and administration officials are also likely to set a cap on the size of gatherings in each open space. Enforcement teams will also remain active during Diwali, a senior official in the government’s revenue department said.BS Vohra, president of East Delhi resident welfare associations’ front, said: “We shall be asking members to celebrate Diwali without firecrackers this year. We have already started campaigns through social media platforms. The initiative on part of the government to identify locations for community celebrations reflect good intent, but it can’t be said how much it can actually persuade people. We need better awareness campaigns and stricter enforcement of existing norms.”A total of 260 applications for firecracker shop licences have been received so far by Delhi Police, which issued 138 licences till Thursday -- a number much higher compared to 2019 when only 97 had applied of which 62 had received permission to sell firecrackers. Eligible shopkeepers can start selling from Monday.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director at the Centre for Science and Environment, said: “The government has to invest in an intensive campaign this year to encourage people not to burn firecrackers. The air pollution problem and spike in covid-19 cases together can create a health disaster. With issuing a list of designated locations for burning firecrackers and setting a time window, the government is apparently trying to ensure that residential areas witness less pollution because of firecrackers during Diwali. But, with that, the government should also make firecracker sales’ licensing norms more stringent in order to curb accessibility to firecrackers.”In 2019, the Delhi Police arrested 166 persons and registered 315 cases against people found bursting firecrackers on Diwali night in violation of the Supreme Court’s guidelines – mostly caught with firecrackers which did not qualify as green crackers and on the basis of complaints concerning violation of the time window between 8 pm and 10 pm.“The police will patrol residential areas during Diwali to ensure that prescribed green crackers are burnt during the stipulated time. Violators will be booked under relevant provisions of law depending on the nature of the violation,” said deputy commissioner of police Eish Singhal, spokesperson of Delhi Police.(with inputs from Anvit Srivastava)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-lists-over-800-open-spaces-for-residents-to-burn-crackers-during-diwali/story-jnQtkpHUaClLsVxIQ19hKM.html
02-11-2020||Delhi||Hotels and guest house owners worried about fire clearance||Two months after they were allowed to reopen their businesses, owners of hotels and guest houses in the national capital are a worried lot. While their businesses were already badly hit due to the Covid-19 pandemic, a lack of clarity about new fire safety norms, notified by the Delhi government in May last year, have compounded their concerns.The Delhi Hotel and Restaurant Owners Association (DHROA) met state urban development Satyendar Jain last month to request him to extend by a year the deadline for the implementation of the new norms that are currently under review. The existing deadline was March 31, 2020.The Delhi government had notified the new fire safety norms in May, three months after a fire in Karol Bagh’s Arpit Palace hotel claimed 17 lives.But following objections raised by hotel and guest house owners, the Delhi government had in November last year constituted a sub-committee chaired by a special commissioner of police (licensing) to review and make appropriate recommendations for fire safety in these institutions. The owners were given time till March 31 this year to comply with the new norms.Mohit Shah, general secretary, DHROA, said, “There is no clarity on what the status of the new fire safety norms is. We are in a Catch-22 situation. Our establishments have clearance from the fire department as per the old norms. We don’t know if we should carry out changes as per the new norms or not, as there is no clarity about the new norms. We want the deadline to be extended till March 31, 2021 so that we can run our businesses without any fear.”However, this committee is yet to submit its report, a senior government official said. A senior Delhi Police officer with the licensing department said, “The report is almost final and is expected to be submitted in the coming week.”When contacted, Jain said, “We will extend the time for compliance due to the Covid-19 situation.”Hotel owners said they want the deadline to be extended at the earliest. Murli Mani, owner of a hotel in Karol Bagh and DHROA chairman, said, “The business is badly hit due to Covid. We are operating the business in fear due to a lack of clarity about the fire norms. In case there is a fire incident, will the existing fire NOC [no-objection certificate] be considered valid? The fire department is also not renewing expired NOCs. What will happen to those people? ”A senior Delhi Fire Services (DFS) official, who asked not to be named, said, “Those who have not complied with the changes notified in May 2019, do not technically have a valid NOC. As the deadline for implementation has not been extended and the amendment to the new rules not notified, the rules that were notified in May are in force.”As per the new amendments, kitchen or cooking activity in any form is not allowed on rooftops or basements of buildings, and storage of inflammable materials or temporary roofing is banned in terraces.Besides, inflammable materials — like carpets and wooden or foam panellings — are not allowed on passages, corridors and staircases of buildings, and storage of gas cylinders in violation of standards prescribed by the National Building Code is also banned.The hotel owners had raised objections to a few provisions in the amendment, such as installation of Carbon monoxide detectors and fire check or protection doors, and no fire NoCs to hotels with more than four floors. “We had objected to installation of fire check doors in guesthouses and suggested that sprinklers be allowed. There were other issues which we had raised. We want our fire NOC to be considered valid till next year. The government should notify the new norms at the earliest,” said Boddy Lohia, president of Mahipalpur hotel owners’ association.Former DFS chief AK Sharma said that the government should notify the new norms so that hotel owners can comply with it. “The government should take cognisance and extend the deadline for implementation. Now that the deadline for implementation has not been extended so far, the new rules notified in May are currently in force. But hotel owners can’t be held responsible as the government is yet to notify the final norms.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hotels-and-guest-house-owners-worried-about-fire-clearance/story-HhItHnoqswb577zNhb49YN.html
02-11-2020||Delhi||40% of Delhi’s PM2.5 on Sunday from over 3,000 farm fires, says IMD||Over 3,000 incidents of stubble fires in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh on Saturday contributed to 40% of PM2.5 load in Delhi’s air -- the highest so far, scientists said. With over 6,000 points of fire visible over thee states in the satellite thermal imaging on Sunday, the air quality in Delhi-NCR may further deteriorate, they have warned. North-westerly winds blowings towards Delhi are bringing pollution particles from north-western states where farm fires are raging as well as cold air from the Himalayas, according to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research, Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology. Farmer leaders said farm fires will continue in Punjab for at least 10 more days until harvesting of Kharif crop is complete.An unusually high number of fire counts were observed over Punjab (3,616), Haryana (162), UP (47) and MP (404) on Saturday which is impacting air quality in Delhi NCR and the entire north-western region, said air quality early warning system under the ministry of earth sciences. “There are over 6,000 fire points visible today which is extremely high. Air quality may deteriorate to a severe category in Delhi if wind speed reduces,” said Vijay Soni, scientist, IMD, air quality division.Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary, Bharatiya Kisan Union, agreed that the number of farm fires is unusually high. “This is because of two reasons. One is that farmers are agitating against the farm bills. They are not in a mood to comply with directions. They are also looking to complete harvesting in the next 10 days. There is little monitoring by law enforcing agencies also because of widespread agitation. Farm fires are particularly high in Barnala, Bhatinda, Ludhiana and surrounding areas,” Lakhowal said. Soni, however, pointed out that if not for good wind speed, Delhi’s air might have plunged to the ‘severe’ category. “The only reason Delhi escaped the impact of severe air quality is because of favourable meteorological conditions. Wind speed ranged from 10 to 18 kmph on Sunday which aided dispersal but air quality can deteriorate if the high number of farm fires persist,” added Soni.The ventilation index on Sunday was approximately 10,000 m2/s on Sunday. The ventilation index is a function of the mixing height and the wind speed and defines the ability of the atmosphere to disperse contaminants. A ventilation index below 2,350 sq metres/second is considered poor. Mixing height is the height at which pollutants mix in the air.“On Saturday, there were 3,826 fire points according to the analysis I got. Out of that around 3,600 fires were in Punjab. It’s true that more stubble fires are being recorded in Punjab this year. Last year, a total of 19 million tonnes of paddy from Kharif season had arrived at the mandi. This time already 15 million tonnes has arrived. Out of the 4 million tonnes that is left, 2 million tonnes is Basmati which leaves a stubble that is normally used as fodder. So, I would say 75 to 80% of harvesting is done already. Let’s see what happens in the coming days,” said Trilochan Mohapatra, director general, Indian Council for Agricultural Research.“My personal understanding is that farmers’ anger against farm bills is having an impact on farm fires,” he added.The city recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 370 at 3 pm. The 24-hour average AQI was 367 on Saturday. It was 374 on Friday, 395 on Thursday, 297 on Wednesday, 312 on Tuesday and 353 on Monday.An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maximum-pollution-due-to-stubble-fires-more-raging/story-Nkg5BwRPjP5A2cqbpVom7L.html
02-11-2020||Delhi||Hint of early winter? Min temperature drops 5 degrees below normal on Sunday||Indicating the early onset of winter, the minimum temperature in Delhi dropped to 11.4 degree Celsius -- 5 degrees below normal -- on Sunday morning, as cold winds from the Himalayas brought the mercury down in many parts of northwest India.This October was the coldest Delhi has experienced in 58 years, with the mean minimum temperature for the month at 17.2 degrees Celsius, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) had said on Saturday. November also started on a very cold note suggesting colder days ahead. “A western disturbance is impacting the higher reaches of the Himalayas. The minimum temperature has dipped because of that. Colder conditions are likely this month,” said K Sathi Devi, head, National Weather Forecasting Centre.The long-range forecast for the next two weeks also suggests below normal temperatures over north India according to IMD Pune. “Western disturbances normally bring down temperatures but temporarily till the system ceases to impact the region. The long-range forecast suggests minimum temperature will be below normal till around November 12. Overall, La Nina years are also associated with colder winters which may be also having an impact. Though it starts getting cold from November, in the northern hemisphere December, January, February are the winter months,” explained DS Pai, senior scientist, IMD Pune. El Niño and the Southern Oscillation (ENSO) is a periodic fluctuation in sea surface temperature and the air pressure of the overlying atmosphere across the equatorial Pacific Ocean according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA).ENSO has a major influence on weather and climate patterns such as heavy rains, floods and drought. El Niño has a warming influence on global temperatures, whilst La Niña has the opposite effect. In India for example, El Nino is associated with drought or weak monsoon while La Nina is associated with strong monsoon and above average rains and colder winters. IMD is likely to issue a winter forecast later this month.The Regional Meteorological Centre, Delhi said minimum temperatures are likely to range between 10 to 12 degrees Celsius for the next three to four days. “There are no cold wave conditions yet but if the minimum temperature falls below 10 degrees with a departure of 4.5 degrees Celsius then cold wave conditions will set in. There was snowfall and rainfall in the higher reaches of Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday and Sunday. But there has been light snowfall so far,” explained Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre. He added that farm fires are impacting Delhi’s air quality because of northwesterly winds but wind speed is moderate over 10 kmph.Minimum temperature dipped by 1 degee Celsius each in Shimla, which recorded a minimum temperature of 10.7 degrees Celsius, Chandigarh at 13.6 degrees and Amritsar at 11.4 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hint-of-early-winter-min-temperature-drops-5-degrees-below-normal-on-sunday/story-rsyhrbgszXwoHJotju8sqM.html
02-11-2020||Gurugram||30 detained for rioting over college student murder||Thirty people were detained on Sunday following a clash with the police in Ballabhgarh, as a group of over 200 persons blocked the Delhi-Agra highway demanding justice for the family of 20-year-old Nikita Tomar, who was shot dead by her stalker outside Aggarwal College on October 26.Earlier in the day, a ‘mahapanchayat’ was held at Dussehra ground over the incident. The police said the mob blocked the highway and started pelting stones at them when they intervened, leaving 10 personnel injured.OP Singh, Faridabad police commissioner, said that the family members of Tomar had called a ‘mahapanchayat’ of 36 communities in Ballabhgarh to demand justice. “Both the suspects were arrested within 36 hours and the weapon and car used in the crime were recovered from Nuh. The investigation was conducted by a special investigation team headed by an assistant commissioner of police and a speedy trial has been initiated. We have ensured strict punishment for the suspects,” he said.Singh said that while 30 people were detained, others who had directed the group to disrupt peace and give it a religious angle are being identified.Last Monday, Touseef Ahmad, a resident of Kabeer Nagar in Sohna, and his friend, Rehaan, a resident of Riwasan in Nuh, arrived in a Hyundai i20 and tried to force Tomar, a final-year physiotherapy student of Gurugram University, into their vehicle as she exited the college after writing an exam.When she resisted their attempts, Touseef chased her down and shot her in the head from close range at 3:48pm in full public view, as seen in the footage that emerged. The suspects escaped from the crime scene, leaving Tomar, who was accompanied by a friend, in a pool of blood. She was rushed to a government hospital, where she was declared dead.The entire incident was captured by CCTV cameras in the area and sent shock waves across the state, triggering protests by her classmates and students’ groups.The two suspects — of whom one is politically connected, according to the police — were arrested from Nuh on Monday and Tuesday after a massive search operation, the police said.On Sunday, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said that the Centre and state governments are looking into the case. “Since the murder case of the B.Com student is being linked with ‘love jihad,’ the Centre, as well as the state government, is looking into it and considering legal provisions so that the guilty is not able to escape, and no innocent person is punished. Fast track court would be established in this case for giving strict punishment to culprits,” he said.Tomar’s murder has triggered communal rage in the region, as right-wing leaders are alleged to have made “hate speeches” in the ‘mahapanchayat’ held on Sunday, the police said.Sumer Singh Yadav, the deputy commissioner of police (Ballabhgarh), said that the people had come from Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar, Delhi, Nuh, Palwal and Gurugram to attend the ‘mahapanchayat’ and plans were afoot to disrupt the peace and create communal fervour. The rioters damaged a few shops too, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/thirty-detained-for-rioting-over-college-student-murder/story-3kRWkbCEDM8zQFId2hwhdP.html
02-11-2020||Mumbai||Eknath Khadse meets with an accident at Jalgaon in Maharashtra, escapes unhurt||Former BJP turned NCP leader Eknath Khadse’s car met with an accident as he was travelling back to his house at Jalgaon on Sunday. Fortunately, Khadse as well as those travelling in the vehicle escaped unhurt. Khadse in his tweet said he was safe. “Today while travelling from Amalner to Jalgaon, my vehicle met with a minor accident at Dharangaon. Since the speed of the vehicle was less, my driver could control the vehicle due to his presence of mind. I am safe due to your blessings and no one was hurt in this incident,” said Khadse. Khadse was travelling back to his hometown when a tyre of his vehicle burst. However, his driver was able to control the vehicle. Khadse was recently in the news as he ended his four decades of association with the BJP. He has joined the NCP in presence of its chief Sharad Pawar. Khadse blamed former chief minister and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis for forcing him out as he was constantly being marginalised by the latter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/eknath-khadse-s-escapes-unhurt-in-car-accident-in-jalgaon/story-vAFE6dFzXsh85EMDfmK2EK.html
02-11-2020||Mumbai||TRP case: Mumbai crime branch recovers ₹13.72 lakh from arrested man||The Mumbai crime branch’s special investigation team (SIT) has seized ₹13.72 lakh cash from the residence and office premises of an arrested accused Abhishek Kolawade in the alleged television rating points (TRP) manipulation case. Kolawade works as a vendor for many channels and runs a company named Max Media.Assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze who is a part of the investigating team confirmed that a crime branch team conducted raids at Kolawade’s residence and office premises in Mumbai and Thane area and seized total cash ₹13.72 lakh. “We have also seized three laptops, two hard discs and five pen drives. The Kalina forensic team has been approached to help the SIT to recover data from laptops, hard disc and pen drive if any important evidence was deleted by accused” said Vaze.So far, the crime branch arrested a total 11 accused in the case and Kolawade was arrested on October 25. “After investigation, it was learnt that Kolawade used to get money from suspected channels through hawala” said Vaze.After questioning Kolawade police arrested Ashish Chaudhary, 50, a Thane resident who was allegedly involved in payment for manipulating views for two news channels and a Bollywood music channel. Chaudhary worked as a distributor of a Hindi New channel and runs a company named Crystal Broadcast private limited in his wife’s name and was in constant touch with Kolawade.During inquiry, Chaudhary revealed that he paid lakh to Kolawade every month who distributed the money to other arrested accused Ramji Varma, Dinesh Vishwakarma and Umesh Mishra and then the money went to the households where barometers were installed to watch the select news channels maximum time. Both are in police custody till November 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/trp-case-crime-branch-recovers-13-72-lakh-from-arrested-man/story-bmZgPGIkE9vUPlLoF1hapN.html
02-11-2020||Pune||Three, including Army havaldar, held in recruitment racket||Three men, including an Indian Army havaldar, were arrested by Pune police crime branch, on Sunday, for allegedly running an Indian Army recruitment racket and trying to dupe 17 aspirants.The three arrested have been identified as havaldar Jaidevsingh Parihar and civilians Vensingh Lalsingh Rawat and Ravindra Gajendrasingh Rathod, both natives of Rajasthan, according to the police.The information about the same was provided to the police by officials of Southern Command Liaison Unit (military intelligence) officials to the crime branch. The aspirants who had passed the physical test were called for the collection of hall ticket from the zonal recruitment office located along Rajendra Singhji Marg, Pune.The aspirants met Parihar who was deployed at the entrance of the institution. Parihar approached the aspirants and offered them coaching at a private institution that he recommended, according to the police. The aspirants were then directed towards the two civilians who took them to a private building in Lohegaon and made them believe that they were being trained for the recruitment exam.“Some of them had come almost ten days ago, five others had come recently. There was a dormitory in Lohegaon where they were living. All 17 of them are from Beed, Marathwada regions,” said senior police inspector Mahendra Jagtap, unit 2, Pune police crime branch.The men handed them a question paper on Saturday night and told them that it will help in the exam which was scheduled for Sunday at Army Institute of Physical Training, Wanowrie.“They were arrested at Army Institute of Physical Training when they brought the aspirants for the exam. If any of them manages to get through, they were asked to pay Rs 1.5 lakh to these men,” said Jagtap.A case under relevant sections of cheating under the Indian Penal Code is registered at Wanowrie police station against the three.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-including-army-havaldar-held-in-recruitment-racket/story-TL6Nj1UjLwtsX1BN7sqjGM.html
02-11-2020||Pune||Pune youth spread happiness among orphans this Diwali season||PUNE Living up to the true spirit of the upcoming festive season, a group of youth from different organisations have come together under the ‘Ek diva - for tomorrow’s hope’ initiative to help the orphan and poor during the Diwali season.Under this initiative the volunteers are making and painting ‘diyas’ and the money collected from selling these will be used to help the children from various orphanages.“We started the initiative from October 4. On weekends we all volunteers make diyas and paint them at five different locations in the city. Not only youth but parents and common people have joined us,” said advocate Rohan Shetty, founder president, Youth – The power to change organisation.“Till now we have made 6,000 diyas and we will continue the initiative till October 8. Around 70 to 80 volunteers are involved in the project,” he said.On Sunday, the initiative was held at the Dr Vasant Dada Patil secondary Vidyaniketan school in Shukrawar peth. To support the noble cause Pune city mayor Murlidhar Mohol and MLA Mukta Tilak met the volunteers.Chaitra Pujari, a volunteer, a dancer and choreographer, said, “We are coming together not for fun but to share happiness with the needy. The main motive of this initiative is to bring joy in their lives during the Diwali festival, as already we all are suffering from Covid-19 pandemic.”Ratan Mali, secretary, Gharate orphanage, Hadapsar, appreciated the efforts taken by the youth and said, “We are grateful as the funds will help orphan children during the Diwali season.”“The youth have shown a sense of responsibility towards the less privileged,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/youth-spread-happiness-among-orphans-this-diwali-season/story-98QLY1PIoq6o65rEpbAmKN.html
02-11-2020||Pune||At least 1.79 lakh students remain absent for SPPU final year exams||PUNE As many as 1,79,089 students remained absent for the final year exams of Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) and its affiliated colleges according to the varsity administration.The final year exams started from October 12 and till now 10,87,739 students have appeared for various subjects exams through online and offline mode.According to the information given by the SPPU administration, for the final year examination, a total of 12,69,478 students were expected to appear for the exams. Out of which 9,78,472 students appeared for online and 1,09,267 students appeared for offline exams. The total percentage of students appearing for exams is 97.84 per cent. Whereas 1,79,089 students remained absent for these exams till now.The university has now planned to conduct re-examination of such students who were not able to attend the exams due to any reason on November 5, 6 and 7.The students have blamed the SPPU for mismanagement during the exams.“Students are facing difficulties while giving the examination and it is a failure of SPPU administration for not conducting the exams properly,” said Kuldeep Ambekar, president, Students Helping Hand organisation.“We have repeatedly raised several issues which students are facing while writing the exams online and offline, but no corrective measures were taken by the university administration. Now we hope that in the re-examination not a single error will be there and students are helped by the SPPU.” said Kuldeep Ambekar, president of Students Helping Hand organisation.Prof N S Umrani, pro-vice-chancellor, SPPU, said, “We have checked all the complaints sent by the students in detail. We will be conducting re-examination on November 5, 6 and 7 of all those students who have faced any kind of difficulty while writing the exam online and offline. ”The final year exams are being conducted for 3,300 subjects for which 2.5 lakh students have enrolled themselves. For the offline exams, 113 centres have been identified where the physical exams were conducted in Pune, Nashik and Ahmednagar districts. These exams are of 50 marks with multiple-choice questions (MCQ) for a duration of one hour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/at-least-1-79-lakh-students-remain-absent-for-sppu-final-year-exams/story-NKx4rJpe71YxTnPtImi0UN.html
02-11-2020||Pune||Pictures of Macron appear on two streets of Pune||Photos of French president Emanuel Macron were found stuck on roads in two areas in Pune. The photos have been perceived as a form of protest against the tensions between France and Turkey and comments made by Macron. The tensions between the two countries had escalated after a French school teacher Samuel Paty was beheaded on October 16 for showing caricatures of Prophet Mohammad made by a publication called Charlie Hebdo. In January 2015, a shooting at the offices of Charlie Hebdo had left 17 people dead. Subsequently, three people were stabbed to death in a church in Nice on Thursday. In the first instance that came to light on the day of Eid, October 30, the pictures were stuck when the residents of Ghorpade peth went to offer Namaz in the afternoon. “When we came out for the first time that day, it was all normal. Then, we went to offer Namaz and came back and saw the pictures stuck throughout the road stretch. We did not think much about it. The police came and cleaned it,” said a 67-year-old man whose house overlooks the street where at least 50 pictures of Macron covered the street. The same series of events was repeated by the owner of a pharmacy and of a paan stall which overlooks the street between Ghorpade peth police outpost and a local mosque. Nobody wanted to be named in the story and did not wish to name the people who did the deed. However, the police found three people and served them notices under Section 151 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The three have been identified as Shoaib Salim Shaikh (32), Arbaz Shakal Shaikh (26), and Zunaid Suleiman Momin (20), all residents of Ghorpade peth. The remnants of the pictures could be clearly seen even on Sunday when another street was covered in the Macron’s pictures in A4 size paper printouts. This time, the pictures appeared on a street in Parvati Paytha area of Dattawadi at night. While the people of Ghorpade peth were aware of who had stuck the pictures, the people in Parvati Paytha appeared unaware of who the perpetrators were. “I close at around 10pm and open again at 9am. Even till 3-4am, I know there was nothing there. When I came in the morning, however, the photos were stuck to the road. The people called the police on patrol and they tried to pull them off,” said Azar Memon, a paan shop owner in the vicinity “I’m working in place of my brother. I shut shop at 9pm and open at 8am. When I left there was nothing, and when I opened this morning people had gathered. People came to took pictures. I went by my work and did not pay much attention to the incident,” said a butcher at Aamir chicken shop located on the spot. Police sub inspector Arjun Naikawadi remained clueless about the pictures on the spot which is barely 400 metres from the police outpost. However, outgoing police station in-charge police inspector Devidas Gheware said, “Yes, there was information of the incident. I have relinquished charge of the police station, but was in the area for a medical camp. Policemen on the night shift went and checked it out and the locals there cleared it.”As the pictures have disappeared and a police station in-charge is absent, the stand of the local police remained unknown. “Everybody has the right of expressing their outrage and it should be expressed on the right platform too. Nobody can tolerate the disrespect of their saints. People have taken to the streets for such behaviour before as well. This should not affect the Indian people. In fact, like Muslims have supported protests against insult of Jija Mata, people of other communities should actively support these protests of Muslims. The only measure undertaken should be to ensure that nobody is inconvenienced by any of these protests,” said Anjum Inamdar, president of Mool Niwasi Muslim Manch, Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pictures-of-macron-appear-on-two-streets-of-pune/story-PeGR0Wysf6QDdQDFi94xsM.html
02-11-2020||City||Pune wakes up to a walk in the park as public gardens reopen amid restrictions||With strict norms in place, as many as 81 public gardens and parks in the city opened for public at 6 am on Sunday, bringing cheer to many.The regular walkers were seen wearing masks and carrying sanitisers at various gardens in the city.At Sarasbaug, a popular destination for a morning stroll, a group of regular walkers “Sarasbaug Mitra Pariwar” felicitated the staff members and gardeners for keeping the gardens well maintained during the lockdown restrictions.Anand Saraf, a regular at Sarasbaug, was elated when the local authorities announced the opening of gardens. “I was here before 6 am, along with a few of my friends, waiting to see the lawns after seven months. The lotuses are in full bloom in the pond and there was this pleasant fragrance of dew-wet grass as we walked around the garden. I am happy to be back here after a long time,” said Saraf.The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has opened 81 of its 196 gardens with certain restrictions including a ban on any Diwali related programmes and activities such as Yoga and laughing clubs.For Ajit Pimple, businessman and a resident of Kasba peth, it was a relief to be back in the gardens for his regular walks. “I have been a regular to Sarasbaug for 15 years, and these seven months were indeed difficult for it also put a dent into our habit of walking,” said Pimple.Due to the restrictions, not everyone could enter the garden. People above 65 years of age are not allowed inside the gardens.“We were not allowed to enter the garden. Sarasbaug is a special place for us, retired people, as we sit on the mounds of grass, spend time with friends and simply relax,” said Anil Gelada, a retired teacher.According to Vilas Pathak, Sarasbaug garden incharge, PMC, at least 80 people were allowed inside the garden on the first day.“Everyone was maintaining social distance and we were not allowing anyone inside without a mask,” he said.There were no sanitiser stands nor thermal scanning was done at either of the gardens, to which Ashok Ghorpode, garden superintendent, PMC, said, “We will be installing sanitiser stands within the gates, after gauging the response from people by Tuesday onwards.”While the timings created confusion among people at Sambhaji Garden, where Banu Shaikh, a security guard had a tough time explaining joggers, walkers to come back in the evening.“There is a board displayed at the gate informing people that the gardens will remain open from 6 am to 8 am and later from 5 pm to 7 pm, but still people are not aware and were requesting us to open and let them in,” said Shaikh.Dos and don’ts*Timings morning 6 am to 8 am, evening: 5 pm to 7 pm*Residents need to maintain social distance and wear mask*No permission for laughing clubs, yoga, festival programme and group activity*Kids below 10 years, citizens above 65 years are not allowed||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-wakes-up-to-a-walk-in-the-park-as-81-public-gardens-reopen-amid-restrictions/story-dMItZEQ7O4bkiTX0cy2HHI.html
02-11-2020||Pune||Despite govt directions, no fixed rates for masks||Medical stores in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad have been selling masks at no fixed rate despite the state government’s October 20 circular on the issue. According to the state government’s rate, National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) certified N-95 V shape (including magnum N-95 V-shape mask) should cost Rs 19. However, a range of medical stores have their own price tag for the masks. “We have informed all the chemists to sell masks according to the fixed rate as per the state government. While many chemists have different types of masks like the one made of cloth; they have different rates. Many chemists also have an old stock available which has an old maximum retail price tag and regarding it neither the food drug and the administration nor the mask manufacturer companies have given us any direction until now. So, at many places there is confusion,” said Anil Belkar, secretary, chemist association of Pune district. “Our intention is to not make money selling masks and if we find any case where a chemist is flouting rules then we will take action against them,” added Belkar. A spot visit by HT found out that prices of the same mask vary in different medical shops. Vivekanand medical were selling N-95 V shape masks at Rs 60 while Ganesh Medical at Dange Chowk claimed the same mask was Rs 80. According to Ganesh Medical store, the original N95 cost Rs 200, Mahadev Medical at Thergaon also had their own set of rates – single layer Rs 50, double layers Rs 100, and five layers Rs 200.” Same fluctuations of rates were noticed in Pimpri market, Morwadi, Sadashiv peth, Kothrud, Baner, and Aundh. Aditya Medical at Dange chowk, claimed “I don’t have the N95 masks available now, but rates are between Rs 19-Rs 50.” Vivekanand medical store who was selling other varieties of masks along with N-95 said, “The demand of N95 has gone down as people are preferring buying matching masks from cloth shops and for most people single layer, the double-layer does not matter.” “Seven days before I purchased a mask of Rs 150 from a medical shop and the same mask my friend purchased it for Rs 80 yesterday (October 31),” said Rushikesh Phadnis, a resident. “On October 23, we sent a circular to all chemists regarding the selling of masks at the rates fixed by the state government. Even if they have old stock, they have to sell masks at new rates. Till now we have done 336 inspections in Pune and Pimpri and Chinchwad among which 22 have been given show-cause notice. The inspection will continue further as well,” said Suresh Patil, joint commissioner, food and drug administration, Pune.Box Description of Masks; MRP per piece + GST (in Rs); NIOSH certified N-95 V shape (Including *Magnum N-95 V shape mask); Rs 19 2 NIOSH certified N-95 3D mask (Including *Magnum N-95 MH 3D mask); Rs 25 3 NIOSH certified N-95 without valve (including #Venus 14488 V4400-N-95 mask without valve ); Rs 28 4 NIOSH certified N-95 cup shape without valve A Magnum N-95 MH cup; Rs 49 B Venus CN95+ N-95 cup shape mask without valve; Rs 29 C Venus 713W-N-95-6WE cup style without valve; Rs 37 D Venus 723W-N-95-6RE cup style without valve; Rs 29 5 FFP2 Mask: ISI certified (including #Venus 14491 V-4420+ FFP2 mask); Rs 12 6 2 Ply surgical with loop or tie; Rs 3 7 3 Ply surgical with Melt Blown (including #Venus 14520-3 Ply Mask); Rs 4 8 Doctors kit of 5 N-95 masks + 5 3Ply melt-blown mask (including #Venus doctors kit); Rs 127 NIOSH: National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, USA. Magnum: Magnum Health & safety Pvt. Ltd. Venus: Venus Health and Safety Pvt. Ltd. FFP: Filtering face piece||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/mask-rates-go-for-a-toss-despite-state-govt-directions/story-w20jH6xirds91XmJrbsb5I.html
02-11-2020||Pune||Trekking now allowed in Pune district||District collector Rajesh Deshmukh on Sunday granted permission for people to go on treks, with certain norms in place, in Pune district. On Sunday, Akhil Maharashtra Giryarohan Mahasangh (AMGM) – apex state body for mountaineering, received the letter of permission from the district administration.“We were in continuous discussion with the district collector and it paid off. I also appeal to people to follow all the norms before planning a trek,” said Umesh Zirpe, president, Akhil Maharashtra Giryarohan Mahasangh (AMGM).November-January is considered as the best timing for trekking in Maharashtra.According to the list of norms, not more than a group of 15 can travel together for the trek while each individual should get thermal screening done before the trek. If there is a larger group then it should be divided into small groups.Mask is compulsory while trekking while all the social distancing norms laid down by the state government needs to be followed strictly. Kids below the age of 10 and senior citizens above the age of 65 have been prohibited from trekking.People with cough and cold should not trek. Overnight trekking and stay is not allowed and trekkers have been told to carry their own food. “If people are found flouting norms, action will be taken against the individual and permission of trekking will be cancelled till further orders,” added Zirpe.Kolhapur district has also given permission to start treks recently.“We had a meeting with Akhil Maharashtra Giryarohan Mahasangh (AMGM) and stakeholders and added some norms which is must for all who are planning to trek,” said Rajesh Deshmukh, district collector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/trekking-now-allowed-in-pune-district/story-jateRXy4KdqLdOMfOEf0eM.html
