03-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai gets Rs244 crore from Centre to fight air pollution||The Centre allocated ₹396.5 crore to Maharashtra, the biggest share from a total of ₹2,200 crore to all states, to improve the air quality in its cities, under the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) as per the recommendations by the 15th finance commission. Of the amo-unt allocated to Maharashtra, ₹244 crore will be for Mumbai.The Union finance ministry released the funds for 42 urban agglomerations in 15 states as the first instalment of the programme. Mumbai received the biggest share among cities, followed by Kolkata (₹192 crore), Bengaluru (₹139.5 crore) and Chennai (₹90 crore). Maharashtra has six cities — Mumbai, Vasai-Virar, Aurangabad, Nagpur, Nashik, Pune — featured in the list. Pune got ₹67 crore, Nagpur ₹33 crore, Nashik ₹20.5 crore, while Vasai-Virar and Aurangabad received ₹16 crore each. The state government has been directed to release the funds to the civic bodies within 10 working days. “The funds are expected to be utilised for the capacity-building of local bodies and meeting needs of the state pollution control board to achieve the goal of maintaining ambient air quality within the jurisdiction of the cities,” a letter tweeted by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said.Leader of opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, against the backdrop of the ongoing tussle between the state and Central government, tweeted about the highest allotment to the state. A November 2 communication from the Finance Commission Division to the accounts officer at the Chief Controller of Accounts in the department of expenditure, ministry of finance, details the allocation. The 2020-21 report of the finance commission had recommended the grant of ₹4,400 crore to NCAP. The programme, launched in January last year, aims to reduce by 20-30%, the PM 2.5 (respirable, pollution particles) concentrations in over a hundred cities compared to 2017 levels.Meanwhile, according to officials from the environment department, “We are also expecting guidelines from the Central government along with the funds. The cities selected are with a high level of pollution and we call them ‘atonement cities’ which need more focus. We have been implementing measures to arrest the pollution from industrial and vehicular transmission, which are the biggest contributors. The efforts will definitely get a boost by the central funds.”The local bodies in the list shall entrust one urban local body as a nodal entity to receive the grants. This nodal entity shall also have the responsibility of achieving the performance indicators for the entire urban agglomeration, the ministry’s statement said.(with inputs from Jayashree Nandi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-gets-rs244-crore-from-centre-to-fight-air-pollution/story-AMMfIZITv195R0lw5ILr7J.html
03-11-2020||City||18-year-old arrested for harassing minor in Noida Sector 20||NoidaAn 18-year-old was arrested by the Noida police on Tuesday from Sector 31 for allegedly harassing a minor in an area under the sector 20 police jurisdiction.According to the police, the girl’s family had approached the sector 20 police on Monday alleging that the man had been harassing the girl for the past few days.The suspect was identified as Aman Saifi, a native of Bareilly, was nabbed on Tuesday morning from the Sardar Bhagat Singh park in sector 31. He was produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.“He lives nearby and would often make derogatory comments towards our daughter while also trying to lure her to secluded places. He would also stalk her,” said the family in its complaint.Following the complaint, a case was registered against the suspect under section 354 (harassment), 354D (stalking) and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.“The girl and the suspect both live near each other but come from very different family backgrounds and communities. The girl’s father is a vegetable vendor while the boy’s father is a property dealer,” said Rakesh Kumar Singh, station house officer, sector 20 police station.He said that the suspect would often pass comments on the girl and harass her following which the family approached the police. The girl’s family was also worried that the suspect might harm her or even try and kidnap her, said the SHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/18-year-old-arrested-for-harassing-minor-in-noida-sector-20/story-iBWND4ygLctTJSjqJHw72I.html
03-11-2020||Chandigarh||Covid: Chandigarh man dies, 185 test +ve in tricity||A 56-year-old man from Manimajra in Chandigarh died at a private hospital in Mohali while 185 people tested positive for Covid-19 in the tricity on Tuesday.Chandigarh’s death toll rose to 227, while its infection tally climbed to 14,608 with 86 new cases.With 43 patients being discharged, the number of recoveries reached 13,751, and the active cases rose to 629 from Monday’s 593. Mohali and Panchkula districts recorded no casualty.While 55 people tested positive in Mohali, 44 cases surfaced in Panchkula, including that of a CRPF personnel. Mohali has reported 12,522 cases so far, of which 550 remain active. While 11,737 patients have recovered, including 31 discharged on Tuesday, 237 have succumbed. As many as 7,231 people have tested positive in Panchkula so far, of whom 6,871 have been cured and 116 died, leaving 244 active cases.91-yr-old man with multiple comorbidities beats virus A 91-year-old man suffering from severe Covid bilateral pneumonia with lung fibrosis and multiple comorbidities has beaten the virus successfully. The elderly from Ropar district was discharged from Ivy Super Speciality Hospital in Mohali after 20 days of treatment. The patient was admitted to the emergency with complaints of breathlessness, fever, cough, and body aches. He had prostate cancer for the past five years, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease for 20 years, and high blood pressure problem as well, stated a release. He remained critical for 10 days, before he started showing signs of recovery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-chandigarh-man-dies-185-test-ve-in-tricity/story-2N79QXsJDAb2SKm3nof0kM.html
03-11-2020||Noida||Noida garment exporters stare at uncertain future amid fresh lockdown in European countries||NOIDA: With reports of fresh lockdown in some European countries, apparel exporters of Gautam Budh Nagar district are staring at an uncertain future. Lalit Thukral, chairman of Noida Apparel Export Cluster (NAEC), said that one of the worst-hit business sectors in the Covid-19 pandemic is textiles – particularly the garment exports in that segment. “A sharp fall in domestic and export demand due to Covid-19, and lower profitability are enough to give a major setback to the apparel industry. We saw some hope with fresh orders coming from European countries for Spring-Summer Collections 2021. But, with fresh lockdown in the UK, Italy, Spain, France and Germany – which have at least 40% share in overall apparel exports worth over Rs 50,000 crore from India – the Indian exporters have started sulking again as it will result in higher revenue loss,” Thukral said. He further said that with the lockdown in these countries, the apparel exports’ revenue of Rs 2 lakh crore will certainly go down by 30% in this fiscal. “For the apparel exporters, the fall will be more because of tepid discretionary spending in these countries,” he said. Amid this uncertainty, the exporters have started surfing the avenues in the domestic market to make up the financial loss. However, they said that the domestic market won’t be able to make up for the loss.Echoing similar views, Neeraj Prakash, who runs a garment export company in Noida, said, “Now, there is a lot of uncertainty. Even the orders ready to be shipped are dumped in the customs office. If the situation persists, the future of Indian apparel industry is very bleak. Only Noida is all set to lose the export orders of Rs 5,000 crore this year. The domestic demand is nothing more than a drop in the ocean for us,” he said. However, Kulmani Gupta, chairman of Indian Industries Association (IIA), said that the lockdown in European countries doesn’t have much impact on India. “They are still banking on China for apparel. But, if fresh lockdown is imposed in the US, which had restricted Chinese exports, Indian apparel industry will certainly have a body blow,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-garment-exporters-stare-at-uncertain-future-amid-fresh-lockdown-in-european-countries/story-yhIOKg81PamuPciSlTi95H.html
03-11-2020||City||UP-Rera welcomes SC order on home buyers seeking justice from consumer forums||The Uttar Pradesh-Real Estate Regulatory Authority(UP-Rera) on Tuesday said that they welcome the recent order by the Supreme Court, which enables home buyers to seek justice under the Consumer Protection Act even though their rights are protected by the Real Estate Regulatory Act of 2016.“We welcome the Supreme Court’s order because the homebuyers now have more choices. If they feel they can get speedy justice in consumer courts, then they can seek justice there. On the other hand, if they believe that the Rera will provide them justice in a timebound manner, then they can approach us,” said Balvinder Kumar, a member of UP-Rera. However, earlier, in March 2019, the UP-Rera had written to the ministry of housing and urban affairs, seeking amendments in the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016. In the letter, the regulatory body had mentioned three points: First, the regulatory body should be vested with directive powers; second, the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission should not hear home buyers’ cases, and third, the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), which hears realtors’ cases under the Indian Bankruptcy Code (IBC-2016), should not hear a case in a housing project until more than 10% buyers — out of the total number of purchased flats in a housing project — approach it for justice.SC Justice UU Lalit, on Monday, in its order, said that the Section 79 of the Real Estate Regulatory Authority Act, 2016, does not stop consumer forums to hear pleas of home buyers seeking justice under the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act. The order came in response to a counter plea filed by a Gurugram-based developer, who had sought the quashing of an order by the consumer forum in response to a plea filed by a homebuyer, who was given relief. The consumer forum had imposed a penalty of ₹50,000 penalty against the developer for a delay in delivery.Real estate experts pointed out that the SC order was a landmark judgement for home buyers as Rera, over the years, has failed to protect the rights of the home buyers.“Homebuyers are happy because UP-Rera has become ineffective in safeguarding their rights. Rera was hoping that homebuyers should only file cases only with them stop going to consumer forums. We feel that the consumer forums will provide justice in a better manner,” said Abhishek Kumar, president of Noida Extension flat owners association. “It is a very logical order because you cannot restrain a homebuyer from seeking justice at consumer forums. Rera is an additional remedy. However, it does not stop the homebuyers from going to consumer forums. Rera’s orders are not being implemented because it does not have power to direct the government bodies. Therefore, either the government should give more powers to Rera or let the buyer decide where to seek justice,” said Kumar Mihir, a Supreme Court lawyer and an expert on issues concerning home buyers.City-based real estate developers, however, had a mixed reaction to the order.“The SC order will impact the real estate sector negatively because it will create confusion in the minds of home buyers, investors and others. When Rera was formed by the government of India as expert body exclusively for the real estate sector then it should have powers to settle issues that crop up. Rera understands all realty projects better and can come up with better solutions. The SC order defeats the very purpose of the formation of an expert body,” said RK Arora president of the UP Chapter of National Real Estate Council. Developer Suresh Garg, member of legal committee of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (CREDAI) said, “The SC order gives liberty to home buyers to seek justice either at a consumer forum or with Rera. However, we have seen that home buyers get justice in a lesser time and at a lesser cost at Rera.”Prashant Kumar Tiwari, president of Western UP wing of CREDAI, said, “Rera is an expert body and home buyers also prefer it over the consumer court.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-rera-welcomes-sc-order-on-home-buyers-seeking-justice-from-consumer-forums/story-F8G3GjcVLvVLIVy16vXPLP.html
03-11-2020||Chandigarh||Hiked parking rates on the cards in Chandigarh from December 1||If everything goes according to the municipal corporation’s plan, then come December 1, get ready to shell out more at paid parking lots in Chandigarh. Implementation of the hiked rates, which were approved in September last year, is contingent upon the contractors providing smart features at the 89 parking lots in the city.The MC General House on October 29 had directed the contractors to introduce the smart features (see box) within 30 days.“The new rates will come into effect automatically after the parking contractors provide the smart features. They should be able to do so by December 1,” said SK Jain, additional commissioner, MC.The directions from the House came after it took up the agenda on licence fee exemption to parking contractors. It rejected it, as financial activity in the city has picked up and markets and offices have been allowed to open. In the wake of the Covid-19 lockdown, the MC had given complete licence fee exemption for April and May. It had also given waiver to contractors thereafter.Charges depend upon parking durationAfter the new rates kick in, parking fee for the first four hours will remain the same as the flat rates charged right now: ₹5 for two-wheelers and ₹10 for four-wheelers.Thereafter, these will be doubled. The charges will further be doubled if vehicles are kept parked beyond 12 hours (see box). However, there will be free entry for pick and drop in the first 10 minutes.At Elante Mall, Piccadily Square Mall and Fun Republic, flat rate of ₹20 and ₹40 will be charged for two- and four-wheelers, respectively. All parking lots will also allow day passes for multiple entries besides monthly passes.Parking lots in the city have been divided into two zones: 32 in Zone 1 and 57 in Zone 2. The MC had auctioned both zones for around ₹10 crore annually.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hiked-parking-rates-on-the-cards-in-chandigarh-from-december-1/story-IaTcUGrMQpdnFPFieUT03I.html
03-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administration mulling ban on sale of crackers||Amid fear of second Covid wave, the Chandigarh administration is considering banning the sale of crackers in the city this Diwali.Some states have already taken the decision to ban the sale of crackers. UT administrator VP Singh Badnore will take a final call on the issue on Wednesday.“There is a concern that pollution caused by firecrackers may cause spike in coronavirus cases in the city. Health experts have said that there is a possibility of a second wave during the festival season due to this pollution,” said UT adviser Manoj Parida on Tuesday. Even though a draw of lot for allotment of 96 licences for the sale of crackers was held in Chandigarh on Tuesday, the administration withheld the issuance of temporary licences.The three-day sale of crackers is slated to start at 14 designated sites from November 12. Diwali is on November 14.During the Covid-19 review meeting on Monday, Badnore had appealed to the residents to avoid bursting of crackers. “Doctors have opined that toxic air arising out of crackers is likely to affect the lungs and, hence, residents should avoid or minimise bursting of firecrackers during festival season,” he had said.On Tuesday, the administration also issued a health advisory, stating: “People should stay indoors and desist from bursting firecrackers in order to prevent air pollution and to protect the elderly and people with comorbidities. Public cooperation in this will help in keeping the transmission of Covid-19 under control and decrease the risk of mortality due to the virus in the coming winter month.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-mulling-ban-on-sale-of-crackers/story-MmG7oyNQk4mCRQqutkMb0O.html
03-11-2020||City||Six members of Lawrence Bishnoi gang held with arms in Mohali||Six members of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang, including a juvenile, who were planning to free the prime suspect in Sonu Shah murder case, were arrested in Kharar, police said on Tuesday. Sonu Shah, a property dealer who was at loggerheads with Bishnoi, was shot dead at his office in Chandigarh’s Burail village last September.Bishnoi’s aide Manjit Singh, who was arrested for the murder, is presently lodged in Chandigarh Model Jail.The six gang members were arrested by the crime investigating agency (staff) of the Mohali police during checking at a naka near Sunny Enclave while they were on their way to the tricity in a Mahindra Scorpio SUV, said superintendent of police (SP, investigation) Harmandeep Hans.Police also recovered two .32 bore pistols along with seven live cartridges, a countrymade .315 bore pistol along with a live cartridge, a dagger and a sword from their possession. The vehicle was also impounded.They have been identified as Harwinder Singh, alias Joy, of Patiala; Subham, alias Billu, of Dadumajra in Chandigarh; Hitesh, alias Bholu, of Jagdishpura village in Sonepat; Anmol and Abhinav of Sonepat; and a juvenile. Bholu is a relative of Manjit Singh. All six were produced in court and sent to three-day police remand. “They worked for Manjit Singh, who is an active member of the Bishnoi gang. Their main motive was to free him from police custody while on way to court hearing, for which they had hatched a conspiracy in Sonepat,” said Hans.The interrogation further revealed that the six planned to execute a bank robbery to arrange funds.One of them involved in Chandigarh shootingPolice also learnt that Billu, along with one Vijay, had shot at a trader in Sector 25, Chandigarh, on October 19. Joy and Billu had also carried out shooting on the day of a state-level function at Patiala on October 25. Hans said Joy is booked in three criminal cases in various police stations, while Billu, a Class-10 dropout, faces two cases. “The accused have disclosed names of three more accomplices, who will be nabbed soon. We are checking their possible hideouts in Mohali. Further investigation is on,” said Hans. A case has been registered under Sections 399 (making preparation to commit dacoity), 402 (assembling for the purpose of committing dacoity) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code besides and under the Arms Act at the Kharar Sadar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-members-of-lawrence-bishnoi-gang-held-with-arms-in-mohali/story-2DONwQjfeWkHlOPce5wdbP.html
03-11-2020||Noida||With cleaning of Ganga canal underway, Noida residents complain of erratic water supply||Residents of several areas in the city have complained of erratic water supply due to the month-long cleaning drive of the Upper Ganga Canal, which is responsible for supplying water to the city. Residents have demanded that the cleaning activity should be delayed for a month, at least till the end of the festive season. Last year too, the city residents faced water shortage before Diwali, during the annual cleaning drive of the canal. The Ganga Canal cleaning started on October 15 and it is expected to be completed by November 15 this year. Residents said that if the water crisis continues they will have to resort to protest. Residents also complain of muddy water supply and that too for a short period unlike on normal days, when water is supplied for 3 hours in the morning, between 6am to 9am, and 3 hours in evening, between 6pm to 9pm.The Upper Ganga Canal, which supplies Ganga water to Noida, is cleaned annually for silt, usually in the month of October or November. Currently, the total demand for water in Noida is 332 million litres per day (MLD). The authority supplies 240 MLD of Ganga water to the residents, while the remaining is procured through groundwater resources. In other words, while the authority supplies 70% Ganga water and 30% of the water comes from groundwater resources, said officials. During the annual cleaning of canal, the water supply gets affected for a month or so every year.In the past, the authority had supplied drinking water in tankers to areas from where it was receiving complaints about shortfall. Residents in some areas generally witness low water pressure during the cleaning drive. This year too, the authority is supplying water via tankers on demand. In Sector 10, people are getting water supply via tankers, said officials. Residents, however, said that this year the water crisis is worse.“In morning, there is water supply only for 20 minutes with extremely low pressure. We have been receiving complaints from all of sectors. We have requested the authority to look into the issue immediately. However, there is no respite is in sight. We have demanded that canal cleaning should be done in such a manner so that water supply does not get affected during festive season,” said Sanjeev Kumar vice-president, Gautam Budh Nagar district development residents’ welfare association (DDRWA) — an umbrella body of RWAs of the district.According to the authority, water supply is affected because 6 out of 11 rainy wells are not working. Also, 125 pumps are shut due to technical glitches, while water reservoirs are not adequate to store water.“Earlier, in 2019, the authority had assured that water supply will be restored by Diwali, when the cleaning was over. But it had failed to restore the supply. We fear that this year too, the authority will fail to restart the supply of Ganga by Diwali, which falls on November 14,” said Arun Kumar, a resident of sector 34. The authority, when asked about the water situation, said it will address the issue.“Hopefully once our ongoing Ganga water supplement project gets completed this year, the issue will be resolved,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer (CEO), Noida authority. The authority is working on a project that will ensure additional supply of Ganga water and construction of a reservoir for supply during a crisis, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/with-cleaning-of-ganga-canal-underway-noida-residents-complain-of-erratic-water-supply/story-9iZ0xdNvwwoLrASKRfJ1NL.html
03-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees 4.9K Covid cases, draws up action plan for winter surge||Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 4,909 new Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s tally to 1,692,693. For the second day straight, the state reported fewer than 5,000 new cases. Maharashtra also reported 120 fresh fatalities, pushing the toll to 44,248. Mumbai, meanwhile, reported 746 new cases, taking its tally to 259,857. It also reported 15 deaths, taking its toll to 10,323.In a bid to tackle a potential second wave in the winter, a state-appointed committee has submitted an action plan to the state health department. A winter surge is common for respiratory viruses, and many experts believe that the number of Covid-19 cases is likely to rise as temperatures dip.A senior health department official said that they are unaware of how coronavirus would react in the winter in the state and, therefore, people have to remain cautious and follow all safety measures. An official said H1N1 (swine flu) has a similar trend, of an increase in cases during winter, however, the jump is not as high as it is in monsoon. The health department is also hoping that herd immunity will also help tackle a second wave.“Frankly, we do not know how the virus will react in winter. We are a tropical country, therefore, there is a major difference in our winter and European nations. Swine flu has a similar transmission pattern. Swine flu, too, increases in winter, but it is still lower than what happens in monsoon. Basing on that, even if there is an increase in cases, it will not be as high as the first wave. Like more rain in Maharashtra, the meteorological department has predicted there will be a cold wave in India. If this happens, then the numbers could go up. We have to take all precautions,” an official said.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, member of a state-appointed committee on communicable diseases, said that like all virus, Sars-CoV-2 too will get a boost during the winter. “Covid-19 is a virus which is transmitted through the respiratory route. Colder the weather, the chances of transmission increases. Weather impacts the organism, but more than that, it affects humans. People’s movements are reduced, they remain in places where ventilation is poor, so these things put together increases the risk of viral transmission, which are respiratory in nature. It is also known that the capacity of the virus to survive is more in winter. We have to be prepared to tackle the covid-19 after changes in weather,” he said.The state health department official added that a significant number of the population has been exposed to coronavirus, therefore there could be herd immunity. We are currently only checking for antibodies [through tests], but there is also innate immunity in humans. Therefore, herd immunity is more than what we have measured so far [in serosurvey]. Looking at the epidemiology, if the virus sees a surge in winter, a large number of people has been exposed and will have herd immunity,” he said.The Maharashtra Communicable Diseases Prevention and Control Technical Committee has already submitted its action plan, according to Salunkhe, to prevent a wave in winter. It its plan, increased surveillance and preparedness are key points, Salunkhe said.“We have already discussed and submitted a plan of action on preventive steps to tackle Covid-19 in winter and to prevent a potential second wave. We have to intensify surveillance through the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme. We must now lower the guard, we must keep an adequate number of beds, oxygenated beds, and ventilators, etc so in case there is a spurt in cases we should not be caught unaware. We also have to identify potential superspreaders,” he said.With cases of cough and cold increasing in winter, health experts said that differentiating the symptoms of Covid-19 is likely to be a challenge. Salunkhe said that there could be initial confusion but there are significant markers to differentiate Covid-19 from influenza or the common cold.Health department officials said that the curve is on a “descending limb”, but Salunkhe is wary and said it could be a “fluctuation” and not a real drop. Between September and October, Maharashtra has seen 50.33% decrease in cases and a nearly 40% (39.98%) decrease in fatalities. The positivity rate has reduced to below 10%. In September, out of 100 tests conducted, 25 would test positive, now it has come under 10.“The drop that we seeing right now may not be a real drop, but a mere fluctuation. If we see Pune’s picture, numbers lowered a few days ago, but again increased. We have to remain cautious,” he said.The health department official echoed the caution and said, “In Europe, we are seeing a new wave. For us, we are entering winter, Diwali is approaching and with further unlocking measures, people are going to mingle around more than earlier. Even if the cases are reducing, the threat of coronavirus has not ended. It is a new normal. We have to take precautions to live with it.”With the latest figures, the active caseload in the state stood at 116,543. Of the active cases, the most are from Pune with 24755, followed by Mumbai with 17,570 active cases. The case fatality rate (CFR) of the state stood at 2.61%, while the recovery rate improved to 90.46% with 6,973 discharges, taking the overall tally of recovered patients to 1,531,277.So far, Maharashtra has tested 91,20,515 samples and has an overall positivity rate of 18.56%. In the last 24 hours, Maharashtra tested 55,347 samples. Currently, 17,95,666 people are in home quarantine and 11,969 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-4-9k-covid-cases-draws-up-action-plan-for-winter-surge/story-GFF8t6goqFm1zLhaAGpg5I.html
03-11-2020||Noida||Health department official robbed of ₹33K by four men in Greater Noida||A health supervisor, working with the Firozabad health department, was allegedly assaulted and robbed by four unidentified men on the pretext of providing him a lift near Pari Chowk in Greater Noida .The victim, identified as Devender Singh Chauhan, hails from a Tundla and was visiting his brother in Dadri.“My nephew is getting married soon. So my brother was coming to visit us so that we could go to Delhi for some shopping. On Tuesday morning, he got dropped off by a roadways bus at Pari Chowk. He was waiting for public transport to take him to Surajpur, from where he would come to Dadri,” said Chauhan’s brother Satendra, who is a health education officer with the Gautam Budh Nagar health department.The victim was approached by a white Hyundai i10 car, in which four people were already present. It appeared to be a shared cab to the victim. When the passengers seated inside the car offered to drop him at Surajpur, he got inside.“However, soon afterwards, he realised that they were on the wrong route and asked them to drop him off. That’s when, they assaulted him and took ₹33,750 cash that he had with him. They also took his phone but returned it afterwards. They left him near Jaidpur village and fled the spot,” said Satendra.The victim immediately contacted the police helpline, but the family alleged that police took a long while in registering the case claiming it to be a jurisdictional issue. A case was finally registered at the Knowledge Park police station against the four unidentified suspects under Section 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).Police officials said they are working on identifying the vehicle through the CCTV cameras installed in the area.“It was a white i10 car. We have located it in some footage but the number plate is not very clear. We are working on identifying the suspects. Due action will be taken against them. They only took the cash the victim was carrying,” said Varun Pathak, station house officer(SHO), Knowledge Park police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/health-department-official-robbed-of-33k-by-four-men-in-greater-noida/story-BSqvgH36JkHFAokfPql4fO.html
03-11-2020||City||Central Vista project won’t harm heritage buildings: Centre reiterates in SC||New DelhiThe Centre on Tuesday informed the Supreme Court that the Central Vista Redevelopment Project, which involves construction of a new Parliament building and a Central Secretariat housing all government offices, will “protect and preserve” heritage buildings while keeping with the laws and environmental safeguards.Making opening arguments on a batch of public interest litigations (PIL) challenging clearances related to the project, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta sought to put at rest apprehensions that the project will destroy heritage buildings and alter the landscape of the Central Vista area where the constructions are supposed to come up.Appearing for the Centre, Mehta said, “The petitioner’s arguments on heritage structure proceeds on a deliberately misunderstood factual position that heritage buildings are being demolished and a new project as “greenfield project” is coming up...The petitioner has purposefully misunderstood the ambit and scope of consultancy contract and presented a false picture that the respondents (Centre and statutory agencies) have abdicated its functioning to a private consultant.”“Heritage buildings will not be destroyed. The stress on them will be reduced by shifting out government offices from them into the newly planned Central Secretariat building,” Mehta said.The Central Vista project envisages a new Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha, a common Central Secretariat housing 51 ministries in 10 buildings. At present, these offices are housed in 47 buildings in different locations. A three-km underground shuttle is being planned to provide connectivity with the Udyog Bhawan and Central Secretariat metro stations. The project is estimated to be built at a cost of Rs 20,000 crore to be paid over six years. On the lack of public participation in the decision-making process, Mehta said, “The entire procedure for getting approval for new Parliament building as per category 8(a) mentioned in the Environment Impact Assessment Notification dated September 14, 2006 is followed to the hilt. The Expert Appraisal Committee (EAC) has applied its mind in detail. Though no direct participation process is contemplated, detailed representations were received at the stage of grant of environmental clearances, which were examined by the EAC.”Mehta said the Parliament and common Central Secretariat projects are not integrated but mutually exclusive. “The construction of one does not depend on the other. The year 2022 coincides with the 75th year of India’s Independence by when the new Parliament building is sought to be completed. This was the urgency for beginning with the Parliament project,” Mehta said.He took the court through the elaborate action plan prepared by the Central Public Works Department, which worked out a plan for noise pollution, air pollution, traffic management, security and waste management. The bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjeev Khanna said, “The petitioners have argued that these plans that you prepared were not in public domain. The whole argument is built on the ground that nothing about the project is available in public domain.” Mehta said much of the information that he has shared with the court was available on government websites. The bench asked Mehta to give a list of such information available for public consumption on government websites.The bench asked Mehta about the need for undertaking a study, assessing the option of building a new Parliament as against refurbishing the existing Parliament. Mehta replied, “For us to decide that a new Parliament building is needed, we do not need a separate study.” He compared it by saying, “If feel the house I am living in is not acceptable, do I really need an expert to determine that?” He pointed out that the old building had seepage issues due to the old construction and faced space crunch as members of Parliament during joint sittings were forced to sit on plastic chairs. He said the existing building was not fire-proof or earthquake-resistant.The proposed Lok Sabha chamber is expected to accommodate 876 seats and the Rajya Sabha chamber 400 seats. At present, the Central Hall has 440 seats and during a joint session of Parliament, temporary seats have to be arranged in the aisle. The new complex will provide for 1,224 seats in the Central Hall, equipped with state-of-the-art technology and seamless movement between the two HousesOn the allegation that the project will be a drain on the public exchequer, the Centre said the government was paying a huge rent to maintain its offices in different buildings. In most buildings, office space was lying unused and commuting between these was proving to be a costly and time-consuming affair. The rent saved will work out to be roughly Rs 1,000 crore annually, Mehta said, adding, “This will be a cost-saving project.” The petitions challenging the project have been filed by one Rajeev Suri and former Armyman Anuj Srivastava and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/central-vista-project-won-t-harm-heritage-buildings-centre-reiterates-in-sc/story-xcliBxutrc3hY6qPBrK4MP.html
03-11-2020||Noida||Cops suspended after audio clip of money exchange goes viral||Two police personnel deployed at the Jewar police station were suspended from duty after an audio clip of them talking about monetary exchange related to a drug peddler was circulated on social media.The incident came to light on Monday when the audio clip started doing rounds on social media. In the clip, a head constable and another person, who appears to be a peddler himself, can be heard allegedly discussing the legal status of another peddler, who was booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act on the same day.The person was heard saying that if the suspect in question had only 150 grams of weed with him, then why was he booked for two kilograms. The conversation also mentioned the name of another constable, who had allegedly assured the him of the suspect’s release.  “I spoke to the constable who was suspended, and he said that the suspect had ₹10,000 with him, which was taken at the time of his arrest. In addition to this, I paid ₹30,000 to you when we spoke about a lesser amount for his release,” the person was heard telling the head constable. The person in the audio clip also said that the suspect should have been booked for the genuine amount of marijuana found with him. Further, if he was not being released, then the money taken should be returned. To this, the head constable was allegedly heard saying that the money was at his home and that he would take care of the matter in a couple of days.This audio clip was also shared with senior police officials, after which the orders for suspension were given.“We have immediately taken action against the cops in question, and the assistant commissioner of police has been given the charge of the investigation of the case to verify the bribery claims being made in the audio,” said Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Zone 3.Despite repeated attempts, the constable and head constable couldn’t be contacted for comment.The suspect in question has been identified as Aleem, who was nabbed with 450 grams of marijuana, said the police, adding that efforts were on to identify the second person in the audio and take action against him as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/cops-suspended-after-audio-clip-of-money-exchange-goes-viral/story-ff3oRDIV7d1As47SRaXtLJ.html
03-11-2020||Noida||Noida’s Sector 125 air quality monitoring station dysfunctional for 20 days||Ghaziabad: The air quality monitoring station at Sector 125 in Noida is out of order since October 15, affecting the calculation of the air quality index (AQI) value for the city. Officials of the UP Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) said the equipment of the station is under repairs and is likely to be in running condition in a day or two. As a result of the system crash, AQI for the Noida city is getting calculated by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) only on the basis of readings of the other three monitoring stations at sectors 1, 62, and 116. “The system completely crashed and it could not be repaired despite repeated attempts. It is now under process to bring it up and data connections to CPCB are also in process of getting restored. It is expected that the system will be repaired in the next one or two days,” said Praveen Kumar, regional officer of UPPCB at Noida. Sector 125 is a commercial and institutional area and on the banks of river Yamuna right across Faridabad. Meanwhile, on Tuesday, the air quality in Noida and Greater Noida witnessed a mild deterioration in air quality, while Ghaziabad saw a slight improvement in its air quality. However, the air quality in all the three cities largely remained under the ‘very poor’ category. According to CPCB’s bulletin, the AQI values for Noida, Ghaziabad and Greater Noida were recorded at 321, 340 and 356, respectively on Tuesday, as against 299, 355 and 310, respectively, recorded on Monday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”. In Ghaziabad, the Sanjay Nagar monitoring station which was running under “severe” category from November 1 onwards stood under “very poor” category on Tuesday. “There was improvement in AQI on Tuesday as the high levels of pollution recorded by Sanjay Nagar monitoring station came down. We took up extensive water sprinkling at the dusty areas around the station and it helped. Overall, the AQI of Ghaziabad was less on Tuesday as compared to AQI on Monday,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of the UPPCB. On the other hand, the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) on Tuesday predicted that marginal deterioration is forecasted for November 4 and 5 towards the middle of “very poor” category. “The SAFAR synergized stubble fire counts over Punjab, Haryana, UP, Uttarakhand, and neighbouring areas are significant and stood at 3,068 yesterday. However, the boundary layer wind direction became unfavourable (South-westerly today morning) after a long spell, fire-related stubble burning share in PM2.5 in Delhi’s air has significantly decreased and is estimated as 10% for today,” the SAFAR forecast said. The contribution of the stubble burning to Delhi’s PM2.5 had gone to all-time high of 40% this season on November 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-s-sector-125-air-quality-monitoring-station-dysfunctional-for-20-days/story-6c5KdjKdn9SOSeHQ1L8G0I.html
03-11-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad suffers 189 garbage-related fires this year so far, corporation plans removal of 90 solid waste dumping points||Ghaziabad: Incidents of fire at garbage dumps continue unabated in Ghaziabad as the district has reported about 189 garbage-related fires this year so far. Environmentalists said that there is hardly any enforcement against such fires which are one of the common contributing factors to the air pollution. The records of the fire department revealed that 68 garbage-related fires were attended by Kotwali fire station while Vaishali station attended 20, Modinagar 14, Sahibabad 26 and Loni attended 61 such fires during the period from January 1 to October 31 this year. “The 189 fire incidents, related only to garbage this year, were attended by our five stations. The total number of garbage-related fire incidents was 392 from January 1 to December 31 last year. This year we have less number of such fire incidents due to the Covid-induced lockdown for several months. However, we are prepared ahead of Diwali festival. Last year on Diwali, we attended to about 32 such fire calls on the festival day,” said Sunil Kumar Singh, chief fire officer. Last year, Kotwali fire station attended to 117 garbage-related fire incidents, Vaishali 76, Modinagar 32, Sahibabad 72 and Loni attended to 95 such fire calls. “The number of garbage-related fires is likely to be on higher side as many go unreported and only bigger fires require intervention of the fire department. The practice of garbage burning is rampant in the city throughout the year. It has to stop now. The administration for the purpose of pollution abatement must come up with a dedicated control room which should be operational throughout the year,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist. Officials of the UP pollution control board (UPPCB) said that there have been 10 fire incidents related to garbage during the period from October 15 to November 3 when the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) is already in place. “It is a major issue in the city and our teams, along with the teams formed by the municipal corporation, are keeping track of garbage-related fire incidents. In many instances, the fire department is also requisitioned to douse the fire. Such incidents also aggravate the PM2.5 levels,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB. This year, the UP pollution board officials have identified garbage burning hotspots at Morta, Hindon Vihar, Sahibabad, Surya Nagar, open garbage dumping sites in residential areas, below Hindon elevated road and Arthala, among others. On Tuesday, the officials also rushed to Dasna where a major fire took place at garbage dumps. Last week, there was another major fire reported from Abhay Khand in Indirapuram. Officials of the Ghaziabad municipal corporation said that they have taken up a drive in which they have planned to get rid of about 90 garbage dumps across the city where solid waste is getting dumped. “These spots are apart from the solid waste transfer stations and also probable sites for garbage fires. As of now, we have closed down about 54 of such dumping sites, and alternate place is being identified for the rest of the garbage points. We are also planning to construct boundary walls around the spots so that there is no trespass. The boundary wall will be made with mud and plastic bottles in which road dust will also be filled up,” said MS Tanwar, municipal commissioner. He also said that five different teams of the municipal corporation in as many zones are tasked to keep track of garbage-related fires. “The teams are sent, along with the other teams, for checking of streetlights at night. Although our teams are not deployed 24x7, they do work till late night and report if they come across any fire,” Tanwar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-suffers-189-garbage-related-fires-this-year-so-far-corporation-plans-removal-of-90-solid-waste-dumping-points/story-BQtP1y18vrq7tuWANb0HXN.html
03-11-2020||Noida||73% water bodies in Ghaziabad encroached, NGT directs UP officials to prepare work plan||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has come down heavily on officials of Uttar Pradesh and has directed officials to convene meetings with all district magistrate within a month to address the issue of protection of water bodies and also to prepare a uniform action plan which will be applicable throughout the state of Uttar Pradesh. The tribunal was hearing a petition filed by Sushil Raghav, city-based environmentalist, who had moved NGT i in March with a plea to free up encroachment of ponds and other water bodies in Ghaziabad district. He said that there were about 1200 water bodies in the district as per revenue records and about 400 of these were completely encroached. The tribunal, during a hearing of the petition on October 29, had come down heavily on officials and has also asked the UP chief secretary to file an action taken report by February 28, 2021. The order was uploaded on November 2. In response to the petition, Ghaziabad district magistrate on October 28 filed an affidavit before the tribunal and maintained that 251 ponds/water bodies had been identified under the jurisdiction of municipal corporation area (146) and three tehsils of Loni (2), Sadar (44) and Modinagar (59) that were encroached. The affidavit, which is now part of the court records, also mentions that 49 ponds were free from encroachment while another 19 had partial encroachment. Around 183 ponds, or nearly 72.9% of water bodies in Ghaziabad, were fully encroached or disputed. The affidavit was filed by district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey. “We have submitted the affidavit before the tribunal and will abide by all directions given by NGT. We have also initiated the process of freeing up encroached ponds and all efforts will be taken up in this regard,” Pandey, said. However, the tribunal came down heavily on officials during the hearing and expressed displeasure over the state of affairs related to preservation of water bodies. “Having seen alarming level of encroachments at Ghaziabad, it is not difficult to assume that there are similar encroachments/damage to water bodies throughout Uttar Pradesh. This needs attention of authorities at the state level and special planning and drive is necessary for identification and conservation of such water bodies for enforcement of rule of law and protection of environment (sic),” the tribunal said in its order. “It seems that orders of the Hon’ble Supreme Court and this tribunal on the subject are not receiving any attention. It is high time that the issue is seriously addressed. We also find that the authorities are stuck up in cumbersome procedure of revenue law, without invoking prompt and summary procedure of environmental law. There is no monitoring at higher level (sic),” the order further added. Raghav said that the numbers indicated in the affidavit were actually less than the total number of encroached water bodies in the state. “As per our petition and revenue records there are about 1200 ponds/water bodies and about 400 of these were encroached. We will contest the contents of affidavit in due course of hearing. It is high time that all the water bodies are made encroachment free and restored. Otherwise, the groundwater recharge is getting affected,” Raghav, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/73-water-bodies-in-ghaziabad-encroached-ngt-directs-up-officials-to-prepare-work-plan/story-MqK8yJikr0jiAnRg6oEckJ.html
03-11-2020||Delhi||North civic body to impound and auction abandoned vehicles||Ahead of Diwali, the North Delhi Municipal Corporation (North DMC) will start impounding and auctioning vehicles left abandoned in residential areas and on streets under its jurisdiction. The decision was taken by the standing committee in a meeting Tuesday. According to civic body authorities, a survey to ascertain the number of abandoned vehicles has already started. “After the survey is completed, notices to remove vehicles from streets and colonies will be pasted on dumped vehicles and if they are still not removed within three days, we will impound the vehicles and send them for auction,” a senior official of the north corporation said Tuesday, while requesting anonymity. The official added that as per the previous records, there were nearly 200 vehicles dumped on roads and colonies in different areas of the north corporation. “Since we don’t have the exact and latest figures, a fresh survey was started and it will be completed in a few days. We hope to remove abandoned vehicles from the streets before Diwali,” Chail Bihari Goswami, chairperson, north corporation standing committee, said. He said it was a common sight to find rickety and mud-crusted vehicles in residential colonies or on streets which not only lead to snarls but also create a hindrance in sanitation work. “People generally park their scooters or cars on streets to reserve space right outside their houses but that affects the cleaning and sweeping work. Many a time, it is seen that people dump garbage beneath the abandoned vehicle. To discourage this and improve sanitation, we have decided to impound and auction such vehicles. This exercise is also expected to bring in revenue for the cash-strapped corporation,” Goswami said. Besides, the corporation will also carry out a special cleanliness drive ahead of Diwali. Garbage will be lifted daily from local area collection points, instead of on alternate days. More vehicles will be pressed into service to clean dump sites and roads. Junior engineers of the area have been made nodal officers for the drive. The corporation will also prune tree branches, which are less than 20cm in width. However, due to the fund crunch, beautification of parks and painting and polishing of park gates and grilles will not be conducted this year, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/north-civic-body-to-impound-and-auction-abandoned-vehicles/story-3dkGzFFulvjbXr6S58bgSI.html
03-11-2020||Gurugram||Cracker bursting allowed from 8-10pm on Diwali||Bursting of green crackers will be allowed between 8pm and 10pm in the district on November 14, on the occasion of Diwali festival, as per the order issued by the district administration on Tuesday.In compliance with the Supreme Court order to reduce air and sound pollution from bursting of firecrackers, Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, issued multiple directives, including regulation on production, storage and sale of crackers for Diwali. “The sale of green crackers or those with reduced emission are permitted to be sold through licensed traders. Production, selling and use of other kinds of crackers (series crackers or laris) has been prohibited,” Khatri said in the order.Firecrackers with low-emission sound and light that produces particulate matter less than 30-35% from other crackers and significantly releases less NOx and SO2 are allowed. Even those crackers which have already been produced, having high emission, are not allowed to be sold in Gurugram.Manufacturers of green crackers will be publicised by the district administration for easy access.Owing to the air and noise pollution caused by high emission crackers and the solid waste generated by it, an array of steps is being taken. To closely monitor the air quality, data would be collated on pollution caused by the bursting of firecrackers. The Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) has been directed to collect air quality data of the week prior to Diwali and a week after the festival gets over on November 14. They will monitor the use of aluminium, barium and iron used in the manufacturing of firecrackers.The public relations and the education department have been directed to raise awareness about the harmful effects of firecrackers, while the police has been directed to ensure the implementation of the order.As per the order, in case any violation is found, station house officer (SHO) of the police station of the area shall be held personally liable for the violation. The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has issued a toll-free number — 18001802738 — and email id — cmc@mcg.gov.in — to register complaints related to cracker bursting.Under the Explosive Rule, 2008, and Explosive Act, 1884, Khatri issued the order which came in into force from Tuesday onwards and would expire on November 15 at 6am in the morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cracker-bursting-allowed-from-8-10pm-on-diwali/story-mH2O69bMtHqInQiBB9SRAK.html
03-11-2020||Gurugram||Air quality picks up due to favourable weather conditions||Pollution levels in the city dipped significantly on Tuesday, recording an air quality index (AQI) of 270, in the ’poor’ zone, on the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) daily bulletin. This is a sharp improvement from Monday’s AQI reading of 304, which indicated ‘very poor’ air quality. Experts and officials attributed the improvement to strong northwesterly winds, and a reduction in farm fires toward the end of stubble burning season. They also cautioned, however, that any relief from the improvement would be short-lived, with colder temperatures approaching in the next two weeks. Experts also said that an increase in nighttime minimum temperature, from 10.2 degrees Celsius on Monday to just under 12 degrees Celsius on Tuesday, had also facilitated an improvement in air quality. “This, coupled with strong northwesterly winds, and a reduction in farm fires toward the end of stubble burning, allowed a fair bit of pollutants to be meteorologically dispersed on Tuesday, resulting in ‘poor’ air for the first time in over a week,” said Sachin Panwar, a city-based independent air quality scientist. However, experts also said that the improvement is only temporary, with the India Meteorological Department predicting cold-wave conditions in isolated pockets of north India on the morning of November 4. As per a forecast by the CPCB’s central control room for air quality monitoring, Gurugram is likely to experience ‘very poor’ air once again on Wednesday, with a predicted AQI reading of 360. The air quality is expected to turn ‘severe’ by November 6, with a predicted AQI of 420. As per the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, “Air quality is likely to remain in lower end of ‘very poor’ category on 04.11.2020 and higher end of ‘very poor’ category on 05.11.2020.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/air-quality-picks-up-due-to-favourable-weather-conditions/story-IAsjgnnxVFXOaJtyrWTACK.html
03-11-2020||Gurugram||Grap violations under pollution board scanner||Unauthorised parking, open burning of biomass (including leaves and horticultural waste), and vehicular emissions were recorded as the most prevalent air quality violations in the city over the past week, according to an action-taken report compiled by the Haryana State Pollution Control Board’s regional office in Gurugram.As per the report, a copy of which is with Hindustan Times, 203 violations of biomass burning were detected between October 26 and November 1, followed by 104 violations by visibly polluting vehicles, in addition to 666 violations of unauthorised parking. These were followed by pollution caused due to garbage dumping (69 violations), construction and demolition activities (67 violations) and unauthorised entry of heavy vehicles within city limits (51 violations).Other polluting activities, such as garbage burning, resuspension of road dust, industrial waste dumping and use of coal by industrial units, were also observed by enforcement teams. However, these violations were observed to be fewer in number, as per the HSPCB’s enforcement report, which compiles enforcement data from multiple bodies engaged in the pollution response, including the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), Public Works Department (PWD), National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC), Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) and the traffic department.Between October 26 and November 1, the report states, a total of 3,812 field inspections were carried out, yielding a total of 1,217 violations of the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) to curb air pollution in Delhi-NCR.A total of Rs 34,13,600 were issued in fines during the same period, HSPCB officials confirmed. “These enforcement reports are compiled weekly, and show where we have been successful in curbing violations. We will use the data from these when planning subsequent inspection drives. Areas, where high number of violations are detected, will require more vigilance going forward,” said Kuldeep Singh, HSPCB’s regional officer in Gurugram.Singh added that vehicles and biomass burning were recorded in such high numbers due to their ubiquitous nature, but said that other violations — such as road dust, garbage burning, and construction activities — may have gone under the radar and may require a more concerted response. Experts agreed with this view.Abhishek Srivastava, a city-based environment engineer and sustainability consultant, said, “While it is important to detect violations, these numbers likely do not reflect the real situation on the ground. In my view, it is hard to believe that only 67 construction-related violations were detected in one week, since we can all see how prevalent the issue is in Gurugram. Similarly, the report shows only two violations of road dust-related pollution, which is again a bit hard to swallow. If these violations were really so low in number, we wouldn’t be dealing with such a large pollution load.”Srivastava said, “The HSPCB report lacks any information on corrective action. It reports the violations, but does not give any information on how they are systematically addressed. If one detects a construction site releasing fugitive emissions, is there any water sprinkling done on the dust piles? Are the active piles covered up? Or are authorities simply fining the violator? The report requires a little more clarity, in that regard.”A senior HSPCB official who is involved in compiling enforcement data from different departments, seeking anonymity, explained, “The traffic department is widely deployed, to begin with, so naturally traffic-related violations will be detected in higher numbers. Biomass burning happens mainly at night, and it is easily detected by the eyes, so it is easy for our teams to note these as violations. Most of our patrolling also happens at night, when construction and industrial activities slow down. This makes it harder to detect.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/grap-violations-under-pollution-board-scanner/story-yJEcl9no48KTHf7KSChocO.html
03-11-2020||Gurugram||MCG starts inquiry into funds embezzlement||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has initiated an inquiry into allegations of embezzlement of funds on the basis of fake certificates, officials said on Tuesday. At least 10 MCG ward councillors have complained in this regard, stating that certificates bearing their signatures had been illegally replicated and doctored, based on which MCG officials had issued funds to the civic body’s contractors.MCG has so far found at least 12 such “fake” certificates.Last year in June, the MCG had introduced a policy whereby its officials can only disperse funds to its contractors after the ward councillor of the area issues a “work satisfactory” certificate. Localised works, such as repair of roads, sewerage, stormwater, footpaths, green belts and streetlights, come under this policy.Under the policy, ward councillors have to physically examine the said work and accordingly decide whether the project has been completed and that the quality of work done is according to the contractual agreements, based on which approvals are issued.On Monday, MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh issued an internal officer order, a copy of which is with Hindustan Times, stating that the civic body has found certificates, based on which funds were issued to contractors, which did not mention the date or the type of work being executed in the area. He further said that the absence of such key details raises suspicion of fake certificates being issued repeatedly and hence, the matter needed an inquiry.“Until the completion of the inquiry, no further payments will be made by the account branch of the MCG regarding projects which are under scanner. Further, until the inquiry period is over, I have directed that all current charges and responsibilities of all executive engineers concerned and the assistant engineers and junior engineers will remain withheld. The matter is of great concern and action would be taken against officials concerned, contractors found to be negligent or guilty of discrepancies as per law,” said Singh.In his order, Singh appointed MCG joint commissioner Pardeep Ahlawat as the inquiry officer to look into the matter and submit a report within two weeks.As per Singh’s order, Ahlawat will check the details of all bills that had been raised and paid to contractors through this process. Further, he will physically check the execution of all such works on-site and subsequently, verify the credibility and authenticity of the certificates issued by the respective ward councillors, including their signatures.“We have found at least 12 certificates bearing the signature of councillors where details such as type of works and dates are found to be absent. Concerned MCG officials, councillors, and contractors have been issued notices to come to my office on Friday where versions of each of them would be sought and the inquiry would subsequently be taken forward,” said Ahlawat.As per MCG officials privy to the matter, on late Saturday night, Singh had attached copies of such fake certificates on a WhatsApp group having all MCG councillors and officials, and asked councillors if they had sanctioned any of these. Subsequently, 10 councillors replied in the negative, terming them as fake.“The certificates are completely fake and I have already submitted this in writing to the MCG. Councillors keep a registry number of each certificate they issue in such matters, and the corresponding numbers on the fake certificate do not match this. Further, even the area jurisdiction in most certificates does not match the area coming under the councillor’s purview. It is a clear case of certificates being scanned and accordingly doctored for getting funds sanctioned,” said RS Rathee, MCG councillor of Ward 34.The area jurisdiction of MCG’s engineering wing is divided into eight zones across the city. As per MCG officials privy to the matter, the “fake” certificates have been issued for works relating to zones 4 and 7. Rathee’s ward falls under Zone 8.In the last 12 months, there have been several instances wherein the MCG has paid the entire project amount or a majority of it to contractors despite work not starting or work being midway. In each of these cases, the “work satisfactory” certificate was never sought.As per the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, 1994, municipal bodies can only make payments to contractors for running costs or once the project is entirely completed.In December last year, the MCG’s engineering wing had allegedly paid Rs 35 lakh to a contractor for constructing a 1.7-kilometre track between Khusbhoo Chowk and Bristol Chowk, along the Gurgaon-Faridabad Road, even though only 600 metres of work, worth Rs 11 lakh had been completed. In February, this year, it was discovered that the engineering wing had paid Rs 1.67 crore, the total project cost, to a contractor for building a two-kilometre road in Ward 1 even before the construction had started.In September, the MCG’s engineer wing had allegedly paid a contractor Rs 50 lakh, nearly a quarter of the total project cost of Rs 2 crore, despite only 10% work being completed on ground. The project involved laying of pavement tiles across MCG’s Ward 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-starts-inquiry-into-funds-embezzlement/story-EO8X0h1O8crfUL2xngULFN.html
03-11-2020||Gurugram||Health dept issues guidelines to curb spread during festivals||Expecting an uptick in Covid-19 cases over the next few days as festivals inch closer, the district health department on Tuesday issued an advisory to control the transmission of SARS-CoV-2 virus. The infection is already showing a record spike in the district since the outbreak of the pandemic.On Tuesday, 460 new cases were recorded, taking the count of active cases to 3,842 in the district, the highest till now. The total tally has also crossed 31,000 mark in just two days, after it reached 30,000 on November 1. Cases are growing exponentially with daily positivity rate fluctuating between 12% (October 24) to 21% (recorded on November 1). On Tuesday, the positivity rate stood almost 13%.To curb the infection, the health department has advised citizens not to conduct any festival-related event in containment zones. In case of a fair or exhibition, staggered timing and restricted entry have to be considered. To ensure people are wearing masks and maintaining physical distance in crowded places, associations concerned are advised to use close circuit cameras. For market areas, there should be separate entry and exit, along with thermal screening and the wearing of masks. Also, in religious places, no-touch practice of deity idols has to be followed. Besides, basic respiratory etiquette — use of mask, face cover — has to be followed, as per the guidelines.People above 60 years of age or those with co-morbidities, pregnant women and children below 10 years are advised to stay at home.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “Cases will continue to increase. Therefore, we have issued the advisory to prevent further escalation. Our focus is on contact tracing and surveillance in containment zones. Since hospitalisation of seriously-ill patients is under control for now, the department will hold a meeting with the district administration and private hospitals post Diwali.”Currently, 236 Covid-19 patients are admitted to hospitals, while 3,595 are in home-isolation and 11 are in district Covid care centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/health-dept-issues-guidelines-to-curb-spread-during-festivals/story-SbPD8Q013hhedKKV4wE7VK.html
03-11-2020||Gurugram||NHAI appoints three new operators for upkeep of Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has appointed three companies to oversee the upkeep of the stretch of the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway that falls between Rao Tularam Marg in Delhi and Kherki Daula toll plaza from November 1.Officials of the highways authority said that the tenure of the previous and the only operator so far, Skylark, had come to an end in 2018 but it was given extension on a temporary basis. The concessionaire of the highway, Millennium City Expressway Private Limited (MCEPL), had called for bids through an advertisement on October 14 and three new agencies were subsequently selected for this purpose. Skylark officials said that they had handed over the operations to the new operators on October 31, as directed by the NHAI. The three new operators will now have different responsibilities, which will include maintaining the road, keeping a watch on traffic through the control room, and collecting toll at the Kherki Daula toll plaza, said officials. Vikas Mittal, senior manager, NHAI, said, “These new agencies will together oversee the maintenance of the highway,” said Mittal. NHAI officials added that they had installed new RFID card readers at Kherki Daula toll plaza, which shall resolve the problems being faced by commuters due to slow reading of Smartags. “The new RFID card readers have been installed at the toll plaza. This will solve all the issues pertaining to the reading of Smartags. Also, commuters facing such problems can send us emails, and we shall look into the matter,” said Shashi Bhushan, project director, NHAI. An official of Skylark, the previous highway operator, said that new RFID readers were installed between October 1 and October 10 and this has improved the card-reading efficiency from 70% to 85%. “We oversaw the installation and the reading is likely to improve now,” he said.Around 70,000 vehicles cross the Kherki Daula toll on a daily basis. A large number of toll-paying traffic has been diverted to KMP Expressway and there is strong demand from the local residents to get this toll plaza shifted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/nhai-appoints-three-new-operators-for-upkeep-of-delhi-gurgaon-expressway/story-AORPDf6ejmmQm6zsLkhrDK.html
03-11-2020||Gurugram||DTCP demolishes 600 illegal hutments on Golf Course Road||The enforcement wing of the department of town and country planning (DTCP) on Tuesday carried out a large-scale demolition drive on Golf Course Road, in which over 600 illegal hutments were demolished. DTCP officials said that an enforcement team, supported by around 100 police personnel, carried out the demolition drive amid stiff resistance from local residents. The drive started around 11am and continued till evening, said officials. The illegal tenements had come up on a five-acre land, which is a part of Saraswati Kunj colony and hundreds of persons were living in them. “Several complaints were received from local residents regarding the illegal hutments and, therefore, it was decided to remove them. Action would also be taken against those who had set up this illegal colony,” said RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement). During the demolition drive, the enforcement team also sealed 10 properties that had carried out illegal construction work and were running commercial activities in the residential colony in violation of DTCP rules. The department had deployed three earth-moving machines, which cleared the five-acre land. Bhath also said that two large illegal dhabas on Golf Course Road, which were also operating on plots in Saraswati Kunj colony, were also demolished.Earlier on Monday, the department had cleared an illegal colony coming up on a two-acre land at Baganaki village near Panchgaon. Officials said that boundary walls had been constructed with the intention to of building houses. “We are keeping an eye on all the illegal colonies inside the city as well as on the outskirts. Action will be initiated either on the basis of information obtained by department itself or on complaints lodged by citizens. The department appeals to all land owners to get valid licences and colonise legally. Buyers too must refrain from spending money on illegal properties,” said Bhath. The department last week had called for applications from land owners for development of affordable housing projects and had also increased the land available for developing such projects. The reason for this is to curb unauthorised colonies and push for affordable housing, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/dtcp-demolishes-600-illegal-hutments-on-golf-course-road/story-S7bzXxU9L9dUON2OcFrCdJ.html
03-11-2020||Delhi||Farm fires rage, but favourable wind helps Delhi’s air||Delhi’s air on Tuesday deteriorated and touched the outer margins of the ‘very poor’ category.Even though farm fires continued raging in Punjab and Haryana, with more than 3,000 cases being spotted on Tuesday again, a change in the wind direction helped keep the share of stubble fumes on the city’s pollution under check. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data shows that the overall air quality index of Delhi was 302, in the ‘very poor’ category. On Monday, the city’s AQI had improved to ‘poor’ category, at 293. Scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that though the city choked, high wind speed helped keep the situation from deteriorating. VK Soni, head of IMD’s environment monitoring research centre, said that the AQI levels are likely to remain in the early end of ‘very poor’ category till November 5, after which there could be a marginal deterioration again. “On Tuesday, in the morning, there was a spike in the pollution levels but by noon the wind speed picked up and the air cleared up. The wind speed post-noon was around 15kmph, which helped disperse the pollution,” said Soni. Union ministry of earth sciences’ air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) data showed that stubble burning count over Punjab and Haryana on Tuesday was 3068. The crop burning count has been above 3000 for the last five days now. “The boundary layer wind direction became unfavourable (south-westerly on Tuesday morning) after a long spell, fire-related stubble burning share in PM2.5 (ultrafine particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometers) in Delhi’s air has significantly decreased and is estimated as 10% for Tuesday. Today (Tuesday) is a typical example of high fire count and low impact in Delhi’s air, due to unfavourable transport level winds demonstrating as to how meteorology can play a decisive role,” read the Safar air quality analysis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farm-fires-rage-but-favourable-wind-helps-delhi-s-air/story-LpPNWMbcdfC1tayRI4L5LM.html
03-11-2020||City||Delhi govt kick-starts anti-cracker campaign||New Delhi: Environment minister Gopal Rai on Tuesday kick-started the Delhi government’s anti-cracker campaign, urging people to avoid fireworks on Diwali, or to at least to ensure they buy only the ‘green’, low-emission varieties, in an attempt to cut down on air pollution, which is a greater concern this year owing to the Covid-19 crisis.As part of the campaign, which started on Tuesday, Rai visited Sadar Bazar, one of Delhi’s biggest wholesale firecracker markets, for an inspection and to ensure only green crackers are sold. Diwali this year will be celebrated on November 14. Every year, pollution levels in the city see a major spike after the festival as people openly burst polluting firecrackers. Under this campaign, 11 teams of the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) have been directed to ensure no traditional, polluting crackers are used or sold across Delhi. Apart from these teams, Delhi Police personnel and sub-divisional magistrates of all the districts will regularly inspect markets to ensure old stocks of traditional varieties are not sold clandestinely. “According to directions of the Supreme Court, polluting crackers have been banned in Delhi and only pollution-free green crackers have been allowed this year. The teams will ensure only the less-polluting varieties of crackers are sold. I would also like to request Delhiites to avoid bursting crackers, as much as possible,” said Rai. Rai said, “For the implementation of the campaign, we are ensuring two things -- first, the firecrackers must have a ‘green cracker’ logo on them. Second, the crackers sold in shops must be from authorised companies. We are following Supreme Court guidelines. The Delhi government will follow any new directions to curb pollution as and when issued.” Narendra Gupta, president of the fireworks and general traders association, Sadar Bazar, said traders assured the government that they will comply with its directions and sell only the green varieties. In 2017, ahead of Diwali, the Supreme Court had put a temporary ban on the sale and purchase of firecrackers in Delhi-NCR. In the last two years, however, the court had ordered that only low-emission and improved fireworks could be sold in Delhi, owing to concerns over rising air pollution. Residents were allowed to burst only green crackers between 8pm and 10pm. These green crackers are said to have 30% lower emission as compared to traditional fireworks. The noise levels are lower -- 125 decibels against 160 decibels in traditional ones. Surendra Kumar, a trader in Jama Masjid area, said even though more green crackers are available this year, the number of traders selling these is much less compared to previous years. “If shops selling the less polluting varieties are fewer, then there is possibility of unauthorised dealers selling old stock. Business has taken a hit over the last two-three years because of lack of clarity on rules till this year,” Kumar said. He said since the new varieties are more expensive, many people prefer to get old ones from NCR towns such as Ghaziabad, Faridabad and Noida. “What’s the use of such a restriction in Delhi, when you can get old crackers across the border,” he said. Parvati Kandasamy, president of the joint resident welfare association (RWA) in west Patel Nagar, said they have been sensitising residents to avoid cracker bursting this year.“Through our WhatsApp groups and through social media pages, we are getting people to join our cracker-free Diwali campaign. With Covid-19 cases increasing, it is imperative we do not add anything to worsen the condition of vulnerable people,” said Kandasamy. Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment, said the focus should be to save the city from the annual air emergency that hits Delhi right after Diwali. “Even last year, we saw that we were doing reasonably well in maintaining the pollution levels from falling into the dangerous levels, but with Diwali, we were back facing the severe category,” said Roychowdhury.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-kick-starts-anti-cracker-campaign/story-paC2EvbrTXqQmQXPYW3uPM.html
03-11-2020||Delhi||Restaurants in Delhi no longer require a tourism licence; govt notifies order||The Delhi government on Tuesday issued an order notifying that restaurants in Delhi will no longer have to acquire a licence from the tourism department in order to function, the government said in a press statement.The notification comes around a month after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced that the process was on to ensure that restaurants in the city can operate round the clock, and to do away with the requirement for obtaining tourism and health trade licences, apart from a police verification. He said his government was also tweaking certain fire safety norms in heritage buildings of Connaught Place and Khan Market and a few excise rules to allow serving of liquor in open spaces within the premise of an enterprise and to ensure more flexibility regarding storage of liquor.These measures were part of the government’s “ease of doing business” policy, aimed at boosting the capital’s economy in the light of the Covid-19 pandemic.While tourism licence and excise rules directly come under the city government’s domain, the other measures would involve multiple agencies such as the Delhi Police and the three municipal corporations.“The notification will come as a major relief to the restaurant industry in Delhi, especially after a major economic downfall due to the Covid-19 crisis,” the government statement said.The statement further said the tourism licence was initially issued by the Union government and came under the state domain only in 2003. Since then, the government of Delhi had made it mandatory for all restaurants with seating capacity of 30 and above to seek this licence.The tourism department’s approval is required to be sought afresh every five years. Restaurateurs have to pay a fee of ₹10,000 (up to 100 seats), and ₹20,000 for more than 100 seats.“Various reviews and considerations were done by the state tourism department over the last few months on the request of restaurant associations. However, owing to the recent circumstances concerning Covid-19, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has ordered the removal of the voluntary scheme of granting approval for standalone restaurants,” the statement said. Sandeep Khandelwal of Delhi hotels and restaurants owners’ association said, “This is a welcome move. Such licences and permits are often unnecessary as they lead to duplication. They waste the time of the authorities as well as entrepreneurs on a periodic basis. We hope the government succeeds in doing away with the other such licences too at the earliest.”Regarding health trade licences, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led government has already run into a standoff with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led municipal corporations (MCD). While the AAP has been asserting that the health trade licence now comes under exclusive domain of the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI), which comes under the central government, the MCDs have maintained that they are reviewing the protocol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/restaurants-in-delhi-no-longer-require-a-tourism-licence-govt-notifies-order/story-hmyWGF9Wmt9lrM7c8n8BiP.html
03-11-2020||City||Slots for 10,000 high-security number plates booked||New Delhi: Slots for more than 10,000 high-security registration plates (HSRP) and around 1,000 fuel stickers have been booked so far, including 750 orders for doorstep delivery, ever since online booking for the fitment of HSRP and the stickers restarted in the city from November 1.Slots for fitment can be booked through www.siam.in, which will redirect the vehicle owner to the respective HSRP manufacturer’s websites.For home delivery, vehicle owners will have to pay an extra amount of Rs 125 for two-wheelers and Rs 250 for four wheelers, a senior government officer said. “The rates have been decided in consultation with Delhi government and SIAM,” a spokesperson of one of the three HSRP manufacturers, Rosmerta Safety Systems Private Limited (RSSPL) said.At the moment, doorstep delivery of HSRP and fuel stickers is available in areas such as Mayur Vihar, PatparGanj, Janak Puri, Rajouri Garden, Punjabi Bagh, Kirti Nagar, Ashok Nagar, Vasant Vihar, Mohan Garden, Rajender Nagar, Maya Puri, Dilshad Garden and Ghazipur. The spokesperson said after the festival season, doorstep delivery will be available in others areas as well.Last month, state transport minister Kailash Gahlot had directed stopping if online booking after complaints were received from vehicle owners about delays in getting HSRP and fuel stickers affixed. Bookings then were reopened from November 1.Approximately 30 lakh existing vehicles, including 16 lakh two wheelers, 12 lakh four wheelers and two lakh commercial vehicles,are required to be affixed with HSRP. The transport department had issued a public notice on September 22, stating that an enforcement drive would be started against vehicles without HSRP or fuel stickers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/slots-for-10-000-high-security-number-plates-booked/story-T3mm4nqLVY3Ivgg4sSUXbP.html
03-11-2020||Gurugram||39% across state did not take precautions against Covid: Sero survey||Nearly 39% of the respondents covered under the second round of the Covid-19 serological survey of Haryana said that they did not wear a mask or maintain physical distance from others. Findings of the survey, released on Monday, showed that usage of masks in districts with high seropositivity, like Faridabad, Nuh, Jind, Ambala, among others, was less.Of 16,512 people covered across the state, nearly 6,373 (39%) did not follow mask discipline and social distancing norms, while the rest (61%) did follow norms. The situation was better in Gurugram, where 80% of the 800 respondents claimed to have used masks.“The data has been collected for the first time by the state health department,” said Dr Meena Rajput, professor, department of community medicine, PGIMS Rohtak, who also compiled the sero survey of the state. “The purpose of adding the two components – wearing of mask and social distance is to understand citizens’ response to precautionary measures,” she said.The second round of survey found seropositivity of 14.8%, which is higher than the 8% recorded in August. At present, enforcement of mask discipline and social distancing are the measures to curb transmission of the infection.“The initial survey carried out in August across all 22 districts served as a baseline to determine the seroprevalence of SARS-CoV-2 infection in the community, while the subsequent round helped in monitoring the trend of infection. The findings show that in districts with high seropositivity, half of the respondents did not practice mask discipline and physical distance,” said Rajput.In Faridabad, which has the highest seropositivity in the state, over 60% of respondents did not follow any precautionary norm. In Jind, where the prevalence of IgG antibodies increased from 11% in August to 26.6% in October, nearly 40% of the people did not use mask/social distancing.Rajput said that in these districts, asymptomatic cases have been high as people were not aware of contracting coronavirus.Experts say that mask is crucial in containing the infection as symptoms appear after four to five days of getting infected. It is likely that in this period patients might not develop usual symptoms of cough, fever or difficulty in breathing, but can still spread the infection to others. A paper published in the New England Journal of Medicine in June found that Covid-19 is also spread by those who have a very mild disease and do not show any symptom.Studies show that mask can reduce the growth rate of coronavirus infection by 40%. A recent study by the Institute of Health Metrics and Evaluation, University of Washington, found that mask usage and social distancing measures may help prevent over 200,000 Covid-19 deaths in India by December 1.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said that it is equally important to know how people are using masks. “Most of the time, the mask is below the nose or placed at the chin,” he said when asked about the increase in seropositivity rates.Rajib Dasgupta, chairperson, Centre of Social Medicine and Community Health, Jawaharlal Nehru University, Delhi, said that ideally, mask usage should be 100% to see the impact. “In such a study, it is important to find how people use masks and did they wear it seven or ten days before the survey.”Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head of community medicine and public health, PGIMER-Chandigarh, said, “As the lockdown has been lifted and there are no chances of it being imposed in the coming time, wearing mask, social distance and hand washing are the only ways to control soaring Covid-19 infection.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/39-across-state-did-not-take-precautions-against-covid-sero-survey/story-UATaVbMJl37GtnoBE90WbO.html
03-11-2020||City||GB Pant Engineering College students sit on indefinite hunger strike||New Delhi: At least five students of GB Pant Engineering College -- affiliated to the state-run Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University (IP University) until now -- have started an indefinite hunger strike, demanding that the Delhi government reconsider its decision not to conduct admissions in the college this academic year. Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia had on Monday said the state-run college will not enroll students this year, and that it will soon be a part of the upcoming Skill and Entrepreneurship University with better courses and infrastructure.IP University has already removed the college’s name from the list of its affiliated institutes and stopped admissions this year. A group of GB Pant students led by the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) are protesting since Monday, demanding clarification over the matter. “Five protesting students have commenced an indefinite hunger strike near Vikas Bhawan at 1:30 PM on Tuesday. The Delhi government did not even take cognisance of students’ grievances. The protestors have resolved to keep fighting until the Delhi government includes the institute in the counselling process for admission this year,” the students said in a statement.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Vijay Goel visited the protesting students on Monday. “The Delhi government should not stop admissions in GB Pant College this year. We demand the government should issue a notification and enroll students this year so that over 200 students who could take admission in the first year do not miss the opportunity of studying in an affordable engineering college,” he said.IP University vice-chancellor Mahesh Verma had on Monday said existing students will continue with the university and will get degrees from it.GB Pant college offers three BTech courses (computer, mechanical and electronic) and caters around 600 students (excluding first-year students). The Delhi government did not issue any notification or statement about the matter on Tuesday. But Sisodia had on said Monday, “Instead of it being a normal college under IP University, the government plans to bring it under the upcoming Skill and Entrepreneurship University and develop it as a better institute...I assure everyone it won’t make any difference to students studying there if the college remains under IP University or the Skill and Entrepreneurship University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gb-pant-engineering-college-students-sit-on-indefinite-hunger-strike/story-pO2dFP2CCkJdWJcIdNrkQJ.html
03-11-2020||City||Security ramped up at IGI airport after banned outfit calls for boycott of flights||New Delhi: Delhi police and Central Industrial Security Force on Tuesday beefed up security arrangements at the Indira Gandhi International airport after a banned outfit named ‘Sikh for Justice’ (SFJ) called for obstruction of two Air India flights from Delhi to London scheduled on Thursday. The call was made through a video posted on twitter on Tuesday in which Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, introduced as general counsel of SFJ, appealed supporters to boycott flights AI 111 and AI531 from Delhi to London on Thursday. Immediately after the tweet, Delhi Police’s anti-terror unit alerted police at the Delhi airport and the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) that secures the airport.Senior officers from the Delhi police and CISF held meeting on Tuesday to review the security at the airport. Deputy commissioner of police (IGI airport) Rajeev Ranjan said the security has been beefed up adequately. “We have increased number of pickets and every vehicle entering the airport is being checked. Armed plainclothes men have been deployed at the airport as well as in the terminal,” Ranjan said, adding that additional deployment has been made as required, keeping also in mind the festive season.Ranjan said if any incident takes place, action will be taken accordingly. Police have also alerted Air India and other officials at the airport.A police officer who wished not to be named, said SFJ is the same group that had called for hoisting a flag at the Red Fort on the Independence Day this year.The MHA had declared the SFJ as an ‘unlawful association’ under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in July last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/security-ramped-up-at-igi-airport-after-banned-outfit-calls-for-boycott-of-flights/story-7hb7gZncaMbkxeoFru04vN.html
03-11-2020||Delhi||Police contest court order to supply hard copy of Delhi riots chargesheet||The Delhi police have challenged two orders of the trial court, where the judge had directed them to supply physical copies of the charge sheet filed in the conspiracy case related to the north east Delhi riots to 15 accused in the case.The police have contended that the document runs over 17,500 pages and the direction was passed in a “mechanical manner”.In its plea, filed through Special Public Prosecutor (SPP) Amit Prasad, the special cell of Delhi police challenged the legality and validity of orders dated September 21 and October 21 passed by additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat, directing the supply of physical copy of charge sheet.The court had on October 9 directed the police to file fresh copies of the charge sheet, running over 17,500 pages, after it was informed that they “have inadvertently” put a document in it which contained the details of some of the protected witnesses and its copies were supplied to the accused booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.It had directed the police to file fresh copies of the charge sheet redacting the details of the protected witnesses and supply it to the 15 persons chargesheeted in the case and their counsel.On October 21, the court was informed by the investigating officer (IO) that he has submitted 16 new pen drives containing the redacted version of the charge sheet and accompanying documents in terms of the earlier order. However, the court directed the accused and their counsel \be provided with both the hard and soft copies of the fresh chargesheet.The judge had also said that it was not impressed with the submission of the Investigating officer who had sought 15 days time for the sanction for funds from the Delhi government for taking out the hard copies for every accused. The judge had directed the police to supply the documents at the earliest.Challenging these orders, the city police have contended that the mandate of law under section 207 of CrPC is to provide “COPY” of each of the report/ statements/ document subject to reasonable exception. It said that law does not specify supply of “hard copy” or “soft copy” nor does it draw any distinction between “hard copy” or “soft copy”.The plea, which is likely to come up for hearing on Wednesday, said that Section 207 CrPC does not cast any duty upon the investigating officer/ agency to bear the cost of supply of copy to the accused but casts the duty to supply copy upon the magistrate or court.It also added that the direction of supply of physical copies is also a violation of the Information Technology Act.The city police had earlier filed a charge sheet on Sep 16 against 15 accused namely-- Pinjra Tod members and JNU students Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal, Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha, Gulfisha Khatoon, former Congress Councillor Ishrat Jahan, Jamia Coordination Committee members Safoora Zargar, Meeran Haider, Shafa-Ur-Rehman, suspended AAP Councillor Tahir Hussain, activist Khalid Saifi, Shadab Ahmed, Tasleem Ahmed, Salim Malik, Mohd Salim Khan and Athar Khan.-- for allegedly being part of a larger conspiracy in the riots.JNU student Sharjeel Imam and former JNU student leader Umar Khalid have also been arrested under the anti-terror law in the case but not charge-sheeted yet.The court had taken cognisance of the charge sheet on Sep 21 and directed the supply of physical copies to the accused. Communal violence had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after clashes between citizenship law supporters and protesters snowballedl leaving at least 53 people dead and 607 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/police-contest-court-order-to-supply-hard-copy-of-delhi-riots-chargesheet/story-hOOsrPTnrqTxBfjP7E2bXN.html
03-11-2020||Mumbai||UG medical, dental admissions in Maharashtra to begin on Nov 6; students to only submit documents at the time of registration||Admissions to undergraduate (UG) medical and dental seats in Maharashtra are likely to begin on November 6, as prescribed by the Medical Counseling Committee (MCC) recently. However, due to the confusion over the implementation of the Maratha quota at present, the state has decided to ask students to only submit documents at the time of registration. The verification of documents will be done at the time of admission.“We will start the registration process soon and the schedule for the same will be uploaded by the state common entrance test (CET) cell at the earliest. This year we will verify all documents submitted by students at the time of admission,” said TP Lahane, director, state Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER). Every year, students who apply for UG medical and dental seats submit all necessary documents at the time of registration, especially those who are applying for seats under various quotas, that at present constitutes around 62% of total seats. The fact that this process will be conducted once seats are allotted to students has not gone down well with students, as well as their parents.“Every year, many students don’t get considered for quota seats as they don’t have the required documents. They get rejected even before the admissions begin. If the state plans to conduct this process once seats are allocated, it will lead to unnecessary confusion at the time of admission,” said Ruiee Kapoor, parent and activist.The state CET cell will be releasing the admission schedule for Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) and Bachelor of Dental Surgery (BDS) courses within the next two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ug-medical-dental-admissions-in-maharashtra-to-begin-on-nov-6-students-to-only-submit-documents-at-the-time-of-registration/story-gY0IuHWyZgwkWVn0P2nVSN.html
03-11-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER’s knee school for patients suffering from osteoarthritis goes online||As routine healthcare services have taken a hit amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has introduced online knee schools for patients suffering from knee osteoarthritis. The doctors running the online clinic have reported that the preliminary experience in patients showed that e-Knee Schools(eKS) are a viable option that could reduce costs and logistical issues of both patients and doctors during these difficult times. E-Knee School has provided a way to remotely deliver non-pharmacological interventions (NPIs), disease education, and monitor patients via real-time online platforms.As many as 25 eligible patients, previously recruited during the pilot phase, were invited to join a virtual platform for a modified protocol, with discussions and exercises, that included stretching, strengthening, warm-up, and cool down.“The general precautions were explained and family assisted training was encouraged among participants. Diet management, lifestyle modification, meditation, weight counselling, and experience sharing sessions were held on the shared platform,” said Dr MS Dhillon, head of orthopaedic department.The doctors have reported that applications of the eKS model seem encouraging, which is prompting them to explore its role further in the recruitment of new cases and expanding its applicability. Dr Dhillon added that in the coming days, more people will be recruited in the school and, the outcome of the patients attending the same will be compared, based on which a new combined protocol will be created.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-s-knee-school-for-patients-suffering-from-osteoarthritis-goes-online/story-bPsQmPW9E76FOQizQY48bL.html
03-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana’s crop diversification drive figures are as diversified||Six months after the Haryana government launched a financial incentive-linked diversification drive to encourage farmers to switch over to alternate crops in place of water guzzler paddy, facts regarding the flagship scheme remain unclear.In May, farmers switching over to alternate crops were promised ₹7,000 per acre incentive under the Mera Pani-Meri Virasat Scheme. Under this policy, 25% of the total incentive is given to the farmers after physical verification of the crop sown while the remaining 75% is paid after the second round of verification during harvesting. The objective of this scheme is to encourage farmers to cultivate alternate crops such as maize in the area that was under paddy cultivation last year. Reason: The cultivation of paddy has contributed to degradation of natural resources such as water and soil. Also, the ground water table of Haryana has been declining steadily.The state government had launched the crop diversification drive ahead of paddy transplantation that began in mid-June. The land under paddy transplantation in the state is about 32 lakh acre. According to agriculture department data, about 1.11 lakh farmers have opted for the scheme and registered 1.26 lakh acre agricultural land on the Mera Pani-Meri Virasat portal for sowing crops such as maize, bajra, cotton, pulses, vegetables etc. Contrary to the initial excitement that the farmers’ response triggered, about 39,000 hectare land where paddy was not sown was identified during the first stage of physical verification. The revenue officers committees were set up for physical verification in every district. During the second stage of verification before harvesting, the agriculture department has so far identified only 5,000 hectare land where alternative crops were sown, as per the data compiled till October 29. “Though the second stage of verification has been done, the data is still being tabulated,” said Vijay Singh Dahiya, director general, agriculture department. He pointed out that it is a voluntary scheme that targets to diversify one lakh hectare. Dahiya said during the first round of physical verification, about 40,000 hectare land was identified to have been diversified and ₹2,000 incentive each was released to the farmers. Sources say the second round of verification has thrown data that may leave the Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP-JJP coalition government red-faced. “The second physical verification data also raises a question mark over the authenticity of the first verification,” said a well-placed source. The largest number of farmers (12,403) opting for this scheme were from Jind district who had registered 14,583 hectare for diversification. In the first stage, 5,342 hectare was verified and in second stage it came down to 751 hectare. Similarly, in Sirsa district, 10,536 farmers had registered 14,338 hectare land but the first verification found crop diversification in 4,937 hectare. In his October 15 affidavit submitted to the Supreme Court, chief secretary Vijai Vardhan while listing various steps including ‘crop diversification’ to contain stubble burning had stated: “The flagship scheme of Mera Paani Meri Virasat under which an area of about 1,00,000 acres has been diversified to another alternative crops.” In yet another spin into the land diversified so far, agriculture minister JP Dalal on Monday claimed that the farmers have cultivated alternative crops “other than paddy over 1.27 lakh hectare area...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-s-crop-diversification-drive-figures-are-as-diversified/story-OY6uTmLVxwHAS6bXABv8aM.html
03-11-2020||Election:||Bihar elections: Polling for 2nd phase largely peaceful, provisional turnout at 54.44%||Bihar recorded a provisional voter turnout of 54.44 percent during the second phase of polls which passed off peacefully in 94 assembly constituencies across 17 districts on Tuesday. The provisional voter turnout was 1.73 percent less than the last assembly polls (56.17 percent) in these constituencies in 2015. It was also less than the first phase polls (55.69 percent) in 71 assembly constituencies on October 28. However, Bihar chief electoral officer (CEO) HR Srinivasa expected the final voter count to go up by Wednesday. “The final vote count in 13 assembly constituencies is yet to come. We expect the voting percentage to go up. We will be ready with the final figures by 10-11 am tomorrow,” said Bihar chief electoral officer HR Srinivasa while addressing a post-poll presser in the evening. Patna recorded the lowest voter turnout at 48.23 percent, pointing towards the growing lack of interest among urban voters to exercise their franchise. The district election office, however, reported 51.2 percent voter turnout in Patna. Patna’s Digha, which was the largest assembly constituency in terms of the number of electorate (4.50 lakh), recorded the lowest voter turnout at 34.5 percent, followed by Bankipur at 35.9 percent) (3.91 lakh voters) and Kumhrar at 36.4 percent (4.06 lakh electors). Also read: Delhi records 6,725 new cases of Covid-19, its highest single-day spikeThe Muzaffarpur district topped with a provisional voter turnout of 59.98 percent, followed by West Champaran (59.69 percent), Begusarai (58.82 percent), Sitamarhi (57.40 percent), East Champaran (56.75 percent), Khagaria (56.10 percent), Sheohar (56.04 percent), Samastipur (56.02 percent), Gopalganj (55.09 percent), Bhagalpur (54.85 percent), Madhubani (54.67 percent), Vaishali (54.52 percent), Darbhanga and Saran (54.15 percent each), Siwan (51.88 percent) and Nalanda (51.06 percent), according to information shared by the chief electoral officer. Women, who comprise 1.35 crore of the 2.86 crore voters enrolled in the second phase, came out in large numbers to exercise their franchise.Voting was peaceful barring sporadic instances of violence arising out of stone-pelting and sparring between two groups at Paharpur in Saran district and near booth number 58 at Kanti in Muzaffarpur district and alleged breaking of an electronic voting machine (EVM), by a youth who managed to give the security personnel the slip, at Jugni Parsa in Saran. A total 62 preventive arrests were made and 726 illegal firearms seized across the 17 districts in the run up to the polls as well as police action taken on the polling day Tuesday. As many as 18,823 of the total 41,362 polling centres were housed in buildings of which 986 buildings were in Naxal affected areas, said a communique from the CEO office. Reports of temporary disruption in polling due to EVM malfunction was also received early in the day. Srinivasa said 152 control units, 219 ballot units and 540 VVPAT (voter verification audit rail) were changed following snag after commencement of polls during the day. As many as 375 control units, 333 ballot units and 647 VVPAT were changed during mock polls, before commencement of actual polling at 7 am. A total 50,115 control units, 73,210 ballot units and 53,853 VVPAT were used during the second phase polls, he added. Brothers Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and Tej Pratap Yadav of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) were among 1,463 candidates in the second phase whose fate were sealed on Tuesday. Tej Pratap’s father-in-law Chandrika Roy, who crossed over to the JD(U) from the RJD, was contesting from the Parsa constituency in Saran district. Four NDA ministers, including rural development and parliamentary affairs minister Shrawon Kumar of the JD(U) from Nalanda and road construction minister Nand Kishore Yadav of the BJP from Patna Sahib were also in fray on Tuesday. In the last assembly elections in 2015, the RJD (33 seats), JD(U) (30) and Congress (7) combine, as part of the Grand Alliance, had won 70 of these 94 seats. The BJP won 20, LJP 2, CPI-ML and independent 1 each. Bihar governor Phagu Chauhan, chief minister Nitish Kumar, deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi, Union power minister RK Singh, former chief minister Rabri Devi and RJD’s chief minister candidate and anointed heir of Lalu Prasad, Tejashwi Yadav were among the VIPs who exercised their franchise in Patna. Bihar recorded a voter turnout of 55.69 percent during the first phase polls in 71 assembly constituencies across 16 districts on October 28. The turnout was higher than the last assembly elections in 2015 (54.94 percent), and the Lok Sabha in 2019 (53.54 percent) in these 71 constituencies. The third and final phase of Bihar polls is on November 7. The result will be declared on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-elections-polling-for-2nd-phase-largely-peaceful-provisional-turnout-at-54-44/story-ZsxVhEaf2trJNB5uPneOgP.html
03-11-2020||Chandigarh||Truckers in Ludhiana extend support to road blockade call by farmer unions||Extending their support to the agitation called by farmers’ unions on November 5, truckers have announced that they will keep vehicles off the road on the day and protests will be organised in Transport Nagar.Members of the Ludhiana Goods Transport Association and All India Motor Transport Congress held a meeting at Transport Nagar on Tuesday and made the announcement. Charan Singh Lohara, chairman of the All-India Motor Transport Congress, said,”The Union government is trying to destroy the farming sector in the country and farmers have raised an agitation against the same. We have decided to extend support to them and the trucks will remain off the road from noon till 4pm on November 5. The Centre is working as a dictator and we will not allow this at any cost. Transporters will also organise a protest at Transport Nagar.”Press secretary Jagdish Jassowal said that during the meeting, the truckers also demanded that the state government should waive off taxes for all the commercial vehicles as it has done for private buses till December 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/truckers-in-ludhiana-extend-support-to-road-blockade-call-by-farmer-unions/story-UmYFcGYJhVTC5aSWF2oB2L.html
03-11-2020||Chandigarh||Dirty water supply continues to haunt residents of Ludhiana’s SBS Nagar||Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, residents of Shaheed Bhagat Singh (SBS) Nagar’s Block-E are also living in constant fear of diseases caused by contaminated water supply in the area for over a month. Residents rued that several complaints have been submitted with the authorities, but the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) and Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Board (PWSSB) has failed to resolve the issue, due to which the residents are falling ill.A team of the district health department took water samples from the area for a second time on Tuesday as samples collected on October 29 had failed the purity test. Arvind Sharma, a resident, said, “There is no end to the woes of residents as the department has failed to resolve the issue which has been taking a toll on our health for over a month now. The sewerage board teams are working in the area but they have also failed to solve the problem. Foul smell emanates from the water being supplied in the area and we are forced to purchase water bottles. Staffers of the sewerage board were also not allowing the health department team to collect samples from particular points in the area on Monday.” Another resident, Balraj Chopra, said the authorities should find a solution for the problem at the earliest as residents are falling ill. It is shocking that the authorities have failed to resolve the issue even after a month, he added.PWSSB executive engineer, GP Singh, however said he does not know about the issue. “We had received complaints in the past and those have been resolved. There is no such problem in the area as of now. I have also not received any complaint in this regard recently.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dirty-water-supply-continues-to-haunt-residents-of-ludhiana-s-sbs-nagar/story-Ym5umhYCvHXQKTkl8LYX0N.html
03-11-2020||Chandigarh||Trader loses bag to roadside snatchers||Two snatchers targeted a trader and took away his bag containing his daily earnings, a laptop and some other documents from the Sector 29-30 light point around 8pm on Monday, police said. Victim Rajinder Pal Bansal of Sector 21 was driving home from his Sector-29 office when he was stopped by two unidentified persons on a motorcycle, who claimed that one of his Chevrolet Cruze’s tyre was punctured.As Bansal got out and opened the boot of his car to change the tyre, the accused stole the bag kept there and fled away.A case has been registered under Section 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Industrial Area police station. The police said that the exact amount of money in the bag was yet to be ascertained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/trader-loses-bag-to-roadside-snatchers/story-w8s7XYwm00w6gqO74ojaKO.html
03-11-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Five years on, uncle, cousins booked for man’s kidnapping||Five years after a 32-year-old man disappeared mysteriously, Dugri police have registered a kidnapping case against his maternal uncle and his three sons. The accused have been identified as Jaspal Singh of Nangal village in Jodhan, Pakhowal Road, and his three sons, Satnam, Jaswinder and Sonu.The victim has been identified as Manpreet Singh.The case has been registered based on the complaint of the victim’s mother, Charanjit Kaur of Fatehabad, Haryana. Kaur alleged that the accused had kidnapped her son for money and she also suspects that they murdered him. Kaur said that her son was a driver, and in 2015, he had come to Ludhiana to ask his maternal uncle for work. At the time, Manpreet had Rs 2 lakh in cash with him, the complainant said.She said she then lost contact with her son and Jaspal had told her that he had gone to Mumbai and would return after two months. But, he did not resurface. Kaur added that she had complained to the police several times, but to no avail. Then, she moved to Punjab and Haryana high court which ordered police to lodge the case and initiate investigation.Sub-inspector Rajandeep Singh, who is investigating the case, said that a case has been registered under Section 346 of Indian Penal Code. A hunt is on for the arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-five-years-on-uncle-cousins-booked-for-man-s-kidnapping/story-y7lQ1pLxOb28WaKqd7eFVM.html
03-11-2020||Chandigarh||Food safety van launched to check adulteration in Ludhiana||The health department launched a food testing van on Tuesday to check food, milk and beverage adulteration in the district. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Kumar Bagga along with health department official flagged off the van in Ludhiana district. On the occasion, district health officer Dr Rajesh Garg said the van will remain stationed in the city for over a month and anyone could get food, milk and beverage samples checked by paying Rs 50. The results will be given within 10 minutes, he added. “This is a good initiative taken by the department of food safety and standards authority of India (FSSAI) amid the festive season when incidents of adulteration are rising due to high demand,” said Dr Garg. He said that the testing van was in Jalandhar earlier, but now, it has arrived in Ludhiana where it will be stationed for a month. “We will try to extend its stay for over two months. Further, we are also formulating schedule of the testing van so that residents are aware of it,” he added. Dr Garg said that as many as 40 different types of tests on food can be conducted in the van and the report will be available on the spot. The food safety van will detect fats and adulterants including urea, sucrose, starch, adulteration in milk and synthetic colours. Besides milk, it will also conduct other tests for checking adulteration in food items. The van is fully equipped with analytical instruments including milk analyser, hot air over, hot plate, multi-parameter hand-held meter, digital refractometer, mixer-grinder and digital weighing scale. However, Dr Garg clarified that the test results could not be used to take legal action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/food-safety-van-launched-to-check-adulteration-in-ludhiana/story-SJ8kF5HGyBSKcWcQru6rZK.html
03-11-2020||Chandigarh||Two rape cases reported from Ludhiana||Two rape cases were reported from Ludhiana on Monday. A resident of Dr Ambedkar Nagar has been booked for raping a 16-year-old girl. Model Town police have also booked his family members for helping him commit the crime. The accused have been identified as Sunny, 20, his family members Sanju and Shivani, and two others who are yet to be identified.The FIR has been lodged based on the statement of the victim’s father. He said that the accused had been stalking and harassing his daughter for the past few months and they had taken up the matter with his parents. The complainant said that on October 24, his daughter left the house, following which the accused took her to his relative’s house and raped her. The next morning, he dropped her off at a gurdwara in Alamgir village and threatened her with dire consequences if she didn’t keep mum.Inspector Rajan Pal, station house officer at Model Town police station, said that a case has been registered under Sections 376 (rape) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code and Sections 4 and 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO). A hunt is on for the arrest of the accused.In another case, Daba police have booked a man for raping a 19-year-old woman on the pretext of marriage. The accused has been identified as Aditya of Kanganwal.In her complaint, the victim said that she was in relation with the accused for the past three years. She added that the accused had established physical relations with her on the pretext of marriage but backed out.Assistant sub-inspector Gurbakhshish Singh, who is investigating the case, said that a case for rape has been lodged against the accused. No arrest has been made yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-rape-cases-reported-from-ludhiana/story-gibX1rcs3dPCoJ3WkZLBRJ.html
03-11-2020||City||Ludhiana: Air quality remains “poor”, data says stubble burning up by 50% in district||The air quality in the city remained in the “poor’’ category for the eighth consecutive day, as per the data from Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) on Tuesday.The average Air Quality Index (AQI) as per the CPCB was 257 in the city on Tuesday. As per the data shared by the board, the maximum level of PM2.5 recorded during the day was 342.Requesting anonymity, an official from the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) said that the pollution levels deteriorated further due to the rising incidents of stubble burning.As many as 1,803 stubble burning incidents have been reported from September 21 to November 3 in the district, whereas 796 and 557 farm fires were reported in the corresponding period in 2019 and 2018 respectively.Dust began to form since the daybreak and continued throughout the day.The rise in the cases had witnessed despite repeated requests from Ludhiana deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Kumar Sharma to refrain from burning paddy straw especially amid the pandemic, which can further lead to serious implications in aggravating the health issues of those who are already suffering from several diseases.To prevent crop residue burning during Kharif season especially amid the pandemic, the district administration had appointed nodal officers for paddy growing villages where stubble was being traditionally put to fire.Nodal officers were appointed for each village where the paddy is grown and its stubble is being burnt, but they failed to plug the menace.The staff of municipal cooperation, revenue, rural development, and panchayats, agriculture, horticulture, and soil conservation departments and PPCB besides guardians of governance were asked to spread awareness to stamp out the unhealthy practice of stubble burning in the state, but the employees have failed to keep a check on farm fire incidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-air-quality-remains-poor-data-says-stubble-burning-up-by-50-in-district/story-2vEjZPNv9L0Tjhx0YVgwSL.html
03-11-2020||City||Sofas made out of stubble catch visitors’ fancy at PAU||After converting stubble into jewellery, floor mats, Punjab Agricultural University has now turned straw into outdoor sofas and centre tables. The furniture made from straw is catching people’s fancy and has become an attraction for those visiting the university.The judicious use of stubble has been showcased amidst raging debate of rising incidents of stubble burning across the state.Anil Sharma, assistant director, Communication Centre, who is also known for writing jingles to exhort farmers not to set paddy straw on fire, is the brain behind designing the furniture from paddy residue.He said that half-acre stubble was used for building the outdoor arrangement, consisting of four sofas and centre tables.“Going through the paddy fields recently, I spotted these rectangular bales strewn in the fields by a progressive farmer and thought why not use these bales for outdoor sitting arrangement. I shared the idea with TS Riar, additional director of communication and skill development centre, who encouraged me to go ahead with the project,” said Sharma. He arranged the bales with the help of other employees in his office. The bales were first wrapped with polythene and covered with garden net and other waste material. “The set of four sofas and centre tables cost us Rs 2,000. As the stubble is compressed and wrapped with polythene it is unlikely that it could gather moisture and fungus so it could be used for a few years,” Sharma added.The move also earned the appreciation from vice-chancellor Baldev Singh Dhillon. He said that even the community sciences department was making jewellery, artwork, floor mattress and other items from stubble. “We are encouraging farmers to take such initiatives, but there are some who are setting their fields on fire and causing air pollution,” said Dhillon.Riar said that instead of constructing cemented sitting arrangements in villages and cities, such cost-effective measures should be adopted in public parks and gardens across the state to tackle the stubble burning menace.Recently, additional chief secretary-cum-financial commissioner, development, Anirudh Tiwari during his visit had shown keen interest in the artwork from paddy stubble.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sofas-made-out-of-stubble-catch-visitors-fancy-at-pau/story-qYtDx9ksUde1f76qimCJHI.html
03-11-2020||City||After seven months, Ludhiana MC House to finally meet on November 11||The general house meeting of Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) will be finally held on November 11, after a hiatus of seven months. Mayor Balkar Sandhu announced the date for the meeting on Tuesday. Earlier, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) had given an ultimatum to the mayor, stating that they will start an agitation if a meeting date is not announced by November 4.The mayor, however, stated that the councillors will have to go undergo a Covid-19 test for participating in the meeting. Also, the venue for the meeting will be finalised keeping in view the social distancing requirements. On October 21, SAD councillors had met mayor Sandhu and given an ultimatum of 15 days to call the meeting. The MC house last met in March. The councillors rued that there are several issues that need to be resolved at the earliest including potholed roads, non-functional streetlights, etc.The delegation had said that 12 road samples had failed quality tests in the past, with the mayor himself catching embezzlement of around ₹44 lakh in the Jagraon Bridge reconstruction project, but no action has been taken against any contractor or the officials concerned.Leader of opposition in the MC general house and SAD councillor, Harbhajan Singh Dang said, “I had met mayor Sandhu on Tuesday and he has announced to conduct the meeting on November 11. The failure of MC in acting against officials concerned and road contractors is among the major issues which will be raised in the meeting.”“Residents have also been raising a hue and cry over non-functional streetlights, choked sewer lines, potholed roads among other issues, and all these problems will be raised during the meeting,” said Dang while adding that a meeting has to be held every month but the mayor has been deliberately delaying the same to cover up the civic body’s failure. Sandhu said, “The meeting will be held in keeping with the precautions issued by the government and administration. The councillors will have to undergo the Covid-19 test before participating in the meeting. The venue for the meeting will be finalised in the coming days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-seven-months-ludhiana-mc-house-to-finally-meet-on-november-11/story-VC5PrQxV2AXzYR49sIMeyL.html
03-11-2020||City||Ludhiana:18-year-old school dropout arrested for Tibba Road sacrilege||A day after torn pages of Gutka Sahib and Sanchi Sahib were found on Tibba Road, police claimed to have solved the case with the arrest of a teenager.The accused, identified as Sewa Singh, 18, had allegedly thrown the torn pages of Gutka Sahib and Sanchi Sahib in the fields and then informed the members of a local gurdwara committee himself, to “make a sensational news report” out of it. The accused, a resident of Grewal Colony, here, is a school dropout and has been working as a freelancer for an online web channel ‘Punjab Star Daily for the last four years. Due to “poor content”, the channel refused to telecast any news or information given by him, following which he hatched the conspiracy to make a “sensational news” by desecrating the holy books. The police have recovered the torn pages of Gutka Sahib and Sanchi Sahib from his house. Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said the accused had even shot some videos of the torn pages of holy books. Before he could edit it, the police had arrested him. The police chief said that on Monday evening, Baldev Singh, president of a gurdwara at Tibba road informed the police about the torn pages of Gutka Sahib lying in a field. “The teenager claimed that he had seen two motorcycle-borne turbaned men escape after throwing the torn pages in the field. When the police scanned CCTVs installed in the area, they did not spot any such incident. The cops became more suspicious when the accused started continuously changing his statements,” said the police chief. “The accused later confessed to committing the crime. He stated that he wanted to make sensational news so he had torn the pages of the holy book and thrown it in the fields,” he added.The police chief added that the accused had recently converted into a Sikh. He had purchased some holy books from a shop outside Gurdwara Sahib and also joined a religious WhatsApp group. A case under Sections 295-A (malicious acts intended to outrage the religious feelings ) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused at Tibba police station. The police are investigating the involvement of other persons in the matter. The police have also called a forensic team from Chandigarh for investigation. On Tuesday morning, the locals had staged a peaceful protest against the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-18-year-old-school-dropout-arrested-for-tibba-road-sacrilege/story-piUZatE3TLoVj8N5JED2FL.html
03-11-2020||City||Ambala health dept raids sweet shops, takes 8 samples||To curb the sale of substandard and unhygienic sweets during the festival season, district health department officials on Tuesday raided several sweet shops, collected samples and sent them for testing to determine their quality based on various standards.Food safety officer Gaurav Sharma said that eight samples were taken from six outlets in the Saha and Mohra areas of the district.“Various irregularities were found at the shops such as items being sold in the open. Some shops that were running without licences were served notices. Shopkeepers were educated on adulteration and were told that appropriate action would be taken if they were found guilty of it,” he said.“Owing to the Diwali season, such raids will continue in the coming weeks. The samples collected on the spot will be sent for testing to the lab. The results of the same will come within 15-20 days,” Dr. Sharma added.On being asked, a shop owner said that earlier he was unaware of such rules and will abide by them now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ambala-health-dept-raids-sweet-shops-takes-8-samples/story-XbZ5rooVVMK5bDLq4zKJ3J.html
03-11-2020||City||DCs in Jammu division asked to expedite work on border bunkers||Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Verma on Tuesday reviewed the progress on construction work of bunkers in the border areas in Jammu region via video conferencing and asked the deputy commissioners (DCs) concerned to expedite the construction.The DCs apprised Verma that the construction of individual and community bunkers in their respective districts was going on in full swing. The divisional commissioner was informed that a total of 7,777 bunkers have been completed so far in Jammu division, including 6,839 individual bunkers and 938 community bunkers, while the work on 334 others was at different stages of construction —foundation, superstructure and slab levels.Apart from these, the DCs told Verma, 1,569 bunkers were ready in Samba district, 1,161 in Jammu district, 1,519 in Kathua, 2,603 in Rajouri and 925 in Poonch districts.Verma directed the DCs to closely monitor the construction and asked the executing agencies to expedite the pace of work while adhering to the fixed timelines. He also asked the DCs to set weekly and monthly targets for speedy completion of the bunkers and share the plans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dcs-in-jammu-division-asked-to-expedite-work-on-border-bunkers/story-ErCwBKxIb1Ckz3doC1PhSM.html
03-11-2020||City||Ex-serviceman’s son hoists Tricolour at PDP office during protest, held||The police here on Tuesday arrested a Sikh youth who tried to hoist the national flag at People’s Democratic Party (PDP) office, here in Jammu on October 25.However, the cops claimed that they arrested Amandeep Singh Boparai, whose father is an ex-serviceman, for violating Covid guidelines and not for hoisting the Tricolour.It may be stated here that PDP chief and former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti’s “provocative” statement against the Tricolour in Srinagar on October 23 didn’t go down well with the civil society in Jammu and on October 25, several youths protested at the PDP office where they hoisted the flag and also smeared Mehbooba’s portrait on a billboard there.The youth was picked up from his residence in Nanak Nagar and lodged in the Gandhi Nagar police station. His father alleged he was denied entry into the police station to meet his son.Later, talking to media, he said, “Is hoisting the Tricolour in this country a crime? I was not allowed to meet my son and got pushed around by the constable at the entry of the police station. They didn’t let me meet the SHO. It is my right to get a copy of the FIR and know under what sections my son has been arrested. They came to my residence without any search or arrest warrants and whisked him away to the police station in my absence.”“Has my son revolted against the nation? He had hoisted the national flag, which is our pride. I served in the navy and we live and die for the Tricolour. We will hoist it wherever we want in India… even at PM’s residence,” he added.Panthers Party has strongly criticised the police action and demanded immediate release of the youth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ex-serviceman-s-son-hoists-tricolour-at-pdp-office-during-protest-held/story-8xzuz7fConBY7sTuUw6peJ.html
03-11-2020||City||Covid deaths cross 1,500 in J&K||The death toll due to Covid-19 has reached 1,502 in Jammu and Kashmir after 12 more persons succumbed to the contagion on Tuesday, officials said.The UT also recorded 478 fresh coronavirus infections taking the UT’s total Covid count to 96,288. Officials said 283 people had tested positive in Kashmir and 195 in Jammu; also, eight people succumbed to the disease in Kashmir and four in Jammu.So far, 88,718 people have recovered from the disease in the UT and the recovery rate stands at 92.1%. The active cases in J&K on Tuesday went below 6,000 to settle at 5,968. The total number of tests conducted in the UT have crossed 23.66 lakh.In Jammu division, the highest number of cases was recorded in Jammu district at 106, followed by 23 in Kishtwar. In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 111 more people tested positive, followed by Baramulla at 66.Srinagar tops the case tally with 19,703 cases and 366 deaths followed by Jammu district with 17,890 cases and 260 deaths.Till date, 6.61 lakh people have been enlisted for observation – 16,057 in home quarantine, 5,968 in isolation, and 44,638 under home surveillance. Besides, 5.93 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-deaths-cross-1-500-in-j-k/story-CrPhqWKmxwsDCDjYF2GizM.html
03-11-2020||City||4kg heroin recovered in Poonch||Security forces recovered 4kg heroin from Dhargloon area, close to the Line of Control (LoC) in Mendhar sector of Poonch district on Tuesday.Poonch SSP Ramesh Kumar Angral said, “In a joint operation by SOG Mendhar, Gursai police station and the army, we recovered 4kg heroin.”He said that in the last two days, security forces have recovered 6.5kg heroin in Mendhar. “It is a big achievement as we have been able to foil attempts of trans-border smuggling,” he added.The consignment was hidden beneath boulders. A case under Sections 8/21/22 of the NDPS Act has been registered at Gursai police station and investigations are on.“Searches are being conducted to find the handlers and source of the drugs,” he added. The SSP didn’t rule out the possibilities of some anti-national elements acting as couriers to smuggle narcotics into Poonch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4kg-heroin-recovered-in-poonch/story-cstRZGdmGhXNiqpCzDiEZN.html
03-11-2020||Kolkata||Amit Shah to commence 2-day Bengal visit from Thursday||Union home minister and senior BJP leader Amit Shah will visit West Bengal for two days from November 5 and hold meetings with partymen in Bankura and Kolkata to take stock of the party organisation ahead of the 2021 assembly polls, a senior leader said on Tuesday.This will be Shah’s first visit to the state since the Covid-19 outbreak. He had last visited the state on March 1.The home minister’s visit assumes significance with West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar criticising the “worsening” law and order situation in the state.Dhankhar had met Shah in New Delhi last week and discussed the “state of affairs and affairs of the state”.BJP state general secretary Sayantan Basu said that Shah will arrive in Kolkata on the night of November 4. He will visit Bankura the next day and hold an organisational meeting with BJP leaders of East and West Midnapore, Birbhum, Purulia and Bankura districts.“He will return to Kolkata in the evening. On November 6, he will visit the Dakineshwar Kali Temple and meet classical singer Pandit Ajoy Chakrabarty. Later, he will hold a meeting with the state BJP leaders,” Basu said.Shah is also likely to have lunch at the house of BJP activists both in Bankura and in Kolkata, he said.Shah, along with BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, vice-president Mukul Roy and state chief Dilip Ghosh, will interact with booth and district-level leaders and various social groups, party sources said.State BJP leaders have been demanding imposition of President’s Rule in Bengal citing “breakdown of the rule of law”.Shah’s visit will take place days after the major organisational change in the state BJP. Its general secretary (organisation) Subrata Chattopadhyay was removed and his deputy Amitava Chakraborty was elevated to the post by the central leadership.The 2021 Bengal assembly polls, due in April-May, has assumed significance for the BJP as it will try to cash in on its growing prominence in state politics, while Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee will seek to return to power for the third straight time.The saffron party after having a limited presence in the politically polarised state for decades, has emerged as the main rival of the TMC by winning 18 of the 42 Lok Sabha seats in West Bengal in the 2019 general election.With the BJP’s strength increasing in the state in the last few years, where it has never been in power, its leaders are upbeat that the party will end the TMC’s 10-year-long rule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/amit-shah-to-commence-2-day-bengal-visit-from-thursday/story-tEaO9k8SdJWnKbMowPnrCN.html
03-11-2020||City||Woman killed, 25 injured as bus overturns in Solan||A woman was killed while 25 passengers, including the driver and conductor, sustained injures as a private bus overturned on the Kalka-Shimla highway near Solan on Tuesday.The deceased has been identified as Soma Devi (65), a resident of Kot village in Shimla district.The accident took place on Tuesday around 12pm when a private bus with 26 passengers enroute Solan from Chail overturned near Solan as the driver lost control of the vehicle.Police reached the spot and rescued the injured persons and recovered the woman’s body. However, apart from the one fatality, no other passenger suffered any critical injuries. The injured persons are undergoing treatment at government hospitals in Solan and Kandaghat. Solan deputy commissioner also visited the accident spot.Solan superintendent of police Abhishek Yadav said they are conducting an investigation in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-killed-25-injured-as-bus-overturns-in-solan/story-4jRekaYERnc1ghb7vn6emM.html
03-11-2020||City||Mercury drops three notches in HP as snowfall continues in higher reaches||Maximum temperatures in the state dropped by two to three degrees as snowfall continued in the higher reaches of Lahaul-Spiti, Kullu, Chamba and Kinnuar districts. Minimum temperatures have also dropped by one to two degrees during the last 24 hours.Lowest temperature in the hill state was recorded in Lahaul-Spiti’s Keylong at minus 5.6°C.State meteorological department director Manmohan Singh said that the weather is likely to remain clear throughout the state till November 9, however, temperatures are expected to continue to decrease in the coming days.Light to moderate precipitation occurred in the higher and middle hills of the state during the last 24 hours. Keylong received 30cm snow, while Gondla got 20cm. Banjar (Kullu district) saw 18mm rain, Kalpa and Manali witnessed 8mm showers each while Wangtoo in Kinnaur district recorded 7mm rain in the last 24 hours.The minimum temperature in Shimla on Tuesday was 10°C, while Kufri, which is 14 kilometres away from the state capital, recorded 8.5°C minimum temperature.Prominent hill stations including Manali, Dharamshala and Dalhousie recorded 2.3°C, 10.6°C and 10.9°C minimum temperatures respectively.Solan accounted for 7°C minimum temperature, Bilaspur recorded 10.5°C, Hamirpur 10.2°C, Nahan 13.7°C and Kalpa, 1.1°C. Una recorded the highest temperature at 30.7°C in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mercury-drops-three-notches-in-hp-as-snowfall-continues-in-higher-reaches/story-MZ72BVrrsKNwm5OccmjtTM.html
03-11-2020||City||Youth Congress elections bring infighting in Himachal unit to fore||The elections in the state Youth Congress were aimed at strengthening the party but ended up giving a handle to factions trying to outscore each other. Youth Congress candidates backed by leaders opposed to former chief minister Virbhadra Singh and his legislator son Vikramaditya Singh have emerged victorious in seven of the 12 districts in the elections. Nigam Bhandari from tribal Kinnaur district, considered close to state Congress general secretary Raghubir Singh Bali got 40,010 votes, while Yadopati Thakur, a loyalist of Shimla rural MLA Vikramaditya Singh got 37,372 votes. Though top-rung leaders refrained from directly interfering in the elections but they backed their sponsored candidates. “It’s good that youth from common background bagged maximum votes in the election, Nigam is hardworking,” said Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu, who has strong organisational background. Sukhu had remained the longest serving youth Congress president, prior to taking over the reins of Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee. He was also the longest serving president of NSUI.Raghubir is the son for former transport minister GS Bali and had contested for the post of Youth Congress president in 2010 against Vikramaditya Singh, who eventually won. Yadopati Thakur, who also headed the Congress’ students’ wing, NSUI, was backed by Vikramaditya, while another candidate, Amit Pathania, was ranked third. State Congress chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore also supported Yadopati Thakur. The party had launched an online membership drive for the Youth Congress that ended in September with 3.39 lakh new members joining. Prashant Negi, a candidate for the post of Youth Congress president, alleged that certain leaders had used money power and influenced the membership, while his complaints were ignored. RAHUL TO INTERVIEW TOP CONTENDERS The top three candidates will be interviewed by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi .It’s likely that the process would start after the Bihar assembly elections. The election results have intensified factionalism as the group owing allegiance to former congress chief Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu has been demanding the removal of state party chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore. The legislators and the leaders owing loyalties to Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu are keen that the high command either appoints him as state party chief or leader of opposition in the state assembly. Rathore, who was once close to Congress’s deputy leader in the Rajya Sabha Anand Sharma replaced Sukhu ahead of the Lok Sabha elections. The party high command removed Sukhu at the behest of former chief minister Virbhadra Singh. In Shimla district, candidates covertly backed by rival factions of Vikramaditya Singh performed impressively in the elections. Ravinder Thakur Tinu secured 4,112 votes for the post of district president against Ankur Sharma who got 2,170 votes. SUKHU’S CANDIDATE FINISHES SECOND IN HOME TURF NADAUN Kapil Thakur, who was backed by former legislator Rohit Thakur in Jubbal-Kotkhai got 900 votes, while his rival, Lavesh Ranta, polled 284 votes. Bhupinder Sharma in Shimla rural secured 815 votes defeating Dharmender Kumar, who got 439 votes. Baldev Singh secured the highest 394 votes for Rohru block against Ashok Dhanda with 343 votes. Anil Chauhan got 1,541 votes for Theogh Kumarsain, defeating Sagar Kainthla, who got 1,231 votes. Anish Dewaan got 311 votes against Basant Singh Chopal. Thakur secured 1,186 votes in Rampur against his rival Rahul Soni, who polled 873 votes. The candidate backed by Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu in Nadaun, Ajay Kumar, secured 1,009 votes, while Ashok Kumar got 1,675 votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/youth-congress-elections-bring-infighting-in-himachal-unit-to-fore/story-kkDRkjthrpGyJ7QLACgzzI.html
03-11-2020||City||Himachal CM goes on inauguration spree in Haroli segment||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Tuesday laid the foundation stones of developmental projects worth Rs 71.16 crore in the Haroli assembly segment of Una district.He inaugurated the new building of a Community Health Centre in Dulehar constructed at a cost of Rs 3.50 crore, a 33 KV sub-station at Gondpur having an outlay of Rs 4.68 crore and Bathu-Bathari corridor cluster area water supply project constructed for Rs 1.25 crore.Thakur also laid the foundation stones for Rs 3.75-crore drinking water supply scheme for the leftout villages of the Haroli segment under the Jal Jeevan Mission; improvement and upgradation work of NH 503-A Jhalera-Ghaluwal road with an expenditure of Rs 30 crore; upgradation work of Old Saloh-Bharoti road to be carried out for Rs 9.21 crore; new building of ITI at Pandoga; construction of link road from Panjawar-Bathari road to Mata Ka Mandir, Lower Badhera, via Rajesh House Nalka to Kumharan Abadi; improvement work of Panjawar-Bathari to Lalhri-Nangal Kalan-Jatpur road to be done by spending Rs 7.25 crore and construction of drain for disposal of wastewater in Tahliwal Phase -III industrial area.Addressing a gathering at Tahliwal in Una, the chief minister said the world was passing through an alarming phase of corona pandemic and Prime Minister Narendra Modi was effectively guiding the country to tackle the same. He said that even the most developed countries in the world were looking towards India to fight the pandemic. But the opposition leaders were trying to politicise even this sensitive issue, which shows their lust for power, he rued.Over 2.50 lakh Himachalis stranded in different parts of the country were brought back home, but the Congress leaders made a hue and cry over this issue and alleged that the government was bringing corona to the state, the CM said adding that the PM had appreciated the state’s efforts in checking the spread of the deadly virus.Thakur lashed the leader of opposition saying that the latter was always busy making baseless allegations about the BJP-led state government in a desperate bid to remain in the news. He said that Congress believed in mere politics and day-dreaming, but the present state government works towards making the dreams come true.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-cm-goes-on-inauguration-spree-in-haroli-segment/story-UhrFlLiEDQfmB99RkgojSM.html
03-11-2020||City||Kaza schools closed until further notice as Covid cases rise||With an increase in Covid-19 cases in Kaza town of Lahaul-Spiti district, the local administration has ordered all commercial establishments, including shops, dhabas and restaurants, to remain closed on every alternative day, sub-divisional veterinary office and Kangra Central Co-operative Bank to remain closed till November 9, and Model Senior Secondary School and Primary Schools to remain closed until further notice.Wearing masks at public places and maintaining social distancing have to be strictly followed, said officials.Kaza additional district magistrate (ADM) Gian Sagar Negi said it is a health emergency and circumstances are grave. Serving notice upon residents is not practicable. So, it is necessary to proceed ex-parte under Section 144 (1)(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure.“Many Covid-19 cases are also being reported from some government offices and there is a possibility of the positive cases further increasing in town as testing is on,” he said.8 more Covid deaths in HPMeanwhile, eight more persons have succumbed to Covid-19 in Himachal on Tuesday, taking the death toll to 338, officials said.Four deaths have been reported in Shimla, and two in Kangra andone each in Hamirpur and Mandi. So far, Shimla has reported 74 deaths which is the highest in any district, followed by 71 deaths in Kangra.Total 334 new cases were reported in the state on Tuesday, taking the total case tally to 22,932. Of these, 3,119 are active cases. Also, 165 patients recovered and the total recoveries stand at 19,444.Out of the new cases, 89 have been reported in Shimla district, 84 in Mandi, 59 in Kullu, 28 in Kangra, 19 in Bilaspur, 14 each in Chamba and Una, 12 in Lahaul-Spiti, eight in Solan, three in Kinnaur and two cases each in Sirmaur and Hamirpur districts.With 3,684 cases, Solan remains the worst-hit district, followed by 3,168 cases in Kangra, 3,164 in Mandi, 2,732 in Shimla, 2,287 in Sirmaur, 1,589 in Una, 1,684 in Kullu, 1,342 in Bilaspur, 1,284 in Hamirpur, 1,197 in Chamba, 407 in Lahaul-Spiti, and 394 in Kinnaur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kaza-schools-closed-until-further-notice-as-covid-cases-rise/story-EUHXAgzCAmebV7hWdPdcnM.html
03-11-2020||Lucknow||UP assembly bypolls: Over 53 per cent voters cast franchise, sealing fate of 88 candidates||An average of over 53 per cent voters exercised their franchise on Tuesday in the Uttar Pradesh assembly byelections for seven seats with 88 candidates in the fray.The polling, which began at a slow pace at 7 am amid tight security and adherence to anti-COVID precautions, picked up momentum as the day progressed and an overall 53.62 per cent of registered voters cast their votes.The polling concluded at 6 pm amid an allegation of bogus voting at three polling booths of Naugaon Sadat assembly constituency in Amroha district and over a six-hour-long poll boycott at a polling booth for Tundla seat in Firozabad district.A total of 50.59 per cent votes were cast in Bangarmau, 52.10 per cent in Bulandshahr, 51.05 per cent in Deoria, 49.42 per cent in Ghatampur, 56.65 per cent in Malhani, 61.50 per cent in Naugaon Sadat and 54 per cent in Tundla, said Joint Chief Electoral Officer Ramesh Chand Rai after the conclusion of polling.Counting of votes will be undertaken on November 10.Six of these seven seats were held by the Bharatiya Janata Party, while the Malhani seat in Jaunpur district was held by the Samajwadi Party.The voting began in the morning with Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath urging voters to participate in the “mega festival of democracy” in large numbers.”Everyone should exercise caution and discharge the duty of casting vote,” Adityanath tweeted earlier in the day.“Democracy will win, coronavirus will lose,” he said.The SP also appealed to voters to vote in large numbers.“Those in power and responsible for farmers’ worries, women’s insecurity, poor health facilities, labourers’ joblessness and collapsed law and order should be given a reply in today’s assembly bypolls,” it tweeted.Earlier in the day amid the ongoing polling, Chief Electoral Officer Ajay Kumar Shukla said, “All preparations to ensure a free, fair and peaceful polling, keeping in mind the coronavirus pandemic, have been made.””Voters will have to follow the anti-COVID protocol and maintain safe distance among themselves while casting votes,” he added.The voting began with the deployment of “adequate” number security personnel at polling booths, including 371 “critical” ones.Amid the ongoing polling, BJP candidate Sangeeta Chauhan for Naugaon Sadat seat in Amroha district alleged “fake voting” at three polling booths – Booth No 240, 24 and 242 -- in her constituency and demanded that those wearing burqa should show their faces to enable poll officials ascertain their identities.“Fake voting is going on, but the administration is unable to understand this,” she told reporters.”We are repeatedly saying this, but no one is listening to us,” she added.The chief electoral officer told PTI that he would look into these allegations.People at booth number 30 at Rudhau Mustkil of Tundla constituency in Firozabad district boycotted the by-election for over six hours, alleging no development in their area and insisting that they will not vote unless they get an assurance for the development.Chanting “vikas nahi, to vote nahi” (no development, no vote), voters at the Rudhau Mustkil booth, voters boycotted the polling.In a video clip that surfaced on social media, area’s Sub-divisional Magistrate Ekta Singh was purportedly seen talking to the people and urging them to vote.The Yogi Adityanath government has been facing the opposition flak over the law and order situation in the state, particularly after the Hathras and the Balrampur rape-and-murder cases.The Naugaon Sadat seat fell vacant after the death of state Cabinet minister and former cricketer Chetan Chauhan.The Ghatampur bypoll in Kanpur Nagar district was necessitated due to the death of state minister Kamal Rani Varun. Both ministers had died of Covid-19.The Tundla seat fell vacant after its MLA S P Singh Baghel was elected to the Lok Sabha, while the Bangarmau seat in Unnao fell vacant after the conviction of BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar in a rape case.The BJP had dumped Sengar soon after he was found involved in the rape case.The bypolls to the Bulandshahr, Deoria and Malhani seats were necessitated due to deaths of sitting MLAs Virendra Singh Sirohi, Janmejay Singh and Parasnath Yadav (SP) respectively.Bhim Army chief Chandra Shekhar Aazad’s Azad Samaj Party is testing its electoral popularity in Bulandshahr by fielding Mohammad Yameen, looking forward to consolidating its hold among Dalits in the run-up to the 2022 assembly polls.While Bulandshahr has the highest number of 18 candidates, Ghatampur has the lowest number of six contestants. Sixteen contenders are in the fray in Malhani, 14 each in Naugaon Sadat and Deoria, 10 each in Bangarmau and Tundla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-assembly-bypolls-over-51-per-cent-votes-cast-an-hour-before-slated-end-of-voting/story-jLQiLqGFZ3NR4UYuucTZAO.html
03-11-2020||Pune||NCP wants ban on firecrackers ahead of Diwali||Ankush Kakade, spokesperson of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), and the party’s state unit general secretary, has written to deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar urging him to impose a ban on firecrackers during Diwali, to prevent the air quality from worsening. Kakade, in his letter, has stated that many citizens are suffering from the Covid-19 infection and are still recuperating from its impact, affecting immunity. “Corona creates breathing issues and inhalation of toxic cracker fumes will further increase the problems of Covid-19 patients and other citizens. There are a number of scientific reports which have exposed the dangers of bursting fire crackers and the life-threatening smoke and fumes. This might lead to an escalation in the number of Covid-19 patients. In view of the dangers to the lives of citizens, bursting of Diwali crackers must be banned,” Kakade stated in the letter. Kakade said that he had drawn the attention of the state government towards the grave concerns arising from the bursting crackers and the threat it poses to the lives of citizens. “We are positive and hopeful that the crackers will be banned this Diwali in the larger interests of public health. Many social organisations have risen to the occasion and supported our initiative,” he said. The doctor community backed the call to ban crackers this Diwali. Prominent Camp-based physician, Dr Yunus Inamdar, said, “Crackers must be banned. Covid-19 is creating serious challenges for public health. The cracker smoke will further aggravate respiratory tract infections. Pollutants released from the crackers stay suspended in the air for a long time and cause severe respiratory complications. This year, it must be a completely smoke-free Diwali for Puneites,” he said. Dr Vaishali Sharma, another specialist doctor from NIBM, said, “Bursting crackers will be a major blow to the efforts of the government in curbing Covid-19. We have already suffered a lot and letting people burst crackers will worsen the situation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ncp-wants-ban-on-firecrackers-ahead-of-diwali/story-qhYHPScCKVJ6AYsPehCw1K.html
03-11-2020||Pune||MCCIA survey: Festival demand pushes Pune industry production up from Oct’s 55% to 72% in Sept||A survey by the Mahratta Chamber of Commerce Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA), its seventh since the Covid-19 lockdown began in late March, has concluded that the current level of production has gone up from 55 per cent in September to 72 per cent in October, among the companies surveyed. The rise in production, according to industry players, is mainly due to an increased demand attributed to the festival season, currently underway. The survey, findings of which were released on Tuesday, has also revealed that on average, the number of employees working has gone up from 68 per cent in September to 77 per cent in October. At least 175 organisations in the Pune district participated in the survey, where the factors like current level of production, number of employees working and future expectations were analysed. The surveyed companies were also asked about when their production levels were expected to be the same as it was in January 2020. Thirty per cent of the companies said production was already at pre-Covid levels while 11 per cent of the respondents maintained that they expect production levels to go back to pre-Covid levels in less than three months. As many as 28 per cent of the respondents said they expect it to take between three and six months, while 16 per cent said it would take between six and nine months. Three per cent said it would take beyond nine months and 11 per cent were uncertain. The distribution of organisations surveyed - micro, small, medium and large – is 27 per cent, 33 per cent, 17 per cent and 22 per cent, respectively. Sixty-six per cent of the organisations surveyed are from the manufacturing sector and 16 per cent from the services sector. The rest are involved in both manufacturing and services. Sudhir Mehta, president, MCCIA, said, “In the MCCIA’s monthly survey on economic recovery in the Pune Region, we are very glad to see a substantive jump in economic activities from September to Octover, especially among MSMEs. We need to cross the hump of the possibility of the second-wave uncertainty due to winter, to benefit from the further reduced levels of uncertainty. We are on the right track, but it’s important to not forget about some sectors and employees who are disproportionately impacted by the pandemic; e.g. MSMEs unbanked by the formal sector.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/mccia-survey-festival-demand-pushes-pune-industry-production-up-from-oct-s-55-to-72-in-sept/story-qlskFKHTy6IUJ6jf1SGucN.html
03-11-2020||Pune||Polls for two MLC seats in Pune division to be held on Dec 1||Elections to two legislative council (MLC) seats in the Pune division will be held on December 1. The two seats are for the graduate constituency, and the teacher’s constituency, respectively.Saurabh Rao, divisional commissioner said, “Against the background of the pandemic, this election will be different and the administration will need to make extra arrangements. Each polling booth will have different entry and exit points, with sanitizers and temperature checks at the entry points.”Rao added, “ Pune, Solapur, Satara, Sangli and Kolhapur districts are all one constituency for each, the graduate and teacher’s constituency.” The model of conduct for the two legislative council seats was also announced on Tuesday for western Maharashtra. The administration has taken possession of all the official cars used by various office- bearers and issued a notice asking that no new projects be announced during the period of the model code of conduct.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/polls-for-two-mlc-seats-in-pune-division-to-be-held-on-dec-1/story-2TsAIqB2ObdmYdX5l8nqxH.html
03-11-2020||Election:||Bihar polls: Voters shy away; Digha, Bankipur, Kumhrar witness lowest polling||Three constituencies, including Digha, Bankipur and Kumhrar, having the highest of number of electorate among nine assembly constituencies in Patna district, witnessed the lowest polling in the second phase of Bihar assembly elections held on Tuesday, while total polling in the district was 51.20 percent. The polling in the three constituencies was also lowest among the 188 seats that went for polls today.In 2010 and 2015 assembly elections too these three constituencies had seen a low polling percentage.This is true to the prophecy of poll pundits that the urban voters in constituencies falling under Patna district would shy away from casting their votes. Call it fear of Covid-19 or considering poll day as a holiday, many voters did not step out of their homes in urban areas, however, in rural Patna, this was not the case.As per the figures provided by the Election Commission of India (ECI), the lowest voting of 34.50 percent in nine constituencies falling in Patna district was witnessed in Digha, followed by Bankipur (35.90 percent) and Kumhrar (36.40 percent). The highest polling of 61.80 percent among the 188 constituencies was recorded in Maner under Patna district.Also read: ‘Won’t have any impact’ - Nitish after onions thrown at poll rallyDigha is the largest assembly constituency, electorate wise, among the 188 seats that went to polls on Tuesday.There are a total of 2,85,50,285 electorate in Patna district comprising Bakhtiyarpur, Digha, Bankipur, Kumhrar, Patna Sahib, Fatuha, Danapur, Maner and Phulwari (SC) constituencies.While there are a total of 1,50,330,34 male voters, the female electorate are 1,35,16,271 in the nine constituencies. Digha has the highest number of voters (4,60,165), followed by Kumhrar (4,27,078) and Bankipur (3,91,517). Bakhtiarpur constituency has the lowest number of voters (2,83,264).Fearing low turnout of voters, this time the BJP candidates of Digha, Bankipur and Kumhrar had set up special cells to maintain direct contact with the voters. They had also set up call centres through which the voters were contacted to know whether they faced any problem in casting their votes. “Individual SMS and Uniform Resource Link (URL) were sent by the contestants to search the name of the electorate in the voters’ list,” said Ankit Raj, a call centre staff working with a BJP candidate.“In this assembly election, it is a challenge to pull out the urban voters to the polling booths. People in urban areas are more conscience towards ways of preventing Covid-19 and so they are avoiding going to polling booths, however, in rural areas, this is not the case so the polling percentage is more,” said DM Diwakar, former director of AN Sinha Institute.The Patna district administration had taken several measures to encourage voters to cast their votes on Tuesday, which included setting up 251 model polling booths, 13 eco-friendly stations, sanitisation of booths and adhering to social distancing norms for the prevention of Covid-19. It had also arranged 30 vehicles to ferry physically challenged and old aged voters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-polls-voters-shy-away-digha-bankipur-kumhrar-witness-lowest-polling/story-5qA5ZWIOowR80tQEAS5QLI.html
03-11-2020||City||13 cars with manipulated engine, chassis numbers, worth Rs 1.39 crore, seized; 4 arrested||PUNE: Four men have been arrested and 13 cars, with manipulated engine and chassis numbers, worth Rs 1.39 crore have been seized on Tuesday. On January 26, Pimpri-Chinchwad police had recovered of 12 stolen cars with manipulated engine and chassis numbers in a similar raid, with the arrest of one person.The Pimpri-Chinchwad police have now recovered 25 such cars, collectively worth at least Rs 3.5 crore.The five men arrested so far have been identified as Chanprit Harvindarpal Singh (43); Manjit Jogindersingh Marwa, a resident of Walhekarwadi in Chinchwad and a native of New Delhi; Deepak Chamanlal Khanna (40), a resident of New Delhi; Pratik alias Nagesh Chagan Deshmukh (28), a resident of Khopoli in Raigad; and Harun Sharif Shaikh (39), a resident of Chikali in Pune, according to police. “Theirs was a unique modus operandi. They bought damaged cars from insurance companies. They identified the make, year, model, and colour of the damaged vehicle and stole vehicles with similar configurations from other states. They assembled the new car with parts from the insurance company scrap vehicles and sold them at a cheaper cost,” said Krishna Prakash, commissioner, Pimpri-Chinchwad police. The men had devised a method of deriving maximum cost benefit from the situation by simply wiping or scrubbing the engine number and selling dismantled spare parts of the stolen cars separately. “Depending on the age and brand of the vehicle, they put it on sale at any price between Rs 3 lakh to Rs 18 lakh. And because they also offered papers and insurance with the manipulated car, people bought them. The scrapped car would cost around a lakh of rupees or so. The stolen car was then fitted with these refurbished parts from the damaged insurance cars and sold at a rate lower than market price,” said assistant police inspector Ganesh Mane, who went to various states to make the arrests. The first to be arrested, in January, was Singh. The second and third to be arrested were Marwa and Khanna, followed by Deshmukh and then Shaikh, according to police. Marwa and Khanna were arrested on October 24 when the police tracked them to Chakan. After a chase of around 30km, the two were caught at the Moshi toll plaza. They were found to be the brains behind the scam. Immediately afterwards, Deshmukh and Shaikh were arrested for helping them sell the manipulated vehicles. Marwa bought the damaged insurance cars, Khanna stole the vehicles, and the two others helped them sell the manipulated vehicles. While Marwa has a history of 12 cases against him, Khanna has 38 previous cases registered against him.Recovered stolen vehicles included four Innovas; and one each of the brands of Fortuner, Ertiga, Maruti Swift, Honda City, Toyota Etos, Alto, Nissan, Creta, Bolero Camper, according to the police. They have been reported missing in various states including Punjab, Haryana, and Delhi. They are all now in police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/13-cars-with-manipulated-engine-chassis-numbers-worth-rs-1-39-crore-seized-4-arrested/story-0HMMx6yeyLyEETP0TyNX1J.html
03-11-2020||Delhi||Change in wind direction reduces stubble burning share in Delhi pollution to 10 per cent: SAFAR||The share of stubble burning in Delhi’s pollution dropped to 10 per cent on Tuesday due to a change in the wind direction, according to a central government forecasting agency. The Ministry of Earth Sciences’ air quality monitor, SAFAR, said 3,068 farm fires were spotted over Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand on Monday. The boundary layer wind direction became southwesterly on Tuesday morning after a long spell, which is unfavourable for the transport of pollutants from farm fires in Punjab and Haryana, according to the agency. The share of stubble burning in Delhi’s PM 2.5 pollution has “decreased significantly” and is estimated at 10 per cent for Tuesday, it said. SAFAR said it was a typical example of high fire count and its low impact on Delhi’s air quality due to unfavourable transport level winds, “demonstrating how meteorology can play a decisive role”. Stubble burning accounted for 16 per cent of Delhi’s pollution on Monday and 40 per cent on Sunday, the maximum so far this season. It was 32 per cent on Saturday, 19 per cent on Friday and 36 per cent on Thursday. Last year, the stubble contribution to Delhi’s pollution had peaked to 44 per cent on November 1, according to SAFAR data. SAFAR has predicted a marginal deterioration in the air quality on Wednesday and Thursday. The national capital’s air quality slipped back into the “very poor” category again on Tuesday after recording a marginal improvement over the last 24 hours. Officials at the India Meteorological Department said the air quality had improved on Monday with high wind speed aiding dispersion of pollutants. However, stagnant nighttime conditions led to accumulation of pollutants. The city recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 311 at 3 pm. The 24-hour average (AQI) was 293, which falls in the “poor” category. It was 364 on Sunday, with stubble burning contributing 40 per cent to Delhi’s pollution. An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’,201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/change-in-wind-direction-reduces-stubble-burning-share-in-delhi-pollution-to-10-per-cent-safar/story-JszYxNbX7Ptw7POh3lJtML.html
03-11-2020||Chandigarh||Goods suspension by Railways in Punjab causes power cuts as coal stocks dry up||Punjab residents braced for massive power cuts on Tuesday after coal stocks in the state completely dried up as a result of the prolonged suspension of goods supply trains by the Indian Railways. As per a statement, power cuts will be imposed on all residential, commercial and agricultural consumers from Tuesday evening by the Power Department. The day-time power shortage rose to 1000 to 1500 megawatts and the state’s last power plant, GVK Thermal, has also run out. The statement also quotes a government spokesperson saying that the supply of power was inadequate for the demand during the day, which stands at about 5,100 to 5,200 MW, and 3,400 MW at night. Only agricultural power (AP) load of vegetable feeders are being given power supply of 800 MW for four to five hours a day. “The situation is grim as the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) is left with no generation control and market rates of power continue to be highly volatile. They could further spike any time, resulting in the increase in the cost of power purchase, on which the state is now completely dependent to feed its cables,” the spokesperson said. The spokesperson further said that one unit of the GVK plant that was operational at around 12 noon headed for a shut-down by 5 pm when the coal stock was slated to completely run out. Other Private Thermal Power plants have already exhausted their coal supplies and are out of operation. The state’s own thermal power stations of Ropar and Lehra Mohabbat were also boxed up. However, one unit at each of these plants was being synchronized to make up for GVK generation loss and to provide stability to the system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/goods-suspension-by-railways-in-punjab-causes-power-cuts-as-coal-stocks-dry-up/story-MRhbLu1kLTeCKRAHhLyzMI.html
03-11-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand bypoll: Dumka registers 65.27% turnout, Bermo at 60.20%||Bucking fear of the Covid-19 pandemic, voters turned out in huge numbers on Tuesday to exercise their franchise and choose their representative from Dumka and Bermo to the Jharkhand assembly.As per the election officials, Dumka registered 65.27 percent polling in the bypolls and Bermo in Bokaro district witnessed 60.20 percent turnout, only marginally low than the polling percentage clocked in the 2019 assembly polls. In December 2019 elections, Bermo had recorded 60.91 percent polling while Dumka polled 66.89 percent votes.Polling went off peacefully in the both the seats. While voting was conducted from 7 am to 5 pm in Dumka, in Bermo the polling was conducted from 7 am to 4 pm. Counting of votes would be done on November 10.In both the seats, ruling JMM and Congress candidates are locked in a direct contest with the BJP candidates. While the JMM has fielded Basant Soren, younger son of party patriarch Shibu Soren from its traditional stronghold Dumka, Congress has fielded Jaimangal Singh, son of the deceased six-term party legislator Rajendra Singh from Bermo.The BJP, on the other hand, is banking on its old faces, former minister from Dumka Lois Marandi and two term-legislator Yogeshwar Mahto Batul from Bermo.Claiming victory for the ruling alliance, JMM general secretary Supriya Bhattacharya said their candidates in both the seats would win with a bigger margin than the 2019 polls.Also read: Onions thrown at Nitish Kumar at poll rally, he says ‘won’t have any impact’“People have shown their trust in the Hemant Soren government. Three former chief ministers of BJP were campaigning in the polls. People have made it clear that they are no more relevant to the state politics,” said Bhattacharya.Jharkhand BJP spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo said the high turnout in the bypolls shows the BJP will win both the seats hands down. “The good turnout in the bypoll, despite the pandemic, shows that people are disillusioned with the government. And when people come out to vote in large numbers in bypoll, usually it is against the government. So we are very much hopeful that we will win both the seats hands down,” said Shaheo.Though both sides are claiming victory in both seats, the electoral outcome is unlikely to make any immediate impact on the stability of the 10-month old government as the numbers in the 81-member assembly are stacked in favour of the ruling JMM-Congress-RJD combine with support of at least 48 legislators of the existing 78 members.One seat fell vacant last month after demise of JMM legislator and minority affairs minister Haji Hussain Ansari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-bypoll-dumka-registers-65-27-turnout-bermo-at-60-20/story-Z2csb2ZS12hGzVLBPgwXuO.html
03-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality turns ‘very poor’ after marginal improvement||The national capital’s air quality slipped back into the “very poor” category again on Tuesday after recording a marginal improvement.However, the share of stubble burning in Delhi’s pollution dropped to 10 per cent during the day due to a change in the wind direction, a central government agency said.Officials at the India Meteorological Department said the air quality had improved on Monday with high wind speed aiding dispersion of pollutants. However, stagnant night-time conditions led to accumulation of pollutants.The city recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 332 at 10 am. It improved to 302 by 4 pm as wind speed picked up.The 24-hour average AQI was 293 on Monday which falls in the “poor” category. It was 364 on Sunday, with stubble burning contributing to 40 per cent of Delhi’s pollution.An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’,201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.The Ministry of Earth Sciences’ air quality monitor, SAFAR, said the share of stubble burning in Delhi’s PM 2.5 pollution has “decreased significantly” due to a change in the wind direction and is estimated at 10 per cent for Tuesday.It said 3,068 farm fires were spotted over Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand on Monday.The boundary layer wind direction became southwesterly on Tuesday morning after a long spell which is unfavourable for the transport of pollutants from farm fires in Punjab and Haryana, according to the agency.SAFAR said it was a typical example of high fire count and its low impact on Delhi’s air quality due to unfavourable transport level winds, “demonstrating how meteorology can play a decisive role”.Stubble burning accounted for 16 per cent of Delhi’s pollution on Monday and 40 per cent on Sunday, the maximum so far this season.It was 32 per cent on Saturday, 19 per cent on Friday and 36 per cent on Thursday.Last year, the farm fire contribution to Delhi’s pollution had peaked to 44 per cent on November 1, according to SAFAR data.SAFAR has predicted a marginal deterioration in the air quality on Wednesday and Thursday.According to the India Meteorological Department, the maximum wind speed was 12 kilometers per hour on Tuesday. The city recorded a minimum temperature of 10 degrees Celsius, the lowest in the season so far.Calm winds and low temperatures trap pollutants close to the ground, while favourable wind speed helps in their dispersion.According to the Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi, the city’s ventilation index – a product of mixing depth and average wind speed – was expected to be around 8,000 metre square per second on Tuesday – favourable for dispersion of pollutants.Mixing depth is the vertical height in which pollutants are suspended in the air. It reduces on cold days with calm wind speed.A ventilation index lower than 6,000 sqm/second, with the average wind speed less than 10 kmph, is unfavourable for dispersal of pollutants.In a bid to control pollution, the Delhi government has also said that only “green firecrackers” can be manufactured, sold and used in the national capital in accordance with a 2018 Supreme Court order.‘Green crackers’ are not as polluting as the conventional types of firecrackers and they contain at least 30 per cent less particulate matter such as sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxide.Fireworks can take place between 8 pm and 10 pm only on festivals like Diwali and Gurpurab etc. On Christmas eve and New Year eve, it would be from 11:55 pm till 12:30 am only, according to the Delhi Pollution Control Committee.The National Green Tribunal has also issued notice to the Centre, Central Pollution Control Board, and the governments of Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan, asking if crackers could be banned between November 7 and November 30 in the interest of public health and environment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-air-quality-turns-very-poor-after-marginal-improvement/story-moKJ1uF12NrcO0DD7UQNrM.html
03-11-2020||City||Farm fires continue unabated in Haryana, cross 6,000 mark||The incidents of stubble burning continued to rage in Haryana on Tuesday with the number of Active Fire Locations (AFLs) crossing the 6,000 mark.As per the figures provided by Haryana Space Applications Centre (HARSAC), the number of AFLs have reached 6,109 with 234 fresh incidents of farm fires across the 22 districts in the past 24 hours. Haryana has witnessed a 40% increase in stubble burning cases as compared to last year, when the number of AFLs were 4,300 for the corresponding period. As per the HARSAC, farm fires continue unabated in all paddy sown districts of the state with Kaithal topping the list with 1,138 incidents followed by 963 in Karnal, 815 in Kurukshetra, 756 in Ambala, 750 in Fatehabad and 466 in Jind , 258 in Sirsa and 163 in Hisar. Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Yadav said sarpanches of Ramba and Gondar villages have been suspended for their failure to keep a check on farm fires in their respective villages. In Kaithal, the district administration has imposed a fine of Rs 11 lakh on the erring farmers and 25 FIRs have been registered for burning crop waste.Air quality remains ‘very poor’ in six citiesThe air quality of several cities in the state also continued to remain in ‘very poor’ and ‘poor’ category. According to the Central Pollution Control Board, the air quality index of Ambala, Faridabad, Jind, Kaithal, Kurukshetra and Panipat districts was above 300, which is in “very poor” category.The air quality of eight cities—Fatehabad, Gurugram, Hisar, Karnal, Manesar, Sonepat and Sirsa— was ‘poor’ with the AQI ranging between 200 to 300.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farm-fires-continue-unabated-in-haryana-cross-6-000-mark/story-g9AO94l3yBrelo7x9BJHiJ.html
03-11-2020||Chandigarh||Over 46% polling recorded till 4 pm in Baroda bypoll in Haryana||A total of 14 candidates, including Olympian wrestler and BJP nominee Yogeshwar Dutt, are contesting the Baroda assembly bypoll in Haryana, where over 46 per cent polling was registered till 4 pm on Tuesday.Dutt, who cast his vote in the morning after performing ‘puja’ at his wrestling academy, is pitted against Congress’ Indu Raj Narwal. The Baroda seat has been a stronghold of the Congress party whose MLA Krishan Hooda had won the seat in the 2009, 2014 and 2019 assembly polls.His death in April necessitated the bypoll, which started at 7 am and will continue till 6 pm.About 1.81 lakh people are eligible to vote in the by-election. The voter turnout was 46.23 per cent till 4 pm, according to data by the Election Commission.A total of 280 polling booths have been set up, of which 151 have been categorised as “vulnerable”.Security personnel, including three companies of paramilitary force, have been deployed to ensure a peaceful bypoll, officials said.Voters are being screened through thermal scanners at polling booths in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.Masks and gloves are also being given to voters and they have been asked to maintain physical distancing at the polling stations.Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar appealed to Baroda voters to ensure maximum participation in the voting process.“In democracy, each vote is valuable and your one vote is also valuable. I appeal to all of you to participate in the ‘utsav’ of democracy with your family in large numbers and cast votes,” Khattar tweeted.Senior Congress leader and former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, in a tweet, also urged voters to exercise their franchise by following Covid-19 related safety precautions.BJP candidate Yogeshwar Dutt cast his vote in the morning. Before exercising his franchise, the wrestler-turned-politician performed ‘puja’ at his academy.Talking to reporters, Olympian wrestler Dutt appealed to people to cast their votes and said that his objective was to serve people.Elders, women and youth started coming to polling booths after voting began in the morning.The ruling BJP has fielded wrestler-turned-politician Dutt, who is also backed by saffron ally JJP.The opposition Congress has fielded former Sonipat Zila Parishad member Indu Raj Narwal and the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) has put its money on Joginder Malik.Seven independents and four candidates belonging to other parties, including former Kurukshetra MP Raj Kumar Saini who heads the Loktantra Suraksha Party, are in the fray from the constituency.There are a total of 1,80,529 voters, including service voters. Out of which, 99,726 are men, 80,801 women and two transgenders, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/over-46-polling-recorded-till-4-pm-in-baroda-bypoll-in-haryana/story-moq9VnObTEgM3Gk9tg5KoN.html
03-11-2020||City||Yamunanagar police lodge FIR against mining violations along Yamuna||Police on Monday lodged an FIR against illegal mining and alleged “diversion of the natural flow of Yamuna” by a mining agency at Jathlana police station in Yamunanagar.The case under Section 431 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 45 of the Canal and Drainage Act, Haryana, was registered on the complaint of Jaswinder Singh Hooda, sub-divisional officer (SDO) Radaur at irrigation and water resources department. In his complaint, Hooda said he visited the Jathlana site with junior engineers Sanjeev Kumar and Rahul on September 21. “We found that the mining agency PS Buildtech Jathlana (B-12) is trying to divert the natural flow of Yamuna against the NGT guidelines,” he said.Hooda had lodged a similar complaint on October 23 at Jathlana police station against M/S Kawaljeet Singh Batra, B-13, MT Karehra Ghat for carrying out illegal mining and obstructing the natural flow of Yamuna at Karhera village.Hooda said, “We had visited the Jathlana site in September. After a few days, the mining agency had cleared the area. However, we had already filed a complaint by then.”Station in-charge sub-inspector Dhaam Pal said, “We will visit the site to crosscheck the photographs and evidence submitted by the complainant. The violations will also be checked with nishandehi (measurements).”He said, “Even if the area has been cleared by the firm, we have the old photographs and the case can be based on it.”In October, the villagers of Kanalsi area in Yamunanagar had claimed that mining contractors are constructing illegal bunds across the Yamuna, in blatant violation of environmental norms, so as to reach the riverbed to carry out sand excavation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/yamunanagar-police-lodge-fir-against-mining-violations-along-yamuna/story-OCNRVCZ3dsefRQeeJG5BAI.html
03-11-2020||Delhi||DIAL starts paid Covid-19 testing for those flying out of Delhi airport||Passengers flying out of Delhi can now get themselves tested for Covid-19 at the Delhi airport, the airport operator said Tuesday. Both domestic and international passengers can avail of the paid service. Until now, the facility was only available for incoming international passengers.Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL), which runs the Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA), said it has set up a Covid-19 sample collection booth in front of Gate Number 8 at the international departure of Terminal 3. The booth was set up on October 28 in association with Genestrings Diagnostic Centre Pvt Ltd, an ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research)-approved laboratory, which is currently associated with Delhi government to test for Covid-19, DIAL said.Rajat Arora, director, Genestrings Diagnostic Centre, said they have increased the manpower of lab technicians at the facility in Delhi airport as the lab is expecting more number of samples in the coming days.“The facility will be beneficial to those who are taking international or domestic flights but don’t have an RT-PCR test result. Such passengers can come to the airport around six hours early and get their Covid test done. They will have to pay ₹2,400 for the test and will get the result in four to six hours,” the airport operator said.The DIAL statement said each counter can conduct up to 40 to 50 registrations per hour, and sample collection booths can collect approximately 120-130 samples an hour, it said.DIAL said the lab will get a disclaimer signed from each passenger at the time of testing, wherein the passenger agrees to take full responsibility to follow all government-mandated laws, including quarantine, in case they test positive for the virus.On September 12, DIAL had launched Covid-19 testing facility for arriving international passengers. The facility is set up at the multilevel parking lot near Terminal 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dial-starts-paid-covid-19-testing-for-those-flying-out-of-delhi-airport/story-t4QuWcAmWd5fvRqvfGNQ4K.html
03-11-2020||Election:||Voters’ woes in Bihar polls: Many find their names in dead persons’ list||Voters in many constituencies in Patna had a tough time today in exercising their voting rights during the second phase of polling at 94 constituencies of the state Assembly elections. Importantly, many voters failed to cast their votes in absence of their voting slips.Though many of them tried finding their names in the list of voters, some finally found it in the list of dead voters.Many others had serious lapses in their voting slips. While some found their gender changed in the voting slip, others had their relations changed. Someone’s father was mentioned as her husband in the slip while many had their photos changed.Shambhu Nath Jha, a voter from Kumhrar constituency, said it was surprising to see his mother’s name in the list of dead persons.Also read: Tejashwi Yadav’s critics will be ‘khamoshed’, says Shatrughan Sinha“My mother is alive and still very active. When I didn’t get her voting slip, I made enquiry about and was surprised to see her name in the list of the voters who are no longer alive,” Shambhu said.“Interestingly, my neighbour’s father is no more but he has got his voter’s slip,” he added.Yet another voter from Kumhrar, Kiran Devi, said she failed to exercise her voting rights for the first time. “I didn’t get the slip while all others in the family received their voters slip. It’s been surprising as I have been the daughter of this constituency and have been exercising my voting rights for over two decades,” she said. Far more surprising was the situation for another voter from Kankarbangh of Kumhrar assembly constituency. Praveen Kumar said his gender was changed in the voter slip. “There’s a photo a woman on my slip,” he said. His wife’s slip bore a picture of a senior citizen, he added. Rekha, a voter from Kadam Kuan under Bankipur constituency, said there was a blunder in her voter slip. “My late father has been mentioned as my husband in the slip,” she said. Also read: Bihar Poll - Over 44% voter turnout till 3pm in second phase of pollsRamesh Shukla, a voter from Rajendra Nagar said various lapses have been noticed in the voting slips this time. “Many people failed to cast votes because of these problems. In fact, these things discourage voters and so many took efforts and turned up to the polling booth to find out names and found them declared as dead but many others did not bother,” he said.Rituraj Kumar, BLO at a polling booth in Kumrahar constituency, said many voters have complained of various kinds of problems in voter slips. “Right now, we can’t do anything as the voters slips have been created by the Election Commission’s district office. Even then we are trying our best to help voters find their names in the list and support them in exercising their voting rights,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/voters-woes-in-bihar-polls-many-find-their-names-in-dead-persons-list/story-sHEd0wD0LsPIIVfJKyGxUN.html
03-11-2020||Pune||Fire blazes for second day at Pune garbage unit; case registered||PUNE: After a day of firefighting, fire brigade officials were able to partially douse the fire at the garbage processing unit in Ambegaon in the absence of equipment required to reach the inner part of the wall created by heaps of burning garbage. “The fire is massive and we have sprayed water using almost 30-35 tankers till now. The wall of garbage that is visible is completely wet and doused and settled. The fire is still on behind it. To get to that, we need to pull down this wall of garbage, but the JCB that is available is not able to do the job. We need a poclane machine,” said Sanjay Ramteke, an official of the fire brigade’s Katraj division which is tasked with the operation. Meanwhile, the police have registered a case against unidentified people who started the fire. A case under Sections 435, 427, 143, 147, and 149 of Indian Penal Code was registered at Bharti Vidyapeeth police station. “We have registered a case. To determine the extent of damage, the fire needs to be doused. There is considerable damage,” said inspector (crime) Vishnu Tamhane of Bharti Vidyapeeth police station. The smoke bellowing from the site of the plant covered the entire area and the residential buildings that are in close proximity. The fire was allegedly lit by angry villagers and residents who were attending a meeting with PMC officials and politicians. “A PMC official told one of us that the villagers were charging towards the facility and were angry. So, we all left the plant and ran for our lives. One driver later told us what had happened. There were five CCTV cameras at the facility, each one of them was broken. Their feed is recorded in the office on-site which was also damaged,” said an official of the private company that built and manages the plant. He, however, insisted on remaining anonymous.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fire-blazes-for-second-day-at-ambegaon-garbage-unit-case-registered/story-YI8VZHGdfhTPJmOIFt4oQK.html
03-11-2020||Pune||Free online classes begin for Class 11 students in state||PUNE The Maharashtra education department on Monday started online classes for Class 11 students for all streams to prevent loss of the academic session due to the Covid-19 outbreak although the admission process is currently on hold due to Maratha reservation issue.“The classes have begun on YouTube and over 62,000 first-year junior college (FYJC) students have so far enrolled for these classes,” said Dinkar Patil, director, state council of educational research and training (SCERT).“Due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic students had suffered and so we do not want them to suffer a loss of the academic session and so we have started online classes,” he said. Currently, the admission process is on hold due to Supreme Court order on Maratha community jobs and education reservation, he added.“The online classes have started for all streams of Arts, Science and Commerce on YouTube,” he said.The registration process for these free online classes is still going on, students can enrol for the same.“It is a good decision by the state education department to start online classes. It will benefit the students,” said Yash Bhandari, an FYJC student.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/free-online-classes-begin-for-class-11-students-in-state/story-G00ZEDCIXSgvOL6iYswQJM.html
03-11-2020||Pune||Student volunteers find strong Pune link in Bihar polls||As part of the political campaigning during the Bihar assembly polls, political parties are raising the issue of job opportunities in Pune and its surrounding areas. As similar opportunities are lacking in Bihar, due to what these workers call, a failure of government, many from various districts, such as Katihar, have migrated to Pune. “We have come to Bihar on October 28 to support our candidates contesting the elections. My responsibility here is to campaign for our candidate Tauquir Alam from Pranpur constituency in Katihar district. I go door to door and take corner sabhas to get the maximum votes. I also look after social media campaigning and the news publicity for our candidate,” said Satish Gore, a student leader from Pune and Maharashtra state secretary of the Indian National Youth Congress. Talking about his experience about campaigning, Gore said, “Specifically in Katihar there are lot of labourers from here who come to Pune and Mumbai in search of work. Now they have returned to their villages due to lockdown and also for the elections. The lack of jobs in Bihar is now a poll issue.” According to Gore, there is the major connect between Pune and Katihar district, with many Bihari voters fluently speaking Marathi, which was a surprise for him. “It was easy for me to talk with them and place our agenda in front of them. One of the major demands is about creating job opportunities in their own district. They don’t want to travel to other places in search of work. People who have come back to Bihar after leaving their work in Pune are struggling to survive,” he added. Another student leader, Vaibhav Parwat, who is a volunteer of the Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) in Pune, was in Bihar for a month to study the elections. He said, “I was in Bihar to study the election and what are expectations of Bihar citizens from the political parties. There is a strong connect between Bihar and Pune which I realised during my tenure there.” “Another major issue is about the flood affected parts of the state. People feel nothing has been done to resolve this long-pending issue. There is good production of agricultural goods, but compared to Maharashtra there is not much development in the industrial sector. So, a majority prefer to come to Pune and other cities in Maharashtra in search of work,” Parwat added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/student-volunteers-find-strong-pune-link-in-bihar-polls/story-8CsZMV5EQciAN3nyfeIl1J.html
03-11-2020||Election:||Bihar Assembly Election 2020: Come Nov 10, Tejashwi Yadav’s critics will be ‘khamoshed’, says Shatrughan Sinha||Critics of RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav will be “khamoshed” (silenced) when results for Bihar assembly polls are declared on November 10 as the ‘Mahagathbandhan’ is headed for a “landslide” win, senior Congress leader Shatrughan Sinha said on Tuesday. The actor-turned-politician also said personal attacks were being made against the grand alliance’s chief ministerial candidate by the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) leaders as they were “totally rattled” by Yadav’s well-thought and researched promise of providing 10 lakh jobs to the youth of Bihar. In an interview with PTI, Sinha said the “writing on the wall is clear” that the ‘Mahagathbandhan’ will be ‘maha vijayi’ (grandly victorious) as everyone can see the attraction and euphoria for the grand opposition alliance. “The writing on the wall is absolutely clear, the youth brigade led by our very own, dynamic, most talked-about man of aspirations and expectations, Tejashwi Yadav, along with his young team, is going to form the government with a massive landslide victory of the RJD, the Congress and the Left parties,” he said. “The success of the grand alliance in Bihar is inevitable because people want that. The kind of euphoria that has been generated by national youth icon Rahul Gandhi and Tejashwi Yadav, I would say -- seeing is believing,” said the former Union minister, who had switched to the Congress before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls after spending several years in the BJP. Asked about the criticism that Tejashwi Yadav was inexperienced, Sinha, in his inimitable baritone while improvising on his trademark dialogue ‘khamosh’, said, “The critics will be totally ‘Khamoshed’ on the day of the election results on November 10.” Sinha, whose son Luv Sinha is also in the fray for the Bihar assembly polls, also alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was not talking about development issues and said he had often talked about a ‘Congress-mukt Bharat’, but the country is now becoming a ‘Congress-yukt Bharat’. “Congress is a party that has made the maximum contribution to the independence of the country. It has been a party of big leaders. It is an old, gold, bold and beautiful party and you say that you will make a Congress-mukt Bharat, but since you have said this, leave aside Congress-mukt Bharat, it is becoming Congress-yukt Bharat,” he said. “The prime minister is a friend of mine and a guardian of the nation by virtue of being the prime minister. But even once, he has not talked about solutions to problems. Unfortunately, he has not been able to fulfill a single promise made to Bihar. He says will give Rs 1.25 lakh crore package -- (but that amounts to) tall talk, hollow promises,” Sinha said. Hitting out at the NDA for “taunting” Tejashwi Yadav and allegedly making personal attacks, the 74-year-old Congress leader said the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader’s promise of 10 lakh jobs has “totally rattled them”. The situation is going to get worse because the NDA government is “selling” all the PSUs of the country and Yadav has done such a good thing by raising the issue of jobs in the current scenario, Sinha said. “But he is being taunted where will the money come from and then Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman makes an announcement about 19 lakh jobs. Where will the money come from for that?” he said. “They (NDA) are totally rattled and the announcement (of 10 lakh jobs) has created a euphoria. This is a well thought out announcement, it is also well researched and made after consulting intellectuals and experts,” Sinha said. He also criticised Modi for using terms like “jungle raj ka yuvraj” for Tejashwi and asked how would the prime minister feel if someone uses such language against him. “I won’t say, but If someone used such language for him, how would he feel... In Bihar he is talking about China, triple talaq, Article 370, when he should be talking about development, education, health, unemployment, jobs, per capita income, farmers etc,” he said. Pointing to large crowds Tejashwi is drawing in his rallies, Sinha claimed the crowd for PM’s rallies is brought in busses and trucks, but despite that “thin” attendance was being seen in his public meetings. “The kind of enthusiasm and response you see everywhere for our dynamic leader Tejashwi Yadav and also for the Mahagathbandhan at large... the attraction of the Mahagathbandhan is amazing,” he said. The prime minister, his people and the Bihar government are not answering any questions raised by any of us, whether it is Rahul Gandhi or Tejashwi Yadav or people like me, said Sinha. Sinha also hit out at those raising questions over Tejashwi’s qualifications and pointed that there was earlier controversy over the prime minister’s qualifications also. “These are not the issues. You have to answer how come every second person in Bihar is unemployed and how come from every second household, a person has migrated. There is neither infrastructure nor jobs. Health and the education sectors are in shambles,” he said. On Lalu Yadav’s absence from the assembly polls, Sinha said the RJD chief is a mass leader in a true sense and many people feel that he has become a “victim of the conspiracy of political circumstances”. “We hope, wish and pray that we are able to live up to this slogan -- ‘Jail ka phatak tootega, Lalu Yadav chhootega (the prison doors will break down and Lalu Yadav will be set free),” he said. PTI ASK BJ BJ||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-assembly-election-2020-come-nov-10-tejashwi-yadav-s-critics-will-be-khamoshed-says-shatrughan-sinha/story-FwkLvfqmsPuUn2vfoG9IQK.html
03-11-2020||City||Goa: Amid protests against railway line, minister says coal handling won’t be expanded||Amid protests against the expansion of the railway line from Goa to Karnataka, state environment Nilesh Cabral said the government has no plans for expanding the coal handling capacity. Cabral admitted that while consultants had recommended the expansion of the capacity, those plans had been shelved.“Goa will not be a coal hub at all. This is a strong statement which I want to make on behalf of the government. An apprehension has been created that more coal will be brought to Goa. Currently, 10 to 12 million tons of coal are being imported annually. This will not increase. The government will make sure that the [quantum] will not increase.”Cabral’s comments come a day after midnight protests against the railway expansion, which many believe will be used to ferry coal. Existing handling of coal has been blamed for dust pollution in the port town of Vasco da Gama, which repeatedly reports the worst air quality in Goa. Coal handling has also cited as the reason for mercury in edible oysters.Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant has refused to scrap coal projects even as members of his Bharatiya Janata Party have supported those opposed to them.In 2010, the railways sanctioned the doubling of the existing Hospet-Tinaighat-Vasco railway line from Karnataka and Goa. The first phase of the project between Hospet and Tinai ghat has been completed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/goa-amid-protests-against-railway-line-minister-says-coal-handling-won-t-be-expanded/story-Y14VwhAIYeUL8VC3vwJMVP.html
03-11-2020||Mumbai||Centre asks Maharashtra govt to stop work for Kanjurmarg metro car shed||In what may become another point of conflict between the two, the Central government has asked the Maharashtra government to stop the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority from developing a metro car shed at Kanjurmarg, sources said on Tuesday.According to sources, the Centre’s Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade has written to the Chief Secretary of Maharashtra asking them to stop the construction of the proposed metro car shed in Kanjurmarg area.The Maharashtra government had earlier halted the work of Aarey metro car shed, over which protests were held by hundreds of people in October last year, and announced that the project will be relocated to Kanjurmarg.According to sources, the 102-acre land at Kanjurmarg comes under the salt commissioner, who reports to the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade, Government of India.Speaking on the development, BJP leader Kirit Somaiya accused the state government of “fooling the people of the state” and bypassing the recommendations of two committee reports.“Manoj Saunik Committee has clearly said that shifting the car shed project is not a viable option and that it will add a burden of Rs 5,000 crore and delay the project by five years. I dare Uddhav Thackeray government to make public the reports of the Manoj Saunik Committee and Ajay Mehta Committee,” Somaiya said.He said that the two committee reports also mentioned whom the land belongs to.Back in October last year, the felling of trees in the Aarey Colony had drawn a wedge between former allies BJP and Shiv Sena, with then Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis pushing for the project and Thackeray-led party coming out in protest against the proposed car shed.Aarey metro car shed project, stayed by the Maharashtra government, was opposed by environmentalists and others last year in a bid to protect the stretch of forest area considered as the lungs of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/centre-asks-maharashtra-govt-to-stop-work-for-kanjurmarg-metro-car-shed/story-YNuiY3uwqs2nPHg0iKphWP.html
03-11-2020||Pune||Covid-19 recovered patients in Pune complain of cardiac, psychiatric issues||Pune: City hospitals have been running post-Covid-19 OPDs for over a month and are reporting various health issues among patients. In addition to the pulmonary issues reported in patients, hospitals are now seeing cardiac and psychiatric issues in those recovered from Covid-19. In some cases, the issues have been reported even two months after discharge from hospitals. Dr Sanjay Gaikwad, head of the department of pulmonary medicine at BJ medical college, said, “We have seen about 85 Covid-19 recovered patients and the most common complaint is general weakness, breathlessness and cardiac complaint in a few patients. For such patients, we recommend 2D echo and check their heart rate. Another common complaint which we see in patients is fear and anxiety needing psychiatric help. We recommend them dietary supplements, exercises, and supplementary medications if needed.” Dr Sunil Rao, group medical director of Sahyadri Group of Hospitals said, “We started the OPD about a month ago and we get about three to four patients every week. The most common complaint being breathlessness and weakness, however, their parameters are steady. We are also getting patients complaining of cardiac issues and we must be prepared for that in the future too. We get such complaints more in patients who had moderate symptoms during the infection. It has nothing to do with comorbidity or age. The impact of the virus on the organs is independent of such factors, but depends on the severity of the symptoms. We see some patients complaining of breathlessness even two months after recovery and mostly we recommend breathing exercises but sometimes they may need steroids.” Dr Parikshit Prayag, Covid-19 consultant at Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital said, “The most common complaints we get are breathlessness, bacterial fever or might even need more oxygen when at home. We are also getting patients with cardiac issues, anxiety complaints, and stress post Covid-19. We are also reporting a few patients with pancreatitis in the case when the infection spreads out of the lungs. The peak in Pune was in August and September and it would be still too early to say how long these effects stay in patients.” According to Noble hospital executive director Dr HK Sale, the hospital is seeing more patients complain of higher sugar levels among diabetic recoveries and higher stress levels in those who suffer from hypertension. “Cardiac complaints are also coming up, but they are fewer in number since we get patients who live nearby the hospital and are regular patients. We are seeing more patients come for non-Covid19 related issues as Covid-19 cases come down,” Sale said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-19-recovered-patients-in-pune-complain-of-cardiac-psychiatric-issues/story-i7DF1z3IL1CScFeRCoMb9J.html
03-11-2020||Pune||BJ Med College doctors go on leave, en masse||At least 69 assistant professors and doctors who are posted at BJ Medical College and Sassoon General Hospital on a temporary basis have stopped work since Monday and taken mass leave to protest over various demands.Their major demands include regularising them as permanent employee, implementing the 7th pay commission and giving them the status of “Covid warriors”.Sassoon Hospital is one of the prominent hospitals and currently is at the forefront to treat Covid-19 patients and the current strike will impact treatment of such patients in various departments. Patients from across Pune district and even from outside district come here for treatment.“For the last six months we are repeatedly demanding the implementing of 7th pay commission to assistant professors and doctors and to give us Covid warrior status as even we are tirelessly working,” said Dr Nandkumar Salunkhe, assistant professor and B J Medical College representative, Maharashtra State Medical Teachers Association.“None of our demands were heard and so we have decided to stop work and go on mass leave from today (Monday),” said Dr Salunkhe.“Most of our assistant professors were working in Sassoon Hospital from last few months. During the lockdown and even today our doctors are risking their own lives to treat the Covid positive patients. Still, they have not been given the Covid warrior status and we have not been made permanent employees,” he said.“We were given false assurances, but none of them were implemented by the government. We are regularly following up with the government authorities about our demands but they are not fulfilled yet. Until our demands are not met, we will continue our strike,” he said.Dr Murlidhar Tambe, dean, BJ Medical College and Sassoon Hospital, said, “We are in talks with the protesting assistant professors and doctors, their demands will be forwarded to the state government. We will try to normalise the situation as early as possible, there won’t be any impact on treatment at the hospital.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/bj-med-college-doctors-go-on-leave-en-masse/story-kLOoeTZvXHUZ8G7OZGDuQK.html
03-11-2020||Pune||PMC’s duct-less 24x7 pipeline build prompts inquiry demand||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has completed 300-kilometres of the 1,700-kilometre pipeline project that will install a 24x7 water pipeline, however, despite a prior approval the civic body has failed to lay the duct for optical fibres in tandem.The failure of constructing the ducts along with the pipeline has thrown up a major political slugfest in the city with the opposition demanding an inquiry into the project. The PMC will be digging a majority of the roads in the city to install the 1,700-km water pipeline in the city. The general body had decided to lay the ducts for the fibres at the time of the construction of the pipeline to prevent future diggings, and the PMC would not need to give separate permission for mobile companies to lay their cables. It would be mandatory to them to lay their cables through only ducts. PMC road department chief Aniruddha Pawaskar said, “It is true that the general body of the PMC gave a nod for laying ducts along the 24x7 water project but the ducts were not erected. The PMC administration is undergoing a discussion on it.” Former Pune municipal commissioner Kunal Kumar had promised that as the work would be awarded to the same contractor, it would help save cost and time for digging the duct. One of the officials confirmed that laying the duct was part of the tender; the company which got the contract for the pipeline got the permission to lay the ducts. Chetan Tupe, MLA and NCP city unit president said, “It was decided to carry the duct work along with the 24x7 water pipeline. The ruling BJP and municipal commissioner Kunal Kumar were aggressive on it. It is shocking that despite getting a nod and mentioned in the tender, why is the work not happening on ground. It is the ruling party’s responsibility to monitor the work. MP Girish Bapat has now decided to look into this project. He should check why his own party members did not check the work. We would raise this issue and ask the municipal commissioner to take appropriate action.” Another officer from PMC said on anonymity, “It is true that the PMC administration and the elected members decided to lay the ducts along the water lines. There were two groups within the administration; one was in the view that it is not possible to erect the duct in the whole city as almost half the road would need to be dug. Another backed the laying of the ducts to maintain the condition of the roads. Every year, mobile companies, the Maharashtra State Electricity Board (MSEB) and other utilities use to dig the road for laying the lines and it affects the road quality as well as creates nuisance to the citizens.” Former Pune municipal commissioner Kunal Kumar was aggressive on constructing the duct along with the 24x7 water pipeline. Earlier it was not part of the tender document, but Kumar convinced the elected members why it is important. Ujwal Keskar, Apale Pune organisation founder and BJP leader said, “It is a must to carry the optical fibre duct work along with the water pipeline work. It is a good chance to do it in the whole city as already the roads are being dug for the water pipeline project. It is serious that despite the approval from the general body meeting and mentioned in the tender document, this work is not happening on ground.” Former deputy mayor and RPI leader Siddharth Dhende wrote a letter to the PMC road chief and the municipal commissioner demanding an inquiry into the project. “The general body meeting had approved the project. On the ground, it is not happening as per tender document as it was decided to lay the ducts along with the pipeline work. Recently, I wrote a letter to the municipal commissioner and road department head Pawaskar and pointed out that the contractor is not laying ducts anywhere in the city. Our demand is to do an inquiry. While issuing bills, it needs to be checked whether the bills were paid for duct work,” he said. Aba Bagul, Congress leader said, “The municipal commissioner must do an inquiry of this project. Every year PMC spends a lot on road improvement. After a lot of discussion, the general body had approved the ducts along with the 24x7 water project. If the water pipeline work is in progress and ducts are not carried out, the ruling party must answer.” BOX PMC approved Rs 195 crore for laying duct along the pipeline project in Feb 2018The PMC approved Rs 195 crore for the optical fibre duct project along with the 24x7 water pipeline project. The PMC had given an approval for this project in February 2018. Former Pune municipal commissioner Kunal Kumar promised that as the work would be given to the same contractor, it would help save cost and time for digging the duct. Even citizens would not need to face road digging works repeatedly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-s-duct-less-24x7-pipeline-build-prompts-inquiry-demand/story-cIB2kXRMP0xh0xRSc0wYXK.html
03-11-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand bypolls: 57.55% voting till 3 pm in two assembly seats||Around 57.55 per cent of total 5.63 lakh voters cast their ballots till 3 pm in by-elections to two assembly seats in Jharkhand on Tuesday amidst tight security and strict adherence to the Covid-19 protocol, election officials said.Dumka seat reported 59.10 per cent turnout, while 56.30 per cent of voters have cast their ballots in Bermo constituency of Bokaro district, they said.Polling began at 7 am and no untoward incident has been reported so far, they said.Electors were seen standing in queues in polling booths by maintaining social distancing. They were given masks, sanitiser and gloves, the officials said.The fates of 12 candidates in Dumka and 16 in Bermo will be sealed in the EVMs by 5 pm.Elaborate security arrangements are in place for the peaceful conduct of elections in both seats that fall in Naxal-hit areas, officials said.A total of 2,50,720 people are eligible to cast their votes in 368 polling booths in Dumka, district Election Officer cum Deputy Commissioner Rajeshwari B said.The electoral contest in Dumka is expected to be between Chief Minister Hemant Soren’s younger brother Basant Soren of the JMM and former cabinet minister Lois Marandi of the BJP.By-election to the constituency was necessitated after the chief minister vacated the seat and retained his other Barhait seat. He had defeated Marandi in Dumka in last year’s assembly elections.The fight in Bermo is also likely to be a direct contest between Jaimangal alias Anup Singh of the Congress, the son of sitting MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh whose death necessitated the by-election, and Yogeshwar Mahato of the BJP.Singh cast his vote at Phusrodhori polling booth, while Mahato’s name is in the electoral list of Bokaro assembly seat.A total of 3,12,507 people are eligible to cast their votes in 468 booths in Bermo, Bokaro district Election Officer cum Deputy Commissioner Rajesh Kumar Singh said.The counting of votes will take place on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-bypolls-57-55-voting-till-3-pm-in-two-assembly-seats/story-igRsY6sEgd9ZdigzzrzuEL.html
03-11-2020||Pune||Fresh Covid cases dip, but high number of critical patients worries Pune administration||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Sunday (November 1) reported 377 new Covid positives and 579 critical patients with 335 on oxygen support and 244 in ICU without ventilator. The high number of critical cases has left the concerned administration to appeal to doctors to focus on these patients to bring down the case fatality rate which continues to be over 2.6% as recorded on Sunday for the city. The number of critical patients as of October 14 was 839 with 453 on ventilator and 386 in ICU without ventilator when 528 fresh cases were reported. In mid- September, when over 2,100 fresh cases were detected, the number of critical patients stood at 936 of which 480 were are on ventilator and 456 in ICU without ventilator. Experts believe that the number of critical cases has not gone down as proportionately as fresh cases which is a concern and needs to be attended to to bring down the deaths due to the infection. Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said, “The critical cases is a cause of concern for us. Close to 600 are critical in Pune city alone which is why the case fatality rate remains high. Now that the caseload on doctors is less, we have asked the task force to focus on critical patients and change treatment protocol if needed for their speedy recovery.” Dr Subhash Salunkhe, epidemiologist and chairman of the state technical committee on communicable diseases, said, “The current treatment protocol is tried and tested and its rightful implementation will surely give better results. It is also true that patients remain in a critical condition longer especially if they have comorbid conditions, which is why the number seems to remain constant for days. However, the decline has not been proportionate to new cases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fresh-covid-cases-dip-but-high-number-of-critical-patients-worries-pune-administration/story-8acfSbVed1nlNLm19C1SkJ.html
03-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Police issue second notice to Kangana Ranaut, her sister in sedition case||Bandra police have issued second notice to actor Kangana Ranaut and her sister Rangoli Chandel in connection with the sedition case registered against both of them. Ranaut and Chandel have been asked to remain present before the investigation officer at the police station on November 9 and November 10 respectively.Bandra police station has charging them with sedition and for allegedly promoting enmity among religious groups. The first information report (FIR) was registered on October 17, pursuant to an order issued by the Bandra metropolitan magistrate court.Abhishek Trimukhe, deputy commissioner of police, Zone 9, said a second notice has been issued to the sisters and they have been asked to join the investigation and cooperate with the police.The sisters have, however, sought time till November 15. After receiving the first notice, their advocate Rizwan Siddiqui had, on October 25, tweeted, “My clients Ms. Kangana Ranaut & Ms. Rangoli Chandel will not be attending the police station on 26th & 27th because of wedding preparations & ongoing functions in their hometown concerning their younger brother. I have responded to the summons and sought time after 15th of Nov.”Acting on a complaint by a casting director, Munawarali aka Sahil Sayyed, metropolitan magistrate Jaydeo Y Khule on October 17 issued an order, directing Bandra police to initiate criminal action against Ranaut and Chandel.Sayyed, in his complaint, said Ranaut’s actions “created a bad image of Bollywood in the minds of people and even created a communal divide and rift between people of two communities.” His complaint added that Ranaut had been “maliciously bringing religion in all her tweets”. The casting director further alleged that Chandel, who also works as the actor’s manager, had also tweeted highly objectionable messages, intended to create a communal rift.While ordering an FIR, magistrate Khule, had noted, “On prima facie perusal of complaint and submissions, I found that a cognizable offence has been committed by the accused...A thorough investigation is necessary by the expert, search and seizure is necessary in this case.” The sisters were booked under sections 124(A) (sedition - to bring or attempt to bring into hatred or contempt, or excite or attempt to excite disaffection towards the government established by law in India, by words, either spoken or written, or by signs, or by visible representation, or otherwise), 153(A) (promoting enmity between different groups on the ground of religion, race, place of birth, language etc. and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) and 295(A) (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class, by insulting it’s religion or religious beliefs) along with section 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-issue-second-notice-to-kangana-ranaut-her-sister-in-sedition-case/story-6wRTCRUpNO8e8sGeAZUA1M.html
03-11-2020||Dehradun||Haridwar temples, shrines to don saffron look for Mahakumbh 2021||Taking a leaf from saffron colouring of temples, ashrams and other buildings during last year’s Prayagraj Kumbh in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand government has decided to paint all such religious structures adjacent to Ganga in Haridwar in saffron colour for next year’s Mahakumbh. Saffron and yellow colours will be used across the Kumbh mela zone in and around Har-Ki-Pauri area in Haridwar. Some ashrams, local priests and traders have already started colouring their religious structures in saffron and yellow. The Kumbh Mela administration, which had been dwelling on the move for quite some time, approached Akhadas, saints, pontiffs of ashrams-maths, traders and local people for more suggestions and cooperation in this regard. Haridwar-Roorkee Development Authority (HRDA) has already completed a survey of 150 buildings and structures from British era Damkoti Ganga canal regulator Bridge till Sarvanand Ghat, adjacent to Badrinath-Mana-Ghaziabad Highway-58. Kumbh Mela officer-in-charge Deepak Rawat has been pressing for one colour-look of the mela zone during the Mahakumbh for which he has been getting a good response from stakeholders. He has also suggested having the same size, font and signage boards of shops at city markets. Also read: How ‘Made-in-India’ Sonet is powering Kia the world overAccording to additional district magistrate Kumbh Mela administration Harbeer Singh, temple managing committees, ashramites, hotel and trader associations and the locals have given their consent in carrying out the saffron and yellow colouring of their buildings. Expressing happiness over the Mela administration’s move to give structures a similar look for the Mahakumbh, Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad said that they have been pressing for this for the past few years. “In our Mahakumbh related meetings with chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, we had raised saffron colouring of buildings at Har-Ki-Pauri and mela zone to give a unique identity to the area. As pilgrims arrive in millions during Mahakumbh, the saffron colouring will add to the aura of the mega fair,” said Mahant Hari Giri Maharaj general secretary of Akhada Parishad. Notably, after Mahakumbh 2010, the then district magistrate Nidhi Pandey in 2013 had decided to get the buildings and structures in and around Har-Ki-Pauri in pink to have a uniform look. “One of the first hotels to be donned pink colour was mine at Subash Ghat in mid-2013. But in the initial phase of the pink colour drive, she got transferred and the pink drive got halted. But now we are ready again to have a uniform colouring of buildings for Mahakumbh,” said Aadesh Marwadi, a hotelier. Meanwhile, Kamal Brijwasi, leader of the local trade body, has urged the state government and mela administration to allow pilgrims for Kumbh mela bath (snan) and set aside the e-pass system. Brijwasi pointed out that for the past eight months the trader fraternity suffered a great deal due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Trade activities in Haridwar are directly related to pilgrim influx and Mahakumbh is held after every twelve years, therefore, he said, free movement of pilgrims should be allowed with Covid-19 precautions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/haridwar-temples-shrines-to-don-saffron-look-for-mahakumbh-2021/story-2inlOwPnqZdKgiDDcF0NhK.html
03-11-2020||Pune||Punevotes.org gives Bapat an ‘A’ for voicing grievances, but ground performance “missing”||Punevotes.org, a branch of MumbaiVotes.com which is a not for profit, independent info-bank, in its incisive analysis of Pune Lok Sabha MP Girish Bapat suggested he had made oral pronouncements and voiced the grievances in the parliament on a number of public issues but the performance on ground has been missing. The NGO stated that Bapat participated in a debate in the parliament to support the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) bill and requested the government to start an IIT in Pune. Besides, Bapat has also raised a question on whether the government has released a five-year vision and action plan to transform higher education by doubling enrolment and employability and whether the government was looking for allowing top foreign universities to set up off campus universities in India. According to the report, Bapat also raised a question on whether the government has any mechanism to monitor and assess the forest or green cover in the city. He also asked critical questions like whether the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has formed a central monitoring committee to prepare and enforce a national plan to make over 350 river stretches across the country pollution free and whether the central monitoring committee has prepared an integrated plan for conservation of environment. The report further adds that the parliamentarian participated in debates to raise the issue of housing and safety measures for construction labourers in Pune and requested the government to implement provisions meant for welfare of such workers. The MP during a zero-hour brought the governments attention to expedite the construction work on Pune-Nashik National Highway No 50. Avinay Sanyogita, researcher, MumbaiVotes, said, “The entire exercise is aimed at strengthening grass roots democracy through accountability of public representatives. We sent the data and the report to the MP but he has not responded so far. Also, whatever oral announcement has been made don’t have reached fruition keeping the performance report as blank. Promises made to the electorate are to be fulfilled so that development of the citizens takes place at large strengthening grassroots democracy,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/punevotes-org-gives-bapat-an-a-for-voicing-grievances-but-ground-performance-missing/story-Sj9OJBqU5Fr6rY7DGAv6ZN.html
03-11-2020||Pune||Bapat lists MPLAD spending, achievements in 18 months as MP||City-based non-governmental organisation (NGO), Punevotes, on Sunday, announced a performance audit of the city’s Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Member of Parliament Girish Bapat. The NGO claims a detailed analysis of the pronouncements made by MP Bapat since getting elected to the Parliament through a questionnaire ranging from his public spending through MP Local Area Development Fund, bills proposed, questions asked and membership in parliamentary committees. PuneVotes is a branch of MumbaiVotes.com which is a not for profit, independent info-bank. The portal is the outreach arm of the informed voter project which is a registered non-profit institution with the charity commissioner’s office in Mumbai HT had sent Bapat sent a detailed a copy of the report. This is his response to some of the questions. What is the latest on infrastructure projects, including the airport and railways in Pune? My attendance in Parliament is 97 per cent, where I have voiced the needs of my people and raised issues of critical importance. We took up the issue with the defence ministry for infrastructure development at Lohegaon airport. Due to this discussion, the airforce authorities made land available for upgradation and this will benefit citizens at large. Also, it will give a major boost to cargo services at the airport in Pune. I was recently appointed president of the Pune Railway Division and immediately thereafter, I took up the upgradation of the Pune-Miraj, Pune–Belgaum and Pune-Nasik railway routes. I also held a meeting with officials of the Union ministry of surface transport, seeking early completion of the Chandni chowk highway widening. What is the status of funds under the MP Local Area Development Fund (MPLAD) scheme? I have spent Rs 1.45 crore for ambulance services; Rs five lakh for setting up libraries for Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) aspirants; Rs 50 lakh has been spent on upgradation of drainage infrastructure in Pune; and Rs 60 lakh has been spent for road infrastructure development in the city. We had received a total of Rs 2.60 crore from the Union government under the MPLAD scheme. Currently, due to the onset of the Covid-19 crisis, funds under MPLAD scheme have been frozen. What are the other city initiatives undertaken which have yielded results ? I resolved the Bhama Ashkhed crisis and the issues related to farmers’ lands, due to which round-the-clock water supply system will come become functional soon. I have taken up issues of the Khadki and Pune Cantonment areas with the respective CEOs. I held 10 meetings with Maha Nagar Gas Limited (MNGL), Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and police authorities, and between 52,000 and 60,000 households will have direct MNGL connections at their residences. What about the Covid-19 crisis in Pune? We have carried strong grassroots work among citizens, where we did our level best to mitigate the crisis through provisions of medicines, setting up of quarantine centres, and enrolling doctors and nurses for Corona care. All the work has been documented in the form of booklet, “Bringing Society on one platform while combating the Corona crisis”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/bapat-lists-mplad-spending-achievements-in-18-months-as-mp/story-iPhDL3eDMTgT8xxX9Ikg6O.html
03-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots case: Accused say they’re denied basic facilities, court calls for jail inspection||A Delhi court on Tuesday expressed displeasure with the city prison authorities after seven out of 15 accused in a conspiracy case related to the February north-east Delhi riots alleged they were being denied basic facilities such as warm clothes and slippers and directed an officer not below the rank of additional director general (prisons) to appear before it on the next date of hearing.Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat directed the director general (prisons) to take stock of the situation and ensure all issues/problems flagged by the accused or their counsel are heard, apprised and disposed of.The judge said in case the grievances are not resolved by the next date, he would be compelled to visit the jail with the special public prosecutor (SPP) and defence counsel. “In these circumstances, the court directs that an officer not below the rank of additional director general (prisons) shall appear on the next date of hearing,” the court said.Also read | Delhi Police to seek funds to distribute hard copy of 17,000-page riots charge sheet to 15 accusedThe judge said the presence of the jail superintendent might not be helpful as he is responsible for only one jail whereas the grievances seems to be running through all jails.“Since the court is constantly receiving complaints from the accused in judicial custody and their counsels, who have been moving successive applications for directions to the jail superintendent, it appears there are some issues regarding administration in the jail complex as the applications have been made for basic important but avoidable issues/grievances”.Gulfisha Fatima, Ishrat Jahan, Asif Iqbal Tanha, Devangana Kalita, Meeran Haider, Shadab Khan, Athar Khan were among those who complained. All of them have been charge-sheeted by the Delhi Police special cell for their role in hatching a conspiracy to orchestrate the riots.Former Congress councillor Ishrat Jahan sought interim bail for two months, saying she was concerned as several inmates at Mandoli jail had developed Covid-19 symptoms. Her counsel alleged she had asked a pair of slippers from her home but they refused. “When her (Jahan’s) parents went to jail yesterday with warm clothes for her, the jail authorities did not permit it,” her lawyer contended.Advocate Mehmood Pracha, counsel for Gulfisha Khatoon, said an application to give winter clothes had to be filed since the jail authorities said they won’t permit it unless there was a court direction.The judge said, “Why do the accused have to approach the court every time for such basic things? This is too much. This is not done. Why is everyone complaining (about the facilities in jail).”“This has to end. DG (prisons) is directed to take stalk of the situation, to order someone, who can take a call, to look into the grievances. If things do not improve, I would go for a physical inspection myself. And the lawyers may accompany me too.”Another accused, Athar Khan, claimed about the lack of health facilities. “Two of the inmates were admitted to hospital and a few have been isolated. There are no health facilities available and so we are not being allowed to step out of our barracks.”Student activist Asif Iqbal Tanha said he was not being given a copy of the bail rejection order. “I have not been allowed to meet my family for the last two-and-a-half months, unlike others. When I complain, the jail authorities say this is not a place for activism,” Tanha alleged.Meeran Haider said he was down with fever due to cold and without any winter clothes, but he has been unable to put forward his grievances to the prison authorities.Fatima said she had written to the higher authorities two months ago, but her letters were not forwarded. Pinjra Tod member Devanagana Kalita also alleged she had not been given a letter from her mother.The court asked the jail authorities to address all the grievances and posted the matter till November 23.Sandeep Goel, director general Delhi prisons, said basic facilities are not denied to anybody. “As such, these allegations seem far from truth or at least exaggerated. If at all there is some such minor issue it will definitely be resolved,” Goel said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-riots-case-accused-say-they-re-denied-basic-facilities-court-calls-for-jail-inspection/story-S2efcBtNvx3VFhPngk1n8I.html
03-11-2020||Delhi||Woman gang-raped by security guard, two former bouncers in Delhi hospital parking; all three held||A security guard and two former bouncers allegedly gang-raped a 30-year-old woman in the parking area of Dr Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital in outer Delhi’s Rohini on Friday last, the Delhi police said. The woman had been staying at the hospital’s waiting hall for attendants.“A case was registered under [Indian Penal Code] Sections 376 D [gang rape], 506 [criminal intimidation] and 34 [common intention]... on the woman’s complaint. We have arrested all the three suspects,” said deputy police commissioner Pramod Kumar Mishra.Dr PS Khatana, the hospital’s medical director, said the case is under investigation. “We can comment only after a preliminary report on the incidence comes to us.”Also read | Kathua rape case: HC denies parole to key conspirator Sanji RamThe accused have been identified as Kanwar Pal, 33, the security guard, Praveen Tiwari, 26, and Manish, 22. Mishra said Tiwari and Manish earlier worked as contractual bouncers at the hospital.Mishra said the woman was raped after the three accused asked her to leave the hospital premises as she was not authorised to stay in the waiting hall.“They asked the woman to sleep and spend the night in the parking area... The three men followed the woman and forced themselves on her in the parking space. They also threatened to harm her if she raised alarm,” said Mishra. He added a counsellor counselled her and convinced her to lodge her complaint. “The survivor gave us a complaint and took two names which the suspects were taking while talking to each other. A case was registered and an investigation was taken up.”Mishra said the three were identified on the basis of CCTV footage and arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/woman-gang-raped-by-security-guard-two-former-bouncers-in-delhi-hospital-parking-all-three-held/story-GGFdO0KhO3uouR124OHcBL.html
03-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Six arrested for making transactions using foreigners’ card details||The Mulund police have busted a gang based in Delhi that acquired electronic data capture (EDC) machines from shop owners on commission basis and used them to defraud foreigners by using their credit /debit card details.They also arrested six members of the gang, including a woman, from Delhi and Mumbai and recovered 9 EDC machines from them. On checking three of the EDC machines, the police found that the accused had used them to make 234 transactions using 38 cards belonging to foreign nationals.The arrested accused have been identified as Salim Khan, 26, Suraj Singh, 25, Rupesh Gandhare, 41, Sonika Washani, 30, Sachinkumar Balkishan Singh, 34, Suresh KC alias Khatrichhatri, 37.Also read | Address change request trips EPFO officer who forged ST certificate for job 35 years agoPolice said Khan, who runs a chicken shop in Thane (West), had given his EDC machine to Mulund-resident Suraj Singh. Gandhare is a resident of Rabale area in Navi Mumbai and works as a senior officer in a private firm.Police said Gandhare knew Sonika and gave the EDC machine to her. Sonika passed it on to her friend Balkishan Singh. KC, who hails from Nepal, provided details of foreigners’ debit and credit cards to Balkishan who used them to make the transactions.The gang’s activities came to light after the Mulund branch of State Bank of India noticed a suspicious transaction of Rs 29,680 made in Delhi through a foreigner’s debit card using EDC machine issued to Khan. The bank stopped the payment and reported the matter to Mulund police station. During interrogation, Khan confessed of having given his EDC machine to Suraj Singh.The police then nabbed the remaining five members of the gang. Sonika, Balkishan and KC were arrested from Delhi and other two from Mumbai, said Sanjay Darade, additional commissioner of police (east region). A police team has now been sent to trace the culprit who provided the card details to KC, Darade added. A police officer said Khan deducted 15℅ commission on the transactions through his machine and transferred the balance amount to Suraj Singh. Each accused deducted their respective percentages and then transferred the balance in Sonika’s bank account in Delhi, the officer said.Police have recovered seven mobile phones, laptop, 21 cards, nine EDC machines and a card reader from the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-six-arrested-for-making-transactions-using-foreigners-card-details/story-E1lfZyJYPBXJoaJ3wFRfsL.html
03-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi airport starts Covid-19 checks for all passengers before departure||Domestic and international passengers taking their flights from the Delhi airport can now get themselves tested for Covid-19 right before their departure, its operator DIAL said on Tuesday. The Covid-19 testing facility at the Delhi airport started on September 12 and it was available for international arrivals only till date.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19 The Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL), in association with Genestrings Diagnostic Centre Pvt Ltd, on October 28 had set up a Covid-19 sample collection booth in front of gate no. 8 of Terminal 3 for passengers who were taking international or domestic flights, according to a statement. “Such passengers can come to the airport around six hours before and get the Covid test done at the airport by paying Rs 2,400 and get the result in 4 to 6 hours,” it said. Sample collection booths can collect approximately 120-130 samples per hour, the statement noted. “We have launched the RT-PCR testing facility for outbound domestic/international travellers at Delhi airport. The unique facility will help those passengers who have to travel and need a Covid negative certificate with them due to some reasons,” Videh Kumar Jaipuriar, the CEO of DIAL, said. The GMR group-led DIAL started the on-arrival Covid-19 testing facility for international passengers on September 12 at the multi-level car parking area of Terminal 3 in collaboration with Genestrings Diagnostic Centre, which is a group company of Yashoda Hospitals. Scheduled international flights have been suspended in India since March 23 due to the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. However, special international passenger flights have been operating in India under the Vande Bharat Mission since May and under bilateral air bubble arrangements formed between India and other countries since July. India started scheduled domestic passenger flights on May 25 after a gap of two months due to the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-airport-starts-covid-19-checks-for-all-passengers-before-departure/story-hGWyROL8tiVz80iuMGeEZK.html
03-11-2020||Pune||FTII student film wins top Cinéfondation prize at Cannes 2020||CatDog, a film made by students of the Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) won the first prize at the Cinéfondation selection, student’s section, at the Cannes Film Festival 2020. This film won against 1,952 entries from 444 film schools across the world, and was the only Indian film at Cannes. The award was adjudged on October 28, 2020. The film, directed by the 2013 batch of FTII students, was directed by Ashmita Guha Neogi; Prateek Pamecha was director of photography; Vinita Negi, the editor; Kushal Nerurkar was sound designer; and Neeraj Singh was production designer. The 22 minute film was shot in 2018 and is a portrayal of relationships of a family. This first prize includes a grant of 15,000 euros. “It is a matter of great pride for us students, when our classmates win such a prestigious award,” said V Aadith, president, FTII students’ association. He added, “Any film getting shortlisted for the Cinéfondation section deserves praise anyway, but CatDog winning the award during such troubling times such as these, is especially welcome news.” The film was due to be screened at Cannes in May, but the current pandemic ruled out the normal functioning of the festival. A limited outdoor event was organised last week to honour the winners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ftii-student-film-wins-top-cinefondation-prize-at-cannes-2020/story-QA2x0Rq8kEpwjXsQ9U7GyN.html
03-11-2020||Pune||Son kills father in Vetalnagar with steel pot||A man was booked for allegedly killing his father in Vetalnagar, Chinchwad late on Sunday night.The deceased man was identified as Tanaji Sadba Solankar, (55) and the son was identified as Sanjay Tanaji Solankar, (30) both residents of Morya housing society in Vetalnagar.The son is on the run from the police and is suspected to have killed his father. The man was allegedly bludgeoned to death with a steel pot meant for storing water, according to the police. The man on the run is allegedly a habitual drinker.A case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Chinchwad police station against the son.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/son-kills-father-in-vetalnagar-with-steel-pot/story-IEMu0yZI5utruuSrVhHaEM.html
03-11-2020||Pune||Man dies after falling 200 feet down Maval hill||A man fell to his death from a cave in Maval taluka of Pune, a tourist attraction, on Sunday.The deceased was identified as Prachiket Bhagwan Kale (32), a resident of Pimpri-Chinchwad. He suffered a fall that was around 200 feet deep.Kale was descending the hill on top of which the caves are located on Sunday morning when he slipped and fell, according to rescue groups.Two members of a trekking group - Aniket Bokil and Deepak Pawar - who were in the vicinity were called upon by the police.The incident was recorded at Karjat police station of Raigad police on Sunday in an accidental death report. Hawaldar Yuvraj Salunkhe of Karjat police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/man-dies-after-falling-200-feet-down-maval-hill/story-S3LagYpm4yJeeOfNfSe4KK.html
03-11-2020||City||Police arrest fourth man in kidnapping, minor’s sexual assault case; one at large||PUNE The city police on Monday arrested the fourth accused remanded him to custody in the case of kidnapping and sexual assault of a 15-year-old girl.The minor girl had left home in a fit of rage on the night of October 26 after a fight with her mother over a petty issue. The girl was sexually assaulted by four men who are not known to each other.The girl was reported missing by her parents on October 27, a day after she left their house.A case under Sections 376(d), 363 and others of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 8, 12 and others of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act has been registered at Hadapsar police station.The men are in police custody till November 5. The police are on a lookout for one more person in the case.The girl has identified four locations in Pune district including three in the city and one in Saswad where she was found after three days in captivity.“We are still investigating the series of events and verifying minor details. It is a very sad incident and the girl is confused. She is yet to comprehend the full force of what has transpired,” said Namrata Patil, deputy commissioner of police, zone 5, Pune police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-arrest-fourth-man-in-kidnapping-minor-s-sexual-assault-case-one-at-large/story-66sg33KwqudfnF08ThL9LK.html
03-11-2020||Pune||Atal buses transport 1 lakh commuters in nine days||The newly started Aligning Transit on All Lanes (Atal) bus service by the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) has now begun receiving a warm response by commuters from Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad with over 1 lakh commuters in nine days. The Atal bus runs a distance of 5 kilometres with a 5-minute frequency and a ₹5 ticket on 62 new routes in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad, the service was ushered in on October 25. “We are getting a good response to the new ATAL bus service, as we crossed the 50,000 commuters mark in the first five days. Now the number has crossed more than 1 lakh and daily the number of passengers is increasing. It is a shuttle bus service for a short distance and we are hoping that maximum citizens return to public transport,” said PMPML chairman and managing director Rajendra Jagtap. According to Jagtap, in the last three days which were public holidays, the buses received a decent number of commuters on all routes. “So, with about 160 to 170 buses on all these 62 new routes, passengers are accepting new facilities of transit from one station to another in the core city and the feeder at terminal depot stations. Some of these routes have high passengers while on some there is a slow response. Things will get clear over a period of time. In the future we are going to take this feeder bus service project for the metro services too, as people once got down from the Metro can travel by PMPML feeder service buses to their nearby destinations. For the next three months, we will take a review of this project, take feedback of passengers and accordingly changes and up gradation will be done on it,” Jagtap said. Shantanu Helanwar, a regular commuter from Jambhulwadi to Katraj depot said, “I am travelling in this newly started shuttle bus service for my work since the past one week, and it seems to be efficient. In such a low fare we reach our nearby destination, or else we had to pay around Rs 20 to share an auto rickshaw. We hope that this service continues and remains constant for commuters like us who travel to nearby distances.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/atal-buses-transport-1-lakh-commuters-in-nine-days/story-sOUoALBfkGlKsUI0Jf43tL.html
03-11-2020||Chandigarh||After President declines meeting request, Punjab CM announces relay dharna in Delhi||With the President of India not giving time for a meeting, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday announced that he will lead a relay dharna of MLAs at Delhi’s Rajghat on Wednesday “to highlight the state’s power crisis and critical essential supplies situation amid the Centre’s adamant refusal to allow movement of goods trains”. The chief minister said he had decided to hold a symbolic relay dharna at Rajghat to bring the state’s grim situation to the Centre’s notice. Since Section 144 of the CrPC is in place in Delhi, MLAs will go from Punjab Bhawan to the samadhi of the Father of the Nation in batches of four only, he said, adding that he will lead the first batch at 10.30am. Captain Amarinder reiterated his appeal to MLAs of other Punjab parties to join the dharna in the interest of the state. SAYS STATE HAS RUN OUT OF COAL, FERTILISER SUPPLIES “GVK has announced it will close down operations at 3pm on Tuesday since coal stocks have completely run out. The public and private power plants in the state have already shut down,” he said in a release. The chief minister claimed that the situation on the ground was grim as the state had run out of coal, urea/DAP and other essential supplies due to the decision of the railways not to ply goods trains even after the farmers eased their blockade to allow such movement. GETS COLD SHOULDER FROM CENTRE Soon after the Vidhan Sabha session, in which all parties had resolved to seek time from the President for November 4 to seek his intervention on the farm bills issue, the chief minister’s office (CMO) had, on October 21, sent a letter to Rashtrapati Bhavan seeking a meeting. A reminder was sent on October 29, in response to which the CMO received a DO letter on Monday rejecting the request for a meeting on grounds of the State Amendment Bills still pending with the governor for consideration. Subsequently, the CMO sent another letter on Monday itself, stating that the chief minister and other MLAs needed time to bring to the President’s notice the situation on the ground and to seek his intervention for resolution of the issues that have cropped up. However, the President’s Office responded saying “the request cannot be accepted at this juncture for reasons cited earlier”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/after-president-declines-meeting-request-punjab-cm-announces-relay-dharna-in-delhi/story-m93rblgbolB6QhTM8d2NSP.html
03-11-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand paddy scheme put on hold, farmers may not get MSP promised in budget||The Jharkhand government may not purchase paddy at the minimum support price (MSP) of Rs2,500 per quintal from the farmers this fiscal as it promised in its budget this year, two people aware of the matter said. The Dhaan Utpadan Evam Bazar Sulabhata scheme for the purpose has been put on hold for a review. The scheme was one of the major poll promises of the ruling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha, Congress and Rashtriya Janata Dal ahead of the 2019 election apart from the farm loan waiver.State agriculture minister Badal Patralekh said they are reviewing the scheme as they found the maximum benefit of it could go to middlemen if it was implemented without proper homework.Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren allocated Rs200 crore for the scheme in the budget.Also read | Jharkhand rejects Centre’s loan offer in lieu of GST compensationPatralekh said he visited villages across the state along with finance minister Rameshwar Oraon and spoke to farmers to understand the status of paddy procurement. “...we found middlemen purchased the paddy from farmers at Rs1,300 per quintal and sold it at government procurement centres at Rs2,000 per quintal [Central MSP plus state bonus]. This way, the traders took away the benefit of MSP and bonus, while actual beneficiaries remained deprived.”He said merely 57,000 people sold paddy at government procurement centres during previous fiscal and most of them were traders. “If the scheme is launched without proper study, the money will not go to actual beneficiaries and traders will grab the maximum benefit,” he said. “A committee has been set up, which would review and suggest ways how to implement it so that the benefit could go to actual beneficiaries.”Patralekh said farmers should not worry as the government is committed to implementing the scheme. “But we have to strengthen the delivery mechanism first.”The paddy procurement in Jharkhand generally begins from December 1 but the government is planning to begin it in November in view of a bumper harvest. Jharkhand reported a record paddy sowing of 97.12% of the total target this year after facing two consecutive drought years.Food and public distribution department director Binit Tirkey said they are planning to begin the procurement from this month. “A proposal in this regard will soon be sent to Cabinet for approval.” He refrained from divulging the bonus amount from the state to be added to the Centre’s MSP.The Centre has increased MSP for paddy to Rs1,868 per quintal from Rs1,815 last year. Paddy was procured at Rs2,000 per quintal in Jharkhand. This included Rs185 bonus provided by the state government last fiscal.But the MSP failed to attract the farmers as most of them sold their produce to private parties at lower prices for cash. Kapildeo Kumar, a paddy farmer from Palamu district, said the government purchases paddy only from the registered farmers but its payment system is very poor. “The money is not given in form of cash. It is credited to bank accounts, which takes at least 15-20 days.” He said if the government wants to make paddy procurement popular, it has to ensure same day payment system.Tirkey claimed all pending dues have been cleared.Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said no promise made to farmers has been fulfilled. “The government promised Rs2,500 MSP for paddy and waiver of loans. The government has taken U-turn on these promises. It has added to woes and withdrawn the BJP government’s Mukhya Mantri Krishi Ashirwad Yojana, which ensured financial assistance of Rs5,000 per acre up to five acres,” said BJP spokesman Prataul Shahdeo.Officials said funds shortage due to Covid-19 period is also one of the main reasons for the delay in implementing the scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-paddy-scheme-put-on-hold-farmers-may-not-get-msp-promised-in-budget/story-ETWIHdw5cqCr1JT4cpvH5N.html
03-11-2020||Gurugram||Karwa Chauth: How Delhi-NCR women will fast in Covid-19 times||The celebrations might be smaller, but won’t loose their sheen say Delhi-NCR women who are set to fast this Karwa Chauth amid the pandemic. It won’t be like any previous year, but the women in the city are all geared up to make it #memorable nonetheless. Think smaller groups, sitting in separate balconies, matching masks and gloves with fancy attires, using sanitiser after every ritual, and the likes. Prayer and games while sitting in separate balconies For Delhi-based lecturer Anshu Popli, “health and safety” are priority. “We have decided to carry out the puja and thali ritual in small groups of no more than four ladies, and mostly from the same building. We’ll be wearing masks and will thoroughly sanitize our hands before and after the ritual. To keep the sense of community intact, we have decided to sit in balconies during the puja, so that we can see each other, talk, pray and play games until we spot the moon in the evening.”No outside food, only homemade prasadRisshma Aggarwal, a Gurugram-based academics officer, says, “Every year I celebrate this day with my close friends and the lovely ladies in my residential society. We indulge in lots of preparations beforehand. But, this year it’s going to be different because of the pandemic. I’ve decided that my joy, happiness and respect for this day will be more like any other year, but the number of people with whom I will celebrate will be less. I’ve decided that this year I’ll celebrate it with only few close friends whom I know are healthy and safe in the pandemic, so far.” She adds, “Keeping all safety measures in mind like sanitisation of place in the residential apartments, gloves and mask, continuous use of sanitiser, homemade prasad and social distancing during puja, we will celebrate this day with great enjoyment and devotion. We will also pray to Goddess Parvati to consecrate us with a healthy life and Mother Earth.”Matching masks with attiresA teacher by profession, Nitima Arora, who used to go to Suncity Park for the puja, in presence of as least 20 women who used to sit in a circle, is planning it differently this year. She says, “I would prefer a group of four to five women only. I’ll hear the story narrating significance of Karwa Chauth in an audio inside the house, and when moving out for exchange of thalis, will of course wear mask and gloves. If matching ask is the need of the hour, then so be it. Life has to be beautiful, individuals will become appealing any way!”Pooja with fewer people: Sanitised placeBhawna Shakadwipee, a home baker, says, “This time due to Covid-19, I am planning to do the puja at my friend’s place only with my very close friends whom I know have been very cautious and careful in taking Covid-19 precautions throughout these last eight months. We will ensure safety by sanitising the place where everyone sits for the puja, and will use masks, gloves etc. Prasad and all offerings will be strictly home made this time. We will celebrate this pooja with fewer friends but loads of joy, and also a prayer that things get better soon.”A safety bubble! Monalika Sabharwal, an entrepreneur, says: “Few of my friends and me have decided to create a “safety bubble “ for the coming festivities and Karwa Chauth puja specially. Puja will be done with my closed group of friends experiencing safety bubble in a well sanitised place using masks, gloves but with same energy, joy and vigour.”“We have also decided to savour on home made snacks and sweets for the Pooja . We will pray together for the safety and well-being of our loved ones,” she adds. Looking #festive ready this #KC this 2020The salons were abuzz with crowds this time around, with many offering a huge discounts. “We have launched exclusive Karwa CHauth head to toe packages. We have also introduced value cards, where customer gets services for more than the value they pay. For the main day, we have party makeup and hair styling package priced at ₹2,999, which has already been booked by many women across all our branches,” says Divya Parchani, marketing manager-India, Geetanjali Salons. Another popular salon chain is offering 25% discount on beauty services and highlights/keratin/smoothening at ₹5999, and global at ₹4999.While some were kicked up getting ready at salons, others chose to stay in due to corona scare. City-based wedding planner Sidhi Mitra was excited about visiting the salons. She says, “I’m visiting Looks Salon for a complete transformation today. Pretty excited for this Karwa Chauth. I am having a Covid-19 era wedding on November 25, so video call is a part of all my rituals. Also I would be doing a ritual over with my mother-in-law as she is in Canada.”While some like homemaker, Sonakshi Chopra will be doing the makeup and hair myself. “Will be doing over video call this time around for rituals. Having kids around so can’t take a chance this year,” she says. Shopping galore this KarwachauthOrganic products, quirky prints, make-up essentials, the hampers this Karwachauth got a fun twist keeping the traditional essence intact. “We have the immunity-booster thali that has munakka , Vitamin-C rich fruits,kadha,daily booster capsules, dryfruits, customised according to need. We have the Suhag platter for daughter-in-law that includes bangles, mehendi, nail paint and the likes for Rs 1000. The sargj thali is priced at 800, and chunni for karwachauth 1000,” says Kajal Bhatla, from Packing Studio. Gurugram-based Meenakshi Trehan who is selling organic hampers for the fest, tells us: “During Covid, times have been tough. But all are products are known to boost immunity. These are organic and each has its own quality in boosting immunity.It’s the perfect gift for MIL and daughter-in-laws. We have delivered to a few customers who chose it for their MIL.The hamper consists of 250gm organic honey, 250gm desi cow ghee, 100ml cold pressed yellow mustard oil, 100ml wood pressed extra virgin coconut oil, 100gm almonds, 100gms raisins, mishri, elaichi, diya.”The market is slow but home made edible lovers are buying home made things only for their family and same things they are “gifting to their relatives also,” says Aakriti Bilala, from The Chocolatiezs By Aakriti, adding, “Our hamper includes cashews, almonds, mitha chivda, mehendi and chocolates.”Demand up for hampers“We are getting more than 500 orders per day for Karwa Chauth gifting category, and have overall received 5,000 orders,” says Vikaas Gutgutia, founder and MD, Ferns N Petals, adding, “We have a variety of exquisite Karwa Chauth gift hampers and combos like personalised thali and kalash combo, make-up essential hampers that have an assortment of branded cosmetic items like vermillion, bindi, nail enamel, and more. The range of Karwa Chauth special gift hampers and thalis starts from ₹499 to ₹4099.”For quirky gift lovers, Anshika Gupta, from Nine2mine is offering a set of PJs for their hubbies. She says, “Our Karwa Chauth hamper includes four set of pyjamas and is priced at ₹2,500. Our sales have been decent. Not as much it would be had things been normal. But since these boxes have quirky PJs, a lot of wives are showing interest in buying them for their husbands. It’s a utility as they can wear it even as they work from home or otherwise.”For the Fragnance lovers, Drishika Dabra from The Sabun Stories, says, “For Karwa Chauth, we have hampers comprising soap, ubtan, bath soak and body butter. This is non gender biased hamper; and we also have charcoal body scrub.”Author tweets @nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/karwa-chauth-that-s-how-delhi-ncr-women-are-set-to-fast-in-covid-19-times/story-uX5bqc6wkEKJAobgdckbjP.html
03-11-2020||Delhi||Posters won’t be pasted outside homes of Covid-19 patients: Delhi govt tells high court||The Aam Aadmi party (AAP)-led government on Tuesday informed the Delhi high court (HC) that it instructed all its officials not to paste posters outside homes of COVID-19 positive persons or those in home isolation and those pasted have been ordered to be removed. The government said that it would be putting out a circular soon on its website against pasting of posters outside houses of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients and for the existing ones to be removed immediately. The Delhi government was responding to a plea which had contended that posters outside houses of Covid-19 patients was a serious infringement of the right to privacy, an intrinsic part of the right to life and personal liberty as enshrined under Article 21 of the Constitution. A two-member HC division bench, comprising Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad, directed the Delhi government to issue a circular, where the authorities are ordered not to circulate the names of Covid-19 patients, especially with members of Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) or other social media groups. Also read | West UP districts, NCR on alert after Covid-19 surge in Delhi“It is, however, directed that the respondent No.1/GNCTD shall issue a circular to all the Home Isolation Nodal Officers directing them not to share the personal details of the COVID-19 patients with their neighbours, or the Managing Committees of the RWAs of various localities,” the bench said.The direction came after the petitioner’s lawyer advocate Chinmoy Pradip Sharma drew the HC’s attention to the fact that the Delhi government did not pass any order or direction with regards to the circulation of name on the whatsapp groups of the various RWAs. The petitioner, Kush Kalra, a lawyer, had objected to the names of Covid-19 patients being freely circulated with members of RWAs and other social media groups, which he claimed “is leading to stigmatisation and drawing of unnecessary attention”. He urged that Covid-19 patients “ought to be given privacy to cope with and recover from the illness in peace and away from prying eyes”. On Tuesday, advocate Satyakam, additional standing counsel of the Delhi government, informed the court that an email has been sent on October 7 to the Isolation State surveillance Unit, Delhi to all Home Isolation Nodal Officers directing that no posters shall be posted outside the residence of any home isolation patient and all the posters which are already posted outside the residence of home isolation patients must be removed immediately. He said that the Delhi government officials were not given any directions to share the names of Covid-19 patients with RWA members or any other person. The court disposed the plea, which had also sought other reliefs such as more aggressive testing mechanism in the national capital, use of indigenously developed kits, reformulating Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) advisory on conducting tests and validation of rapid antigen detection (RAD) test kits. The court said it is examining all these aspects in a separate plea. Kalra had cited that the Delhi government’s posters had led to a dip in Covid-19 tests in the national capital because of “public embarrassment and stigmatisation”. It had added: “It is because of these sound reasons that Punjab has rescinded its earlier decision of pasting posters outside Covid-19 patients’ house in a bid to mitigate the stigma attached to the pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/posters-not-to-be-pasted-outside-homes-of-covid-19-patients-delhi-govt-tells-high-court/story-6sx6Xo369jF0rN1nahP8jJ.html
03-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi: CISF head constable dies of burn injuries||A 43-year-old Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) head constable died at the Safdarjung Hospital on Tuesday hours after he suffered burn injuries because of a heater he was using on duty at Indira Gandhi Smriti, Delhi, on Monday night. Alok Kumar Minj belonged to Raigarh in Chhattisgarh.Police said Minj caught fire while heating his dinner. Deputy police commissioner Eish Singhal said doctors had told them that Minj suffered 60% burns and was unfit for a statement. “On Tuesday morning, Minj succumbed to his burns.” An inquiry in underway, Singhal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-cisf-head-constable-dies-of-burn-injuries/story-c511jk5OVB2LzRnN3MEaOM.html
03-11-2020||Delhi||Uber adds e-rickshaws to platform, deploys 100 such vehicles in Delhi||Uber on Tuesday said Delhi has become the first Indian city where the ride hailing major has deployed 100 e-rickshaws on its platform.The vehicles have been deployed across 26 Delhi Metro stations, offering riders sustainable mobility solutions for better first and last mile connectivity as well as short distance commutes, a statement said.Riders will be able to book the micromobility product on the Uber app from Tuesday and the service will be available at stations on Delhi Metro’s blue line, including Ashok Park Main, Dabri Mor, ESI Basaidarapur, Janakpuri East and Uttam Nagar East, among others.“As millions of Indians begin moving again, Uber aims to make urban commutes more affordable, efficient and eco-friendly, helping cities ‘Build back better’. With multimodal service offerings like micromobility and public transit options, all in the Uber app, Delhi residents will now be able to complete their journey seamlessly,” the statement said.Uber said the launch is in line with the company’s recently announced global commitment to make all rides on its platform 100 per cent emission-free by 2040 through zero-emission vehicles and the integration of public transport and micromobility. According to the 2019 IQAir rankings, Delhi ranks fifth in the list of the most polluted cities in the world.“We are delighted to launch e-rickshaws on Uber’s platform as an efficient and eco-friendly mobility solution, which will help riders complete their urban commute seamlessly. By integrating public transit and greener last mile solutions, we are committed to supporting Delhi’s sustainability and electric goals,” Uber General Manager, North and West India Shiva Shailendran said.In 2019, Uber had partnered with Yulu to launch a pilot offering riders smart and affordable micromobility options in Bengaluru, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/uber-adds-e-rickshaws-to-platform-deploys-100-such-vehicles-in-delhi/story-OgE3EDardPVUGv0TueZPQI.html
03-11-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death: Obligated to register case against late actor’s sisters, Mumbai police tell HC||The Mumbai police have told the Bombay high court that they were “statutorily obligated” to register a case on the basis of actress Rhea Chakraborty’s complaint on September 7 blaming actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s sisters Priyanka and Meetu Singh and Delhi-based cardiologist Dr Tarun Kumar for his death. The complaint cited commission of a cognisable offence, they added.Nikhil Kapse, a senior inspector, has filed an affidavit in the court saying an Out Patient Department (OPD) prescription of Kumar and certain WhatsApp chats exchanged between Rajput and Priyanka Singh, were cited in the complaint. The affidavit said the complainant also produced an OPD registration bearing the actor’s name, room and queue number. It added Chakraborty alleged that Priyanka Singh had sent Rajput prescriptions of medicines containing psychotropic substances in violation of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985, without any actual examination of the patient. The consumption of the psychotropic substances “may have caused and contributed to the suicidal death of the actor”, she alleged.Also read | Why is CBI silent on status of probe in Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, asks Maharashtra Congress“This version of the informant [Chakraborty] disclosed commission of cognisable offences, warranting investigation,” Kapse said in the affidavit justifying registration of a First Investigation Report (FIR).The affidavit was filed in reply to Priyanka and Meetu Singh’s plea seeking quashing of the FIR.In the plea filed through advocate Madhav Thorat, they claimed the medicines were not banned and Medical Council of India’s April 11 guidelines about telemedicine allowed “the medicines to be prescribed to a patient even at the first consultation”.“A bare perusal of the complaint along with the FIR shows that the statements made therein do not make out any cognisable offence,” the plea said. It called Chakraborty’s complaint nothing but a feeble attempt on her part to scuttle the investigations against her and blame Rajput’s family for his suicide as she was on the verge of being arrested.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which is probing Rajput’s death, has backed the actor’s family and called Chakraborty’s allegations “mostly presumptive and speculative in nature”. It has said the FIR was “bad in law”.The CBI has said the Mumbai police ought not to have registered a second FIR over Rajput’s death. “It is settled law that two FIRs cannot be registered on the same cause of action,” the CBI said in an affidavit. “It is a fact that the CBI is already investigating the causes relating to the death of Sushant Singh Rajput...”Kapse has maintained their FIR was neither against the same accused persons nor was it based on the same version.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-obligated-to-register-case-against-late-actor-s-sisters-mumbai-police-tell-high-court/story-2OrCzjq1RqA9l1AwVND5II.html
03-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Centre objects to land transfer for Kanjurmarg Metro car shed sans its approval||The Centre has objected to the land transfer at Mumbai’s Kanjurmarg for the Metro-3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz) car shed without its approval. In a letter dated October 15 to Maharashtra chief secretary, the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) said the 102-acre land has been handed over also without following due procedure. The land was handed over to Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) after the state’s government decision to shift the shed from Aarey to Kanjurmarg.The letter said MMRDA had sought transfer of land for Metro-6 (Swami Samarth Nagar-Vikhroli), but the matter was in process and DPIIT had also asked for a joint survey.“However, the transfer of land took place on Collector’s order before the joint survey materialised and the officials from MMRDA and DMRCL [Delhi Metro Rail Corporation Limited] started soil testing on the land,” the letter said. The DMRCL is executing Metro-6 on behalf of MMRDA.The letter said the collector and MMRDA’s “improper and unilateral action” has caused severe loss to DPIIT. “I would request you to take necessary steps and restrain MMRDA from taking any further steps and to direct the collector to withdraw the orders passed in this regard in order to protect the interests of the Government of India.”A Maharashtra government official said unless the Centre issues a statutory order, they might not have to stop the work. “However, with this letter, it is clear that there is a title dispute that needs to be resolved.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-centre-objects-to-land-transfer-for-kanjurmarg-metro-car-shed-sans-its-approval/story-OIYRtZsZUMdkRZ6cCw7H4J.html
03-11-2020||City||Assam government deports 42 Bangladeshi nationals back||The Assam government authorities on Monday deported 42 Bangladeshi nationals, including nine women, who had entered the porous and most-populous north-eastern state and were living illegally, Police officials at Karimganj district in Barak Valley said the 42 people were handed over to the Bangladeshi authorities at the Sutarkandi international border between India and the neighbouring country. “The Bangladeshi nationals were deported at 2.30pm following coronavirus disease (Covid-19) protocol and other formalities,” said Mayank Kumar, superintendent of police (SP), Karimganj. These Bangladeshi nationals were detected and arrested from various parts of Assam such as Guwahati, Cachar, South Salmara, Karimganj, Sivasagar, Sonitpur, Karbi Anglong and Dima Hasao.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/assam-government-deports-42-bangladeshi-nationals-back/story-OjwntXIuqE6f2RkRL17HnI.html
03-11-2020||Election:||Bihar Assembly Election 2020: Top leaders cast votes, urge people to come out in large numbers||Several leaders, including chief minister Nitish Kumar, the Leader of Opposition Tejashwi Yadav, former chief minister Rabri Devi and LJP’s Chirag Paswan, came out to vote as the second phase of Bihar assembly elections started on Tuesday in 94 seats spread over 17 districts. Bihar Governor Phagu Chauhan and deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi also cast their votes at different booths in the state capital of Patna.The second of the three phases of Bihar assembly polls is being held on Tuesday in which over 28.5 million voters are eligible to decide the fate of nearly 1,500 candidates. There are 1,464 candidates in fray including 46 from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), 43 from Janata Dal(United), 56 from Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), and 24 from Congress. Five candidates from the Vikasheel Insaan Party (VIP), which is part of the NDA, are also in the fray. From the Mahagathbandhan, three Left parties are contesting on 14 seats (CPI-ML six, CPI and CPI-M on four each). Voting in the last phase will take place on November 7 and the counting will be conducted on November 10.Here is what the leaders said after casting their votes in the Bihar assembly elections:Nitish Kumar“People should vote. My best wishes to them,” chief minister Nitish Kumar said after casting his vote at a booth in Raj Bhawan.Phagu ChauhanBihar Governor Phagu Chauhan cast his vote at the polling booth at government school in Digha. “I appeal to the people to participate in elections in large numbers. I hope that the voting percentage will be more than the previous time.”Sushil Kumar ModiDeputy chief minister Modi also exercised his voting right and cast his vote at polling booth no.49 at St Joseph High School in Rajendra Nagar. “I appeal to the people to step out of their homes, cast their vote, maintain social distancing and keep wearing masks,” he said.Click here for full Bihar assembly elections 2020 coverageTejashwi Prasad YadavThe Rashtriya Janata Dal’s chief ministerial candidate Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who visited booth number 160 at Veterinary college ground along with mother and former chief minister Rabri Devi, said that the people of the state are keen on bringing change and the mandate would reflect it.“People want change and there is a wave for it,” he said, reiterating that there was a favourable response to his party’s vision.Rabri DeviFormer chief minister Rabri Devi, who accompanied her son Tejashwi, also said there was ‘wave for change’. “Badlaav ki Ganga bah rahi hai (there is a current of change),” she said.Chirag PaswanLok Janshakti Party (LJP) chief Chirag Paswan, who cast his vote at a polling booth in Khagaria, urged voters not to let their votes go to waste and said that the people of the state have given their blessings for “Nitish-free Bihar”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-assembly-election-2020-top-leaders-cast-votes-urge-people-to-come-out-in-large-numbers/story-Z0lV9c28buXm7hR1toM4sN.html
03-11-2020||Bhopal||After UP, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh mulls law against interfaith marriages||Madhya Pradesh (MP) chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Monday that a law would be enacted to curb interfaith marriages, if required. The CM made the remark on the eve of MP assembly bypolls in reply to questions from media persons on Monday evening. Chouhan said, “There will be no jihad in the name of love. If anyone indulges in such a practice, he will be taught a lesson and for this a law will be enacted.” The BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh (UP) and Haryana are also considering to introduce a law against interfaith marriages.In reply to another question on a protest organised in Bhopal last Thursday against French President Emmanuel Macron on the latter’s stand on a raging cartoon row the CM said, “No demonstration will be allowed in MP without permission. A demonstration was held without permission following which action was taken. Nobody will be allowed to disturb peace in the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/after-up-haryana-madhya-pradesh-also-mulls-law-against-love-jihad/story-KSMaSZTbgCDglZGX5YqDRO.html
03-11-2020||Delhi||Dehi’s interstate bus terminals reopened, 1542 buses come on Day 1||As interstate bus services resumed in Delhi after more than seven months, the scene at the city’s two major bus terminals (ISBTs), at Kashmere Gate and Anand Vihar, were in stark contrast. While Kashmere Gate had mostly all Covid-19 safety mechanisms in place, the latter was in disarray.On Day 1, 542 interstate buses carrying over 20,000 passengers arrived in the Capital through the three ISBTs (the third of which is at Sarai Kale Khan) till 5.30 pm. Passengers arrived from Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand, with some returning to the city for work, and many others travelling to celebrate Diwali with their friends and family.The Kashmere Gate ISBT saw a fair rush in the morning, with long queues at the entry gate as passengers were thermally screened and frisked using contactless devices, while staff members sanitised luggage inside the premises. Yet, social distancing norms were often thrown to the wind as people would rush in a horde, jostling to either get entry to the terminal, collect their luggage or to buy a ticket. Despite a properly designed waiting area, people crowded the narrow bus bays, even while drivers waited patiently till all the seats were occupied.Kavalpreet Kaur, who arrived at Kashmere Gate ISBT from Punjab on Tuesday morning pointed out that the terminal did not have any Covid-19 testing centre or camp for those who voluntarily wanted to get themselves checked.“I travelled all night in a bus that was full of passengers. A Covid testing centre here would not just help me, but also the city administration to identify and quarantine those who have the infection,” she said.Apart from a few security guards at the entry gate, Kashmere Gate ISBT had absolutely no police officer, district official or civil defence volunteer to warn or prosecute violators of Covid-19 norms. The situation was much worse at the other two ISBTs, especially at Anand Vihar, which shares its border with Uttar Pradesh. On Tuesday, the Anand Vihar ISBT received 257 interstate buses, followed by 242 buses in Kashmere Gate and 43 buses at Sarai Kale Khan.Despite being host to the most passengers, the Anand Vihar ISBT was short of proper arrangements. Four people were deployed for screening and sanitisation, two of who were deployed to check the temperatures of only the driver and conductor, and two others who sanitised buses — mostly from the outside. The Anand Vihar terminal had no temperature screening facility for passengers or their luggage. It also did not have any sanitiser spray available for public-use. Female passengers, said they were especially hassled, saying the washroom was too dirty to use.Several also complained about passengers’ displaying a lack of hygiene.Yadunath Singh, and his family were boarding a bus from Anand Vihar ISBT, headed for his hometown in Ram Nagar, Uttarakhand, to celebrate Diwali.“I am fed up of people spitting here. This problem is peculiar to Anand Vihar ISBT. Don’t people know that Covid-19 spreads from droplets? There is not a single official to prosecute violators. While walking around the ISBT, most passengers had their masks either on their chin or hanging from their ears,” said an angry Singh.The testing centre, located between the bus terminal and Metro station, was not conducting any Covid-19 tests when HT visited the facility at 4pm. A district official deployed to oversee testing there said they wrapped up by 3.30pm. “We do 1,000-2,000 tests daily, most of which are performed using the rapid antigen method. The most RT-PCR tests we have conducted at this facility are around 300 on a single day. Very few have tested positive so far, but we immediately send those who do to the Covid Care Centre at Akshardham on an ambulance,” said an official deployed there. KK Dahiya, managing director of the Delhi Transport Infrastructure Development Corporation (DTIDC) Limited that manages and operated all the ISBTs, said people are being de-boarded at the entry gate of the ISBTs, from where they are being allowed to leave for their respective destinations in the city. “There was no crowding observed on day one, as the number of buses allowed to enter the terminal has been slashed to 50% until November 15. Moreover, it was the first day, so fewer buses arrived. The number will gradually go up,” Dahiya said. Before the onset of the pandemic, the three ISBTs would witness a combined footfall of over 250,000 every day. On a daily basis, there were 3,500 trips of interstate buses and 2,000 trips of local buses.According to the SOP prepared by the Delhi government, interstate buses have to be sanitised by the respective depots of bus operators at the point of origin and before departure from the respective ISBT. The conductors or the drivers of interstate buses were also to submit a certificate issued by the respective depot of the bus being thoroughly sanitised, but only five such certificates of the 257 buses that arrived at Anand Vihar were submitted at the terminal. The story was same for the other two terminals as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-interstate-bus-terminals-reopened-145-buses-arrived-in-national-capital-till-9-30am/story-SEBbzNtufJoXxRnkiuijiI.html
03-11-2020||Election:||People of Bihar want change, Mahagathbandhan is winning: Rabri Devi||Former Chief Minister Rabri Devi on Tuesday said that the people of Bihar want a change and claimed that Mahagathbandhan is winning the Assembly polls.“People of Bihar are excited. They want a change. ‘Badlav ke lehar ki ganga beh rahi hai’. People of Bihar are experienced that’s why they want the change. We appeal to people to vote for change,” she told ANI. “Mahagathbandhan is winning. We are seeking the vote in the name of change. People came to the state during the lockdown and returned because they did not get jobs here,” she added. Click here for full Bihar assembly elections 2020 coverageWhen asked if Chief Minister Nitish Kumar will return to power, the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader said: “People of Bihar now understand that Nitish Kumar is ‘palturam’ that’s why they want the change.” Polling began at 7 am on 94 assembly seats across 17 districts in the second phase of Bihar polls on Tuesday with precautionary measures against Covid-19 in place. Over 2.86 crore voters are eligible to cast their vote in the second phase which is also the largest of three phases of assembly poll in the state.There are 1,464 candidates in the fray including 46 from BJP, 43 from Janata Dal (United), 56 from Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), and 24 from Congress.Five candidates from the Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP), which is part of the NDA, are also in the fray. From Mahagathbandhan, three Left parties are contesting on 14 seats (CPI-ML six, CPI and CPM on four each).The key candidates include former Chief Minister Lalu Prasad’s sons Tejashwi Yadav and Tej Pratap.Tejashwi, the chief ministerial candidate of Mahagathbandhan is contesting from Raghopur, while Tej Pratap, who is sitting MLA from Mahua, is contesting from Hasanpur.Road construction minister Nand Kishore Yadav is seeking re-election from Patna Sahib.Polling was held for 71 constituencies in the first phase on October 28 with precautionary measures in place against the novel coronavirus. Voting in the third phase will take place on 7 and the results will be declared on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/people-of-bihar-want-change-mahagathbandhan-is-winning-rabri-devi/story-iEZjyMavKwrgANfXl8coYI.html
03-11-2020||Delhi||Inter-state bus services resume in Delhi: Here are all the guidelines||The interstate bus services in Delhi resumed from Tuesday as the three interstate bus terminals (ISBTs) in the national capital was reopened after being shut for more than seven months because of nationwide lockdown due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The number of buses coming from different states, however, will be capped at 50% of pre-Covid times.As many as 145 buses carrying around 5,800 passengers from the neighbouring states of Uttar Pradesh (UP), Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand arrived in Delhi till 9:30 am on TuesdayDelhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot on Monday reviewed preparations made ahead of the resumption of interstate services and asked officials to ensure strict compliance of the standard operating procedures (SOPs).The states that run their buses to and from Delhi include Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Haryana and Chandigarh. The decision to reopen the ISBTs was taken on October 23 in a Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) meeting chaired by lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal.India reported 38,310 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 490 related deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry on Tuesday, which have taken the country’s tally to over 8.26 million. The number of active cases of the coronavirus disease also fell to 541,405 from 561,908 on Monday.Here are all the SOPs to be followed:1. According to the guidelines prepared by the Delhi government, the interstate buses will be sanitised by the respective depots of bus operators at the point of origin and before their departure from the respective ISBTs.2. Thermal checking of both passengers and the bus crew at boarding and at the point of entry to ISBTs will be a must.3. It will be mandatory for passengers to wear face masks. Buses will run to their seating capacity and no standing passengers will be allowed.4. Social distancing will be ensured at the ground station, at the time of boarding of passengers and inside the bus. 5. Social distancing will be done through markers on the ground and waiting areas, similar to the ones in all buses and the metro.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/inter-state-bus-services-resume-in-delhi-here-are-all-the-guidelines/story-iugcCGrsC1F6HPRLMD2zrL.html
03-11-2020||City||Uttar Pradesh: Biennial polls to 11 council seats on December 1||The Election Commission (EC) on Monday said the biennial election to 11 Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council seats will be held on December 1. The elections were due this summer but had to be postponed due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The notification for the polls will be issued on November 5 and the last date for nominations will be November 12. Scrutiny of nominations will be held on November 13, while November 17 is the last date for withdrawal of candidature. The counting of votes will take place on December 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/uttar-pradesh-biennial-polls-to-11-council-seats-on-december-1/story-spFROOHZrqlRLgtWiHGleI.html
03-11-2020||City||Maharashtra: In keeping with NGT orders, demolition of skywalk over heritage wetland begins||The Sindhudurg district administration in Maharashtra has complied with the orders of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), which was issued in October, by starting the demolition of an illegal skywalk built by the state public works department (PWD) over Dhamapur Lake at Malvan, a 490-year-old heritage wetland.In a compliance affidavit filed on October 23 and received by applicants last week, the Sindhudurg district collector, K Manjulekshmi, told the NGT that a departmental enquiry had been initiated against the PWD authorities for neglecting previous decisions of the tribunal and failing to take remedial steps to destroy the skywalk.The Dhamapur Lake, an inland wetland and a permanent freshwater lake that is spread over 61.7 hectares (ha), was constructed in 1530 AD between villages Are and Katta in Sindhudurg district. The wetland has been recognised by the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) among top 100 wetlands in the country that need ecosystem restoration.Also read | Centre notifies protected buffer around Maharashtra’s Radhanagari Wildlife SanctuaryThe NGT had been hearing a plea by Sindhudurg residents Dr. Harishchandra Purshottam Natu and Omkar Keni since 2017 alleging various encroachments and the construction of skywalk around Dhamapur Lake by the PWD authorities, which was leading to shrinking of the lake and causing environmental degradation.“Due to the lethargic and negligent attitude of the PWD in implementing NGT orders and collector Sindhudurg, the district administration proposed departmental enquiry against PWD authorities following which the state body has shown efforts in the removal of illegal structures,” read Manjulekshmi’s submission.The district administration had acted sincerely and made efforts in implementing NGT’s orders, he added.HT had reported on October 15 that NGT’s principal bench of Justice Sheo Kumar Singh and expert member Dr Satyawan Singh Gabryal directed the Sindhudurg district collector to ensure that an amount of Rs 1.5 crore is attached in the bank account of the PWD till the time it does not transfer the sum to the State Biodiversity Board to restore the heritage wetland.“The district treasury officer, Sindhudurg, has ordered ICICI Bank to attach an amount of Rs1.5 crore from the official account of the PWD Sawantwadi executive engineer. Accordingly, ICICI Bank marked a loan of Rs1.5 crore from the account,” read the compliance affidavit.NGT had also directed the district administration to take necessary steps to remove all obstructions and illegalities as far as construction work is concerned in violation of the Wetland Rules, 2017.The compliance affidavit said around 20% of the demolition work had been completed till October 23, including removal of flooring tiles of the skywalk, dismantling of the concrete slab and debris collected was disposed of 4 kilometres (km) away from the wetland.The collector refused to comment, as the matter was sub-judice.An official from the Sindhudurg district administration said around 50% of the skywalk demolition had been completed till Monday (see images), and the rest would be completed by mid-November. Environmentalists and petitioners before the NGT welcomed the steps taken by the district administration and hailed the bid to protect the heritage wetland.“In the next hearing, we are going to raise issues on plans of the district administration to spend the restoration amount (Rs1.5 crore) on Dhamapur Lake,” said Keni.He said that the lake was affected by sundry activities such as washing of clothes and immersion of idols. “We will suggest that reed beds should be constructed at the spillway of the wetland, which can facilitate activities such as washing of clothes and immersion of idols,” he said.There is also another challenge in ensuring that green cover around the wetland is protected. “An effective management plan is needed to protect salt-marsh wetland plants such as teevar and other red-listed rare flora species reported at the lake’s unique habitat,” Keni added.Win after 3-year-long battle to protect 500-year-old wetlandThe Dhamapur Lake, an inland wetland and a permanent freshwater lake, spread over about 61.7 ha was constructed in 1530 between villages Are and Katta in Sindhudurg district . The lake is surrounded by hills and dense plantations of mango, coconut and areca palm. The water body is a source of both drinking water and irrigation. The lake is one of the top 100 wetlands in the country identified by the MoEFCC for rapid restoration and improvement, and also a projected Ramsar site by the Maharashtra government. The wetland is a natural habitat of 193 and 247 floral and faunal species, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-in-keeping-with-ngt-orders-demolition-of-skywalk-over-heritage-wetland-begins/story-8p1pzN55WrgFw2ndBOw88H.html
03-11-2020||City||Covid-19: Active cases in Maharashtra drop by 182,000 in 46 days||Maharashtra’s tally of active Covid-19 cases is constantly on decline and has reduced by 182,975 cases since September 17 when the active cases had crossed the 300,000-mark (301,752). Consequently, the ratio of active cases to the total number of cases reported also saw a significant drop.Active cases are the difference between total cases and those who have recovered (or discharged from hospitals) or died of the infection. The state logged 301,752 active cases on September 17. But the tally has been on decline since. On September 30, it was down to 259,033 and on November 2, it further dropped to 118,777 cases.As a result, the ratio of active cases to the total cases reported also dropped to 7.03% against 26.33% recorded on September 17.Also read: Centre, Delhi huddle as third wave gets steeper“The rate of fresh infection has been experiencing a fall for several weeks. At the same time, the recoveries recorded were more than fresh infections. Hence, we can see a significant drop in the tally of active cases,” said an official from the state health department.Maharashtra is the worst-hit state with the coronavirus pandemic across states in the country. On Monday, its case count reached 1,687,784 with 4,009 fresh cases, lowest since June 24, when the state had reported 3,890 cases.State health minister Rajesh Tope on Monday said chances of a second wave in Maharashtra were low and the state machinery was prepared for a surge, following relaxations in restrictions and festivals like Diwali.“The state health department made a presentation during the cabinet meeting last week. The officials have said although a second wave is being witnessed in a few other countries, its chances in the state and even in India are low. Even if it is witnessed, the state administration is prepared for it. But people should follow Covid-19 protocol, especially during festivals. There are reports of second waves in France, Spain and other countries compelling the governments to impose a strict lockdown. We too will have to take due precautions,” he said. Tope said the state government was positive about reopening temples in the state after Diwali. “We are in favour of opening religious places, but the decision will be taken after closely monitoring the situation. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will take a call after Diwali by consulting our department,” he said.Meanwhile, the toll went up to 44,128 with 104 casualties reported on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-active-cases-in-maharashtra-drop-by-182-000-in-46-days/story-8BtPfHFoQWSxv1Ax008p1K.html
03-11-2020||City||Assam: Eye on next assembly elections, BJP, Congress focus on tea garden community’s vote||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and opposition Congress in Assam are trying to outpace each other to woo the tea garden community, as the north-east’s most populous state readies for assembly polls due in March and April next year. On Sunday, chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal, his cabinet colleagues and members of the Assam legislative assembly (MLAs) from the ruling coalition launched the ceremonial construction of 119 model high schools in tea gardens across the state. Around Rs 1.20 crore will be spent on the construction of each school and the total cost is estimated to be Rs 142.50 crore to set up the schools, which are expected to improve academic excellence among children of tea garden workers. Also read | Assam resident dies in Mizoram police custody, CM Sonowal writes to Amit Shah“The tea community is an integral part of greater Assamese society and it has contributed immensely to the state’s socio-cultural development,” Sonowal said at a programme held at Mekipur tea garden in Sivasagar district in Upper Assam on Sunday. He blamed the erstwhile state governments of neglecting the community and listed the initiatives by the BJP-led government after the latter came to power for the first time in the state in 2016. The initiatives include money transfer to bank accounts of over 7.21 lakh tea garden workers, wage compensation to pregnant women associated with the industry, Rs 10,000 each to students who pass Grade X and Grade XII students, mobile phones to “sardars”, Rs 25,000 each to 34,000 youth to start their businesses etc. The opposition Congress, too, has started wooing the community, which was once considered its traditional vote bank. Jitendra Singh, All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary and the party’s newly appointed in-charge for Assam, landed at Dibrugarh in tea-rich upper Assam on Sunday for a seven-day visit. His visit coincided with CM Sonowal’s laying of foundation stones of schools for the tea garden community.Singh spent his first day interacting with leaders from the tea garden community, took part in their folk dances and even spent the night at the house of a tea garden worker. “My first interaction has been with tea garden workers because they are an important part of Assam’s identity. Their biggest concern is uniform minimum wages. While the state’s BJP government has been doling out money, it hasn’t done anything on this front. We promise to implement this initiative, if we are voted to power,” Singh told media persons. The tea garden community comprises several indigenous tribes, who were brought to Assam by the colonial Britishers from Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, and West Bengal over 150 years ago. The community makes up around 20% of Assam’s total population and about 1.1 million of them are employed in over 800 tea gardens in the state. Their votes are a decisive factor in many assembly seats in upper Assam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/assam-eye-on-next-assembly-elections-bjp-congress-focus-on-tea-garden-community-s-vote/story-G9Ddvj0lhjfHnKqPeWzzRP.html
03-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi AQI rises, reaches very poor category on Tuesday||The air quality index (AQI) in the national capital on Tuesday worsened again and reached the “very poor’ category.On Tuesday, the hourly average AQI as per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) was 371.The AQI between 301 and 400 is considered in the “very poor” category.On Monday, Delhi’s average AQI was 293.The contribution of pollutants from the farm fires, which are still raging in the neighbouring agrarian states such as Haryana and Punjab as seen in the satellite images, also came down to 16% on Monday from the season’s maximum of 40% on the previous day. The India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) early warning system for Delhi said the predominant surface wind is likely to be blowing from the north-west direction and may go up to 18 kilometres per hour (kmph).On Tuesday, the wind speed is likely to be between five and 12 kmph amid clear skies and misty early morning, it said. Also read | With rise in wind speed, Noida, Ghaziabad see decline in pollution levelsAir blowing from north-west brings in pollution from the raging stubble fires in Haryana and Punjab.On Tuesday, Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 10.8 degrees Celsius (C), the lowest in the season to date.Calm wind and low temperature trap pollutants close to the ground, while favourable wind speed helps in their dispersion, experts said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-aqi-rises-again-reaches-very-poor-category-on-tuesday/story-Kt4mO6DUpC7ouI27DHqQuI.html
03-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi sub-inspector dies by suicide in Mohan Garden flat||A Delhi Police sub-inspector (S-I) allegedly killed himself with his service pistol at his residence in Outer Delhi’s Mohan Garden near Ranhola early in the morning on Monday.Police said they have learnt that the 26-year-old, who was posted at a police station in outer district, took his life due to financial trouble. A Koan, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), (outer), Delhi Police, said the Ranhola police station authorities received a call at 5.15 am regarding death by suicide by a man at his home. The caller was the brother of the deceased. A police team reached his home and found that the deceased was an S-I with the force. “The S-I took the extreme step in a room on the ground floor of his house. His body was on the bed. He used his service pistol,” said a police official, requesting anonymity. Koan said the S-I had worked on Sunday. “We have learnt that he killed himself over some financial trouble,” he said.The police are probing how the S-I managed to bring his service pistol home after work on Sunday. It is being investigated whether the in-charge of the malkhana — a store room in a police station where arms and ammunition are kept — of the station where the S-I was posted was aware that deceased did not return his service weapon after duty, the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-sub-inspector-dies-by-suicide-in-mohan-garden-flat/story-mxnwozxrBTkE76PDLXJYtM.html
03-11-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan passes bill to make masks mandatory||Rajasthan assembly on Monday passed a bill making it mandatory for people to wear face masks in public, the first state in India to pass a such a law. During a special session called to pass three bills to counter the farm laws enacted by the Centre, the assembly inserted a new clause to the Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Bill, 2020, to make the use of face masks compulsory in the state to regulate and prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The new clause prohibits the “movement of any person in public place, public transport, private transport, work place or at any social, political, general function or gathering without properly covering his mouth and nose with face mask or face cover”. In a statement of the objective and reasons for introducing the bill, the government said health experts all over the world are of the opinion that use of mask can help control the spread of Covid-19 considerably and save the lives of millions of people. “The State Government is also of the view that wearing mask should be made mandatory in public place, public transport, private transport, work place or at any social, political, general function or gathering and decided to prohibit movement of persons without wearing mask at such places,” the statement said. The state had passed the Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Act, 2020, in August this year. Section 4 of the Act allows the state government to issue an order to be observed by the public to prevent the spread of epidemic disease. An experiment conducted by researchers from Duke University in September found well-fitted valve-less N95 masks, triple-layer surgical masks and double-layer pleated cotton masks (that can be tied tightly) are the most effective in stopping the spread of Covid-19. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot earlier in the day tweeted that Rajasthan will be the first state in the country to enact a law making it mandatory to wear masks for protection against coronavirus infection. Rajasthan is already running a campaign called ‘no mask, no entry’ to make use of face masks compulsory to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The state has reported 200,495 cases of Covid-19 so far, with 15,889 active infections till Monday. As many as 1,926 people have succumbed to the viral disease in the state so far||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-passes-bill-to-make-masks-mandatory/story-Qy73eMnFf55Wq49HZOpW2H.html
03-11-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Eavesdropping at Pahadi Imli||There is no one to be seen. It is totally empty. And yet this is the same Old Delhi, that historic quarter, very picturesque—but usually so cramped and noisy. This neighbourhood is tucked upon old Delhi’s Pahadi Imli. There’s is no imli tree to spot but the pahadi, the hill, remains. One can perceive its height by the gradually rising walkway. A few steps ahead, the alley splays out into two by-lanes, going further up the hill. All passages around here are intermittently punctuated with stairs.This afternoon, despite being empty, the place is alive. The alleys are lined with private houses. The air is echoing with the voices of the (unseen) residents, coming through partially opened doors, windows, balconies and roofs. Indeed, there’s so much (hushed) cacophony of household sounds that you can almost see all the cries, scoldings, coughs, giggles—and pressure cooker whistles too—dancing together in the air in a great jumble.Even so, one can distinguish each sound and mull upon it to imagine the life in the house it is originating from.Here’s a woman’s rebuke coming from a window up in the heights. “Why are you screaming?! Close your eyes and let me run the soap on your face”—probably a mother bathing her child.A male voice is streaming out from an adjacent door: “Are you Nawab Fanney Khan that people will obey you?!”And somewhere someone is humming a mournful ditty to herself (or himself).There is absolutely no way of putting together these words and the mouths that utter them—which may not seem that odd in the days of face masks. Suddenly an elderly man steps out of a house—was he the one who mentioned Supreme Court some time ago? Eavesdropping on the lane doesn’t reveal anything sensational. The babble is as uneventful as in any family. But encountering a host of these homey phrases, pronounced simultaneously, gives an otherworldly texture to everyday utterances. Besides, they also draw an outsider closer to Pahadi Imli’s intimate life. Soon enough, you reach the last houses towards the top and you have to climb down back to the base camp—which is the Matia Mahal bazaar. Where it’s very noisy, and you can hear nothing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-eavesdropping-at-pahadi-imli/story-oq3Mr2pOBJ81SDWLXRqnVJ.html
03-11-2020||City||Punjab: Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Sandhu’s murder cracked, 8 held||Police on Monday said they have cracked the murder of Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh Sandhu and arrested eight persons. Sandhu, who was felicitated for fighting terrorism in Punjab, was gunned down by two bike-borne masked men at his Bhikhiwind house on October 16. “We have cracked the case,” said Ferozepur Range deputy inspector general of police Hardiyal Singh Mann, who heads the special investigation team that was formed on chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh orders. Mann, however, refused to divulge the details, including motive of the crime. Police sources said a press briefing in connection with the case would be held on Tuesday. Those arrested are Sukhraj Singh alias Sukha, Ravinder Singh alias Gian and Rajbir Singh of Gurdaspur district, Ravinder Singh alias Ravi, Chand Kumar Bhatia, Akasdeep Singh and Ravi Kumar of Ludhiana, and Prabhdeep Singh of Kartarpur, Jalandhar. Gian had an old enmity with Sandhu’s son and he had given a contract to gangster to kill Sandhu, said police sources. A senior police official said, “Besides arresting eight accused, we have rounded up around six more persons. More arrests are expected in the coming days.” Police have also recovered the parts of Bajaj Pulsar motorcycle that was used for committing the crime from a canal. “The accused had dismantled the bike before throwing it into a canal in Harike. Two of the arrested accused used to work as mechanics,” said another official. “Though we have arrested the accused, our investigation is still on to ascertain their exact roles. It will be premature to disclose anything at this moment,” he said, adding that they are actively probing the “gangster angle”. Last week, Tarn Taran police had brought notorious gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria from Patiala jail on a four-day production warrant. Police officials said Bhagwanpuria was questioned in connection with Sandhu’s killing. Police had been probing the personal enmity angle in Sandhu’s killing as his sons were involved in criminal cases. Sandhu’s wife Jagdish Kaur, however, had termed the killing as “sheer act of terrorism.” She alleged that her husband’s security was withdrawn despite their complaints to police about threats to the family from pro-Khalistan elements. A senior police official, who didn’t wish to be named, ruled out any radical angle in the killing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-shaurya-chakra-awardee-balwinder-sandhu-s-murder-cracked-8-held/story-xiAmHQthz2MTZowsLW7NXN.html
03-11-2020||City||Man booked for raping 13-yr-old step-daughter in SBS Nagar||A 13-year-old girl has accused his step-father of raping her over the past two years in Wahizpur village of the district. The accused, a native of Bihar, has been living in the village with the victim and her mother. The victim’s biological father lives in Bihar.The girl said the accused had threatened to kill her, if she revealed the incidents to anyone. “I had objected to his rapes. He had threatened to kill me and family. This rape had been on for two years,” the 13-year-old told the police, after approaching them with her elder brother on Sunday. No one has been arrested. Rahon SHO Gurmukh Singh said a case had been registered under Sections 376 (rape), 376-C (sexual intercourse by person in authority), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC and Section 6 of POSCO registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-booked-for-raping-13-yr-old-step-daughter-in-sbs-nagar/story-0XoQ0Dlcl1Zirg9SddqiGM.html
03-11-2020||City||Will jail Dharamsot for scholarship scam if voted to power: Sukhbir||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) led by president Sukhbir Singh Badal protested against the state government against its alleged inaction against cabinet minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot. “Dharamsot should be sacked, arrested and jailed for embezzlement of Rs 64 crore from the Scheduled Caste scholarship scheme. This is injustice with dalit students,” alleged Sukhbir, adding that chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh must disclose why he was shielding the corrupt minister.Addressing the gathering, Sukhbir said, “If we form the government after the next assembly elections, a probe will be launched and Dharamsot will be put be behind bars within three months.”He alleged that Dharamsot’s co-conspirator and welfare department director-turned-Congress legislator Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal was successful in securing a Congress ticket for himself immediately after taking premature retirement last year, bypassing other contenders from Phagwara.“Dharamsot was responsible for the entire fraud as he had directed officials that all files relating to disbursement of funds should be put up before him,” he said.“Congress MLAs are running liquor, sand and drug mafias. Even then, the CM is oblivious to the situation and remains cut off from people,” he claimed. Former minister Bikram Singh Majithia said instead of trying to befool Punjabis with new promises, the Congress government should explain why it made budgetary provisions of Rs 2,440 crore for the SC scholarship scheme over the three years, but did not release even one paisa. “A CBI probe is needed to ascertain the real scope of the SC scholarship scam as the Punjab government has said only Rs 7 crore that had been given wrongfully to private institutions,” Majithia claimed, alleging that Dharamsot had even indulged in corrupt practices, while purchasing land in Nurpur Bedi. Senior leader Prem Singh Chandumajra sought the immediate sacking and arrest of Dharamsot, adding that the CM should not protect someone who had destroyed the future of lakhs of dalit students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/will-jail-dharamsot-for-scholarship-scam-if-voted-to-power-sukhbir/story-G8cvsMdutt9Ohy4LFDWKdO.html
03-11-2020||City||16 deaths, 402 fresh cases in Punjab||Chandigarh Punjab on Monday reported 16 more deaths due to coronavirus, taking the death toll to 4,227, while 402 new cases pushed the infection tally to 1,34,371 in the state, a health department bulletin said. Six deaths were reported from Amritsar and one each from Bathinda, Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Moga, Mohali, Muktsar, Pathankot, Patiala and Rupnagar, it said. There are 4,183 active Covid-19 cases in the state as of now, as per the bulletin. The places which reported new coronavirus cases included Jalandhar (58), Ludhiana (55) and Mohali (45), it said. A total of 395 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 1,25,961. Fifteen critical patients are on ventilator support while 116 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said. A total of 26,30,382 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/16-deaths-402-fresh-cases-in-punjab/story-IWtWeWKeduue6n8hQTNqTO.html
03-11-2020||Delhi||Winter chill is here: Delhi records 10.8 degrees Celsius||The mercury fell to 10.8 degrees Celsius on Monday morning, over four degrees below normal, as the Capital continued to stay sharp and chilly before the onset of winter, leaving weather scientists intrigued by how early the minimum temperature has started dropping this year. The temperatures are unusually low for this time of the year, according to data from the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Regional Meteorological Centre. At least in the past 10 years, the temperature in the first two days of November ranged between 15 and 17 degrees Celsius, and the “normal” minimum temperature from November 2 to 6 is 14.9 degrees Celsius. Normal temperatures are assessed based on average maximum and minimum temperature for 30 years.“We usually start recording 10 to 11 degrees Celsius in the last week of November, or at least after November 20. This year it’s a fortnight early. It’s very unusual. This is possibly both because of early onset of cold and snowfall in higher reaches of Jammu & Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh for the last two days. There was also snowfall in Lahaul and Spiti today,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the regional weather forecasting centre. The minimum temperature is likely to range between 10 and 12 degrees Celsius for the next three to four days, the RMC scientists said. The minimum temperature in Gurugram on Monday fell to 10.2°C, while it dropped to 10.8°C in Faridabad. Data for Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad was not updated on the day.This October was the coldest Delhi has experienced in 58 years, IMD had said on Saturday. “Climatologically we are moving towards winter, so temperature will gradually fall but there is also subsidence of air over the Delhi-NCR region which is bringing down minimum temperatures. There are cold northerly winds also but they are not as strong,” explained M Mohapatra, director general, IMD. Subsidence, Mohapatra said, is the downward movement of cold and dry air closer to the surface. IMD considers December, January and February to be winter months. Delhi’s air quality improved marginally on Monday from “very poor” category to “poor” with the air quality index (AQI) at 293.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/winter-chill-is-here-delhi-records-10-8-degrees-celsius/story-ePG3k5XoGHpOhNze1cZszH.html
03-11-2020||Chandigarh||Expand Covid contact tracing to 15 persons, make RT-PCR rule: Capt||Despite a decline in Covid cases in the state, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday ordered expanding the contact tracing of positive patients to 15 persons and made it mandatory for hospitals and radiology labs conducting CT scans to report such persons to the state administration in case of suspicion of coronavirus.CM made this announcement as part of a slew of measures to strengthen the Covid management systems amid the apprehension of a second wave.To streamline and prioritise the process of Covid vaccination, the CM ordered a state-level 3-tier vaccine supervision mechanism, comprising a steering committee as well as state and district task force, to be put in place.In sharp contrast to some other states that are depending heavily on the less reliable Rapid Antigen Testing (RAT), Amarinder directed the health department to make RT-PCR the rule, with RAT to be treated as exception, while ordering another serosurvey to assess the ground situation.In other steps, he directed 24x7 testing facility to be made available at district hospitals, all fever/other symptomatic cases and those attending the flu corners to be tested with RT-PCR.The CM asked the health department to get information from private and public hospitals regarding Covid mortality and complete the audit by November 9 so that remedial action can be taken by mid-November.Amarinder was chairing a virtual meeting of medical and health experts and officials.Noting that people were now relying on CT scans in a big way instead of getting themselves tested for Covid, the CM directed the health department to make sharing of information regarding those coming for CT scans with the health authorities.The state government’s health expert committee head, Dr KK Talwar, earlier said unless checked, the practice of patients confining themselves to CT scans could be dangerous for the state.To ensure that distribution of the vaccine, once available, is prioritised among the vulnerable groups, including health workers and people with comorbidities, Amarinder ordered the constitution of a state steering committee, to be headed by the chief secretary, with monthly meetings to supervise the progress.The state head has asked the concerned departments to dedicate the month of November to carry out testing of all staff, including health, police, revenue and other civilian staff. He said his government had already sanctioned approximately Rs 900 crore for Covid response and added that funds will not be allowed to become a constraint for ensuring full preparation and best response. He directed the health department to increase testing to 30,000 a day, with at least 100 tests per lakh population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/expand-covid-contact-tracing-to-15-persons-make-rt-pcr-rule-capt/story-UKIU6BMr9r9TLC4LUchmjP.html
03-11-2020||Mumbai||After SpiceJet, IndiGo to offer Covid-19 test for passengers||After SpiceJet, IndiGo became the second airline to tie up with a healthcare firm to enable passengers to book reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test while booking flight tickets. The chargeable service will be available for both international and domestic passengers. The service will be available at some airports outside the country too, including the United Arab Emirates, Oman, Qatar, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia.The move will ensure hassle-free travel experience for the passengers and will also provide exemption from quarantine to passengers (as per respective laws of the country/state). The facilitator of the test is Stemz Healthcare, which is the largest aggregator of ICMR-approved laboratories for RT-PCR test in India. Sanjay Kumar, chief strategy and revenue officer of IndiGo, said, “As per travel guidelines, several states and countries require a Covid-19 RT-PCR test to be undertaken within a stipulated time before a customer boards a flight. We are pleased to introduce the option to book a test along with the flight, enabling an easy access to get the test done before travelling. This is another step in our endeavour to provide a safe and hassle-free travel experience to our customers.”Low budget airline SpiceJet began the service for its customers six days ago. The airline has made the service available for all its customers in India and the UAE. SpiceJet had said that they plan to roll it out for a host of other countries soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/after-spicejet-indigo-to-offer-covid-19-test-for-passengers/story-G4k8ksU8xT5jBYmjDqi6hI.html
03-11-2020||City||28-year-old man found dead in Mohali, father cries foul||Body of a 28-year-old man was recovered from Sohana’s Sambhalki village, police said on Monday. A case of culpable homicide against unidentified person(s) was registered on Sunday night. The deceased has been identified as Jaskaran Singh, who hailed from Chheharta in Amritsar and was currently staying in Chandigarh. His father has alleged that Jaskaran was murdered. According to the police, Jaskaran had gone missing on October 29. His father Balwinder Singh said, “Jaskaran had gone to Chandigarh in 2012 with his wife and used to live in a rented accommodation. He worked in a German company there. He was having a dispute with his wife for the past several months following which, they got separated.” He has sought “proper probe” in the case. Sub-inspector Harjinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said, “The postmortem examination of the deceased has been conducted, but his viscera reports would reveal the actual facts. An investigation is on to nab the accused. A case has been registered under Section 304 of the IPC.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/28-year-old-man-found-dead-in-mohali-father-cries-foul/story-OZDXFKOMCOpqqqFyHQtkDJ.html
03-11-2020||Mumbai||Parents, coaching class owners urge Raj Thackeray to intervene in FYJC admission, starting classes in Maharashtra||Parents along with coaching class owners and teachers met Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray on Monday expressing their concerns about the current state of affairs of the education system. Thackeray, after hearing their grievances, assured them that he would take up the matter with the state government.Parents of students who are waiting for admission into first-year junior college said their wards were in a fix due to lack of clarity over the admission process. Thackeray called up state education minister Varsha Gaikwad and asked her to take a decision on the resumption of the admission process as it concerns the future of the students. Gaikwad assured him of resolving the issue at the earliest.Similarly, coaching class owners and teachers complained that their income has been stopped as the classes are not given permission to open.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/parents-coaching-class-owners-urge-raj-thackeray-to-intervene-in-fyjc-admission-starting-classes/story-ERBOF21jFutN6EDpyK5IZK.html
03-11-2020||City||Missing tribal woman’s body found hanging in Palghar jungle after 20 days||The body of a tribal woman, who had gone missing from a Dahanu government hospital on October 10, was found hanging from a tree in Jawhar 20 days later on Friday evening. The woman, Jaishree Barkya Pawar, 26, had delivered two premature babies at Kasa government hospital on October 6 and was later shifted to Cottage Hospital in Dahanu on October 10. Pawar went missing hours after she was shifted to Cottage Hospital, said senior inspector Appasaheb Lengare of Jawhar police. She had allegedly sent her husband away to purchase water and then ran away from the hospital. A search was launched by her husband, Barkya, and relatives, but later her husband filed a missing report with us, said Lengare. Meanwhile, one of the twin girls died a few days later and the other was receiving treatment at the hospital.“On Friday, we were informed about a decomposed body hanging from a tree in the jungle. Pawar’s husband identified the body based on the mangalsutra and the saree,” said Lengare. No suicide note was found. The police have sent the body for post-mortem and are awaiting the report. A case of accidental death report has been registered. “It seems to be a case of suicide as she was found hanging. Pawar was allegedly depressed after learning that the newborns were not in good health as they were born premature, but we are investigating all possible angles,” said Lengare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/missing-tribal-woman-s-body-found-hanging-in-palghar-jungle-after-20-days/story-g35mcphmjgAbe697peZ7AJ.html
03-11-2020||Kolkata||Veteran actor Soumitra Chatterjee undergoes vascular surgery; internal bleeding stopped||Veteran actor Soumitra Chatterjee’s condition improved on Monday night after doctors treating him at a private hospital in south Kolkata conducted a vascular surgery and successfully stopped the internal bleeding which was leading to loss of haemoglobin. “We have successfully stopped the bleeding. We had to go for a vascular intervention. It lasted for about an hour. For all certainty, it (the bleeding) will not happen again. Now we would be in a better position to manage the overall situation. There should not be any drop of haemoglobin or platelets or any derangement in the physiology,” Dr Arindam Kar, head of the team of doctors treating Chatterjee, said around 10 pm on Monday. The Dadasaheb Phalke Award winner was admitted on October 6 after he tested positive for Covid-19. Chatterjee tested negative for Covid-19 on October 14 but his neurological system was affected by Covid encephalopathy. As a result, Chatterjee’s condition deteriorated drastically over the past week. The noted actor has been in a drowsy state since last Monday. “In the coming two or three days we will try to recover the ground that had been disturbed and correct most of the things. Once all the organ functions start recovering we will focus on making his consciousness improve by some way or the other,” said Dr Kar. Also read: 19 Indians test Covid positive on Vande Bharat flight to Wuhan, China“This could be a good news for him but once again I am reiterating the fact that having been inside a hospital Intensive Care Unit for 26 days with a prolonged period of unconsciousness or reduced consciousness with life support, it would be difficult for an octogenarian person to have a very favourable outcome. But he is putting up a valiant fight,” Dr Kar added. “We have rarely seen someone with such a good physiology. We really hope that if the consciousness level returns he still has the vigour, energy and same organ functions,” Dr Kar added. Millions of people in Bengal and beyond have been praying for Chatterjee’s recovery ever since he was admitted. In a bid to offer a holistic treatment, the doctors initially made Chatterjee listen to music and literature of his choice. He even communicated with his daughter Poulomi Basu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/veteran-actor-soumitra-chatterjee-undergoes-vascular-surgery-internal-bleeding-stopped/story-fRMC9c9ZGhrsBoqsHVc3MI.html
03-11-2020||Mumbai||2.2 lakh students from Maharashtra attend FYJC online classes on Day 1||The Maharashtra education department has begun conducting online classes for first-year junior college (FYJC) students from Monday and around 2.2 lakh students streamed the online classes on Day 1. The department will start stream-specific lectures online from November 5. The classes are being made available on YouTube for free streaming.“In the first few days, classes will be held for subjects common to all streams including languages. Stream-specific classes will begin on November 5. Until Monday, 1.2 lakh students had registered for the classes,” said an official from the education department. State education minister Varsha Gaikwad said, “Online lectures have started so that there is no further delay in doing so. A decision with respect to restarting the admissions will be announced shortly by the chief minister,” Gaikwad said in a statement issued on Monday. Students who wish to join the online classes can register on the department’s portal — covid19.scertmaha.ac.in/eleventh. They will receive details about time table for classes on their email. Teachers said the first few classes will be like introductory sessions for students. “It has been seven months since students are at home, and thus the teaching process needs to begin carefully to ensure that students grasp what they learn,” said a teacher who conducted an online class.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-2-lakh-students-from-maharashtra-attend-fyjc-online-classes-on-day-1/story-ym6BOn3cOJwmxyQ1eBHGiM.html
03-11-2020||City||Stubble burning: PPCB has collected only 2.5% of fine imposed in 2019||With the number of cases of stubble burning in the state seeing a 33% rise this year, one of the reasons could be the poor enforcement of punitive measures. Of the fine of Rs 6 crore imposed on farmers for stubble burning in 2019, the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has collected only Rs 15 lakh (2.5%) to date. In 2019, 450 First-Information Reports (FIRs) had been lodged, even as the number of cases of stubble burning touched 52,000. This season, only 20 FIRs have been registered, even as the number of cases is over 33,000.Board member secretary Krunesh Garg said, “Only 15 lakh of the Rs 6 crore fine imposed last year has been recovered. An application has been filed before the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to find ways to collect the pending penalty. This year, we have imposed a fine of about Rs 1.25 crore in 4,672 incidents of stubble burning. In another, 3,269 spots, we are yet to find ownership details. Once owners are identified, fine will be imposed here as well.”The board claims that early harvesting of paddy has led to the increase in number of stubble burning incidents. Krunesh added, “Last year, 22,503 incidents of stubble burning were witnessed till October 31; the number this year in the corresponding time period is 33,165. Early harvesting of paddy is the main reason. The state had procured 114 lakh tonne paddy till October 31 in 2019, against 148 lakh tonne this year. It suggests 30% increase in early harvesting. We hope that by the end of the procurement, we will have some improvement in cases of stubble burning.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stubble-burning-ppcb-has-collected-only-2-5-of-fine-imposed-in-2019/story-2O9zBWPoz277oQ8cwDgk2L.html
03-11-2020||Mumbai||Stringent medical checks needed before issuing driving licenses, say experts||With India accounting for the most road deaths globally in 2018 and 2019, one area of concern is the medical condition of those applying for driving licences. Two recent accidents in the city have highlighted the problem of driving licenses being issued to drivers with medical conditions that make them accident-prone.On August 31, Sameer Ali Sayyed, 46, drove his Maruti Suzuki Esteem into a restaurant on Carnac Bunder Street in South Mumbai, killing five and injuring three people. Sayyed had lost control of his vehicle because of an epileptic attack. Three months ago, in May, Sayyed had been in another accident when he had again lost control of his car and crashed into another vehicle, injuring one person. At the time, Sayyed had not revealed his epilepsy to avoid his license being suspended. On October 20, bus driver Haridas Patil suffered a heart attack while he driving a Brihanmumbai Electricity Supply and Transport (BEST) bus. He crashed into a signal near Chembur and damaged a small vegetable shop. Bhushan Kumar Upadhyay, additional director general of state highway police, Maharashtra, said, “Although accidents due to unfit medical conditions of the driver may comprise a small portion in overall road accidents numbers, it’s a serious issue. Unfit medical conditions impact drivers physically as well mentally, and may [indirectly] contribute to circumstances that lead to accidents.”India ranked first in road accident deaths across 199 countries in a 2018 report by World Road Statistics, followed by China and the United States of America. A report in the same year by the World Health Organization (WHO) found that 11% of all accident-related deaths globally were in India. According to a 2019 report by the ministry of road transport and highways, there were 4,49,002 road accidents last year in India and 1,51,113 people were victims of road deaths.The Motor Vehicles (Driving) Regulations, 2017, require that at the time of driving, a driver “is in full control of his physical and mental abilities and physically and mentally fully fit to drive a vehicle”. Existing rules require applicants to compulsorily submit a self-declaration to prove they are of sound mind and physical fitness when being evaluated for a driving license for non-commercial vehicles. Only those above 50 years must submit a medical certificate. Drivers of commercial or transport vehicles need to submit a medical certificate. A senior transport official said on the condition of anonymity said that the existing procedure to check a driver’s medical fitness is ineffective. “After getting the license, a driver undergoes a medical examination for fitness only after five years, when renewing their license. What if he develops any serious medical condition in between?” said the officer. Experts also pointed out that the regional transport office (RTO) does not inspect these documents rigorously and false certificates are easily supplied by agents working outside RTOs.Vinayak Joshi, an expert in defensive driving, said, “Driving license seekers in Mumbai can easily get a medical certificate from a ‘doctor’ practising right outside the RTO office for just ₹50. Because of such unprofessional, unethical and corrupt practices, there is no strict scrutiny as far as the medical fitness of the applicant is concerned.”Sanjay Sasane, deputy regional transport officer, Pune, said RTO officers should not be expected to evaluate an applicant’s physical or mental condition. “Only medical professionals would be able to asses it,” he said. Former director general of Maharashtra Police, Dr PS Pasricha, said the government should form a team to study the rules regarding assessing the fitness of a driver. “There should be legal obligation on doctors to report unfit medical conditions of a driver to the RTO as a preventive measure, but then the matter of breach of privacy would arise. The issue needs some brainstorming to think of a solution.” General practitioners (GP) in countries like Denmark, Finland, the United Kingdom, Norway, Poland, Portugal and Sweden are required to report at-risk drivers to the authorities.“The road safety system in our country has always been affected by a very casual approach. There are some sections in the existing road transport laws and rules which need to be seriously looked at and medical fitness certification is one of them,” said Pasricha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/stringent-medical-checks-needed-before-issuing-driving-licenses-say-experts/story-OcG73AkfqsIClAiNB2UJTP.html
03-11-2020||Mumbai||Medical, dental aspirants from Maharashtra seek clarity on admission process||Undergraduate medical and dental aspirants along with their parents have approached the state common entrance test (CET) cell and the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) seeking clarity on the medical admission process for the 2020-21 academic year. In separate emails sent to both bodies on Monday, students and parents have demanded that the admission schedule along with a brochure and seat matrix for the upcoming academic year be shared at the earliest.“The Centre’s medical counselling committee (MCC) recently clarified that the admissions process for UG medical and dental seats should begin across states on November 6, and if the state has to follow this, students need to be made aware of basic details including the schedule,” said Sudha Shenoy, parent and activist. She added that with no information on admissions released in over two weeks since the announcement of National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET UG) results, anxiety and stress levels among students is very high.In their letter, parents and medical aspirants have highlighted that the admission process in the state needs to start by November 6 as prescribed by the Centre, so that students who bag a seat in the all-India quota (AIQ) are not deprived of trying their luck on state quota seats as well.“Many students opt for admissions in an institute outside Maharashtra in the AIQ round and later withdraw admissions as per the provision and confirm seat in a state institute of their liking. This year, AIQ admission is already underway but there’s no information yet on when the same will start in the state,” said Archit Kumar, a medical aspirant.Earlier in September, the state government announced their decision to abolish the 70:30 regional quota in medical admission that reserved 70% seats for those from the region. However, this decision of the government was challenged by a student from Vidarbha. The Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court has put a stay in medical admissions until November 10. “Admissions could begin after November 10, but the pre-admission process of registration and document verification is a long process, so the state needs to start the process. This will help calm nerves of lakhs of medical and dental aspirants,” added Shenoy.While a DMER spokesperson said that a schedule for undergraduate medical admissions has already been approved, the state CET cell confirmed that the schedule should be released soon.At present, the state CET cell is yet to release any information on the admissions process. Parents are also planning to approach the Bombay high court if the state fails to start admissions by November 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/medical-dental-aspirants-from-maharashtra-seek-clarity-on-admission-process/story-kXYesD8JtHa4rTpFsd1lDM.html
03-11-2020||Chandigarh||BJP misleading farmers through shocking lies, say Punjab ministers||Punjab cabinet ministers on Monday hit out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and labelled its allegation that the state government and chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh as responsible for the continued farmer protests and suspension of the goods trains as atrocious and a bunch of shocking lies. “The BJP leadership in state is misleading farmers and spreading shocking lies to save their skin, after being cornered on the Centre’s draconian farm laws,” the 16 ministers said. The ministers claimed that the saffron party, which was at the centre of the ill-conceived farm laws, was either oblivious to the concerns of the farmers or simply did not care. “The farmers don’t need any instigation. They are hurt and shocked at the treatment being meted out to them by the BJP-led central government. They are fighting to save their livelihood and to survive. Clearly, Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma, like other BJP leaders, has no realisation of this,” they said. Punjab’s industry, agriculture and the economy that has been severely impacted by the Centre’s failure to release the state’s dues amid Covid-19, was further being weakened as a result of the suspension of goods trains, the ministers added.Responding to Sharma’s allegation of Amarinder failing to maintain law and order in the state, the minister suggested he should go and speak to people, who had seen first-hand under the SAD-BJP regime what failure of law and order meant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bjp-misleading-farmers-through-shocking-lies-say-punjab-ministers/story-sV9OOdi7u7upi8CMLf80wK.html
03-11-2020||Mumbai||BMC plans ₹3.61-crore viewing deck at Mumbai’s Chaityabhoomi||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to construct a viewing deck extending over the Dadar seashore at Chaityabhoomi, the cremation site of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar. The civic body plans to build the elevated platform over a non-functioning stormwater drain (SWD) outfall. The elevation of the deck will be 16 feet above sea level and will allow visitors to enjoy sunset views. According to the BMC’s plan, the structure will be spread across 1, 500sqm. The estimated cost of the project is ₹3.61 crore, and tenders for the same were floated on Monday. The plan includes building ramps on the deck to provide accessibility to the differently-abled and senior citizens. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner of G-North ward (Dadar), said, “The SWD outfall is redundant, and there are many visitors who climb on it to take selfies or photos of the Bandra-Worli sea link. We decided to strengthen the drain outfall area and construct this deck as a tourist attraction. All necessary coastal permissions have been sought for this project.” The existing SWD outfall earlier functioned to drain the water from mills in Dadar area. Since most of the mills have shut down, the outfall has been non-functional.Dighavkar said that the height of the elevation was decided based on the height of the highest tide in the past 10 years. Another senior civic official said, “Electric lamp posts will be installed, which will be similar in style to the proposed railing on the deck. Since the deck will be over the SWD outfall, covering it completely, the drain will be protected from any further damage. All coastal norms are being followed.”Activists, however, are sceptical that the project will make headway. Nikhil Desai, citizen activist from Matunga, said, “We keep hearing about such attractive projects, but very less is implemented on the ground. Authorities had also planned the Mumbai Eye, a giant Ferris-wheel on the lines of the London Eye, but nothing has been implemented so far. One can only say something about such projects after they have been implemented.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-plans-3-61-crore-viewing-deck-at-mumbai-s-chaityabhoomi/story-cdbL5aAr1NFaIGPVzLioyH.html
03-11-2020||Noida||Greater Noida to hire contractor for ₹13 crore horticulture work by Nov-end||GREATER NOIDA: The Greater Noida authority is likely to select a contractor to start work on ₹13 crore project related to the maintenance of green areas in various sectors of the city by the end of this month. The authority wants to carry out a total of 19 maintenance works related with the horticulture department, officials said.The authority has already sanctioned the amount for maintenance of green space on 130-metre wide road near sector Knowledge Park-V, maintenance of green space in sector Zu-2, park in Udyog Kendra, maintenance of green belt in sector Omicron 1A, green belt maintenance in sectors 1, 4 and Sigma 2, among others.“The authority floated the tender for these works in October to select an agency or a contractor that will take care of the maintenance of parks, green belts and other green areas across the city. We are likely to hire the agency by end of November to start the work at the ground,” said Deep Chandar, additional chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority.The authority had awarded 10 works related with horticulture department with a budget of ₹24 crore last month. The authority’s chief executive officer has also directed the staff to make sure that all contractors, who work for these projects, must display their names, mobile numbers and other details on a board to be put at the park, green belt or other site, where the particular work has been done.“This is to be done to give an opportunity to residents to know who has done the maintenance of green belt, park or other green areas. If not satisfied with the maintenance work, then they can complain and get the issue resolved,” said Chandar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/greater-noida-to-hire-contractor-for-13-crore-horticulture-work-by-nov-end/story-AuTsnM65s6a38NgLf8VS0J.html
03-11-2020||Noida||Create wetland in six months to clean Kondli drain: CPCB tells UP||NOIDA: The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has asked the Uttar Pradesh irrigation department to create a wetland in six months to clean waste water of Kondli drain, one of the major sources of pollution of river Yamuna in Delhi-NCR.The irrigation department in August this year had proposed to create six wetlands at different sites of the 17.1km drain that cuts Noida into two parts and finally merges with Yamuna at Sector 168. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) in February had ordered in-situ treatment of the drain jointly by the UP irrigation department and the Noida authority. The green tribunal had passed the order after the CPCB suggested that such a treatment can clean the waste water of this drain that is also polluting the groundwater in the city.“In continuation to NGT order, the UP irrigation department said that it wants to create six wetlands to clean waste water of the drain. We have asked the department that first, as a pilot project, they should create one wetland in six months. If this works out well, then it can work on remaining five wetlands too,” said Vishal Gandhi, scientist with CPCB.The irrigation department said that it will issue a tender to start work on this project soon. “We have discussed the plan with the Noida authority after CPCB instructions. As a pilot project, we have decided to develop the first wetland near Sector 50 at this drain to clean waste water. We will implement the NGT order and work as per the directions in this regard. The tender will be issued at the earliest after completion of formalities,” said Davendra Thakur, executive engineer of UP irrigation department.The Noida authority has already sanctioned ₹6.5 crore for this project. “We will fund this project and the irrigation department will be executing the same,” said Avinash Tripathi, officer on special duty, Noida authority. However, the authority may have to increase the budget for this project because CPCB has suggested some changes in the proposal submitted by the irrigation department.CPCB has suggested that while creating a wetland, the irrigation department must keep in mind some things like organic loading of drain, hydraulic retention and monsoon period, among other ecological issues.Residents have been demanding that the drain should be cleaned as it causes pollution in many residential areas that include sectors 11, 12, 22, 23, 23, 33, 34, 35, 50, 51, 77, 78, 137 and 168, among others. In November 2018, a petition was filed in NGT in this regard. “CPCB has further suggested removal of deposited silt in space between gabions. We hope that once this plan is implemented, the waste water of this drain will be cleaned. It will make major impact on the ecology of Noida as the unclean drain is also polluted the groundwater,” said Abhisht Gupta, petitioner in this case and a resident of Sector 137. The 20km-long Kondli drain originates from Kondli village in Delhi and enters Noida (via Ghaziabad) near Hari Darshan police post in Sector 11. After travelling in Noida for about 17km through sectors 11, 12, 22, 50, 92 and 168, it empties into the Yamuna near Chak Mangrola in Sector 168.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/create-wetland-in-six-months-to-clean-kondli-drain-cpcb-tells-up/story-bjEHWVPPbpgbJY6MQQVuaM.html
03-11-2020||Noida||With rise in wind speed, Noida, Ghaziabad see decline in pollution levels||Ghaziabad: Monday gave the residents of Gautam Budh Nagar a breather from the heavily polluted days the district has been experiencing since more than a week, with the air quality coming down slightly due to the dispersal of pollutants.Weather experts attributed the dispersal to wind speeds picking up, which they said is likely to stay till November 4.According Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB)’s data, the air quality index (AQI) of Noida was 299 on Monday, just about enough to make it to the “poor” category, however, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad were at 310 and 355 on Monday, respectively, still inside the “very poor”. While Noida and Greater Noida’s AQI on Monday was the lowest the two cities have seen in the past 11 days, Ghaziabad’s AQI on Monday was its lowest in past six days; on October 23, Noida and Greater Noida were at 369 and 381 on the AQI scale, respectively, while Ghaziabad, on October 28 was at 317 on the AQI scale. Noida’s AQI on Sunday had reached the upper echelons of the “very poor” category with a reading of 384.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”. “The average wind speed on Monday stood in the range of 12-15 kmph and helped in speedier dispersal of pollutants. Wind speed is likely to remain the same for the next two days, until November 4,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, New Delhi. Meanwhile the Sanjay Nagar monitoring station is proving to be a challenge for Ghaziabad authorities, which remained under the “severe” category on Monday as well as Sunday. Officials of the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) said that this could be the result of scant water sprinkling nearby.“The “severe” AQI level could be the result of inadequate water sprinkling on Sunday at pollution sources near the monitoring station. We have observed that AQI deteriorated during the peak hour timings when there is a rush of vehicles owing to the festive season. This could be one of the reasons for the deterioration,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of the UPPCB. “On the other hand, water sprinkling activities have also been intensified at the Loni monitoring station, where the AQI came down to the “very poor” category on Monday, as compared to the “severe” category on Sunday,” he added.The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), a private weather forecasting agency, in a bulletin Monday said that improved wind conditions led to better ventilation during the night, which was so far limited to the day time.“A marginal deterioration is forecasted for November 3 and 4 towards the middle of the “very poor” category. However, the Safar synergised stubble fire counts over Punjab, Haryana, UP, Uttarakhand and neighbouring areas impacting Delhi air stood at 3,045 yesterday (Sunday). The stubble burning share in PM 2.5 has significantly decreased and is estimated as 16% for today (Monday),” the Safar forecast added. On Sunday, the contribution of stubble-burning to PM2.5 levels in the Delhi region this season’s high of 40% but declined to 16% on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/with-rise-in-wind-speed-noida-ghaziabad-see-decline-in-pollution-levels/story-05PzgN4CFviAbOWVttcPOM.html
03-11-2020||Noida||43 big construction sites install CCTV cameras for real-time monitoring in Noida and Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: At least 24 major construction sites in Ghaziabad and 19 in Noida have installed CCTV cameras on their premises for real-time monitoring by the UP Pollution Control Board (UPPCB). The measure has been taken up on directions of UPPCB for the 16 non-attainment cities in the state which have high levels of air pollution. The state pollution board had issued directions in September, asking big construction sites, having area of 20,000 square metres and above, to install CCTV cameras on their premises. Following the directions, 24 of 34 big construction sites in Ghaziabad have installed cameras and also handed over the control to the UPPCB’s regional office. In Noida, 19 such sites were identified and officials said that the work for handing over their control will be completed within this week as all the 19 sites have installed the cameras.“We have now received control of 24 sites in Ghaziabad. Of the rest 10, seven are shut at present while we have recommended penalty for one site where the cameras were not installed. Two other sites have been issued notices for three days after which we may recommend penalty if they fail to provide us control,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB at Ghaziabad. Apart from the construction sites, UPPCB had also directed all the air polluting units to install cameras facing their chimneys and provide their control to the regional officer. “Initially, the directions were given by us at local level, but later in October, the state pollution board gave directions for all polluting units to install cameras in 16 non-attainment cities. Since the directions were received late and the state board had given deadline of October 15, we have asked the units to get the work completed within this week. Else, we will recommend penalties against them. The units, which are shut at present, will also have to install cameras before they open up,” Sharma added. According to the officials, the Ghaziabad district has presence of about 290 air polluting units which use fuel such as wood and coal, and need to install cameras facing their chimneys so that emission can be monitored real-time during day or night. Most of the construction sites have installed cameras near the place of storage of construction material and the area where loading and unloading of construction material from vehicles is taken up. In Noida, the officials said that all the major construction sites have installed the cameras. “All sites have installed the cameras. We have only two air polluting units, of which one is shut. The other unit has installed the cameras,” said Praveen Kumar, regional officer of UPPCB at Noida. This is for the first time that UPPCB has given such directions for construction sites and air polluting units in order to keep an eye on emission. “This activity was long due. Now, it will prove helpful when it comes to monitoring and will also act as a deterrent. However, the controls of cameras should be placed under a dedicated 24x7 control room which should be monitored by dedicated staff and should also have fixed numbers for residents to lodge pollution related complaints,” said Akash Vashishtha, a Ghaziabad-based environmentalist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/43-big-construction-sites-install-cctv-cameras-for-real-time-monitoring-in-noida-and-ghaziabad/story-g61gerg3Kvh2oeep4cj6gL.html
03-11-2020||Mumbai||‘Discovery of new species from Mumbai’s Aarey Colony pushes need to protect entire green lung as forest’||One new animal species was discovered and a new record of one has been documented from the city’s recently designated forest area in Aarey Colony, Goregaon, while 17 other new species and records have been identified from Maharashtra in 2019, according to the ‘Animal Discoveries 2019’ annual report by the Zoological Survey of India (ZSI), under the Union environment ministry. Experts said the new species discoveries encouraged the state’s recent decision to declare Aarey a forest. Not just last year, but the 1,287-hectare (ha) green lung had witnessed six new discoveries and another five rediscoveries of spiders, scorpions and geckos over 10 years. Each of these discoveries has been published annually by ZSI.“The recent designation of Aarey as a forest is important as the commitment made to ensure the natural vegetation of any area remains protected automatically develops a network for the safety of the area’s biodiversity and livelihood. We expect more discoveries from this green lung in coming years,” said Kailash Chandra, director, ZSI.Around 25% of Aarey or 328.9 hectares was last month declared as a reserved forest by the Maharashtra government. The area will soon be made part of the Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) by the state. In 2019, a new species of jumping spider was discovered, identified as Jerzego sunillimaye. This was the first ever species of genus Jerzego, whose taxonomic details, mating behaviour, and egg development were documented. However, this was the fourth species under this genus in the world and second from India. The species was named to honour senior Maharashtra forest officer Sunil Limaye. The ZSI 2019 report also showed a new record from Aarey of an insect species (heptacarus neotropicus), originally described from France and recorded from Aarey last year. State environment minister Aaditya Thackeray, who led the move to declare Aarey a forest, said, “It is undoubtedly exciting that even in 2020 as we think we know everything about our environment, and we deal with a pandemic, we have so many species being newly described. These findings only tell us how less we still know about our own planet and nature. The good news is that the present Maharashtra government is pro-environment, working on sustainable development and we are committed to the cause.”Aarey has been identified to have the fourth-highest butterfly species diversity along the Western Ghats and in Maharashtra. Combined with this, a checklist of 48 species of reptiles and 12 amphibian species was collated by wildlife biologists and researchers — Zeeshan Mirza and Rajesh Sanap — to highlight the importance of Aarey’s biodiversity.The group had presented their records in 2019 in their attempt to save the green lung from proposed development.“Declaring Aarey a forest was crucial as in such ecosystems, every single component is essential right from a leopard to something as small as a spider or an insect,” said Sanap adding, “When the land is protected, these species are protected too, which gives us [as researchers] opportunities to keep working. Such policies will ensure that we are tackling environmental issues in a right way and that we put our environment above all else for our own benefit.”Researcher at National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS), Bengaluru Mirza said, “Saving an area as a forest in a place like Mumbai where the value of every square metre is so high and precious, is commendable. However, forest declaration is just the first step.There are specific conservation measures needed such as developing a nature interpretation centre, allowing focused accessibility, and involving locals through employment for eco-tourism to ensure this area remains protected.”Last month, the Maharashtra government also decided to move the Metro-3 car shed out of Aarey and shift it to Kanjurmarg. However, the fate of other projects such as the 32-storey Metro Bhavan, a slum rehabilitation project for SGNP encroachers across 90-acres, and the plan for a ramp (for Metro-3 connecting the underground metro to overhead Metro 6) are all yet to be decided by the state. “Discoveries at Aarey have not happened randomly. It is a natural process, which has taken millions of years for the coming up of this forest. Cutting trees and acquiring spaces for construction projects at this green lung followed by compensatory afforestation was always a cosmetic idea. Destroying biodiversity does not take much time but restoring it takes a lifetime,” said noted herpetologist Varad Giri, after whom a new gecko species (Giri’s geckoella) described to science was discovered from Aarey in 2016.Meanwhile, new species of geckos, frogs, spiders, and new records of insects and crabs were the highlights for Maharashtra in 2019, according to ZSI’s report. “Researchers from Maharashtra have been working hard and the state has been annually recording over 15 new species or records, which shows the abundant biodiversity in the state,” said Chandra.Wildlife researcher Tejas Thackeray, younger son of CM Uddhav Thackeray, said Maharashtra was emerging as a state where greener alternatives were being scouted for and implemented swiftly, such as shifting the Metro car shed from Aarey to Kanjurmarg, and most importantly declaring Aarey a protected area, forming a rich green patch even beyond the limits of SGNP.“As a naturalist, it gives me immense joy in seeing the state government take bold decisions, where conservation of wildlife and the environment is consistently prioritised without hampering the development that citizens need and deserve in a rapidly developing city and state,” said Thackeray, adding that for Aarey, it was simply about protecting a patch of land in the middle of a city like Mumbai, where a wide plethora of biodiversity already exists, known for prolifically producing new species annually. “With jerzego sunillimaye, a pretty tiny jumping spider being the latest addition, no other city will have such a long list of species in the world. Sampling and surveys across multi-taxas will surely reveal many more cryptic undescribed species. But for now, what makes me happy is that Luna, the stunning female leopard in Aarey, along with her cubs and all the tiny scorpions, spiders and geckos are safe,” said Thackeray.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/discovery-of-new-species-from-mumbai-s-aarey-colony-pushes-need-to-protect-entire-green-lung-as-forest/story-gBQfy0Nd1KA9GiW4yAgejK.html
03-11-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad: Armed bikers loot ₹1.3 lakh from collection agent||Ghaziabad: A 35-year-old cash collection agent was allegedly robbed of ₹1.3 lakh by two bike-borne armed men near Sector 7, Raj Nagar, on Monday morning. The incident took place around 10.30am when the victim, identified as Prashant Bhargava, completed several of his collections and was travelling on a motorcycle on railway road near Raj Nagar which has less movement of commuters, the police said, adding that an FIR was registered in the case at Kavi Nagar police station. Bhargava said that he had collected cash from several locations like Ghookhna, Sihani and Islam Nagar, among others, and went to the market at Sector 7 in Raj Nagar. “While coming from the market near the railway road in Raj Nagar, two men on a bike tried to snatch my bag after cornering me. The incident took place at a secluded spot and there were no commuters around. I resisted their attempt, but soon one of them snatched keys of my bike and the other pulled out a gun and pointed it towards me,” he said. “Once I saw the gun, I decided not to resist as they could have opened fire. In total, they took away ₹1.3 lakh in cash which was in the bag and also took away the keys of my bike,” Bhargava added. He said that he left his house at Golf Links high-rise around 9am and went to the market for cash collection and deposit. The police said that they have formed teams to track the suspects and also scanning CCTV cameras to get clues about the incident. “We have registered an FIR under IPC section 392 (robbery). Teams are investigating the case. The victim has given a complaint and mentioned that about ₹1.3 lakh was taken away,” said Nagendra Chaubey, SHO of Kavi Nagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-armed-bikers-loot-1-3-lakh-from-collection-agent/story-ybPPWDKAQbUKd7TEWN1PhI.html
03-11-2020||Noida||Woman booked in Greater Noida for husband’s death||Greater Noida: The police have registered a case of abetment to suicide against a woman for her husband’s alleged suicide in Sector Delta 1. The victim had died last week after recording a video recording in which he had stated he was taking his life due to “harassment” by his wife. Harish Chander, DCP, Noida Central, said the victim, 25, lived with his family in Sector Delta – 1 in Greater Noida. “He had married a Sangam Vihar-based woman in February 2019. The couple had a marital dispute since the beginning of their marriage,” he said.The victim, in the video, had alleged that his wife told him that she was forced into the marriage by her parents. “She put up a lot of allegations against me and made my life measurable. She wanted separation and divorce from me. I do not want to live anymore,” he alleged in the video. Police said the victim died on October 26. The victim’s family filed a complaint against his wife at the Surajpur police station. Chander said based on the complaint filed by the victim’s family, a case of abetment to suicide under Section 306 of the IPC was registered in Surajpur. “We have recently found the victim’s video. We are investigating the matter from all angles,” Chander said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/woman-booked-in-greater-noida-for-husband-s-death/story-F2Lz63c0uKWHoHZPxZbEPL.html
03-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Sion Hospital to start phase-3 trials of first indigenous Covid vaccine||The Lokmanya Tilak General Hospital, also known as Sion Hospital, will soon start phase-3 clinical trials of India’s indigenous Covid-19 vaccine—COVAXINTM. As many as 1,000 volunteers between the age of 18 and 60 years will participate in the trial. Currently, King Edward Memorial (KEM) and BYL Nair hospitals are running clinical trials on the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine— Covishield.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) selected Sion Hospital for the trial of COVAXINTM, a proposal for which has been submitted to the ethics committee of the hospital for the final approval. Dr NT Awad, head of pulmonary medicine at the hospital, said, “We have been selected for the third phase of the national trial. We are really proud that our hospital has been selected for the first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine. The volunteers will be followed up for 12 months as per rules.”As per the official website of Bharat Biotech, the vaccine is developed in a BSL-3 (Bio-Safety Level 3) high-containment facility. The vaccine received Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) approval for phase I and II human clinical trials, which commenced across India in July.“After successful completion of the interim analysis from phase 1 and 2 clinical trials of COVAXINTM, Bharat Biotech received DCGI approval for phase-3 clinical trials in 26,000 participants in over 25 centres across India,” read the website.The trial will be conducted on 1,000 volunteers, of which 20% will have co-morbidities, while 5% will comprise health workers. “The remaining 75% will be healthy volunteers. All volunteers will have to undergo RT-PCR and antibody tests before being qualified for the trial,” said Dr Awad. The third phase will have two stages. After 28 days of the first vaccination, the volunteers will be given the second vial. “Every month, we will follow up on them. If any of them develop any symptoms of Covid-19, they will be immediately tested for the virus,” added Dr Awad. Nair Hospital gives vaccine to another 48 volunteers As HT reported earlier, Nair Hospital has sought ICMR approval to conduct trials of Covishield vaccine on additional volunteers. After the hospital was granted permission, another 48 volunteers have been given the vaccine till November 1. “So far, 148 people have participated in the trial. Earlier, it was 100 volunteers, but later, after getting approval of ICMR, we added 48 more individuals,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-sion-hospital-to-start-phase-3-trials-of-first-indigenous-covid-vaccine/story-Yp0wbyFcj8Kq4O25awK5AM.html
03-11-2020||Mumbai||Working on expanding Mumbai’s power generation capacity: Energy minister Nitin Raut||Mumbai’s power generation capacity may be expanded in the next two to three years to meet its increasing power demand, state energy minister Nitin Raut said in a press conference after visiting Tata Power’s Trombay unit on Monday. Raut said Mumbai’s power generation capacity can be expanded to around 3,000MW-3,500MW in the coming years as the city is expected to have a power demand close to 5,000MW.He added that the expansion plans need a go-ahead from the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC). Mumbai currently generates around 1,800MW power, while the rest is procured from outside the city. Mumbai’s peak-hour demand is close to 2,800MW. “Apart from looking at how to increase power generation capacity, we are also looking at how to reduce tariff and improve Mumbai’s islanding system,” he said.The minister also said that Mumbaiites can expect some relief on the inflated bills they received during lockdown. “We have sent a proposal to the state finance department. Mumbaiites will get good news during Diwali,” he said.Lakhs of consumers had complained about receiving inflated bills during lockdown, following which the state was planning a rebate scheme for the months of April, May and June.Raut is visiting various power units following the massive power outage that brought Mumbai to a standstill on October 12. The state has set up a committee to probe the incident. Raut said the report will be submitted to the chief minister soon. The state will also take a decision on giving 100 units of free power soon, he said. Raut will be visiting the Adani Electricity Management Institute in Goregaon on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/working-on-expanding-mumbai-s-power-generation-capacity-energy-minister-nitin-raut/story-454YWsMCDCzuCuCyWQkDdN.html
03-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai records 12°C variation in day-night temperatures; Doctors warn of rise in flu cases||The city recorded a gap of almost 12 degrees Celsius between day and night temperatures on Monday, with some areas in the suburbs recording a variation of as much as a 15 degrees.Doctors said this temperature variability could lead to health ailments such as seasonal flu, cause a spike in swine flu cases, and could create confusion among doctors and patients as the symptoms of seasonal flu are similar to those of Covid-19.On Monday, the Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, recorded a maximum temperature of 35 degrees Celsius, which was almost 2 degrees above normal. The minimum temperature was 23.4 degrees Celsius, close to the normal mark. A similar trend (12-13 degree Celsius difference) has been observed in day and night temperatures over the past three days. The gap was much lesser (8.5 degrees Celsius) for the Colaba weather observatory, representative of south Mumbai, as the day temperature was 33.6 degrees Celsius and the night temperature was 25 degrees Celsius on Monday.Location-wise, at 19.3 degrees Celsius, Kandivli reported the lowest in Mumbai on Monday, which later rose to a maximum of 30 degrees Celsius. Borivli recorded 20 and 35 degrees Celsius as the minimum and maximum temperatures, respectively. “The wind pattern [northeasterly] is creating a drop in day temperatures, while higher temperatures are recorded in the evening due to warmer westerly to southwesterly winds. Such variability is common in October, and the rise or fall from the normal temperature has not been much,” said Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director-general, India Meteorological Department (IMD).However, doctors are concerned that such fluctuating temperatures provide a suitable environment for seasonal pathogens to thrive. “Thus, people start developing fever and cough. This kind of weather also leads to the rise of swine flu cases,” said Dr Gautam Bhansali, consultant physician at Bombay Hospital. “This may create confusion among doctors and patients as seasonal flu symptoms are similar to those of Covid-19. People need to be extra cautious and consult doctors immediately.”Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of BYL Nair Hospital, said, “People might assume the Covid-19 infection is a general flu, which might delay the treatment and cause its spread to others. Also, people need to keep themselves adequately hydrated.”Meanwhile, the air quality index (AQI) improved on Monday to 132 (moderate) from Sunday’s 156 (moderate). Researchers said it was due to a marginal rise in wind speed.The weather bureau has issued a forecast for clear skies for Tuesday, with day and night temperatures expected to be 33 and 23 degrees Celsius, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-12-c-variation-in-day-night-temperatures-doctors-warn-of-rise-in-flu-cases/story-6sfBlnDDv2dkmh1QhIdteN.html
03-11-2020||Chandigarh||Resurvey sewage discharge points along seasonal rivulets in 3 days: NGT tells Chandigarh MC||In a bid to stop pollutants from entering the Ghaggar River, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Monday directed the municipal corporation to resurvey places from where sewage was still being discharged into the Sukhna Choe and N-Choe, which merge into the river near Zirakpur, in three days.It also set a deadline of a month for the UT administration to complete phytoremediation (plantation of trees) around the seasonal rivulets.An NGT-appointed panel gave the directions during a review meeting that was attended by officers of the UT administration, municipal corporation and Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC).In its report to the NGT panel, the CPCC, said sewage was being discharged into the rivulets at six places. In Sukhna Choe waste was being discharged at the Kishangarh outlet, Shastri Nagar outlet, Daria village outlet, and the pump house being operated by the MC behind Central Poultry Development Organisation in Industrial Area, Phase-I.The N-Choe was being contaminated at the Garden of Springs and Sector 36, near the Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL).MC commissioner KK Yadav, who also attended the meeting, said, “A joint team of MC and CPCC officials will assess the situation. Three of the leakages have already been rectified. The remaining will be remedied too.” The MC has repaired the damaged sewer line in Daria village.The CPCC had surveyed the N-Choe recently and discovered that discharge from untreated sewage from Mohali area mixes with the N-Choe at the Garden of Springs outlet and pollutes the drainWork delayed: Observes NGT“Observing that the work should have been completed by now, the NGT panel directed the UT engineering department to finish the work within a month and do it properly, meeting all the scientific requirements,” said Debendra Dalai, member-secretary, CPCC.In its August 2019 order, the NGT had directed the UT administration to undertake in-situ phytoremediation around the two rivulets and tributaries of the Ghaggar river.Phytoremediation is a bio-remediation process that uses a variety of plants to remove, transfer, stabilise, and destroy contaminants in soil and groundwater.The department has planted around 3,500 to 4,000 trees along the N-Choe and Sukhna Choe.The engineering department was also asked to speed up the process of installing real-time water quality monitoring stations on the two rivulets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/resurvey-sewage-discharge-points-along-seasonal-rivulets-in-3-days-ngt-tells-chandigarh-mc/story-vZWJgveLg4Zu2ycttkT0xH.html
03-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra seals Rs34,850-cr deals to bring in jobs||The Maharashtra government on Monday signed memoranda of understanding (MoUs) with 15 national and international firms, which are expected to bring investment of ₹34,850 crore to the state and create 23,182 job opportunities.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said the state has set a target of bringing in investment of ₹1 lakh crore. “This is just a beginning. We have to bring investment of over ₹1 lakh crore in the near future. Of this, investment of ₹35,000 crore is happening today. Maharashtra will come out strong from the pandemic crisis,” said Thackeray at the event where MoUs were signed by representatives of firms and senior state officials. “Today’s signing of MoUs indicates unity in diversity. Firms related to chemicals, data centres, logistics and manufacturing sector are eager to invest here. Maharashtra is going to become an important destination for data centres as well,” he said. The firms that signed MoUs are Mitsubishi Electric India Pvt Limited, Mantra Data Centres, ESR India Investment Holdings. Adani Enterprises Ltd, Malpani Warehousing & Industrial Park, Netmagic Solutions IT Services Pvt Limited, Bright Sino Holdings Pvt Limited, STT Global Data Centres India Pvt Limited, Oriental Aromatic, Data Center Holdings India LLP, Evermint Logistics, Pareba Logistics Park, Ishvara Logistics Park, Princeton Digital Group, Nxtra Data Ltd.In June, the state government had signed MoUs worth around ₹17,000 with 12 firms while inaugurating Magnetic Maharashtra 2.0, a second instalment of the February 2018 global investors summit. Thackeray said 60% of the companies had completed the necessary steps and some plots have also been allotted. Others are expected to be allotted land soon. “Investors coming to Maharashtra even when pandemic was at peak shows that they trust the state government and vice versa,” said Thackeray.State industries minister Subhash Desai said, “Maharashtra has been at the forefront when it comes to investment. Even during the pandemic, firms from various countries chose to come to the state. We will again prove that Maharashtra is the most preferred destination for investment in the country.”MoUs with Chinese firms on holdThe state government on Monday clarified that MoUs worth over ₹5,000 crore, inked with three Chinese firms in June, are on hold as the Centre is yet to announced its policy on investment from China. The firms are Hengli (₹250 crore), Great Wall Motors (₹3,770 crore) and PMI Electro Mobility Solutions, a joint venture with Foton (₹ 1,000 crore). “The MoUs are still on hold and have not been scrapped. There has been no development on the issue as of now. The Central government had told us to wait for further instructions and we are waiting for Centre’s policy on the matter. Till then, we will not be taking any decision,” Desai told HT. The three Chinese firms are among the 12 with which the state signed MoUs in June. At around the same time, skirmishes between Indian and Chinese troops broke out in Ladakh. Following this, the state put the MoUs on hold and sought direction from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-seals-rs34-850-cr-deals-to-bring-in-jobs/story-w5ABLnnl5tCdO77pJChZIN.html
03-11-2020||Delhi||Feel-good Baba ka Dhaba tale takes unsavoury turn||What began as a feel-good story about the internet and its social media Samaritans coming out to support a small local business has turned into a criminal investigation -- with a dash of alleged financial irregularity, and ostensibly a pinch of social media rivalry.Delhi Police on Monday began its probe into a case of alleged misappropriation of funds filed against a YouTube “influencer” by an elderly man who runs a roadside eatery, Baba ka Dhaba. The restaurant, run by Kanta Prasad, shot to fame last month after the influencer, Gaurav Wasan, highlighted how Prasad may run out business because his customers are staying away due to the coronavirus disease.The 11-minute-long YouTube video blog, posted on October 7, detailed how Prasad and his wife, Badami Devi, both apparently in their eighties, were in dire straits outside their tiny eatery in Malviya Nagar. Wasan’s video on his YouTube page was widely circulated, leading to 3 million views and drawing thousands of Delhi residents, and some celebrities, to Prasad’s shop to buy food and take selfies.A month later, the crowds outside Baba Ka Dhaba have vanished, and Prasad says that while large sums of money were collected for him from the public by Wasan, he is yet to get a single penny. The charges were first made by a bunch of other users on YouTube, who made videos to allege that Wasan siphoned off the money and conned the elderly couple. These videos were widely circulated, raking up millions of views. One such YouTube blogger, who identified himself as Lakshay Chaudhary, said he had met fellow blogger Eluish Yadav and discussed the case. Both Yadav and Chaudhary made videos charging Wasan with misappropriation of funds. Chaudhary said there were many bloggers who were scamming citizens and not handing the funds to people in need. Delhi Police officers privy to the case bloggers who first made the charges against Wasan public seem to know each other and made the allegations against Wasan together. . Wasan did not respond to calls and text messages seeking his response but released what he claimed were his bank statements to claim innocence. Prasad filed a police complaint last week, accusing Wasan of cheating him. Delhi Police are yet to register a first Investigation report (FIR) in the case, but an officer privy to the details said they were likely to summon both Prasad and Wasan for questioning this week.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Thakur said they are looking into Prasad’s allegations and counterclaims by Wasan, who has denied any wrongdoing.In his complaint, Prasad alleged that Wasan shot a video of his stall Baba Ka Dhaba on October 7 after “inducing” him to promote his business as they were not making any money. Prasad said Wasan posted the video on his social media company account “Swad Official”, and convinced public through social media to donate money to the couple and help them in running the business.Prasad contended that he not received any money from the donations collected, and alleged that Wasan and his associates used their own bank accounts to collect the money, which they have now pocketed.When asked how much money was raised through donations, Prasad said he was not certain about the amount. Wasan did not respond to queries seeking a comment.Wasan released a video on October 28 in which he denied all allegations. Wasan said that contrary to reports on social media, he received only around ₹3 lakh in his account. Wasan said he had given the money to Prasad and also attached a clip, which showed him handing what appeared to be a cheque to Prasad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/feel-good-baba-ka-dhaba-tale-takes-unsavoury-turn/story-znSyXjiZUgxFeThO56EeUK.html
03-11-2020||Delhi||Teachers can’t suffer in tiff between govt, colleges: Delhi high court||The Delhi High Court on Monday observed that teachers cannot be allowed to suffer in the blame game between the Delhi government and Delhi University colleges. Hearing a plea filed by the Delhi University Students Union (DUSU) that has challenged the AAP government’s order asking 12 Delhi University colleges to pay outstanding salaries to staffers from the Students Society Fund (SSF), the court told the union’s counsel to make all 12 colleges parties in the case and to refused to pass any order in their absence.On October 16, the Delhi government had told the 12 colleges fully funded by it to pay the salaries of more than 1,500 staff—teaching and non-teaching—from the students fund and directed that the amount should be released within two weeks.The state government’s order was challenged by DUSU, following which the Delhi High Court stayed the order on October 23. Justice Navin Chawla, while issuing notice, transferred the matter to the court of Justice Jyoti Singh where similar cases were pending. On Monday, Justice Jyoti Singh asked the DUSU counsel to make all 12 colleges parties in the case. The court said Delhi University is the guardian of its colleges and it is its responsibility to put things in order and solve issues.“The colleges should be made a party. In this blame game, teachers cannot be allowed to suffer. Where should teachers go then?...I am wondering and amazed that colleges that should be made first party are not made a party at all,” the judge said, adding it would be unfair to pass any order in the absence of colleges.Appearing for the Delhi government, its counsel told the court that the stay granted on October 23 should be vacated as the colleges were not present in the hearing. He said since the court is seeking the presence of all the 12 colleges, the stay order cannot be sustained because the colleges have not been heard.The court, however, said even if there is force in the argument, it will not pass any order at this stage.Advocate Jivesh Tiwari, who represented DUSU, sought some time, following which the matter was listed for November 5.Advocate Aakanksha Kaul, appearing for Delhi University, said it is supporting the students’ petition and that the students’ fund cannot be used for paying salaries of teachers and it will amount to cheating the pupils.The high court asked the DU counsel to take instructions on the issue of funds and grants from the higher authorities and inform the court about it on the next date of hearing.The students’ union said that such arbitrary and illegal usage of the money raised by students for their academic welfare had forced the petitioner to move court.The plea said the directorate of higher education directed the 12 colleges, which are 100% funded by the Delhi government, to utilise the Students Society Fund (SSF) to pay salaries.The 12 colleges are Acharya Narendra Dev College, Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar College, Bhaskaracharya College of Applied Sciences, Bhagini Nivedita College, DeenDayal Upadhyaya College, Aditi Mahavidyalaya Women’s College, Indira Gandhi Institute of Physical Education & Sports Sciences, Keshav Mahavidyalaya, Maharaja Agrasen College (DU), Maharshi Valmiki College of Education, Shaheed Rajguru College of Applied Sciences for Women and Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/students-can-t-suffer-in-tiff-between-govt-colleges-delhi-high-court/story-5YpanFNjV9t0kQ2Mi3IEcJ.html
03-11-2020||Mumbai||Submit proposal to declare Panje a wetland: Bombay HC panel to Raigad collector||After numerous exchanges between environmentalists and the state government on whether or not Panje area in Uran is a wetland, the Raigad district administration will finally undertake a survey to demarcate the site as a wetland.The state wetland and mangrove grievance redressal committee appointed by the Bombay high court (HC), during a meeting on Monday, directed the Raigad collector to submit a proposal to the state environment department for the declaration of Panje as a wetland.“The decision pertains to Panje and all such areas along the Konkan coast which have wetland-like features or have already been identified in the National Wetland Atlas, Maharashtra. They need to be surveyed, protected and declared as wetlands, with proposals to be submitted before the state environment department. This is a standing instruction issued to all district collectors and civic bodies,” said Annasaheb Misal, Konkan commissioner and chairman of the HC panel, adding that the district administration had been further directed to ensure no construction was undertaken on site.Raigad collector Nidhi Choudhari confirmed that a proposal would be submitted to the state after site verifications for Panje as well as Bhendkhal and Belpada areas in Uran. “We will ensure no construction takes place in any of these areas,” she said.oApart from being a revenue source for the local fishing community, Panje is a destination for thousands of migratory birds and an ecologically sensitive area visited by countless ornithologists and bird enthusiasts. However, the City Industrial Development Corporation Ltd (Cidco) and Navi Mumbai Special Economic Zone (NMSEZ) plan to build an integrated township at Panje and other areas in Dronagiri, Uran.Pramod Patil, nodal officer (environment) Cidco, said, “A committee headed by the Raigad collector, range forest officer (Uran), revenue officer (Uran), and myself will visit Panje, Bhendkhal and Belpada to check whether these three areas have wetland features. The site visit date is yet to be decided.”The latest move comes after repeated complaints of debris dumping, mangrove destruction and cutting off high-tide water to dry the area. Environmentalists from Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishthan and NatConnect Foundation had on Sunday filed a fresh complaint that Panje had turned dry. “The local police have been directed to ensure that the sluice gates providing high-tide water to Panje remain open at all times as per the Konkan commissioner’s direction,” said Neenu Somraj, member secretary of the HC panel.Police personnel told the HC panel on Monday that 46 cases of mangrove and wetland destruction across Thane, Navi Mumbai and Uran had been filed, of which investigations and first information reports (FIRs) had been filed in 44 cases, and pending in two. “The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board, which was not present during Monday’s meeting, has been directed to file charge sheets in all cases as mandated under the Environment Protection Act, 1986, and present them before the Bombay HC,” said Somraj.Member of the committee, environmentalist Stalin D suggested that a special environment monitoring committee be constituted to check wetland and mangrove destruction cases in Uran. “We will examine the feasibility of a taluka-level committee as a district committee already exists,” said Misal.“The HC panel meeting on Monday was one of the most fruitful meetings that this committee has had and the commissioner’s proactive approach will help Konkan wetlands from needless destruction,” said Stalin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/submit-proposal-to-declare-panje-a-wetland-bombay-hc-panel-to-raigad-collector/story-0RfrBoqyPZ23scg5ACrQ0H.html
03-11-2020||Delhi||Govt hospital work to scale up ICU beds in view of surge in Covid-19 cases||With the number of cases of Covid-19 cases in the city continuing to spike, several Delhi government hospitals are working on adding non-invasive ventilation mechanisms to existing beds in their wards, with plans in place to accommodate up to 1,000 hospital admissions a day, senior officials said on Monday. The plans will be implemented as the number of cases go up, the officials added.Currently, 68% of the over 3,000 intensive care unit (ICU) beds — with and without ventilators — are occupied, according to the government’s ‘Delhi Corona’ app, with the number of admissions on the rise. On average, over 5,800 Covid-19 patients were admitted in Delhi hospitals during the last week. In comparison, the average hospitalisation the week that before had been 5,171, according to data shared by the Delhi government.The 2,000-bed Lok Nayak hospital, the largest Covid-19 facility in Delhi, has added around 200 more ICU beds over the last 15 days. “With most mild to moderate Covid-19 patients preferring home isolation, those who do come to the hospitals are mostly in need of oxygen support and monitoring. So, we have increased the number of intensive care or high-dependence unit beds over the last 15 days,” a senior doctor from the hospital said.To do so, the ward beds in the hospital have been fitted specialised high-flow oxygen nasal cannula (a tube used to deliver oxygen at high speed to the patient) or Bipap machines (Bilevel Positive Airway Pressure, which uses a mask to deliver oxygen). With a total of 430 “ICU beds” the hospital has reached its capacity.“This is our maximum capacity at the hospital, but the government is working on increasing the ICU beds in other government and private hospitals,” the doctor said.A committee headed by NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul had said Delhi should prepare for 15,000 new daily infections during the winters.Of the 500 beds at Rajiv Gandhi Superspeciality hospital in Tahirpur, 400 have already been converted into such make-shift ICU beds. Of the total 400 “ICU beds”, 200 have ventilators that can be used as a Bipap machine, 140 have Bipap machines, and the rest have high flow nasal oxygen support. “We are trying to convert 50 more beds into such ICU beds as that is what majority of the patients need,” said a senior official from the hospital administration.At Guru Teg Bahadur hospital, which currently has 168 ICU beds, the beds will be increased as per availability of staff. “To run ICU beds, we need more doctors and nurses. And, they have to be trained in handling such critical patients. Subject to availability of staff, the number of such beds will be increased,” said a doctor from the hospital.The government has also created a reserve stock of liquid oxygen. “There is enough liquid oxygen in store in case more ICU beds need to be created. In addition, all Delhi government hospitals were asked to remain prepared and purchase anything that needed during the previous surge, so any hospital can be converted into a Covid-19 hospital within a day,” said a senior official from the Delhi government.“The Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Covid-19 centre in South Delhi also has a good ICU capacity,” the official added. The make-shift hospital in Chhattarpur set up and staffed by the army has 250 beds of which currently 10 are operational. “With most patients staying in home isolation, a majority of the facility remains vacant,” said an official from the centre.To increase ICU beds in the private sector, the government had in September ordered 33 major hospitals to reserve 80% of their total ICU capacity for Covid-19 patients. The order has been challenged in the Delhi high-court.“When the first surge had happened in Delhi in June, the committee had predicted a huge case load. The government had started working on putting in place 30,000 Covid-19 beds. Currently, there are about 15,000 beds in the city, of which over 9,000 remain vacant still. In case, the need arises the government already has a plan in place to scale up to 30,000 beds. This includes beds in banquet halls – which is a facility between hospitals and home isolation – where patients who are fairly stable but need oxygen support can be admitted freeing more critical care beds in the hospital,” said Dr Arun Gupta, president, Delhi Medical Council and one of the members of the committee. “We had added about 1,000 ICU beds one month ago. Today, there are 2,900 ICU beds available in Delhi, of which over 1,200 are empty. We had also directed some private hospitals to reserve 80% of their ICU beds for Covid-19. That matter is in court now,” Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain had said in a press briefing on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/govt-hospital-work-to-scale-up-icu-beds-in-view-of-surge-in-covid-cases/story-M5jyP8ppsc1Z0Py46B3j2M.html
03-11-2020||Delhi||Bus operations at Delhi’s ISBTs to begin today||Interstate bus services are set to resume in Delhi from Tuesday as the three interstate bus terminals (ISBTs) in the national Capital will be thrown open to the public after being shut more than seven months because of Covid-19 restrictions. The number of buses coming from different states, however, will be capped at 50% of pre-Covid times.Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot on Monday reviewed preparations made ahead of the resumption of interstate services and asked officials to ensure strict compliance of the standard operating procedure (SOP).The three ISBTs at Kashmere Gate, Sarai Kale Khan and Anand Vihar used to cater to 3,500 trips of interstate buses and 2,000 trips of local buses every day before the lockdown. This will be the first time interstate bus travel will be allowed in Delhi since the lockdown was imposed in the city on March 21 to arrest the spread of Covid-19.The states that run their buses to and from Delhi include Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Haryana and Chandigarh.According to the SOP prepared by the Delhi government, the interstate buses will be sanitised by the respective depots of bus operators at the point of origin and before their departure from the respective ISBTs. Thermal checking of both passengers and the bus crew at boarding and at the point of entry to ISBTs will be must. It will be mandatory for passengers to wear face masks. Buses will run to their seating capacity and no standing passengers will be allowed. Social distancing will be ensured at the ground station, at the time of boarding of passengers and inside the bus, as per government guidelines. Social distancing will be done through markers on the ground and waiting areas, similar to the ones in all buses and the metro.“In addition to these, testing camps for rapid/ RT-PCR tests have been set up at all three ISBTs in case any asymptomatic passenger shows signs of illness after thermal screening. The safety of both passengers and staff and crew are of utmost priority to us,” the minister said. “We’ve been carefully monitoring patterns of travelling since we resumed bus services. Even though inter-state travel is a challenge, we are ensuring sanitisation at every point. Apart from this, regular announcements and sensitisation of passengers about Covid-19 precautions through audio-visual communication is also being made. There will be a strict ban on the use of gutka, tobacco products, etc., in the ISBT premises,” the minister said.The decision to reopen the ISBTs was taken on October 23 in a Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) meeting chaired by lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal. But before the onset of the pandemic, the three ISBTs saw a combined footfall of over 250,000 every day. At least 3,467 buses from various states would ply through these ISBTs every day.The state government has also allowed Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and cluster buses to operate at full seating capacity, but no passenger will be allowed to stand and travel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bus-operations-at-delhi-s-isbts-to-begin-tuesday/story-3peya2AtAOuUFodJGRAXFI.html
03-11-2020||Delhi||AAP attacks MCDs over non-payment of dues to municipal teachers||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday demanded that the three BJP-ruled civic bodies must immediately release the salaries of teachers in the MCD schools who are protesting against non-payment of their dues.Party’s incharge of MCD affairs Durgesh Pathak said despite the fact that the Delhi government had released money to the civic bodies to pay salaries, the municipal bodies have not paid the teachers. “The Delhi government has released all funds pertaining to the salary of teachers till the month of October. The government had given Rs 175 crore to the East DMC, Rs 344 crore to North DMC and Rs 227 crore to South DMC. In total, the Delhi government has released approximately Rs 746 crore to the three MCDs. When all payments have been duly made from our side, why have the salaries not been processed yet? Why are your employees struggling to meet their daily needs? Where did the money go? This points to only one thing that BJP has used this money to fill its own pockets,” said Pathak.Responding to the allegations, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said that for the last 4-5 months, the Delhi government and the AAP have been speaking about the MCDs with a “clear political bias”. “They are levelling baseless allegations nowadays only to remain in the limelight till the MCD elections take place in the year 2022. Half of the current financial year is gone, but municipal corporations do not have even one third of their annual budget from the Delhi government. On the one hand, the Delhi government is crippling municipal corporations by stalling municipal funds and on the other hand, AAP is trying to politically damage BJP’s image by levelling baseless allegations against MCDs and their leaders,” Kapoor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-attacks-mcds-over-non-payment-of-dues-to-municipal-teachers/story-RUnZJxfZTGszva4HTuwleM.html
03-11-2020||Delhi||Neighbouring states living in denial over effecs of farm fires on Delhi pollution: Gopal Rai||A day after the contribution of stubble fires to the pollution load in Delhi’s air touched the season’s highest on Sunday at 40%, Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai accused the governments in the neighbouring states of living in denial while urging the Centre to find a lasting solution to the problem.  “We have been repeatedly saying that stubble burning is a major reason behind severe levels of pollution in Delhi around Diwali, but BJP and the Congress say the share of farm fires in Delhi’s pollution was just 4 to 6%, whereas statistics show it has increased to 40%,” Rai said.He said the Delhi government has been doing everything possible to curb biomass burning, and vehicular and dust pollution, “but what should we do about stubble burning?” Last year, the stubble contribution to Delhi’s pollution peaked to 44% on November 1.Rai urged the Centre to take immediate steps to deal with the alarming situation. “I request the Central government to take some action rather than just making a commission, because pollution combined with the current pandemic can cause catastrophic consequences for the people of Delhi,” he said.According to Punjab Pollution Control Board, the state has recorded 33,165 farm fire incidents this season so far, while Haryana has reported 6,034 farm fires during the period.Air quality in the national Capital slightly improved on Monday, mostly because of better wind speed, to settle in the ‘poor’ zone of the ambient air quality index after remaining in the ‘very poor’ category for four consecutive days. The average AQI of Delhi was recorded at 293 on Monday compared to 364. Thermal imaging by NASA’s satellite showed a large, dense cluster of fire dots covering Punjab and parts of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. According to the ministry of earth sciences air quality monitor, Safar, “Improved wind conditions, along with weak night time surface inversion have led to better ventilation during the night as well which was so far limited to the day. A marginal deterioration is forecast for November 3 and 4 towards the middle of the very poor category.” The India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) early warning system for Delhi said the predominant surface wind is likely to be blowing from the northwest direction of Delhi with wind speeds going up to 10-18 km per hour. For Tuesday, the wind speeds may be around 5-12 kmph with mainly clear sky and mist in the morning, it said. Air blowing from northwest brings in pollution from the stubble fires in the neighbouring agrarian states. The city recorded a minimum temperature of 10.8 degrees Celsius, the lowest in the season so far.Calm winds and low temperatures trap pollutants close to the ground, while favourable wind speed helps in their dispersion.According to the IMD, the city’s ventilation index – a product of mixing depth and average wind speed – was around 12,000 meter square per second on Monday – was favourable for dispersion of pollutants on Monday.Mixing depth is the vertical height in which pollutants are suspended in the air. It reduces on cold days with calm wind speed. A ventilation index lower than 6,000 sqm/second, with the average wind speed less than 10 kmph, is unfavourable for dispersal of pollutants.NGT on crackersThe National Green Tribunal on Monday issued notices to the Union environment ministry and the state governments of Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan seeking their responses on whether use of fire crackers be banned from November 7-30 in the interest of public health and environment.A bench headed by NGT chairperson justice AK Goel sought response from MoEF, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), Delhi Pollution Control Committee, Delhi Police commissioner, besides the four governments. The NGT also appointed senior advocate Raj Panjwani and advocate Shibhani Ghosh to assist it as amicus curiae in the matter.The tribunal was hearing a plea by Indian Social Responsibility Network, filed through Santosh Gupta, seeking action against pollution due to burning of firecrackers in Delhi-NCR. “Use of green crackers will not remedy the situation. The smoke will choke and may create gas chamber like situation. It will lead to poor visibility, hazy conditions and asphyxia,” the plea said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/neighbouring-states-living-in-denial-over-effecs-of-farm-fires-on-delhi-pollution-gopal-rai/story-ZSEpp9NstVwFuf5YHvPmUL.html
03-11-2020||Delhi||Nursing staff at north MCD hospitals go on strike over pending salaries||Nursing staff of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation-run Kasturba, Hindu Rao, Girdharilal Maternity and Rajan Babu TB hospitals on Monday begun an indefinite strike against the non-payment of their salaries for the past three-four months. At Kasturba and Hindu Rao hospitals, OPD services, and registration and admission of new patients were hit due to strike. The hospital administration, however, said emergency services remained unaffected. Demanding pending salaries at the earliest, the employees threatened to completely stop all emergency services.“Today (Monday), we had a meeting with the north corporation mayor. He said our salaries will be paid by Diwali. But these are false promises and our strike will continue until salaries are credited in our accounts,” BL Sharma, president of the Kasturba Hospital Nurses’ Union, said.There are nearly 200 nursing and paramedical employees at Kasturba and nearly 70 at Girdharilal Maternity Hospital. At Hindu Rao, the number of such staff is around 350 and 180 at Rajan Babu TB Hospital. Nurses of north MCD hospitals have not been paid the salaries of August, September and October while other paramedic employees have not got wages since June this year.Doctors at Kasturba and Hindu Rao hospitals said OPD services and the registration of new patients were affected. No new patient was admitted on Monday. “In the morning, patients had to go to other hospitals. Some new patients were referred to Lady Hardinge hospital. Emergency services were not stopped completely as we managed with the help of contractual workers. But if this continues, problems may increase,” a doctor at Kasturba Hospital said on condition of anonymity.North Delhi mayor Jai Prakash said he was in touch with the employees. “I assured them that we are trying to get their at least two months’ salaries disbursed till Diwali. I requested them to call off the strike,” Prakash said.Primary teachers of north MCD schools also staged a protest near Bharatiya Janata Party Delhi chief Adesh Gupta’s residence in Patel Nagar to demand payment of salaries for the past four months. They plan a protest at Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence on Tuesday.“Our salaries for July, August, September and October are pending. It is now impossible to work without money. BJP is in power at the civic bodies and so we staged a protest at the Delhi BJP chief’s residence. He assured us of clearing two salaries in a fortnight,” Kuldeep Khatri, president Shikshak Nyay Manch Nagar Nigam, said.Delhi BJP chief, Gupta said, “Two out of four pending salaries of teachers will be disbursed before Diwali. The remaining will be paid after that,” Gupta said.Earlier in June, north corporation school teachers had staged a symbolic strike over pending salaries. They called off their stir after the civic body paid a month’s salary after the court’s intervention.Similarly, doctors of north MCD-run hospitals called off their strike last month after the civic body cleared their dues till September 2020. Salaries of paramedic and nursing staff were, however, paid till June 2020 and July 2020, respectively, which annoyed the workers and they went on strike.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nursing-staff-at-north-mcd-hospitals-go-on-strike-over-pending-salaries/story-ZqkrRn599FmhJXC3T4Nv3M.html
03-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi Police to seek funds to distribute hard copy of 17,000-page riots charge sheet to 15 accused||The Delhi Police has told a local court that it will have to get funds sanctioned from the Delhi government to supply the hard copies of the 17,000-page charge sheet to the 15 accused in the Delhi riots conspiracy case. The police submission came after the court ordered the investigating agency to supply the hard copy of the charge sheet to all accused. Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat said once the charge sheet has been filed by the investigating agency, as voluminous as it is, then with some alacrity, a hard copy has to be provided to every accused. It said that the agency might require sanction of funds for the purpose, however, they were supposed to act promptly.“In these circumstances, the court directs that the investigating agency shall provide the physical copy of the charge sheet and the accompanying documents to every accused person by next date, without fail. On the next date of hearing, DCP, Special Cell, shall also be present in the court,” the judge said in its order dated October 21.The court had on October 9 directed police to file fresh copies of the charge sheet after it was informed that they “have inadvertently” put a document in it which contained the details of some of the protected witnesses and its copies were supplied to the accused persons.It had directed the police to file fresh copies of the charge sheet redacting the details of the protected witnesses and supplying it to the 15 persons charge-sheeted in the case and their respective counsels.On October 21, the investigating officer told the court that he has submitted 16 new pen drives containing the redacted version of the charge sheet and accompanying documents in terms of the earlier order.The court directed that the accused and their counsel to be provided hard and soft copies of the fresh charge sheet.To this, the officer submitted that the sanction for funds for taking out the hard copies for every accused was to be obtained from the Delhi government and sought 15 days’ time.The court said, in its order passed on October 21,that it was not “impressed” by his submissions while directing that the documents be supplied at the earliest.The matter would be now heard today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-to-seek-funds-to-distribute-hard-copy-of-17-000-page-riots-charge-sheet-to-15-accused/story-HByM0aDCtBPLDbf4liOgMI.html
03-11-2020||Delhi||RWAs raise concern about relaxation in Covid norms in Delhi, write to Baijal, Kejriwal||Concerned over the renewed surge in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the Capital, resident welfare associations and civil society members have urged the Delhi lieutenant-governor (L-G) and the chief minister (CM) to exercise caution while relaxing norms during the festive season.In a letter to Delhi L-G Anil Baijal on Monday, which has been marked to CM Arvind Kejriwal, Save Our City campaign -- an association of civil society members, RWAs and experts -- have requested for a review of the Covid-related decisions and stricter enforcement of norms.More than 5,000 cases are being reported daily in Delhi in the past few days. On Sunday, Delhi recorded 5,664 new cases with a positivity rate of 12.69% and 51 deaths, taking the toll to 6,562, the government’s daily health bulletin said. On Monday, 4,001 new cases were recorded with a positivity rate of 10.91%.“We suggest a graded approach. The free flow and opening of all economic activity with no checks and balances sends a wrong signal to the populace, making them believe that things are under control, thus becoming careless. The Western world is again going into a lockdown. India cannot afford another economic shutdown. Therefore, necessary restrictions are needed to contain Covid,” read the letter.Neither the L-G nor the CM office responded to requests for a comment.Most Covid-related restrictions have been eased in Delhi. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) recently allowed more than 50 guests at weddings and Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) buses to run at full capacity. Inter-state bus terminals (ISBTs) in Delhi will also open from Tuesday after more than seven months. Last week, photographs of crowded Delhi markets where people were jostling for space were widely circulated on social media.In the festive season, RWAs say there is a need to have a set of protocols to contain the spread of the disease. Rajiv Kakria, convenor of Save Our City campaign said, “Markets are crowded, there is no social distancing, people are not wearing masks and there are no proper checks. Cases are on a rise and we are relaxing norms. There is a need to have proper checks and balances in place. It must be mandatory for traders or people engaging in economic activities with public interface to get RT-PCR tests done and display the certificates. The validity for the test has to be decided by the government.”In GK-I, Kakria said, they have made arrangements for the upcoming festival season but have asked vendors to get Covid test done. “We are getting the test done, as we don’t want to expose our residents to the infection,” said Kakria, a member of the GK-I RWA.The relaxation in norms, RWA members say, is sending a wrong signal to the public. The decision to relax norms should be made by a panel of experts, they argue. Pankaj Aggarwal, general secretary of Delhi RWA Joint Front, said, “It makes people feel that everything is fine and this is why the government is relaxing the norms. This will only make people more negligent. The World over, countries are enforcing the lockdown again. Medical experts should decide what needs to be done. It can’t be an economy-driven decision, especially now when more than 5,000 cases are reported daily,” Aggarwal said.Some RWAs are asking for a night curfew and stringent measures during the winter season or till the vaccine is available. “So many people died due to Covid in the last one month. When experts say the number of cases will increase during winter, what’s the logic behind relaxing norms? The government should enforce night curfew and put restrictions to check overcrowding in markets and public places,” said BS Vohra, president of East Delhi Joint Front.But not all RWAs agree with the suggestion for imposing curfew or strict norms, saying the problem is with the enforcement of rules. “We can’t shut economic activities again. It is important. What we need right now is strict enforcement. The government should rope in RWAs and NGOs for this, as they don’t have enough manpower to ensure enforcement,” said Atul Goyal, president of United RWAs Joint Action (URJA), a collective of RWAs in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rwas-raise-concern-about-relaxation-in-covid-norms-in-delhi-write-to-baijal-kejriwal/story-jtRgiuJtke2m23PSB1liFM.html
03-11-2020||Delhi||Man murders wife’s 17-year-old niece, hides body in bed box in Delhi||A man and his wife have been arrested for allegedly murdering the woman’s 17-year-old niece at their home in northeast Delhi’s Tahirpur and stuffing her body in their bed box last month, police said on Monday. After killing the minor girl, the couple cleaned the blood from the crime scene (the room), and slept on the single bed for the night with the girl’s body inside its box, they said. According to the police, the man had an eye on the minor -- daughter of the woman’s sister -- who had been objecting to his advances. The man is a rickshaw-puller while his wife begs for a living.His wife knew about it and had asked her to return to her native village in Bihar but she wanted to stay back and pursue her studies, police said. She had completed her Class 12 and was planning to study further, police said.The girl’s refusal to leave their home led to frequent quarrels between the couple, said an investigator, who did not want to be named.“On October 23, during an altercation, the woman told her husband kill her niece. The man then killed the girl by hitting her head with an iron rod in her asleep as his wife guarded the main door,” said the investigator. Deputy commissioner of police (north-east) Ved Prakash Surya said the murder was discovered on October 25, when locals informed police about some foul smell emanating from the house that was locked from outside. The girl’s aunt was in the neighbourhood when the neighbours also informed her about the foul smell. The police broke open the door and found the body in the box. The woman identified the dead girl as her niece.The aunt was living at a neighbour’s house on the pretext that her house was locked and her husband was away.“A case of murder was registered at the Nand Nagri police station,” DCP Surya said.During the probe, the investigator said, the statements of the girl’s aunt and neighbours were recorded. The aunt told the police that on October 23, she had left home for begging around 5.30 am and when she returned around 12.30 pm, she found the door locked from outside. The woman told the police that when she did not find her niece at home, she asked her husband, who said he had left her in an orphanage in Ghaziabad.“Since the man was also missing, our team searched all orphanages in Ghaziabad but the girl was not taken to any of them on that day. Locals said the man used to make sexual advances on the minor girl. They said he had tried to force himself on her on September 28. The girl had told her aunt and a neighbour about it,” the investigator said.As the man became the prime suspect, they started looking for him and he was caught from a bus stand in his home town in Bihar’s Madhepura on October 28. He was brought to Delhi and the iron rod used in the crime was recovered. “His interrogation led to his wife’s arrest and both admitted to the crime,” the officer added.During interrogation, the man said he killed the girl in a fit of rage after his wife asked him to do so, DCP Surya said. “The duo had planned to dispose of the body and waited the entire day looking for an opportunity to remove it. When they failed, the woman asked her husband to go to their native village so that nobody suspected his involvement when the girl’s body was discovered. The woman thought that as she was handicapped (in one leg caused by polio), the neighbours and police would not suspect her,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-murders-wife-s-niece-hides-body-in-bed-box-in-delhi/story-NggOBCJZeqWGFQbioFPYaO.html
03-11-2020||Delhi||GB Pant Engg College will be a part of new Skill and Entrepreneurship University: Sisodia||Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia on Monday said GB Pant Engineering College -- affiliated to the state-run Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University (IP University) until now -- will not enrol students this year, and announced that it will soon be a part of the upcoming Skill and Entrepreneurship University with better courses and infrastructure.Sisodia’s comments came in the backdrop of protests by students, demanding a clarification after IP University removed the state-run college’s name from the list of its affiliated institutes and stopped admissions this year. “This confusion is being unnecessarily spread. Instead of it being a normal college under IP University, the government plans to bring it under the upcoming Skill and Entrepreneurship University and develop it as a better institute. We plan reforms in the courses it offers while maintaining the prestige of the institute, Sisodia said. “The government is investing Rs 526 crore in the construction of the new college building and if we are investing so much, we will expect more students to get benefited from it. Presently, the intake of the college is very low. I assure everyone that it won’t make any difference to the students studying there if the college remains under the IP University or the Skill and Entrepreneurship University,” Sisodia said.Delhi government had last year announced a Skill and Entrepreneurship University in the national capital. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had last month announced that the university is likely to start its first academic session from next year. Asked if GB Pant college located in Okhla phase 3 -- which offers three BTech courses (computer, mechanical and electronic) and caters around 600 students (excluding first-year students) -- will take admissions this year, Sisodia said, “This year the Skill and Entrepreneurship University will work on reforming and designing the new courses. This year, there will be no admission (in GB Pant as well). Meanwhile, we have increased 1,330 seats this year in IP University.” The government has last week announced an increase in the number of higher education seats at IP University, including B Tech courses.GB Pant principal OP Verma did not wish to comment. A senior official at the college said, “We do not know when the university will be established. The admission process in the college cannot be stalled till then.”IP University vice-chancellor Mahesh Verma said existing students will continue with the university and will get degrees from it. Earlier in the day, a group of around 100-150 students, led by members of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), held a protest outside Sisodia’s residence in Mathura Road, seeking a clarification. A final-year BTech student, requesting anonymity, said, “The government cannot stop taking admission in a college abruptly. What are our chances of higher education now? We will not be able to take admissions in good colleges since everyone will acknowledge us as an alumnus of a college that has been shut down.” Siddhartha Yadav, state secretary, ABVP Delhi, said, “We will continue our protest and may even give a call for a hunger strike if the government does not take its decision back.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gb-pant-engg-college-will-be-a-part-of-new-skill-and-entrepreneurship-university-sisodia/story-N6NGJC6h6PTkXH0sMqnqAN.html
03-11-2020||City||Punjab’s role minimal in Delhi’s air pollution:PPCB||The Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) on Monday reiterated that the state’s farmers cannot be blamed for the deteriorating air quality index of its neighbour, Delhi, stating the National Capital has its own sources of pollution. PPCB chairman AS Marwaha said that rather than blaming Punjab for the poor air quality, Delhi should check its own sources of pollution. “It is scientifically not possible for stubble burning in Punjab to affect Delhi. There are two major particulate matters in Delhi’s pollution-- PM 10 and PM 2.5. The particle PM 10 is very heavy and can travel in air only up to 25 km. So it cannot be possibly reaching Delhi.” “PM 2.5 is a light particle and can travel up to 150 kms,” he said, adding that Delhi’s own activities are producing PM 10 and PM 2.5 particles. “However, there is another particle PM 1, which is very light and can travel up to 250kms. PM 1 particle maybe marginally contributing to Delhi’s air pollution but there is no study to establish it,” Marwaha said.The PPCB chairman further said that had farm fires in Punjab been the reason for Delhi’s deteriorating air quality, then the ambient air quality of Punjab would have also shown similar trends. “Punjab’s AQI is generally in the moderate range (100-200) while Delhi often crosses the “very poor” category,” he stated. The board’s member secretary, Krunesh Garg, said, “Punjab is always blamed for Delhi’s pollution, which is not right. The state probably contributes about 1-2 % to Delhi’s pollution. Stubble burning incidents within a 100 km radius of Delhi are more responsible for its air quality than Punjab, which is 250kms away from Delhi.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-should-check-its-own-sources-of-pollution-ppcb/story-S0N9zDJwvNBtKnGFcrbGHJ.html
