05-11-2020||Mumbai||Private hospitals in Mumbai may reduce Covid-19 beds post Diwali||With a steady decline in the daily Covid-19 caseload, more than 50% of the beds reserved for Covid-positive patients are lying vacant in private hospitals. Private hospitals are saying this is leading to huge financial losses and consequently, the number of reserved beds at these facilities may decrease after Diwali. Soon after Covid-positive cases were reported in Mumbai, the state had instructed private hospitals to reserve a percentage of beds for Covid-19 patients. At present, of the total 4,192 beds reserved for Covid patients in private hospitals in the city, 2,204 are lying vacant. There are 1,007 beds in intensive care units (ICUs), of which 422 are not occupied. Of the 477 beds with ventilators, 162 are free.Dr V Ravishankar, chief executive officer (CEO), Lilavati Hospital, said, “The daily burden of Covid-19 cases has decreased drastically. At our CCC-2 (Covid Care Centre for mildly symptomatic patients), the number of patients has dropped from 80 to 16.” Private hospitals want to decrease the number of beds reserved for Covid patients — which is currently 80% of their operational capacity — and the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has backed this suggestion. “If Mumbai witnesses a second wave, the authority can always bring back the rules. It is better to re-implement it rather than keep empty beds reserved. Hospitals need to pay money from their pockets for the maintenance of the beds and the equipment,” said Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president of IMA, Maharashtra. “If the government wants to keep the beds reserved, they should pay the basic expenditure amount,” he added.Hospitals are reportedly seeing a growing number of patients with non-Covid ailments. “We have to keep our beds ready for them as well. So, we are planning that after Diwali, if Mumbai doesn’t witness a second wave, we might decrease the number of Covid-19 beds,” said Dr Gautam Bhansali, consultant general physician, Bombay Hospital and chief coordinator between all private hospitals and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).At present, the price cap issued by the state as well as the percentage of beds reserved for Covid treatment remain valid till November 30. “The next few months are critical due to the festivals. After Ganesh puja, we had witnessed a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, so we can’t let our guards down during Diwali,” said a senior health officer. Activists have also cautioned against any drastic changes. “In the initial months of the pandemic, there were severe shortages of beds. Patients have died while waiting for beds. So, it is advisable to wait when we are expecting rise in cases after Diwali,” said Jitendra Tandel from Rugna Kalyan Seva Samajik Sanstha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/private-hospitals-in-mumbai-may-reduce-covid-19-beds-post-diwali/story-IMLoANzx9HihtOmzH6pglI.html
05-11-2020||Chandigarh||40 garbage collection centres to be replaced with 3 material recovery facilities in Chandigarh||In a bid to phase out the neighbourhood garbage collection centres, the Sehaj Safai Kendras (SSK), the municipal corporation is coming up with three material recovery facilities (MRF) in the city.While the construction of two MRFs has already started, the work contract for the third was allotted on Wednesday.The MC plans to shut down around 40 SSKs which are located in different sectors and villages, and replace them with MRFs. Three of them will come up at Industrial Area in Phases 1 and 2 (one near the MC public health store and second near 3BRD), and third one adjoining the garbage processing plant in Sector 25.The project, being implemented by the Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL), will cost around ₹25 crore. After the MRFs come up, the garbage collected by door-to-door collectors from residential and commercial establishments will be shifted to MRFs and then to the waste processing plant.No more dumping near houses“The SSK creates garbage dumps near people’s houses and shops. With MRF up and running, it will ensure proper disposal of segregated waste without much traffic movement and will go directly to processing. City residential and commercial areas will be garbage free,” said KK Yadav, MC commissioner.Recently, the use of SSKs came under severe scrutiny during a strike called by the MC sanitation workers and garbage collectors. The garbage from households was being dumped at the SSK, but wasn’t being lifted from there. This would result in large heaps of garbage getting collected near markets and residential areas.The SSK will be closed down once the garbage collection vehicles are brought in. “The recycled solid waste that is recoverable from the segregated waste will be taken out through a conveyor belt system at the MRF. Rest will be shifted to the garbage processing plant in Sector 25. Wet waste will be directly transferred to the processing plant,” said Yadav.SSKs are primarily needed because of the cycle-cart based door-to-door garbage collection system in the city. “There is limitation to the distance a cart can take the garbage from a house. Once the vehicles become operational, this constraint will be removed,” Yadav added.MC striving for “perfect model” of waste disposalThe project is part of the MC’s plan to roll out a “perfect model” to replace the “average model” of garbage collection currently operational in the city.The MC is adding 390 new garbage collection vehicles to its fleet of 100 vehicles. Along with the vehicles, the MC through CSCL will set up a solid waste management vehicle tracking and a supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) facility, which will come up in the MC building. Once SCADA becomes operational, MC officials will be able to track the movement and activity of garbage collection trucks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/40-garbage-collection-centres-to-be-replaced-with-3-material-recovery-facilities-in-chandigarh/story-kqI7HKIUz3s5SbQ5OyXP4I.html
05-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government to release funds for flood-hit farmers from Monday||After announcing the ₹10,000 crore package to extend relief to the flood and unseasonal rain-hit farmers, the state government has announced to release the funds from Monday. Relief and Rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar said that the government has sought the permission for the disbursement from the election commission of India in the wake of code of conduct in force for legislative council elections. He said that the amount will be disbursed in two instalments, of which the first one of ₹4,700 crore will be released on Monday. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had announced the relief package about two weeks ago towards the ex gratia for the crop losses, damages to the infrastructure and livestock during the natural calamities in last five months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-to-release-funds-for-flood-hit-farmers-from-monday/story-wq6YNYI3KT5wKv28GWKBFJ.html
05-11-2020||Mumbai||Pollution in Ulhas, Waldhuni rivers: Supreme Court pulls up Maharashtra after dismal report||The Supreme Court (SC) on Thursday pulled up the Maharashtra government for failing to address water pollution at Ulhas and Waldhuni rivers, based on a two-day inspection report of both rivers by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI). The next date of hearing is scheduled for November 25.The SC bench of justices DY Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee directed the state to implement recommendations of the report at the earliest, and also directed the state’s chief secretary to personally oversee the implementation and submit implementation plans before SC.The joint report highlighted brazen violations that have continued for years, leading to the waters of Ulhas and Waldhuni being polluted. Water samples collected and analysed from 27 locations along both rivers and common effluent treatment plants (CETPs) handling industrial waste showed “substandard treatment mechanism” and “violations of water pollution norms by industries over the years”.The report further identified that the impact of untreated industrial effluents. “The conclusion drawn indicates that the problems may have been persisting for a long time and need comprehensive measures which can be accomplished in short and medium terms,” the report read, submitting a list of 25 recommendations to improve water quality.A total of 139 industrial units were found polluting the two rivers and of these, 117 did not have functional effluent treatment plants or did not have effective treatment for over 18 months (the existing deadline is six months limit) and 22 units failed to achieve zero liquid discharge (ZLD) as mandated by the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB). “The identified 22 units and the other 117 units may not be the comprehensive list of units causing pollution alone. There could be more especially among the red and orange category of industries… which need to be identified by MPCB,” the report said.There were no checks on the movement of tankers in the industrial area and the report highlighted the possibility of such vehicles dumping hazardous waste into the river or streams leading to the river at night. Additionally, all CETPS failed to achieve the prescribed standards as per national water quality norms. The report also flagged instances where flouting norms had resulted in serious consequences, like when effluents from dye industries resulted in temporarily changing the colour of the rivers’ water. SL Waghmare, MPCB regional officer (Kalyan) said, “There is a need for all departments to work in tandem to address issues. Wherever action was required, we have acted. However, owing to the pandemic and other constraints, the process has taken time and will be implemented. We have already tightened standards for CETPs, they are complying by modifying their treatment plan designs. Water quality improvement is expected soon.”To escape detection through water consumption analysis, it was found that tankers were being used to supply water for manufacturing. Violations were detected even as many units remained closed or claimed to be working at 25% capacity during the lockdown, according to the report.“The joint report covers every aspect of industrial pollution and gives 25 specific recommendations to abate industrial pollution. What CPCB and NEERI did in just two days, MPCB failed to do in 15 years,” said Zaman Ali, the counsel for petitioners.The report said a “multidimensional approach was required with participation of various agencies to control sewage and industrial effluent pollution in Waldhuni and Ulhas Rivers”. Among the recommendations are round-the-clock surveillance of wastewater generating units in the catchment areas of both rivers; setting up vigilance teams; identifying leakages along major pipelines; setting up of 24x7 CCTV monitoring at pollution hotspots; GPS tracking system for all tankers operated from CETPs; movement of tankers in a stipulated time-frame; investigating more polluting industries; and reviewing water quality standards in the area.Kalidas Bandekar, superintendent engineer (MMR), MIDC said, “All recommendations pertaining to MIDC will be strictly adhered to and implemented at the earliest.”Petitioners before the SC said the CPCB-NEERI report provided evidence validating their earlier submissions before the SC. “The visit by the team appointed by SC has thrown up shocking facts. Despite this indicting report, industries continue to brazenly violate the pollution laws. We have collected evidence which we will be submitting before the court,” said Stalin D, director, Vanashakti.WHAT LED TO THE INVESTIGATION?The SC bench of justices DY Chandrachud and KM Joseph on September 7 had heard an interim application by environment group Vanashakti, alleging industries had dumped untreated effluents at several sections of the two rivers. The bench had then directed CPCB and NEERI to file a report within three weeks (from September 7) after inspecting both the rivers to identify the units which are causing pollution and then formulate recommendations and steps that need to be taken by the municipal corporations concerned (which will include Ulhasnagar, Kalyan Dombivli, Kulgaon Badlapur and Ambernath), regulatory bodies and units to remedy the situation.WHAT HAPPENED DURING LOCKDOWN?While the Ulhas River had turned turquoise and foamy, the water in Waldhuni turned deep red in some parts of MMR between May and June. Despite repeated complaints, there was no action on ground regarding their grievances, Vanashakti had said, which was confirmed by the CPCB-NEERI report too. Industries were found to operate without effluent treatment plants.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pollution-in-ulhas-waldhuni-rivers-supreme-court-pulls-up-maharashtra-after-dismal-report/story-mdkGlL86OvcnLThsSsPSaK.html
05-11-2020||Delhi||Fake Delhi airport website announces vacancies, demand Rs 1000 per applicant, FIR registered||New Delhi: Delhi police have registered a case after the Delhi international airport operator filed a complaint about a fake website advertising about vacancies at the airport and asking applicants to pay Rs 1,000 as enrolment fee.. Deputy commissioner of police (IGI airport) Rajeev Ranjan said a case under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and Information Technology Act was registered on a complaint filed by the chief legal office, Delhi airport. In its complaint on Monday, the airport operator said a lookalike of the original GMR website was fraudulently luring, duping and obtaining money from job seekers.“The fraudsters published fake advertisement pertaining to various job openings and job offer in GMR Group on their careers page with a provision for collecting Rs 1000 as application fee through online payment mode. A total 2,201 job vacancies are published in the fake website ..,” the complaint reads.When contacted, DIAL (Delhi International Airport Ltd) did not comment.DCP Ranjan said the FIR was registered on Monday. “Our cyber team is investigating the case. We ar tracing the cyber footprints and technical surveillance is in progress to identify and arrest the suspects,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/fake-delhi-airport-website-announces-vacancies-demand-rs-1000-per-applicant-fir-registered/story-wiqTOxFCuYObvUD8nnrYhM.html
05-11-2020||Delhi||Two minor girls raped by strangers in Delhi, both suspects nabbed||In two unrelated cases reported from separate parts of the national capital Tuesday, two minor girls playing near their homes were raped allegedly by men not known to them, the police said. One of these assaults happened in north Delhi’s Gulabi Bagh.A six-year-old girl was playing with other children in a public park, barely 300 metres from her home. “Once all children left by 6pm, the suspect lured her to his room on the pretext of offering her toys,” said a senior police officer, who didn’t want to be named. There, the man allegedly raped the child who later returned home injured and crying. When her aunt noticed blood on her clothes and asked her about it, she told her about the sexual assault. “The aunt called the police after which the child was treated at a hospital and a case under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act was registered,” said the officer. “When we spoke to the child, she described the suspect as a man with a boil on his forehead. She also said his house was located near a temple,” said the officer. Accompanied by the child, the police team began a search for the house and she soon spotted it. “The suspect began fleeing on seeing the police, but he was chased and caught. He has admitted to the crime,” said the officer. The police identified him as 52-year-old Latesh, who earlier sold fruits but is currently unemployed. The other crime was reported from Narela in outer north Delhi. The child was playing outside a temple while her mother went in to pray. “When the woman came out, she couldn’t find her daughter and began a search. She finally found the child bleeding some distance away,” said another police officer, also requesting anonymity. The suspect remained unknown, but on Thursday, police nabbed a man living on the footpath in the neighbourhood for the crime. “He had found the girl playing alone, taken her to an isolated spot, and assaulted her. He then left her near the spot where she was playing,” said the officer. The police are yet to confirm whether the suspect is an adult or a minor. Both children are out of danger and are being counselled by NGOs, said the police. Last year, there were 7,575 incidents of crimes against children in Delhi, making it the city with the highest crime rate (35.3) against children, according to the National Crime Records Bureau. Mumbai had ranked second, with 3,640 crimes against children and a rate of 17. The rate calculated as the number of crimes per lakh population. Delhi witnessed 1,662 cases under the POCSO Act and 948 of them were of rape. In addition, there were 586 cases of molestation as well.,the records show||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/two-minor-girls-raped-by-strangers-in-delhi-both-suspects-nabbed/story-mr7mLqp7b2JP7IhPZiJlQO.html
05-11-2020||Chandigarh||Covid shadow: Panjab University expects ₹31-crore revenue gap for 2020-21||Despite various austerity measures taken by Panjab University in the wake of revenue losses due to the pandemic, the varsity is still expecting to face a revenue gap of ₹31 crore under the income heads of examination fee and income from hostel during the financial year 2020-21.The matter was discussed in the last meeting of the budget estimate committee of PU. The varsity is expecting to receive ₹135 crore as compared to the estimated ₹157 crore under the income head of examination fee. Also, under the head income from hostels, the varsity has revised the estimated ₹2 crore as compared to the earlier estimates of ₹11 crore.A member of the panel said, “Despite our efforts to minimise the losses, there will be some revenue gap this year.” The members have observed that the examination fee for the even semester of newly admitted/to be admitted students will fall in the next financial year.”The committee also observed that since the revenue budget substantially comprised establishment expenditure (salary, pension, retirement benefits etc) and the essential expenditure on running, operations and maintenance services, therefore there was hardly any scope to further reduce the revenue budget of PU in tune with the estimated revenue.₹2 crore for various arrangementsThe panel also recommended that in the wake of the pandemic, a lump sum provision of ₹2 crore should be recommended out of the budget head development fund, which will be utilised for various purposes including expenditure on special arrangements to be made for making the hostels functional, purchase of various items to facilitate online teaching and for providing necessary infrastructure for online examination.Against the earlier recommendation of the committee to reduce the budget meant for sports activities by 40%, the office of the director of sports has informed that as per the schedule given by the competent authority, the sports events have to be conducted in March, therefore budget meant for sports activities cannot be reduced.Request for grantThe members of the panel unanimously recommended that PU should reflect the projected revenue gap in the budget and request the government of Punjab and central government to release a supplementary grant to cover the projected gap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-shadow-panjab-university-expects-31-crore-revenue-gap-for-2020-21/story-2lN7qb84EeNARdTCI4YgPK.html
05-11-2020||City||SC reserves judgment on Central Vista project||New DelhiThe Supreme Court on Thursday reserved its judgment on the fate of the Central Vista project, including the construction of a new Parliament building and Central Secretariat, which was challenged in 10 separate petitions heard over five months on 24 occasions by a three-judge bench.Oral arguments on these petitions came to a close on Thursday as the bench headed by Justice AM Khanwilkar was satisfied that it had heard the petitioners, the Central government led by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, and the project consultant HCP Design, Planning and Management led by senior advocate Harish Salve, on the broad issues of grant of environmental clearance, violation of statutory and municipal laws, conservation of heritage, change of land use under the Delhi Development Act, and manner of inviting public hearing and objections involved with the Central Vista Redevelopment plan.The bench allowed all parties time till November 16 to submit written submissions or documents, if any, in support of their arguments.On the final day of hearing, the Centre’s arguments came under spotlight as the bench asked the Solicitor General whether taking clearance from the Heritage Conservation Committee (HCC) will be a prerequisite before starting construction of the new Parliament building.The HCC has been formed under the Unified Building By-Laws (UBBL)-Delhi, 2016 in order to protect and conserve heritage buildings, precincts and natural feature areas in the Capital. Parliament building and its campus along with North Block and South Block are Grade-I Heritage buildings. The by-laws state, “No development or redevelopment or engineering operation or additions/alterations, repairs, etc., including painting of the building, shall be allowed except with prior permission of the concerned local authority, viz. DDA, MCD, NDMC as the case may be. Before granting permission, the local authority concerned shall consult the HCC.”The court made pointed queries to Mehta. “A new structure is being proposed 30 metres from the existing Parliament. Will not the skyline of the heritage building get disturbed? The by-laws provide no addition without HCC clearance. Will the new building not come under this definition,” asked the bench, also comprising Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjeev Khanna.Mehta said, “Unless and until I am demolishing or carrying out any major engineering or alteration to the existing Parliament building, HCC clearance will not apply. The whole of Delhi is a heritage city. To preserve the aesthetic beauty and environment in Delhi, the Delhi Urban Arts Commission (DUAC) has been entrusted under law and this project has been cleared by DUAC.” To date, the Government has not sought HCC clearance for the Parliament project, although environmental clearance has been obtained for going ahead with the new building’s construction. The Centre in its response to the court stated, “It would be wholly irrational to apply for the HCC permission without arriving at a stage wherein the micro details are available and the statutory authority can be prudently informed as to the details of the retrofitting (of existing Parliament).”Senior advocates Shyam Divan, Sanjay Hegde and Shikhil Suri, representing the petitioners, rebutted the Centre on a host of submissions. Divan said HCC applied to preservation of heritage precincts and not buildings per se. He said that to date, no document is available in public domain to show any study done to ascertain the need for a new Parliament and any attempt to obtain information under the Right to Information (RTI) Act has been stonewalled by the Government.Before the tender for the Central Vista project was awarded to HCP Designs on September 2, 2019, no document was available in public domain, Divan said. Even the bench acknowledged that lack of transparency about the project was the major grievance of all petitioners. On the Central Vista Committee being declared an advisory body by the Centre, senior advocate Sanjay Hedge argued it must be treated as a statutory body as without its go ahead, no work in the Central Vista can proceed. Suri stated neither Centre nor HCP Designs had responded to the charge of bias in the government awarding contract to HCP without conducting an extensive concept design competition.Appearing for HCP, Salve said nobody has been specifically named and hence vague allegations of bias should not be gone into. No affidavit was filed by HCP but Salve argued that public participation in a project of this nature is already provided in our laws by the legislature. “These are policies that the courts cannot and should not venture into in the name of participative democracy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sc-reserves-judgment-on-central-vista-project/story-kCrMByPS4RyLY5h9lJwlsN.html
05-11-2020||Noida||Noida: Developer held for fraud||Noida: A 50-year-old real estate developer was arrested by the Noida police on Wednesday for allegedly duping several people by selling them flats in an illegal project at Ghaziabad’s Indirapuram.The suspect was identified as Mukesh Khurana, the owner and director of a real estate firm whose corporate office is located in Noida’s Sector 63. According to the police, a complaint against his firm came to the Phase 3 police station on October 6.The complainant, Sunita Singh, a native of Meerut, alleged that her family had invested ₹91 lakh in the said project in 2014. “A high-rise was being developed in Indirapuram. We had paid ₹25 lakh, ₹26 lakh and ₹40 lakh for three flats in the project for which we were supposed to get the possession in 2016. However, even after six years the project did not take off,” said the woman in her complaint.She alleged that there was no construction done at the site and the money was never returned. Based on her complaint, a case was registered at the Phase 3 police station against the suspect under IPC sections for cheating and forgery.Police officials said that Khurana, a resident of Delhi, had been absconding for a while. On Wednesday, the developer was nabbed while he was visiting his corporate office, they said. “He has 86 cases against him in Delhi which were registered with the Economic Offences Wing there. We also have more complainants coming forward now for fraud by him,” said Jitendra Dikshit, station house officer, Phase 3 police station.Dikshit said that the land the suspect had allotted for this project was disputed and the approval papers which, he claimed, he got from the local authorities in Ghaziabad were fake.According to the police, Khurana had started the project in 2014 without any approval, and at the same time he started the selling units to unsuspecting buyers. But the project never started and he simply took all the money. He has also duped people in other projects and investigation is being done to identify all those cases as well, said the police.Khurana was produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-developer-held-for-fraud/story-KNkxrVmcRwL2Ez1zEaD10H.html
05-11-2020||Noida||Noida: Fire breaks out at garment factory, no casualty reported||Noida: A fire broke out on Wednesday night at a garment factory in Sector 10, but no casualties were reported in the incident, officials said. According to the officials of the fire department, the incident was reported around 9.45pm, after which fire tenders from the Phase 1 station were rushed to the spot. It took three fire tenders roughly an hour to control the fire completely.“The fire started on the third floor of the factory and we were able to contain it easily. A few electrical machines were there, and it seems that the fire broke out due to a short circuit,” said Sanjeev Kumar Singh, fire officer at Phase 1 fire station.He said that because of the late hour, the factory had wrapped up operations for the night and there weren’t any workers there. “Only a couple of staff members, including a security guard, were there and they informed us as soon as they saw the smoke. That is why we could contain the damage to a minimum. There were no casualties in the incident,” said the fire officer.The officials said that most of the damage was done to the building structure and a few machines kept there. It was the top floor with a tin roof and that is why the fire was easily controlled, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-fire-breaks-out-at-garment-factory-no-casualty-reported/story-YKtSuIjz7pG7iIMjdme2yN.html
05-11-2020||Noida||Noida traffic police organise chaupal for awareness programme||Noida: The traffic police on Thursday organised a chaupal and sensitised people and auto drivers to follow traffic rules, in Greater Noida west.Ganesh Saha, deputy commissioner of police, traffic, Gautam Budh Nagar, said that the traffic police are taking several initiatives to sensitise motorists and pedestrians, as part of the traffic month being observed in November. “We are organising a chaupal and sensitising a select group of people about traffic rules. We are also running a programme to appoint traffic volunteers in different societies and sectors. We will make modal roundabouts by placing traffic officials for enforcement and awareness,” he said. Ram Ratan Singh, Noida traffic inspector, said that a chaupal was organised at Kisan Chowk in Greater Noida west on Thursday. “Locals sometimes claim auto drivers encroach upon roads and create nuisance. The auto drivers also overcharge sometimes. We held a chaupal and invited about 50 auto drivers and locals. We sensitised them about traffic rules and regulations and the penalty for the violations,” Singh said. The Noida police on Sunday had launched a traffic safety awareness month focusing on ‘5 Es’ – education, enforcement, engineering, emergency and environment. The police had also flagged a motorcycle and car rally for traffic awareness from the police commissionerate Sector 108. This week, the police have made Sector 57 crossing as ‘Adarsh Chauraha’ where all rules and regulations of traffic are strictly enforced. Ashutosh Singh, another traffic inspector, said at the Adarsh Chauraha, officials enforce traffic rules and also sensitise people to turn off the ignition at the red light. “This saves fuel and also helps the environment. We also encourage people to use electric vehicles. We will select another roundabout next week and run a similar enforcement programme,” Singh said. On Thursday, Noida traffic police teams also visited Oxford Green Public School in Greater Noida and conducted an awareness programme for students. Around 80 students took an oath that they will follow traffic rules and also ask their family members to do so. Another team conducted an awareness programme at the Jewar toll plaza. “At the toll plaza, when commuters stop to pay the toll, traffic officials distribute pamphlets and leaflets about traffic rules. On Friday, we will launch an enforcement programme in association with the transport department, and fine vehicles whose pollution certification is found invalid,” said DCP traffic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-traffic-police-organise-chaupal-for-awareness-programme/story-w89mMy2gzxcQ2zHleEm8hK.html
05-11-2020||City||HC raps Centre, Delhi govt, civic bodies for not sorting out financial mess||New DelhiThe Delhi high court on Thursday lambasted the Centre, the Delhi government and the municipal corporations for their failure to solve disputes over disbursal of funds meant for the salaries of the current and former employees of the three civic bodies, particularly the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, while stating that unpaid workers have faced the “real pinch”.A bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad said that it is for the government agencies to work in unison with each other and come up with a solution to release the salaries and pensions to the employees including doctors, nurses, paramedic staff, safai karamcharis, teachers, class-IV employees and retired staff like teachers and engineers. It asked the civic bodies to make an attempt to release the arrears as the festival of Diwali is round the corner.“At the end of the day, the real pinch is being faced by the employees and their family members who have limited resources available to them and have stretched it to the maximum over the entire period of pandemic with hardly any nest egg left to tide over,” the court said.The bench also directed the Delhi government to release the transfer funds pending for the month of July and August to the North Delhi Municipal Corporation by November 9 and November 13 respectively so that pensions can be paid to the retired employees, who have been awaiting payment since April. The court was hearing a bunch of pleas relating to the disbursal of salaries to the employees/ex-employees of the various civic bodies who have been unpaid during the pandemic.On Thursday, the court had expressed concern over the sad state of affairs on the non-payment of wages and pensions and termed it unacceptable that the retired staff are completely left high and dry as others are at least paid something.“Don’t forget this is a festive season and besides their basic needs, wages are everybody’s right and where will they go to fulfil the basic needs of their families,” the court said, while adding that there are old and ailing persons who need to get medical treatments, which cannot wait.On Thursday, appearing for the north corporation, its counsel said that the salaries for the doctors, paramedics, health workers have been paid till September. With respect to the teachers, he submitted that the salaries have been given till August.“The safai karamcharis have been paid till August and other class IV employees have been paid till June,” the counsel said urging the court to pass an order directing the Delhi government to release Rs 212 crore against the payment to the pensioners.The counsels for East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) and the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) also alleged that the Delhi government had squeezed funds and not released the full amount due to the corporations, leading to non-payment of salaries.However, appearing for the Delhi government, additional standing counsel Satyakam, disputed the fact and said that like the civic bodies, its revenue had also gone down due to the pandemic. He stated that the Centre has to pay over Rs 10,000 crore to the Delhi government on account of GST revenue, due to which it is also facing a cash crunch.Central government standing counsel Anil Soni also disputed the submission of the Delhi government and said he will have to obtain instructions on the amount. He said that some amount has already been disbursed to the Delhi government.To this the court said, “This court cannot act as an arbitrator between the government agencies, workout the budgets of the Delhi government and the civic authorities and arrive at a conclusion as to which agency is at fault”.Regarding the retired employees, the court was informed that NrDMC, EDMC and SDMC have released pensions till April, August and September respectively.Following a three hour long hearing, the court directed all the departments to file individual status reports and posted the matter for further hearing on December 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hc-raps-centre-delhi-govt-civic-bodies-for-not-sorting-out-financial-mess/story-oOsStkecNVrDzG3ed4fWNP.html
05-11-2020||Mumbai||Housing ministry launches challenge to make public spaces in cities children-friendly||With the Covid-19 pandemic having underscored the importance of public spaces, mobility and access to services, the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA) has kickstarted a pan-India challenge for making city spaces more children-friendly, especially for the age group of 0-5 years. Through the “Nurturing Neighbourhoods Challenge” launched on Wednesday, cities are invited to reimagine parks, gardens, and open spaces for play and interaction; make streets safer for young children; improve access to early childhood services such as Anganwadis and public health centres; and adapt public spaces with early childhood amenities.Cities with a population of over five lakh can propose pilot neighbourhood-level interventions to improve city spaces for children and their care-givers. Based on the proposals, around 20 cities will be provided technical assistance to implement the pilot and 10 winning entries will receive further technical support and capacity-building support for over two years.Durga Shankar Mishra, secretary, MoHUA, said: “For a city to be responsive to all citizens, it needs to consciously address the needs of the most vulnerable groups. Incorporating an early childhood lens in city planning will support more holistic, people-oriented urban development.”MoHUA launched the challenge in collaboration with Netherlands-based Bernard van Leer Foundation (BvLF) and with the technical support from World Resources Institute (WRI), India. Dr OP Agarwal, chief executive officer, WRI, said, “We need to reimagine our cities as places where children can grow in a safe, nurturing and inspirational environment. This would require going back to basic principles of pedestrian-oriented cities by rebuilding streets, public spaces, public transport, access to facilities and utility services, and urban resilience.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/housing-ministry-launches-challenge-to-make-public-spaces-in-cities-children-friendly/story-iZ3EPvSy6KyerRoZ3jqO8K.html
05-11-2020||Delhi||Minor boy killed after he refuses to fetch snacks for men drinking together||A 14-year-old boy, who had refused to fetch snacks for a group of men drinking alcohol together, was stabbed multiple times, leaving him dead near his house in south-east Delhi’s Madanpur Khadar on Wednesday evening. Police have arrested one of the men who was in the drinking group for the murder. On Thursday, a group of residents and the boy’s family members took to the road protesting against the murder, after which police increased deployment in the area.The boy who died was identified as Mohammad Alqash, a resident of Madanpur Khadar. His father works as a roadside vendor in the same neighbourhood, police said.According to the police, the incident took place 4.30pm Wednesday and the police control room was alerted around 5pm. The caller told the police that a minor boy had been injured in a fight and rushed to Apollo Hospitals in a critical condition.A police team reached the hospital and found that Alqash had been stabbed multiple times by some men in Madanpur Khadar and was pronounced dead at the hospital. The boy had multiple stab wounds on his chest and neck. His body was sent for a post-mortem examination and a crime and forensics team inspected the scene of crome.During the preliminary probe, statements of witnesses were recorded and police found that Alqash was going out when he was stopped by one Shadab Qureshi, a resident of his neighbourhood. “As told by locals, Shadab, who was drinking, asked Alqash to bring for him some snacks from a nearby shop, but the boy refused. Witnesses said Shadab then started thrashing the boy. When he raised the alarm and tried to flee, Shadab took out a knife and stabbed him multiple times in his chest and his neck,” said a police officer, who wished not to be named. A case of murder was registered and a police team searched possible hideouts of Shadab and arrested him. Deputy commissioner of police (south-east) RP Meena said, “The child’s family members and some locals have alleged that there was a group of men with Shadab at the time of the murder. We are verifying the claims and the incident is being probed from all possible angles. CCTV footage from the area is also being checked to establish the sequence of events.” He said Shadab also had a case of culpable homicide registered against him in 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/minor-boy-killed-after-he-refuses-to-fetch-snacks-for-men-drinking-together/story-YgRCnmLkn3a1NgNUbx7shI.html
05-11-2020||Noida||Greater Noida twin murders: Businessman’s departmental store staffer a suspect in the case||Greater Noida: A day after a businessman, who ran a departmental store, and his wife were found murdered at their apartment in Greater Noida West, police on Thursday said that one of the staff working at the store is a suspect in the case. The suspect, identified as Aman, is at large after the incident, the police said. The businessman, Vinay Kumar Gupta, 55, and his wife Neha, 50, were found killed on Wednesday morning at their ninth-floor apartment of Cherry County. Vinay owned a departmental store – Price Smart – in the society complex. A bloodstained candle lampstand was found at the spot which may have been used in the attack, said the police.The police said that they have scanned CCTV footage from the cameras installed at the premises of the condominium in which Aman was seen entering the flat and exiting within 15 minutes on Tuesday late night. Love Kumar, additional commissioner of police, Gautam Budh Nagar, said that police are probing the case from all angles. “There are around 22 employees at Vinay’s departmental store. One of them is absconding since the incident took place. We suspect his role in the case,” he said. On Wednesday, Vinay’s son Kush filed a complaint at Bisrakh police station. In the FIR, he stated that he and his father were at the departmental store on Tuesday night. “At 11:30pm, we closed the shop. My father returned to his residence in Cherry County while I went to my residence in Noida Sector 122. In the morning, I called my father but phone was not received. At 11:45am, I visited Cherry County and found my parents dead. They had received head injuries. The main door was open when I reached,” he said in the FIR. Vinay’s body was found in the living room while Neha was found dead in the kitchen. A bread was also found over the oven which indicates the couple were preparing for dinner when the suspect attacked them, the police said. When contacted, Kush said that the double murder was committed by one of his departmental store staff. “The police are investigating the matter. I can’t share more details at this moment,” he said. A police official privy to the investigation said that the departmental store employee, Aman, had entered the society at 12:15am. Aman was wearing a blue shirt, and he got entry in the society as he used to visit his employer’s flat frequently, the official said, adding that the employer had scolded Aman over some issues a few days ago and following this the suspect had developed ill-will. According to the police, the suspect stayed in the flat for 15 minutes and committed the crime and fled the spot. The police have also found the suspect’s bloodstained shoe from the spot. Harish Cander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said that the police have questioned other workers at the departmental store, some society residents and security guards. “We have also questioned some people who had business relations with the victim. We have got some leads and we will soon arrest the suspect,” he said. Chander said that the police are also investigating if the victim had borrowed Rs 8-10 crore for his business. The officials said that a Noida police team has left for Bihar to arrest the suspect, Aman.Meanwhile, the Noida police in a press statement said that they have found negligence on part of the security agency of Cherry County. “Only society residents are permitted to use the gate which connects the society to the adjacent market. A scan of CCTV footage showed the security personnel allowed entry and exit of all people without a check. Also, the investigation found a CCTV camera in the lift was non-functional. The security agency has violated the guidelines of the Private Security Agencies Regulation Act, 2005. Love Kumar, additional commissioner of police, GB Nagar, has written a letter to ADG (Law and Order), UP Police, to cancel the security agency’s licence.” According to the police, a post-mortem report revealed that the couple was murdered on Tuesday night. They had received about 10 injuries on their heads, the report said.Vinay, a native of Saharanpur, had completed chartered accountancy, and shifted to Ghaziabad in 1990, said Amit Kishore Jain, Vinay’s school friend. “We had studied together till Class 12 in Saharanpur. We then came to Allahabad University for B.Com (H) in 1983. After graduation, he came to Delhi for CA while I stayed in Allahabad,” Jain said. Jain said that in 2017, Vinay had also contested Nagar Nigam election. “But, he lost the election and shifted to Noida the same year,” he said. Vinay ran a jewellery shop and a garment shop in Ghaziabad. In Noida, Vinay’s son Kush lives with wife and his grandparents in Sector 122. Vinay and his wife had shifted to Cherry County society two months ago since their departmental store was in the complex. Kush works at the same store while his elder brother lives in the US, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/greater-noida-twin-murders-businessman-s-departmental-store-staffer-a-suspect-in-the-case/story-q74vaMY1SWQyQZairkLOEM.html
05-11-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad: 6 residential segments contributed 49% cases to district’s overall Covid tally since March||Ghaziabad: The share of coronavirus (Covid-19) positive cases from six major residential segments has increased in Ghaziabad every month since July, and together they accounted for about 49.12% of the total Covid-19 cases in the district by the end of October.The six localities – Indirapuram, Vaishali, Vasundhara, Raj Nagar, Kavi Nagar (Carte) and Sahibabad – comprise middle-class working population in droves, besides having a large base of traders and people involved in businesses and other such commerce. According to figures of the health department, the district had nearly 18,713 cases till October 31 and these six segments are those which had more than 1,000 overall cases (from March to October), with a combined percentage of 49.12% (9,191 combined cases) in the district’s total Covid-19 tally. “Initially, we had taken up measures in areas like Loni, Khoda and Vaishali and these yielded encouraging results. The six segments have a large population base including a large number of people who travel to and from Delhi frequently, besides attending to their businesses. These are the people who travel more and also meet a lot of people on a day-to-day basis,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.“Under our ‘November action plan,’ we will hold meetings with local councillors and representatives and chalk out plans to intensify testing, contact tracing, surveillance and awareness to reduce the number of cases in the coming time. During the festive season, there is crowding in markets and people must adhere to social-distancing norms and wear masks,” he added. According to figures, the six segments in June had a total share of about 41.32% and this reduced a bit to 40.5% in July. Ever since then, the share of these six has only risen – 46.22% in August, 52.48% in September and 57.81% in October.The experts said that the areas which have higher density of population and also comprises working class, are likely to have more cases.“It is because people in such areas move and mix a lot due to their daily work. However, residents of such areas must take extra precautions in winter as people will mostly remain confined to houses and infected persons are likely to pass it on to their family members. It is likely that the virus may spread during the festive season as well,” said Dr Lalit Kant, the former epidemiology and communicable diseases head at the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR). “We are yet to get the vaccine and things will also depend upon its success rate when it comes. The major problem nowadays is enforcement, as people often move about without masks and flout social-distancing norms,” he added. Of the six segments, Indirapuram tops the list with overall 2,123 cases from March to October, while Carte segment, comprising localities like Kavi Nagar, Avantika, Nehru Nagar, Shastri Nagar and Chiranjeev Vihar, among others, emerges second with 1,952 overall cases from March to October. The Sahibabad segment, which comprises localities such as Raj Bagh, Shalimar Garden, Rajendra Nagar and Lajpat Nagar, among others, stands third with 1,561 cases from March to October. There are a total of 26 segments in Ghaziabad.“Apart from other reasons of high case load in the six segments, we have also been conducting about 70-75% daily testing in these areas. So, the number of positive cases over time is also on the higher side. Our surveillance and contact tracing activities are regularly going on with special focus to these areas,” said an officer from the district health department who wished not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-6-residential-segments-contributed-49-cases-to-district-s-overall-covid-tally-since-march/story-KfWuC4fTHu2TmqeoIfYihL.html
05-11-2020||Noida||Noida breathes year’s worst air as stubble burning spikes||Noida and Greater Noida saw the worst air quality of the year so far on Thursday, with meteorological conditions going against the city and its AQI dropping from ‘very-poor’ to ‘severe’ in the last 24-hours. According to weather analysts, a sudden change in the wind direction from south-westerly to north-westerly -- through Punjab and Haryana, where stubble burning is at its peak -- led to spike in the pollution levels. The stubble burning has peaked in Punjab and Haryana as the paddy harvest season has entered into its last stage. “The wind directions changed on Wednesday bringing pollutants in the region, which could not disperse due to weather conditions. Since then, the wind speed is calm and only went to 8-10kmph on Thursday for a short period of time, but that was not enough to disperse the pollution levels. The wind speed is likely to remain low for next few days,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, India Meteorological Department (IMD). According to the weather monitoring agencies, the instances of stubble burning too have significantly increased. “SAFAR synergized stubble fire counts over Punjab, Haryana, UP, Uttarakhand, and neighbouring areas increased significantly and stood at (approx.) 4135 yesterday (Wednesday), the highest of the season,” said a statement from System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR). The weather analyst believe that the air quality is unlikely to improve over next few days as the wind directions are likely to remain north-westerly. However, a marginal improvement is possible if the incidents of fire or stubble burning reduced. “The wind speed will remain calm and north-westerly for next few days. Even if they increase a little, the situation will not improve since the pollutant dispersing in the cities will be replaced by additional smoke from stubble burning. Beside the local pollutants are also a factor,” said Mahesh Palawat, director, private weather forecasting agency Skymet. “We are vigilant to ensure that the local emissions are under control,” said Praveen Kumar, regional officer, UPPCB, Noida According to the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB), the air quality index (AQI), on a scale of 0 to 500, for Noida was 450 or ‘severe’ on Thursday against 345 or ‘very-poor’ a day earlier. The average PM2.5 for Noida was 372 microgrammes per cubic metres, which is nine times the safe limits, while the PM10 were 571.46 units, also over nine times the safe limits. For Greater Noida, the AQI was 457 or ‘severe’ a day earlier against 368 a day earlier. The PM2.5 for the city was recorded at 400.65 units -- ten times the safe limits, while the PM10 were 620.89 units – also ten times the safe limits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-breathes-year-s-worst-air-as-stubble-burning-spikes/story-GRw9KX9DT61uAHTgouoZgO.html
05-11-2020||City||AAP, BJP spar over House questions||New Delhi: Senior Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and its MCD in-charge Durgesh Pathak on Thursday said the Bharatiya Janat (BJP) Party-ruled North Delhi Municipal Corporation has issued an “unconstitutional” circular according to which the mayor will decide which questions a councillor can raise in the House.“The BJP-ruled North MCD mayor Jai Prakash has come up with a circular which noted that each and every councillor should submit their questions to the mayor before raising them in front of the House. The mayor is trying to make the MCD his own private company. This is the first time in the history of MCD and in the history of Indian democracy, such an undemocratic thing is happening,” said Pathak.The AAP leader said that the north MCD is “scared” of the “constant grilling” by Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) councillors, who he claimed have been asking questions that exposed the deep corruption within the BJP-ruled civic body. “Through these questions, AAP tried to bring transparency and fix accountability within the MCDs. We asked them about loans of MCD towards the contractors hired for advertisements. We asked them about regularisation of the sanitation workers and other contractual employees. We asked how much do they get as house tax from the big builders of Delhi,” he said.Mayor Jai Prakash rejected AAP’s allegations as “baseless”.“The circular doesn’t intend to discourage councillors from asking questions, but it’s a process to stop repetition of similar questions asked by multiple councillors. It was observed that many councillors ask the same questions during House meetings, which not only leads to waste of time but also wastes a lot of expenses in the form of stationery,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-bjp-spar-over-house-questions/story-mvNun4jk7CfUsMTiXVbDoN.html
05-11-2020||Mumbai||Man arrested from Gurugram for duping Mumbai consultant of ₹71.7 lakh to spend on gambling||Pant Nagar police arrested a former senior executive of a private insurance company from Gurugram for allegedly duping a Ghatkopar consultant to the tune of ₹71.7 lakh. The accused spent the money on gambling in casinos, the police said. The accused Sourabh Gandhi, an assistant branch manager with an insurance company, had duped Jagannath Govind Raju, 45, a consultant working for a private firm. Gandhi had duped Raju promising higher returns in an investment scheme. The consultant, shared details of 14 credit cards with the accused, who then transferred ₹3.15 crore to his electronic wallet through them and withdrew the money at different intervals. Gandhi returned ₹2.44 crore of the ₹3.15 crore. But when he failed to return the remaining amount, Raju registered a case with Pant Nagar police station in Ghatkopar (East). Gandhi is accused of cheating several others. “In 2018, he called me in April to ask if I could invest money in his investment scheme. He promised me higher returns and asked for my bank and credit card details. I ended up believing his scheme. Gandhi used all the extreme intimidation tactics and terrorised me to pay so much for over 5 months,” Raju said.“Between April and November, he debited around ₹3.15 crore from my cards. He returned ₹2.44 crore from his sister’s account, but is yet to return ₹71 lakh,” Raju said. After looking for him for nearly two years, the police finally succeeded in locating him. “We have arrested Gandhi from Gurugram and brought him to Mumbai. Charged with sections 420 (cheating) and 406 (criminal breach of trust), Gandhi has been remanded in police custody by the local court till November 6,” said inspector Babasaheb Misal of Pant Nagar police station.Misal added, “Investigations have revealed that he has spent the fraudulently obtained money in gambling in casinos. Nothing could be recovered from him. The accused has similarly cheated few other people as well. We would seek his further custody while producing him in court on Friday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-arrested-from-gurugram-for-duping-mumbai-consultant-of-71-7-lakh-to-spend-on-gambling/story-QoBZEMTQeaXmOo9p7VfnQO.html
05-11-2020||Noida||Air quality ‘severe’ in Noida and Ghaziabad, Grap task force suggests 30% reduction in vehicle usage||Ghaziabad: The blanket of smog which has engulfed the National Capital Region (NCR) had its full-blown impact over the three cities of Noida, Ghaziabad and Greater Noida as the air quality plunged into the higher end of the “severe” category for the first time this season Due to the alarming situation, the task force of the graded response action plan (Grap) on Thursday held a meeting with the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) officials and suggested that government and private offices and other establishments should reduce vehicle usage by at least 30% by adopting measures such as working from home, car-pooling and optimising their field activities, etc. The Air Quality Index (AQI), as per data by the CPCB, was at 464, 457 and 450, for Ghaziabad, Greater Noida and Noida, respectively. The three cities have a total of ten online ambient air quality monitoring stations. The last time this year when the AQI of all three cities had plunged to the “severe” category was on January 1, with Ghaziabad, Greater Noida and Noida at 412, 420 and 438, respectively, on the scale. Experts from the India Meteorological Department (IMD), meanwhile, said that imminent meteorological conditions are likely to adversely affect the air quality till Diwali next week.“The north-westerly winds which are persisting at present have a low speed of about six-eight kilometres per hour. They are coming from Haryana and Punjab and also bringing along the effects of stubble-burning, besides local pollutants, aiding pollution. So, pollutants have got trapped but dispersal is slow. This wind pattern is likely to continue (for some days) and easterly winds will arrive around 11-12 November,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, New Delhi.He cautioned, however, that a change in pollution conditions will not be immediately visible after change in wind direction.“This will further impact air quality as change in wind leads to a transition period of about one-two days, during which wind speed remains stagnant. So, the transition period will be around Diwali. Further, bursting of crackers, etc., will further deteriorate air quality. Considering the forthcoming conditions, there is not much likelihood of better air quality in coming days,” he added. According to CPCB’s records, last year the three cities had reached the “severe” category for the first time on October 29, while Diwali was on October 27. Back then, Ghaziabad, Greater Noida and Noida had recorded AQI values at 446, 428 and 439, respectively. Similarly, on November 1, 2019, the three cities had recorded their highest spikes of air pollution of the year under “severe” category, with AQI levels at 496, 496 and 499, respectively. This is the highest AQI figure for the three cities in 2018, 2019, as well as this year up to November 5. “During the task force meeting, IMD officials said that the scenario might be attributed to a sudden calming of winds which could not be captured by the IMD model. So, sudden changes in meteorological conditions have led to this scenario. Since Thursday afternoon, pollution levels recorded by monitoring stations have shown a declining trend. All our local enforcement efforts are already underway,” said Praveen Kumar, regional officer of the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) at Noida. Environmentalists, on the other hand, called for a comprehensive expert study to inquire about changes in pollution patterns in the NCR. “The study should take into account factors such as meteorology, climate, infrastructure, emissions, forestation/deforestation, etc., for the entire NCR to find out factors affecting air quality,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist. The officials of the UPPCB’s Ghaziabad wing added that a number of teams on Wednesday and Thursday were sent out for inspections at construction sites and places where traders store construction material in open.“A report by the teams has been sent to respective sub divisional magistrates for further action. In connection with a garbage burning incident at Raj Nagar Extension, we have recommended a penalty of Rs 25 lakh. Further, during a review meeting with CPCB on Thursday evening, senior officials appreciated our efforts and asked us to take more measures to control issues of open dumping of garbage and construction & demolition waste besides unpaved roads,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of the UPPCB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/air-quality-severe-in-noida-and-ghaziabad-grap-task-force-suggests-30-reduction-in-vehicle-usage/story-mPR8z3a3EsMzXSmoFLJ58J.html
05-11-2020||Mumbai||101 people fined for not wearing masks at railway stations in Mumbai||The Government Railway Police (GRP) penalised 101 people in the past two days for moving within railway premises in the city without masks.According to GRP officers, they started a drive on Tuesday to ensure safety of commuters using the train service and have already collected ₹29,200 as fine. “We needed to crackdown as we need to ensure safety of commuters during the pandemic. We found that people were not wearing masks despite us insisting for it,” said a GRP officer.On Tuesday, GRP had penalised 35 people across the three railway lines in the city and collected a fine of ₹10,000. On Wednesday the police caught 66 passengers and fined them ₹19,200 with maximum number of people being penalised at Chhtrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT).“On Tuesday we fined 25 passengers, and on Wednesday also the number was 25. Each commuter caught without mask was fined ₹200,” said Hemant Bawdhankar, senior police inspector, CSMT GRP.The second station where maximum number of commuters was fined was Thane, followed by Kurla. Officers said that since the railways have started to allow women commuters along with essential workers, the concern for safety owing to Covid-19 infection has increased and hence, the drive will continue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/101-people-fined-for-not-wearing-masks-at-railway-stations-in-mumbai/story-sQ2zHOYNwwI0prdNh9LqEM.html
05-11-2020||City||BJP councillor sends legal notice to Kejriwal, Pathak||New Delhi: Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) councillor from Chandni Chowk Ravindra Kumar on Thursday served legal notices on chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and AAP leader and party’s MCD in-charge Durgesh Pathak over allegations of misappropriation of house and property tax by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation.Kumar has asked the AAP leaders to tender a written apology within seven days or face legal action. Kumar, chairman of the property tax committee in north civic body, said the allegations were baseless and Pathak and Kejriwal should apologise to the councillors for making false allegations.Pathak had on Sunday said the MCD had been “under-recording” property tax collected every year. He had said north MCD should be collecting Rs 2,100 crore as property tax from 12 lakh people but records showed only Rs 700 crore.In response to the notice, Pathak said: “...The BJP ruled MCD could not collect around Rs 1,400 crore due to negligence and corruption. Then what is wrong is asking about this money? Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta and the BJP must disclose the truth behind this Rs 1,400 crore...If the BJP thinks they can keep our mouth shut by sending legal notice they are wrong. AAP is not afraid of this legal notice.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-councillor-sends-legal-notice-to-kejriwal-pathak/story-2hIhXe0XJBRDDJ6XAe2cdL.html
05-11-2020||Mumbai||Security guard arrested for molesting Covid-19 patient in a Mumbai hospital||Kurar police on Thursday arrested a 21-year-old private security guard for molesting a 35-year-old Covid-19 positive woman. The accused sneaked into Covid-19 ward of the hospital in Kurar and molested the woman. According to police, the incident occurred on November 5 around 3am when the woman was asleep. The accused has been identified as Suresh Kochewad, a resident of Kurar. A police officer said, “Kochewad was assigned duty at the hospital’s back gate. While performing his duty, he went to the first floor which housed the special ward for Covid-19 patients.” “The accused saw her sleeping and molested her. As the survivor shouted, everyone got alarmed. She then narrated the ordeal before the hospital authorities,” the officer said. Babasaheb Salunkhe, senior inspector, said, “Following her statement, we registered a case of molestation and arrested him.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/security-guard-arrested-for-molesting-covid-19-patient-in-a-mumbai-hospital/story-cmzuVutifUu2dE4kYd5ODK.html
05-11-2020||Delhi||Fire rips through GB Road building, top floor partially collapses||A four-storey building — that partially serves as a brothel in central Delhi’s GB Road — went up in flames on Thursday evening, prompting the evacuation of dozens of sex workers and their customers. The fire continued to rage for more than two hours and a spate of cylinder blasts on the upper floors caused the top floor to collapse partially, firemen present at the spot said. “There is a possibility of further collapse,” said Rajesh Shukla, a senior fire officer present at the spot.No deaths or injuries were reported till 10pm on Thursday, as fire officers shouted out to any possible victims who may have been trapped inside.The blaze broke out on either the second or the third floor of the building around 7 pm, said Atul Garg, director, Delhi Fire Services. Like many buildings in the market, the ground floor serves as a shop while the upper floors are brothels.“Sex workers have told us that the incident was due to a short circuit,” said a local police officer, not authorised to speak to the media.“There were 60-70 sex workers and their customers inside when the incident took place. It was peak working hours for many,” said a police officer. “All of them luckily managed to escape from the building in time. We were also able to rescue two pet dogs from the building,” said the police officer.The fire later spread to all the three floors, including the upper floors that housed wooden cabins that aided the spread of the blaze.“The impact of the blaze was such that the top floor partially collapsed. There is a fear of further collapse. We can’t say if the building will be in a position to be occupied again,” said Shukla.For the night, the police are making arrangements at the local police post and other places to house the sex workers, an officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/fire-rips-through-gb-road-building-top-floor-partially-collapses/story-MImBlXQz5fdFNt4erupaJI.html
05-11-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC concludes hearing on parole for convicts under special acts||The full bench of the Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday concluded hearing of the reference made to it by a division bench on whether persons convicted under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act were eligible for emergency parole. The advocate for the petitioner, who is currently serving a sentence of 10 years, submitted that as the Pocso Act did not allow any additional restrictions to be put on convicts like in other special acts, and as his client had already served a large portion of his sentence, he should be eligible for emergency parole. The state opposed it saying that the Supreme Court (SC) had clarified that bail could not be sought as a matter of right, and hence as per the high-power committee (HPC) guidelines, the petitioner and all others convicted under special acts such as Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, Maharashtra Control of Organized Crime Act, Prevention of Money Laundering Act, Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositers (In Financial Establishments) Act, Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and others could not seek bail under the pretext of the pandemic situation. The bench of justices KK Tated, GS Kulakarni and NR Borkar, while hearing the reference petition, was informed by advocate Rupesh Jaiswal for the petitioner that there were four grounds on which he was seeking the benefit of emergency parole for his client. While enumerating the grounds, Jaiswal said though the HPC guidelines had mentioned that convicts under special acts would not be eligible for emergency parole, it had only said that the list of special acts was exhaustive, hence it could be construed that the guidelines either included or excluded convicts under Pocso Act. Secondly, he said that as Pocso Act, itself, did not allow any additional restrictions to be put on convicts, hence his client was eligible for the same. Thirdly, Jaiswal stated that as his client had served almost seven-and-a-half years of his sentence with good conduct, as per a SC direction which permitted persons undergoing sentences of more than seven years to be eligible for parole, his client was a fit case for the benefit of the emergency parole. Lastly, Jaiswal submitted that as the HPC guidelines were only meant for under-trials, the various criteria laid down by the HPC did not apply to his client and other convicts. While replying to the query by the court in the previous hearing on November 3 on the stand of the state with regards to extending the benefit of emergency parole to persons convicted under special acts, public prosecutor YP Yagnik submitted that parole and furlough rules had specified the eligibility criteria and the HPC had considered the same while issuing its guidelines for release of prisoners on emergency bail and parole. He further submitted that even the SC had clarified in its order dated September 22, 2020 that the benefit of emergency bail or parole cannot be asked as a matter of right. Yagnik further submitted categorisation of criminals by the HPC was in the larger public interest and that of the nation, and hence they could not be rigidly interpreted to narrow down the extent of punishments in each of the special act. Yagnik concluded the arguments on behalf of the state by saying that just because a convict was not entitled to regular bail or parole, he cannot take advantage of the current situation and seek parole in the garb of the pandemic and the May 8, 2020 notification. After hearing the submissions, the bench said that the hearing was concluded and it would pass orders on Friday at 3pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-concludes-hearing-on-parole-for-convicts-under-special-acts/story-gGwNzT9PxBG30oB14lbXKL.html
05-11-2020||Mumbai||Congress demands Maharashtra’s own farm law||Former chief minister and public works department minister Ashok Chavan has demanded farm law for Maharashtra. He suggested that the law makes the compliance of minimum support price (MSP) compulsory for agriculture produce, gives farmers the right to move the court against traders for cheating in case of unfair price, and making the consent of farmers mandatory for contracts and transactions related to the produce. “The state law has become necessary in the wake of the farm laws passed recently by the Centre,” Chavan said. In his letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Chavan said, “Like many other states, Maharashtra too should enact its own law to safeguard the interest of farmers after the central laws have done away with MSP, legal protection from cheating, hoarding among others. The law should also make e-trading and online payment mandatory to bring in more transparency.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/congress-demands-maharashtra-s-own-farm-law/story-O3Dczkf9fQOAzel2UWJclI.html
05-11-2020||City||Ludhiana anganwadi workers stage protest against pre-primary classes in govt schools||The members of Anganwadi Mulazam Union staged a protest outside the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) west office on Thursday for half an hour and raised slogans against the state government. The workers of five blocks demanded that children aged between 3 and 6 should be enrolled in Anganwari centres and not in government schools. The workers stated that in a meeting held between the representatives of Anganwadi workers and social security, women, and child development minister Aruna Chaudhary on October 15, the minister has assured that all our issues would be resolved but nothing has been done so far. The protest started at 11 am. After the intervention of the superintendent of the SDM office, the workers handed him the memorandum. In Punjab, there are 26,656 Anganwadi centres in which 12 lakh children below 6 years and pregnant women have been provided benefits under the integrated child development services (ICDS). Subhash Rani, general secretary of Punjab Anganwadi Mulazam Union, said, “We want the state government to ask the education department not to enrol students in pre-primary classes and send them to Anganwadi centres. The centres are involving students in various activities and providing cooked food to them.”“During the pandemic also, the workers and helpers worked as Covid warriors and delivered food to children’s homes. If the government hires teachers for pre-primary students, then who will enrol their children in Anganwadi centres. We decided to stage the protest as we did not get any response from the cabinet minister after the meeting held on October 15,” the general secretary added.The workers also supported the farmers’ protest held at Ladhowal Toll plaza at NH 44 on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-anganwadi-workers-stage-protest-against-pre-primary-classes-in-govt-schools/story-wmcSDxWeDdTryuLgTYZu8O.html
05-11-2020||City||Attack on Haryana cops: One more arrested in Panchkula||The police on Thursday made one more arrest in the case where officials of the Haryana Police were attacked by villagers during a protest against mining at Rattewali village in Panchkula.The accused was identified as Balwinder Singh of Maheshpur, Panchkula, who, as per police, is an advocate and was allegedly involved in the attack.At least 16 policemen, including ACP Raj Kumar, were injured after being pelted with stones when they had gone to the village, 20km from the district headquarters, to disperse protesters blocking a road. Government vehicles were also damaged.Two FIRs were registered and 47 villagers booked on various charges including attempt to murder, rioting, assault on public servants and mischief by fire or explosive substances.While the first FIR is against the 13 arrested on Tuesday, the second was registered against 34 villagers on the complaint of the mining contractor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/attack-on-haryana-cops-one-more-arrested-in-panchkula/story-yD9rswMp24W3b8A71QAVtK.html
05-11-2020||Gurugram||No police, no lighting make commute unsafe on Golf Course Ext Road, say robbery victims||Rahul Jaiswal, a resident of Golf Course Extension Road, who was working with a private company in Sector 66, was waylaid on January 28, around 11pm, when returning home. He was stopped by two unidentified men and was asked to hand over his car keys. “I had no clue why they were asking for my keys, I thought I have hit their motorbike and they are angry about it. One of them held me at gunpoint, robbed me of my mobile, wallet, gold chain and rings, and another man hit me on my head. They snatched my keys and fled with my car,” he said.Jaiswal quit his job and remained home for two months. He has stopped using the stretch as he is scared. His car is still not untraceable, but the incident still haunts him and he had sleepless nights due to it. “The worst part was people were passing by but no one stopped or came to help. I try to remain indoors after 10pm and if I get delayed in office, I leave my car and take a cab,” said Jaiswal.Residents of the area say that there is an unspoken rule of not travelling on the 14-kilometre stretch connecting Golf Course Extension Road (GCER) to the Southern Peripheral Road (SPR), due to a fear of increasing crimes. More than 2,000 families are residing here. The entire stretch of SPR, starting from the NH8, including the road from the other side of the toll where it meets the SPR and then the GCER is to be avoided, say residents. Despite assurances by the police and constant patrolling, residents remain fearful, especially after a 26-year-old woman executive was shot at by three unidentified masked men in a robbery attempt on Tuesday night.“The road is often in bad condition and combined with lack of proper lighting and isolated and unpopulated parts it makes a good hunting ground for criminals. Combine this with a number of liquor vending shops and you get spots where criminal elements can park themselves and choose their prey at will. This stretch needs at least three to four police checkpoints at night and visibly parked patrol cars which are not seen at night. Street lighting needs to be fixed on an urgent basis,” said Nitin Sirohi, a resident of Emaar Palm Drive on GCER.Victims of crimes say that police deployment is thin, with no checkpoint near the crossings or areas where nine car thefts were reported. In the past week, three motorbikes and two purses from elderly women were snatched on the 500-metre stretch of the road, after crossing a private school, towards Vatika crossing.Ravi Kant, a resident of Vatika City on GCER, said that two unidentified criminals had snatched his motorbike on June 6, while he was returning from a friend’s house. “I was riding my motorbike and suddenly, someone caught hold of my shirt collar from behind. I got shocked and scared, I turned around and saw two men wearing helmets. I applied brakes and asked them what was the matter. They slapped me for no reason, pushed me on the road and they fled with my motorbike,” he said, adding that there were hardly any streetlights working that night.KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said that the stretch is unsafe due to many reasons. Firstly, the stretch is dimly lit and secondly, it connects to multiple borders, due to which the criminals flee easily to other parts of the city. “The stretch is covered well with the CCTV cameras, but during nights, it becomes difficult to identify criminals if streetlights are not working,” he said.Rao said the road also has potholes and the movement of vehicles is slow, which is advantageous to criminals.Babita Patra, a resident of Sector 57, uses the stretch daily to commute to work. On July 17, she was driving her scooter when two youths on a speeding motorbike came from behind and snatched her gold chain around 8pm. “I lost balance and fell due to which I suffered a fracture on my right arm. I got up on my own and called my colleagues, who took me to a private hospital in Sector 57, but for 20 minutes, none of the commuters stopped to help me,” she said.Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that they have deployed four PCR vans on the stretch starting Wednesday night and 10 personnel are deployed on patrolling motorbikes. “We have also deployed teams in plainclothes to keep a watch on the movement of suspected people. Anyone finds anything suspicious should reach out to the police control room. Their names will be kept secret,” he said.On the other hand, Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), which is responsible for the streetlights on the stretch, has taken stock of the dysfunctional streetlights and is in the process of fixing them.Arun Dhankhar, the superintendent engineer of HSVP, said that they have deputed a team to check all streetlights at night and a team is lined up to repair them as soon as they receive a call from the inspection team. “Our teams are operating at night shifts also to ensure the stretch is well lit and commuters do not face any trouble driving on the stretch,” he said.Ram Kumar (32), an auto driver, who frequently ferries commuters from Ghata crossing to Vatika crossing, said that the police deployment is thin on the stretch despite regular incidents of purse and gold chain snatching, carjacking. He says are mostly stationed at the crossing.Residents said in such a situation it is extremely difficult for the commuters at late night to stop at the traffic lights, as it increases the risk of them getting waylaid and robbed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/no-police-no-lighting-make-commute-unsafe-on-golf-course-ext-road-say-robbery-victims/story-ObMWHc3cv9MMykmWQLcTzN.html
05-11-2020||Gurugram||Woman who was shot at in robbery attempt near Golf Course Extension Road dies||A 26-year-old woman who was shot at in the head by three masked men during a robbery attempt near Golf Course Extension Road died while undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Sector 38. The deceased, Pooja Sharma, was returning home in her car on Tuesday night when the incident took place.Sharma had been on a ventilator since she was admitted to the hospital and had not gained consciousness, said police, adding that her family arrived from Raipur in Chhattisgarh on Wednesday.The police said they have questioned more than 80 people in the last two days, but they are yet to make headway in the case. Police commissioner KK Rao said that they have questioned 26 criminals, 30 drug addicts and about 30 snatchers who were arrested in the past from Golf Course Extension Road this year and were out on bail.“We are hopeful of cracking the case soon. Six teams are working on this case and are questioning friends, relatives and colleagues to get some leads,” he said. The police are also probing the possibility of the attack having being carried out by the Sharma’s acquaintances.Rao said the hospital informed the police about the Sharma’s death around 2.30pm on Thursday, following which Section 302 (murder) was added to the First Information Report (FIR) on Thursday night.Hospital sources said that woman succumbed to her injuries around 2.30 pm. They refused to share further details. Sagar Manchanda, a man who Sharma was to marry, was with her in the car at the time of the incident but escaped the gunshot fired at him, the police said. Manchanda 30, is a software engineer and is an IIT-Roorkee graduate. Sharma was a software engineer and also had an MBA. She had joined the company Manchanda was working in one-and-a-half years ago.Police said that Manchanda lives in Sector 40 with his mother, while Sharma stayed with her uncle in Delhi.A special investigation team (SIT) was formed on Thursday, headed by assistant commissioner of police (crime) and meeting was called by Rao in this regard. Four of the deputy commissioners will also probe the case and submit a daily report to Rao. Preet Pal Sangwan, ACP (crime), said that on Tuesday, Sharma had come to Gurugram to collect her laptop from her office, after which she and Manchanda drove to his Sector 40 residence. “Their wedding was postponed due to Covid-19 and because of the lockdown, she had shifted to her uncle’s place in Delhi as they were shopping for the wedding,” he said.Sharma and Manchanda were returning after visiting his under-construction apartment, when the robbers waylaid them near Sector 65, about 50 metres from Golf Course Extension Road. Sharma was at the wheel when they spotted three men on a motorbike approaching them on the wrong side on the road. When the trio intercepted them, Sharma applied brakes. Two men got down and pointed pistols at their glass window panes.Sangwan said that the suspects did not ask them to get down or to hand over their car keys. “They shot at them without uttering a single word. This is the reason we are looking at all angles, if the suspects were known to both of them and had any old enmity with either of them,” he said.Manchanda had driven Sharma to the hospital after the assailants fled the scene after firing at Sharma.The police have scanned more than 15 CCTV footages and confirmed that three men were seen coming towards them from the wrong side of the road, but the registration number of the motorbike they were on was found to be fake. “Due to it being dark, the pictures of the suspects were not clear and they were seen fleeing towards Sector 57. Our teams have scanned more than 250 CCTV cameras from different spots on the stretch but only 15 were relevant,” said Sangwan.The body of the woman will be handed over to the family members after a post-mortem examination on Friday, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/woman-who-was-shot-at-in-robbery-attempt-near-golf-course-extension-road-dies/story-IeRrr5OjGAkumFslRPkQwO.html
05-11-2020||Mumbai||IIT-Bombay to hold orientation for parents of incoming students||As incoming students of the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B), gear up for their first online semester, their parents too will undergo orientation for helping their wards sail through the semester.In a first, IIT-B will conduct an orientation programme for parents of those joining various undergraduate courses at the institute. Given the Covid-19 pandemic, the institute has decided to conduct the entire first semester online.While classes kick off on November 16, all the freshly-minted IITians will attend an online orientation programme from November 11. This year, in keeping with the online semester, the orientation has been extended to parents, as well.“This is possibly the first time that the institute will hold an orientation for parents, although some departments earlier allowed parents to attend the orientation with their child. This time we are doing it explicitly for the parents, as their help and appreciation are very much needed by the students to effectively study at home during the online semester,” said Subhasis Chaudhuri, director, IIT-B.More than 1,300 students have been selected through the Joint Entrance Exam for admission to the coveted institute’s over 25 disciplines. While student mentors will be reaching out to selected students before the orientation to prepare them for the transition, the orientation for parents is aimed at educating them on how they can help their wards during the online semester. The first week of instruction will be treated as the zero week where students will learn how to attend lectures and take tests online, Chaudhuri added.Chaudhuri said semesters have been planned such that students can complete the entire academic year by the end of June. Usually, students join IIT-B by July and break for a short winter vacation in November. The next semester resumes in December and breaks for summer vacation in May. However, the Covid-19 pandemic has altered the academic calendar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/iit-bombay-to-hold-orientation-for-parents-of-incoming-students/story-gArNrUT1wly0vt7WTtDaSP.html
05-11-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC allows Maharashtra government to consider applications for new junior college classes, extra divisions||Junior college seats across Maharashtra are expected to increase this academic year to accommodate over 3.70 lakh students, as the Bombay high court on Monday allowed the state government to consider 410 applications of existing schools either for additional divisions in junior colleges or for starting new junior colleges.A division bench of justices KK Tated and GS Kulkarni modified January 28, 2020, order passed by another bench, restraining the government from considering any application either to start a new school or for permission for additional divisions or classes.Though the bench continued restraint on permitting new schools under the provisions of the Maharashtra Self Finance Schools (Establishment and Regulation) Act, 2012, it allowed the state government to consider 280 applications on existing authorised schools for starting junior colleges and 130 applications for additional junior college divisions.The bench passed the order after advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni submitted that this academic year, additional junior colleges and additional junior college divisions will be required across Maharashtra as the number of SSC-passed students has considerably increased this year. He pointed out that last year about 19.37 lakh students had cleared SSC examination. This year, he said, the number has increased by over 3.70 lakh, thus, the state will require more junior colleges seats.Kumbhakoni also pointed out that on October 5, 2020, the government had promulgated the Maharashtra Self Finance School (Establishment and Regulation) Rules, 2020, and assured the court that the applications for new Class 11 and 12 and additional divisions from existing colleges would be considered strictly by the rules.The January 28 order was passed by a bench headed by justice SC Dharmadhikari on a petition filed by city resident Manju Jaiswal complaining about permissions granted to several coaching classes for setting up junior colleges on the ground that those institutions did not fulfil legal requirements like 500 square meters land either on ownership or leasehold basis and infrastructure mentioned in the 2012 enactment.Jaiswal has sought cancellation of the permissions granted to several coaching classes to start junior colleges and also a direction for restraining the government from granting any new permissions for self-financed schools without strictly adhering to the provisions of the 2012 enactment.The order was passed after the bench noticed that the government machinery was not fully functional to implement the Maharashtra Self Finance Schools (Establishment and Regulation) Act, and Rules were not framed under the law, important authorities under the enactment were not notified and appointed.In this backdrop, by the order dated January 28, the bench had restrained state government from considering any pending or new applications for starting new schools under the 2012 Act.The bench had also restrained the government from renewing existing approvals or permissions unless a full-fledged inspection and scrutiny was undertaken by the State or Field level authorities, as may be notified by the Rules, and directed to keep on hold all applications seeking renewal of existing permissions until such scrutiny and verification was undertaken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-allows-maharashtra-government-to-consider-applications-for-new-junior-college-classes-extra-divisions/story-KZNBRIe8LOeteSxzuv2ayH.html
05-11-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER to get advanced catheter lab||The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) will soon have a state-of-the-art biplane digital subtraction neuroangiography (DSA) suite to provide improved services for a variety of neurovascular disorders.MS Sandhu, head, department of radiodiagnosis and imaging, said this will be the first advanced catheter laboratory in this part of the country.“Currently, the neuro intervention section of the department caters to a large number of patients suffering from various neurological disorders. This addition will enhance diagnosis and treatment of all types of stroke and provide faster and more accurate vascular care,” Sandhu said. Neurointervention or endovascular neurosurgery involves minimally invasive treatment of complex brain disorders. “These procedures do not involve opening the skull and are possible with very small incisions in the groin or wrist without the need to put sutures. The brain is then accessed by the use of small flexible tubes called catheters and wires are taken through the incision across vessels of the abdomen or arm right until the brain to perform complex brain surgeries,” he added. The new DSA system will optimise workflow, reduce preparation and procedure time and provides high-quality imaging, achieving high visibility of catheters and wires at low radiation dose levels.“Both our patients and clinicians can benefit from the high speed, low radiation dose levels and outstanding image quality of the new DSA system,” Sandhu said. “It will allow us to complete a variety of diagnostic and interventional procedures much faster, and that way, patients can recover sooner,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgi-to-get-advanced-catheter-lab/story-YcrhN6ZDyjPZyVs84kmsbM.html
05-11-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Provide basic amenities to EWS colonies by Dec, DTCP tells developers||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) has asked the developers of three economically weaker section (EWS) colonies in Gurugram to ensure basic amenities to these colonies by December-end. The facilities such as power, water, and sewage to these colonies have been delayed by over six months, DTCP officials said.The department also directed affordable housing developers not to ask more money from buyers if construction has not happened as per plan and also expedite construction in case of delayed projects. The directions were issued during a meeting held on Tuesday in which the representatives of the two developers, who have built the three EWS colonies, were present. Sanjiv Mann, senior town planner, said that two EWS complexes have been developed in sector 57 and another is in Sohna township. These colonies should have got basic amenities by April this year, but due to Covid-19 it was delayed, Mann said, adding that we have now asked the two developers to expedite power, water, sewage and related amenities by December 31. “The work in one of the projects in sector 57 is satisfactory but the other is lagging, and the one in Sohna has not taken off. We have issued strict directions that this be taken up on priority and all pending work be completed,” he said. The department further asked the developers of affordable housing projects that they should not demand for more money till they have constructed the project on equivalent basis. DTCP officials said that they have instructions in this regard after several complaints were raised by homebuyers. “We have asked some of the companies specifically to submit their construction plans and not to raise more demand till adequate work happens on ground. Also, promoters have been asked to push work on projects which are delayed. We are also planning to link payments with construction, but this is a policy level decision and call will be taken by senior officials in Chandigarh,” Mann said. The department said that it was critical for affordable housing developers to complete the projects as there is around 1,500 acres of land available in the city and more across the state where such projects can come up. A DTCP official said that if these projects are delayed, the buyers will lose faith in them and entire idea of affordable housing will get a hit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-provide-basic-amenities-to-ews-colonies-by-dec-dtcp-tells-developers/story-SRWcG87B7xLdILg3YdjurO.html
05-11-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC refuses immediate release for Arnab Goswami; hearing today||Refusing Republic TV’s editor Arnab Goswami’s plea for immediate release, a division bench of the Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday posted for hearing on Friday afternoon his petition challenging his arrest by Alibag police in a 2018 abetment to suicide case. The Alibag police arrested Goswami on Wednesday morning and the chief judicial magistrate remanded him in judicial custody till November 18. Goswami had filed for a bail before the Alibag magistrate, but withdrew his plea on Thursday and moved the high court seeking immediate release, contending his arrest and detention were completely illegal. His counsel, senior advocate Aabad Ponda, submitted the police closed the case in 2018 by filing an A-summary report (true, but undetected) and it was not open to the police to reopen the case and start re-investigation without a court order. “It [magisterial order accepting the summary report and closing the case] was a nail in the coffin,” Ponda said, insisting that the case could not have been resurrected without a court order issued by the magistrate concerned or some higher court. The senior advocate also pointed out the Supreme Court rulings in support of his contention and submitted that the arrest of Goswami in “the dead case” was completely illegal. Ponda urged the court to release Goswami immediately, as according to him, detention of the journalist was not legally permissible at all. He said the HC had enough plenary powers and must come to the rescue of a citizen treated unfairly by the state. “This is a classic illustration of misuse of power by police and such arrest and detention cannot be tolerated even for a second,” he said, while urging the court to release Goswami on interim bail. The bench of justice SS Shinde and justice MS Karnik refused to issue an order for immediate release, stating it “can’t pass an order without hearing the complainant and state”. The bench held this after senior advocate Amit Desai, representing the state government, requested for time to peruse the case papers. The bench, however, expressed inability to pass any interim order without granting opportunity of hearing to the Maharashtra government, and the complainant, and posted the petition for further hearing on Friday on Desai’s request. The bench also issued notices to the state and also to the complainant Adnya Naik, daughter of Anvay Naik who died by suicide in 2018. The bench felt it necessary to add the complainant as a party respondent to the petition, especially because she was not heard when the A-summary report was accepted and the case was closed by the judicial magistrate concerned. The bench said it did not want to make the same mistake in this proceeding and directed Goswami to add her a party to the petition, so that she can put forth her side on Friday. The bench also posted for hearing a plea filed by Adnya Naik for the case to be reinvestigated. Anvay Naik, 53, died by suicide in his Alibag farmhouse in Raigad, police said. His mother, Kumud, too, was found dead at their home. In his suicide note, police said, Naik alleged he was being forced to take this step as he was not paid dues collectively amounting to ₹5.40 crore by Goswami and two others. Naik was the managing director of Concorde Designs Private Limited, which rendered services for Republic TV. Along with Republic, Naik had dues from two other companies namely Smartworks and IcastX/Skimedia. After Naik’s suicide, his wife Akshata had lodged a complaint with the Alibag police against Goswami, Feroz Shaikh of IcastX/Skimedia and Nitish Sarda of Smartworks for allegedly abetting their suicide. Naik had alleged that Goswami owes him ₹83 lakh, Sarda ₹55 lakh and Shaikh ₹4 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-refuses-immediate-release-for-arnab-goswami-hearing-today/story-4CzxRUNkUVZuv25TL1ofbI.html
05-11-2020||City||Gurugram: Nine private labs get notice for uploading incorrect addresses of Covid-19 patients||Gurugram: The district health department on Thursday issued show cause notices to nine private labs, including four Delhi-based labs, for uploading on the official portal incorrect addresses of at least 43 people tested positive for Covid-19. Citing that incorrect details hamper the entire cycle of surveillance and contact tracing, health officials said that the labs have been given two days’ time to respond to the notice. According to the officials, these labs are also retesting those who have been detected Covid-19 positive, which is leading to duplicity of data in nearly 8-10% cases.According to the chief medical officer, Dr Virender Yadav, incorrect contact details of at least 43 Covid-19 positive patients have been fed in the ICMR portal this week by these nine labs. Surveillance by local police shows that these cases, which belonged to Delhi, were listed in Gurugram, he said.“Labs are not verifying the ID proofs submitted by people coming for Covid-19 test. They should take proper address proof even if people are living temporarily in the city. Incomplete details put unwanted pressure on the government machinery,” said Yadav.The CMO said that labs are even retesting people, who have already been tested positive. “It has been an ongoing activity that people who are already confirmed positive get themselves retested again after two days. Data shows that it leads to duplicity of data in about 8-10% cases. More than that it increases the chances of transmission to others around,” said Yadav.An ICMR study in April predicted that a Covid-19 patient can infect 406 people in 30 days if preventive measures such as social distancing are not implemented.According to the officials, many people come to Gurugram for an RT-PCR test as the charge for the same in the district is Rs 900, which is comparatively lower than Delhi’s Rs 2,400.The issue of incorrect address of Covid-19 patients has been raised since May. On May 31, the Director General Health Services (DGHS) Haryana had issued notices to 18 private labs of Delhi, approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for doing Covid-19 testing in the national capital, for taking samples of Haryana patients without keeping Haryana health department in the loop. In June, the Haryana government had written a letter to the Union health minister, mentioning that labs in Delhi, which are taking Covid-19 samples of Haryana residents, are not sharing reports properly with the authorities concerned, resulting in delay of contact tracing and surveillance activities, besides creating mismatch on ICMR portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-nine-private-labs-get-notice-for-uploading-incorrect-addresses-of-covid-19-patients/story-8w7kMpcD0sqQ1tIWPOD5DK.html
05-11-2020||Gurugram||Spike in Covid-19 cases makes contact tracing harder||With multiple instances of record single-day spike in Covid-19 cases over the last two weeks, tracing contacts of positive cases has become a challenging task for the district health department. As new infections have nearly doubled since mid-October, the health department has set a three-day target to complete the process.“Strict contact tracing is crucial within a stipulated time period in the current situation. If it is not done effectively, then at a certain stage of the pandemic outbreak, all preventive norms fail. That stage of outbreak has to be prevented,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer.Contact tracing is done to identify close contacts of people who test positive for the infection, as they may have been infected prior to the onset of symptoms. For this, 206 rapid response teams (RRTs) (163 in rural and 143 in urban areas) under different primary health centres (PHCs) are already at work. It comprises ASHA, ANM or Anganwadi workers, who are accompanied by a lab technician. Prior to the recent spike in cases, the activity could be completed in a day or two, unless there were incomplete addresses as they had to be located by the police. “Now, when the new infections have almost doubled in less than two weeks, our target is to contact trace people within three days. Any incomplete address would lead to further delay,” Yadav said. Several studies show that a single positive patient can have over 36 contacts. However, across the country contact tracing is mostly restricted to family members. In Gurugram, at least four to seven closest contacts of patients are traced. The state health department shows that contact tracing in Gurugram in the last couple of months has been above 90%. Yadav said that nearly 40% of new cases are family members of patients. “Earlier, people were reluctant to get tested. Now, when one family member develops symptoms, the entire family gets itself tested in private labs and they all turn out to be positive,” said Yadav. According to him, this has slightly reduced the burden of contact tracing and sample collection. Experts say that contact tracing alone cannot control the transmission of infection. It can be mitigated only if it is integrated with precautionary norms like moving out of the homes only if necessary, maintaining physical distance in markets, using face mask, practising hand hygiene and avoiding large gatherings. To reduce the transmission through potential carriers, Yadav said that the department has changed its strategy. “Earlier, when the case were below 300, only a final list of new infections was shared with the team under different UPHCs. Now, we release the first list in the morning hours so that the team could work on it and the second list in the evening, which they can trace the next day,” said Yadav, adding that each RRT team covers 15-30 houses based on the cases recorded in their area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/spike-in-covid-19-cases-makes-contact-tracing-harder/story-6x8ClAmkh665lLqPUgHosL.html
05-11-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram admin designates eight spots to burst crackers||Bursting of firecrackers in Gurugram can take place only at eight designated spots on November 14, the day of Diwali, as per an order issued by the district administration on Thursday. In an earlier order this week, the administration had allowed bursting of only green crackers between 8pm and 10pm on Diwali.In Thursday’s order, deputy commissioner Amit Khatri said the bursting of green crackers is prohibited on other days, pre- and post-Diwali. On the day of festival, designated places – Huda ground in sector 29, Beriwala Bagh near Mini Secretariat (Rajiv Chowk), Huda ground in sector 5, Devi Lal Stadium, Sohna, Huda ground in sector 1 (Pataudi), City Centre near Bhaktawar Singh Chowk in sector 47, open space near Aggarwal Dharamshala in Hailey Mandi and old Ramlila ground in Farrukhnagar – can be used for bursting firecrackers.Officials of the district administration privy to the matter said that these areas are mostly huge open grounds where many people can be accommodated. “It is possible in these areas to maintain social distancing at the time of Covid-19,” said an official, who preferred not to be named. According to him, it would be difficult to keep a check in condominiums and other residential societies if people burst crackers.Meanwhile, the Gurugram police have directed senior officials to hold a meeting with the resident welfare associations (RWAa) and NGOs to make people aware of the government order and refrain from bursting crackers. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said, “SHOs of different areas have been directed to remain vigilant and take action against people if found violating rules. They will be meeting RWAs and NGOs before Diwali to work on enforcement.”As per the order, in case any violation is found, SHO of the police station of the area shall be held personally liable for the violation. On the other hand, residents said that it would be impossible to implement the order. Dhruv Bansal, spokesperson of Gurgaon Citizen Council, an umbrella body of RWAs in the city, said, “The order indirectly gives relaxation to burst crackers. It is not possible to keep a check in every nook and corner of the city, or inside residential societies. Due to Covid-19, it is difficult to predict that how many people would go to the designated spots to celebrate Diwali. For people it would be difficult to even follow the time restriction. Still, with our teams and help of NGOs, we will create awareness.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-admin-designates-eight-spots-to-burst-crackers/story-65qzNpWT0lHg5O2yuaJ4fM.html
05-11-2020||Gurugram||Air quality plummets into ‘severe’ zone||Air quality in the city deteriorated to the ‘severe’ category on Thursday for the first time this season, with a reading of 443 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s air quality index (AQI) bulletin. This is significantly up from Wednesday’s AQI reading of 296, which indicated ‘poor’ air. Officials and experts attributed this sudden increase in pollution to a shift in meteorological conditions, which resulted in extremely low wind speed after two days of favourable wind patterns, and a steep drop in minimum temperature while stubble burning continued in parts of Punjab.The early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR stated, “Unusually high farm fire counts (approx..5000), maximum of this season were observed over Punjab on 04.11.2020 which is affecting AQI over Delhi/NCR and parts of Northwest India.” Vijay Soni, scientist, air quality division, India Meteorological Department (IMD), said, “Smog-like conditions have developed because of air pollution, low wind speed and subsidence of cold air over Delhi-NCR. As a result, dispersal of pollutants is not possible.” An AQI reading between 401 and 500 is considered to be severe, as it can impact healthy people while seriously aggravating the conditions of those with existing conditions. However, forecasts by the Indian Institute for Tropical Meteorology, and the CPCB’s central control room for air quality management indicate that the situation may see a slight improvement over the next few days.As per the early air quality warning system, “The AQI is likely to improve owing to higher windspeed and better ventilation. The AQI is likely to reach in higher end of Very Poor category on 06.11.2020. The air quality is likely to remain in Very Poor category on 07.11.2020 (sic).” The CPCB, meanwhile, has forecast an AQI of 305 for Gurugram on Friday, which may further improve to the upper-end of the ‘poor’ category over the weekend, owing to dispersal from favourable northwest winds.On Thursday, the city recorded a minimum temperature of 11 degrees Celsius, down from 14.1 degrees Celsius the previous day. The maximum temperature was recorded at 29.9 degrees Celsius, two above Wednesday’s 27.5 degree Celsius. The minimum temperature is expected to hover around 11 degrees Celsius on Friday, while the maximum temperature is expected to be around 30 degrees Celsius. Clear skies during the day with fog and mist in the morning are expected to prevail this week, as per the IMD’s weekly forecast, which also predicts wind speeds between 5 to 15kmph over Delhi-NCR on Friday.Thursday’s rapid deterioration of air quality also prompted the CPCB’s task force on Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) to meet. In the minutes of the meeting, which were shared with Hindustan Times by the Haryana State Pollution Control Board’s regional office in Gurugram, the task force has said, “Government and private offices and other establishments are advised to reduce vehicle usage by at least 30% (by working from home, car-pooling, and optimizing their field activities.” Gurugram was yet to issue an advisory to this effect on Thursday evening. The minutes also state that air quality is likely to improve from Thursday evening due to increased wind speed, and will likely remain ‘very poor’ over the next two days. However, in case the air quality remains ‘severe’ for a period of 48 hours (or if PM2.5 remains above 250ug/m3, or if PM10 remains above 430ug/m3 for the same time), three broad Grap measures are rolled out. These include increasing sweeping and dust sprinkling along roads where dust pollution is an issue, shutting down brick kilns in and around Delhi-NCR, and restricting operations of coal-based power plants. When air quality surpasses this threshold and enters the ‘severe plus’ category, construction work is to be halted, entry of trucks into Delhi-NCR cities is curbed. The odd-even vehicle rationing scheme is also recommended to be implemented under the Grap, in ‘severe plus’ situations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/air-quality-plummets-into-severe-zone/story-SVMAhfXPMkSOf7kcxKTU5H.html
05-11-2020||City||PM2.5 and PM10 pollutants present in Gurugram’s air much higher during night, shows data||Gurugram: Air quality data from four official monitoring stations in the city shows that particulate matter pollutants, PM2.5 and PM10, are present in far higher quantities during the night than during the day. Peak nighttime concentrations of these pollutants, on several days over the past two weeks, have been double or nearly double the peak daytime concentration, according to the data from the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB). For example, data from the HSPCB’s air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan in Sector 11 shows that between 2am and 6am on November 1, the concentration of PM2.5 in the region was as high as 442ug/m3, indicating ‘severe’ quality air. However, this improved during the day, with PM2.5 levels dropping to as much as 182ug/m3 by 2pm.Similarly, data from another monitor located on the Gurugram-Faridabad road shows that, between 1am and 10am on November 1, PM2.5 levels were as high as 464ug/m3, while the concentration of PM10 was as high as 439ug/m3. By 4pm, however, the concentration of PM2.5 had dropped to as little as 68ug/m3, while that of PM10 dropped to 126ug/m3. However, consistently high levels of particulate matter were observed at both locations over multiple hours during the night.A third monitor, also located on the Gurugram-Faridabad road, shows that PM10 levels on November 1 were as high as 381ug/m3 in the early hours of the morning, before reducing to about 200ug/m3 during the day. Meanwhile, after touching 348ug/m3 at 12am, the level of PM2.5 dropped the subsequent morning to as little as 132ug/m3.The trend holds true for most dates prior to November 5, when pollution levels hit the ‘severe’ threshold during the day itself. On November 3, for example, data from a station in Sector 51 shows that PM2.5 levels between 12am and 10am were in excess of 500ug/m3. At 4pm, however, the concentration was just 162ug/m3, shows the HSPCB data.Kuldeep Singh, regional officer, HSPCB, Gururgam, confirmed the veracity of these observations, saying they are not surprising. “We are aware that PM2.5 and PM10 levels increase significantly at night, which is why most of our enforcement teams and patrolling happen at night itself. Even water sprinkling and road sweeping activities happen at night for the same reason,” he said. This trend can also be observed on dates going back to early October, when air quality in the region had not yet deteriorated to current levels, though the variation is less stark around that time. “There are three parameters which influence this day and night difference, including wind velocity, atmospheric temperature, and density of air. What happens during the night is that wind speeds are calmer, allowing pollutants to accumulate. Along with this, nighttime temperatures are also lower, making air more dense and less prone to dispersal, which happens later in the day when the sun is out,” said Dr Mukesh Khare, an air pollution scientist at IIT-Delhi and former member of the recently disbanded Environment Pollution (Prevention & Control) Authority (Epca).However, experts also said that the general public is less likely to know of these differences in air quality, due to the manner in which the same is quantified. For example, on November 1, when the peak nighttime load of particulate matter exceeded the 500ug/m3 threshold in some parts of the city, Gurugram has an air quality index (AQI) reading of 306 -- indicating ‘very poor’ air. Similarly, on November 3, Gurugram had recorded ‘poor’ quality air (with 270 on the AQI bulletin, the lowest reading in at least two weeks), even though data shows that air quality during the night time remained extremely hazardous.“So, even if you’ve had eight hours of extremely hazardous air at night, which puts at risk the health of many people, including delivery boys, construction workers, the homeless, and so on... officially the data will still record the date as a ‘very poor’ air day, because the daily AQI value is calculated on a 24-hour average,” explained Abhishek Shrivastava, a city resident and environmental engineer.A fundamental issue with reporting the AQI daily, in this manner, is that it does not take into account these diurnal variations. “The point of the AQI is to show exigencies of pollutants over a certain period. The way it is done in India looks at exigencies over a 24-hour period, which is done for the sake of conveying to the public a sense of how things were on a given date. While this method may suffice at other times of the year, we are now in a critical period of the pollution cycle, and regulatory authorities should monitor these episodic spikes,” said Khare. Responding to these observations, HSPCB’s Singh said that authorities at the district level are well aware of the issue. “The AQI is calculated as per a Centrally prescribed method, but at our level we are looking at raw data from all the monitors. We plan our enforcement drives accordingly, deploying more manpower where pollution levels are higher,” said Singh. According to Singh, biomass and garbage burning, and dumping of garbage and C&D waste -- the activities that are harder to carry out during the day without going unnoticed -- are the primary violations of air quality norms that have been observed by inspection teams during night patrols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pm2-5-and-pm10-pollutants-present-in-gurugram-s-air-much-higher-during-night-shows-data/story-wsyDQ0jq14O7t92adegzGK.html
05-11-2020||Mumbai||Shiv Sena mouthpiece hits out at Amit Shah and BJP over Arnab Goswami’s arrest||Maharashtra’s ruling Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana on Thursday hit out at Union home minister Amit Shah in an editorial for condemning Republic TV’s editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami’s arrest for allegedly abetting an interior designer’s suicide in 2018. The editorial said the law prevailed in Goswami’s case as he was arrested after a grieving widow sought justice for her husband.“This arrest is absolutely not an attack on the fourth pillar of democracy [media] like home minister Amit Shah has said. Many journalists have been arrested in Gujarat for writing against the government. In Uttar Pradesh, several journalists were killed. Nobody was reminded of the Emergency then,” the editorial said, referring to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled states.Shah on Wednesday blamed the Congress, which shares power with Shiv Sena in Maharashtra, and its allies for “shaming democracy” while calling Goswami’s arrest earlier in the day “blatant misuse of state power”. “It reminds us of the Emergency [imposed in the 1970s]. This attack on free press must be and WILL BE OPPOSED,” Shah tweeted.Other top BJP leaders and Union ministers also condemned the arrest. BJP’s Maharashtra chief Chandrakant Patil said there is an “Emergency-like situation” in the state. He added BJP workers in Maharashtra will wear black badges or black clothes until Goswami is released.The editorial criticised the BJP for supporting Goswami while questioning his credentials as a journalist. It added the BJP allegedly tried to suppress the matter when it was in power in Maharashtra. “An innocent man and his mother killed themselves. His widow is crying for justice. Police followed the law.”The editorial added the widow ran from pillar to post for two years for justice. It said a note recovered after the interior designer’s death by suicide said Goswami did not pay his dues and he killed himself due to the stress caused by it. “His widow has now moved the court seeking re-investigation into the matter and the police have only acted accordingly.”Vishwas Pathak, BJP spokesperson said that the action against Arnab Goswami was “vindictive”. He said, “They function in this manner that whoever speaks against them will be taken aside. They were waiting for an opportunity to arrest Arnab as he was speaking against the Sena-led government in Palghar lynching and later Sushant Singh Rajput case. It is done in a vindictive manner. They should worry about their party and not comment on senior leaders of the BJP.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-mouthpiece-hits-out-at-amit-shah-and-bjp-over-arnab-goswami-s-arrest/story-iThrGinST5vayk3tCelC7J.html
05-11-2020||City||Audit flags mismanagement at PunCom: Financial losses of ₹2 crore, failed investments, overpaid staff||Glaring irregularities and gross misuse of funds have been found at Punjab Communication Limited (PunCom), Phase 7, Mohali, in the audit report of 2019-2020 that the office of the principal account general of Punjab had conducted.The audit has pointed out a loss of nearly ₹2 crore.Set up in 1981, PunCom is India’s premier telecom and IT equipment and solutions provider company, supplying and implementing a host of state-of-the-art telecommunications software and integrated solutions.Among the significant findings of the audit report, there was irregular payment of around ₹95 lakh in the form of retention allowance to employees under the superannuation scheme. The audit also found that there was erring litigation that the company entered, which ended up imposing a heavy cost of around ₹111 crore. The report called these suspected losses.PunCom, the audit report noted, also floated a Punjab Digital Industrial Limited, Mohali, as its subsidiary through an investment of ₹25 lakh. This company wound up in February 2009 and by March 31, 2008, the accumulated losses of the firm were around ₹1 crore.‘No financial propriety observed’“The management of the investing company did not observe financial propriety and thereafter did not follow-up, thus aggravating losses to the tune of ₹65 lakh,” the audit report said, adding that of this, ₹40 lakh was payment of doubtful loans and advances and ₹25 lakh was to set right the balance sheet.Rajat Aggarwal, managing director of PunCom, said, “I have not seen the report yet, but in case of any discrepancies, action will be taken accordingly.”During the test check of records for the month of April 2019, the audit report observed that PunCom had not disclosed payments made to several employees on account of driver allowance in the pay ledger/salary register and on being pointed out, the department did not furnish a reply.The report also added that PunCom suffered another loss of ₹40 lakh for failing to properly apply and execute work for the railways leading to the forfeiture of the money it had deposited.It also noted that the company made excess payment of gratuity to four employees in 2009 to the tune of ₹25 lakh. The company also ignored Punjab government orders to limit gratuity payment to ₹10 lakh. The report also added that the company had given undue benefits to three fresh recruits.PunCom has also been unable to collect ₹26 crore from its debtors, raising questions on its business efficiency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/audit-flags-mismanagement-at-puncom-financial-losses-of-2-crore-failed-investments-overpaid-staff/story-MKDnb4GCqSquNVrSPAx4uL.html
05-11-2020||Mumbai||Medical admissions kick-off, first merit list for Maharashtra to be released on November 13||In a relief to medical aspirants, the registration for admission to Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS), Bachelor of Dental Surgery (BDS) and other health science courses in the state began on Thursday. The state common entrance test (CET) cell had released the admission schedule and information brochure for health science courses in the state on Wednesday.Candidates can complete their registration by November 12. The first merit list for Maharashtra will be released on November 13. The seat matrix was released late Thursday night. Maratha quota, which has been stayed by the Supreme Court, was absent from this seat matrix. As reported by HT earlier, a Government Medical College in Nandurbar will begin admitting students for the 2020-21 academic year, for 100 MBBS seats. Meanwhile, the first merit list for National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) scores on an all-India level has been delayed. It was expected on Thursday afternoon. This delay is likely to bring relief to candidates in the state, according to education activist and parent Sudha Shenoy.“This delay in the merit list at the national level may bring some relief to state students who are in a fix because of late release of the state merit list (SML). For instance, the candidate will have more clarity on whether s/he has secured a spot in the state list before the national-level merit list is out. They can then take the benefit of free exit of the first round of national-level merit list,” said Shenoy.This year, medical admissions have been delayed drastically owing to the Covid-19 pandemic and confusion over Maratha quota. In a new rule, the state directorate of medical education and research has asked students to only submit documents at the time of registration whereas verify documents at the time of admission. This comes as a result of the impasse on implementation of Maratha quota in the state.Every year, students who apply for undergraduate medical and dental seats submit all necessary documents at the time of registration, especially those who are applying for seats under various quotas that at present constitute around 62% of total seats..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/medical-admissions-kick-off-first-merit-list-for-maharashtra-to-be-released-on-november-13/story-af4hsvieKJQWvzXmvqPyaK.html
05-11-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra health minister pushes for firecracker-free Diwali||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday said he favours a firecracker-free Diwali this year to reduce air pollution and prevent rise in coronavirus cases.In a media statement released here following a review meeting with officials and members of a task-force set up to tackle the pandemic, Tope said he would take up the issue with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.Firecracker emissions create a heavy layer of smoke in the air, which can cause breathing problems, he said.Moreover, as a precautionary measure to counter a second wave of Covid-19, the state government has decided to increase fever surveillance in the state, Tope said.“Considering the onset of winter, the state government plans to increase fever surveillance across the state for early detection of the Covid-19 infection,” he said.The government will also increase testing at malls, shopping complexes, grocery shops and public transport, among others, as these locations have been identified as “super- spreaders”, the minister said.Apart from this, the state government has decided to extend the decision to reserve 80 per cent beds in private hospitals for Covid-19 patients, he added.On Thursday, Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally crossed the 17 lakh-mark. Over the past few days, the state’s daily count of infections has dropped below 10,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-maharashtra-health-minister-pushes-for-firecracker-free-diwali/story-Moa2yQBAtT5gdOL5XNQSZK.html
05-11-2020||Election:||Bihar election 2020: BJP, AIMIM attempt to wrest Amour from Congress heavyweight||The Muslim dominated Amour in one of the 78 constituencies that will go to polls in the third phase of the Bihar assembly elections on November 7. The constituency falls in the Kishanganj Lok Sabha seat and has about 60 per cent Muslim voters.From the Mahagathbandhan (grand alliance) side, the Congress has fielded sitting MLA Abdul Jalil Mastan as its candidate. Mastan has won the seat six times - five times on a Congress ticket - except in 1985 when he won the seat as an independent candidate. He was defeated by Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Saba Zafar in 2010. But in 2015, Mastan wrested the seat from Zafar by a huge margin of 51,997 votes.From the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), Zafar is contesting the election again, on a Janata Dal (United) ticket. Zafar switched from the BJP to the JD(U) ahead of this year’s assembly elections.What makes this constituency interesting is that All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen’s (AIMIM) state chief Akhtarul Iman is also in the fray from the seat. Iman is known in political circles as Owaisi of Bihar and has been an influential figure in the Seemanchal region as he has been a two-time RJD MLA as well as a JD(U) leader. Iman joined AIMIM in August 2015.Click here for the complete coverage of Bihar assembly elections.Because of Iman’s entry, the math is fairly complicated in the seat as the AIMIM seeks to gain the Muslim vote and make a dent into the Congress’ share, thereby presenting a major challenge to Mastan.As per the voter list of 2019, there are 3,00,117 electorates and 300 polling stations in this constituency. Voter turnout was 63.44% in 2019 Lok Sabha elections and 60.26% in the 2015 assembly elections. The counting will take place on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-election-2020-bjp-aimim-attempt-to-wrest-amour-from-congress-heavyweight/story-qRVCt36HCjwR4tf0j7DhUO.html
05-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra education department sets Diwali break for school students from November 12 to 16||The Diwali break for school students in Maharashtra has been cut short to five days- from November 12 to16, the state education department announced in a circular released on Thursday.The reduction in the break is to complete the syllabus as schools have been affected due to the Covid-19 outbreak. “After the Covid-19 outbreak and the resultant lockdown, the local administration has been given the powers to decide on the physical reopening of schools in that region. As per the Secondary School Code, the number of holidays in schools every year cannot be more than 76 days. Similarly, teaching days have been set at 200 days for Class 1 to 5 and 220 days for Class 6 to 8. To ensure that schools can complete their syllabus for the current academic year, Diwali break for schools has been granted for five days,” states the circular. Teachers said that it was an unfair step to cut down the Diwali break from 21 days to five days. “Teachers are already exhausted with online teaching and they need a break. Students also need a break to celebrate the festival,” said Rajesh Pandya, vice-president of the Teachers’ Democratic Front. Shivnath Darade, secretary of Shikshak Parishad said, “If schools remain open during festivals, it will demotivate teachers and students. We are hoping the government reconsiders this decision.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-education-department-sets-diwali-break-for-school-students-from-november-12-to-16/story-YwbQxtvyoKFrvd2sljzVaK.html
05-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body to survey schools to ensure better learning||In a bid to ensure that all civic school students get access to seamless education and to monitor the functioning of the schools, Bihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) education department has decided to schedule visits by senior officials in schools under their jurisdiction. As per a circular issued on Wednesday, officials from the civic education department along with subject experts will carry out regular visits to schools to check the status of learning post-Covid-19 and the resultant online schools. “Several guidelines of the state government and BMC have mandated teachers to ensure that all students get access to learning. Similarly, students who do not have internet and are thus unable to attend online classes, have to be taught offline by going to their localities,” states the circular. With the state government’s education department introducing 50% attendance for teachers and non-teaching staff, teachers have been asked to complete their work related to teaching and conducting exams from schools. “During official visits, it will be seen if teachers are doing their best to ensure better learning,” states the circular. Teachers, however, said the move will demotivate civic body schools in doing better. “The civic body needs to trust us rather than just inspecting each and every thing time and again. Our teachers are struggling to reach schools with the travel restrictions but are still doing their best to ensure learning,” said a teacher from a BMC school in the western suburbs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-to-survey-schools-to-ensure-better-learning/story-6Z16dbH0cK39WAa8lDF7YK.html
05-11-2020||Election:||Bihar Election 2020: Ghafoor’s absence looms large in Mahishi as RJD seeks to capture lost ground||Mahishi, the largely rural seat located in Saharsa district of Bihar, comes under the Madhepura Lok Sabha constituency. It is one of the 78 seats where voting will be held in the third phase of the Bihar assembly elections on November 7.The National Democratic alliance (NDA), which has Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Janata Dal (United) and others, has fielded Gunjeshwar Sah as its candidate from Mahishi. From the Mahagathbandhan (grand alliance), Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) has fielded Gautam Krishna as its candidate. So the seat will witness a direct contest between JD(U) and RJD making it one of the 20 constituencies where the two parties are in a direct contest in the upcoming phase of election.In 2015, RJD’s Abdul Ghafoor had defeated Chandan Kumar Sah of RSPL by 26,135 votes. In January, Gafoor passed away after suffering from liver ailment. Since then, the seat has remained empty.Click here for complete coverage of Bihar assembly elections. Ghafoor had first contested from the seat in 1995 and defeated veteran Congress leader and freedom fighter Lahtan Choudhary. After the Janata Dal split, Ghafoor joined RJD and remained a part of the party until his death. He was not only the longest serving MLA from Mahishi, but was also sworn in as the Minority welfare minister in the Nitish Kumar government and remained so until the RJD-JD(U) alliance split.The absence of a minister of such a tall order is certainly being felt by the RJD which is trying to gain lost ground. On the other hand, the JD(U) sees Ghafoor’s absence as an opportunity. Gunjeshwar Sah has also been a prominent name in the region as he has contested before from the seat in 2005.As per the voter list of 2019, there are 2,87,707 electorates and 307 polling stations in this constituency. Voter turnout was 57.39% in 2019 Lok Sabha elections and 53.47% in the 2015 assembly elections. The counting of the votes will take place on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-election-2020-ghafoor-s-absence-looms-large-in-mahishi-as-rjd-seeks-to-capture-lost-ground/story-eNyYrsA6pj068MU7gdOsHK.html
05-11-2020||Mumbai||Water pipeline bursts at Andheri||Thousands of litres of water was wasted after the valve of a 72-inch pipeline burst at Sakinaka, Andheri on Thursday. Local corporators said water was gushing out to several-storey height that as it was a water main that supplied drinking water to Saki Naka, Chandivali, Milind Nagar and Saki Vihar. The incident was reported around 7.30pm at Krishanala Marwah Road. Hydraulic engineers along with ward officials were sent to the spot. A senior civic official said, “The water supply source in Powai has been stopped and the valve will be repaired soon.”As per preliminary information from civic disaster management cell, the burst was due to an ongoing road maintenance work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/water-pipeline-bursts-at-andheri/story-ahLNeuo7AEGm2NUwwqB9mN.html
05-11-2020||City||Poor connectivity, insufficient data pack: Online classes not easy for students preparing for NTSE exam||Insufficient data pack and poor connectivity have hit the online learning process for many Class 10 students preparing for the National Talent Search Scholarship (NTSE) exam which is scheduled to be held on December 13.The three-hour coaching classes (from 9 am to noon) are been conducted every day by resource persons and subject experts following the directions of the state education department.The initiative was taken last month by school education secretary Krishan Kumar to provide coaching to meritorious students with an aim to offer proper guidance to students to clear the scholarship exam.This year, around 25 students from the district cleared the examination, of which two are from government schools. Last year, over 40 students were given free coaching at senior secondary residential school, however, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, online classes were started this year.Around 312 students from the district had registered for the online classes and only 150 are attending it on a regular basis. The remaining are unable to attend the classes due to insufficient data packs and poor connectivity.Fourteen-year-old Saneya Bisht, a government school student, said, “Due to poor internet connectivity, I am facing difficulty in attending my online classes. Insufficient data packs are also a major hurdle due to which I had to skip my classes for 2-3 days. I couldn’t recharge my phone again due to the financial constraints of my family.”Another student from Giaspura, Jashanpreet Kaur who scored 95% marks in Class 9 and joined the NTSE online classes three weeks ago, is also unable to attend her classes daily citing poor connectivity and insufficient data pack.NTSE nodal officer, Balwinder Kaur, said, “We are working towards resolving the issue as we want maximum students should clear this scholarship examination. Practice tests are conducted daily and a progress chart will be prepared by mentors. We will monitor every child’s performance and have formed a proper timetable to conduct online classes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/poor-connectivity-insufficient-data-pack-online-classes-not-easy-for-students-preparing-for-ntse-exam/story-6dtGLT7mcx0hGFTpHlUQEI.html
05-11-2020||City||Factory worker held for raping colleague’s three-year-old daughter||In a shocking incident, a 45-year-old man was arrested for raping his colleague’s three-year-old daughter at Vijay Nagar falling under the jurisdiction of Division Number 2 police station.The accused is a resident of Darshan Da Vehra in Vijay Nagar. He hails from Uttar Pradesh (UP) and was working in a factory here. The incident took place on Thursday when the girl was playing at the accused’s quarter.According to the girl’s parents, the accused took the child in his quarter and raped her. On hearing her screams, the girl’s mother reached the spot and raised the alarm. Soon the area residents gathered at the spot and nabbed the accused, who was trying to escape.He was later handed over to the police.The girl was rushed to the civil hospital, where her condition is stated to stable. As per the paramedical staff, the girl is traumatised by the incident.ACP Waryam Singh said that a case under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/factory-worker-held-for-raping-colleague-s-three-year-old-daughter/story-mLjBSx09I4Zs0UL7MIJRtK.html
05-11-2020||City||Fund-starved Ludhiana MC plans to increase lease rates for educational institutes||Fund-starved municipal corporation (MC) is planning to increase rates for properties given on lease to different schools and colleges in the city.It has also decided to serve notices to all educational institutes and hospitals whose lease agreement has expired. Further, notices will also be served to tenants in MC properties to recover the dues.A meeting of the MC subcommittee was held in this regard at the Zone D office on Thursday under the chairmanship of councillor Jai Prakash. Apart from MC officials, councillors Mamta Ashu, Harbhajan Singh Dang, Sunny Bhala, Om Prakash Ratra, Sarabjeet Singh Laddi among others were also present in the meeting.The councillors rued that tenants of MC properties including those at the scooter market in Model town, Jawahar Nagar camp, etc have failed to pay dues of over Rs 3 crores.The committee also deliberated upon increasing the lease amount for educational institutes in the city including KVM School, Arya College among others as the land has been given to the institutes on meagre rates and the lease period has expired. Notices will be served to institutes to submit the old lease agreements following which the next course of action will be decided.The forensic audit of the MC conducted in the past revealed that the record regarding the lease agreements is not available with the civic body.Arya College has been paying Re 1 per annum as lease amount for 5 acres, KVM School is paying Rs 250 per annum for 5 acres, Khalsa College Rs 200 per annum for 5 acres, Dharam Sewa Trust, Jawahar Nagar camp Rs 1084 per annum, Krishna Charitable hospital, Model Town Rs 173 per annum for 2 acres.Further, it was also decided to serve notices to establishments that have set up shops on the said land. Councillor Sunny Bhalla said, “The management of these establishments will be served notices and asked to submit the old lease agreements. The decision regarding whether to extend the lease and the new rates will be taken in the next meeting.” Councillor Rakesh Prashar said, “Notices will be served to shopkeepers for recovery of rent and if they fail to submit the amount, action will be taken against them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fund-starved-ludhiana-mc-plans-to-increase-lease-rates-for-educational-institutes/story-0uDCMMpCealt3pRqGGxWDO.html
05-11-2020||City||Register complaint and expose culprits: PCMC top cop||Pune: When we are here, don’t fear” was the one-liner from Pimpri-Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prakash who urged residents to come forward and file complaint against culprits.The commissioner was speaking at the forum organised by Pimpri Chinchwad Police Commissionerate and Pimpri Chinchwad Cooperative Housing Societies Federation at Auto Cluster, Chinchwad on Thursday. The theme of the session was “Better city, Better living issues and solutions”.Administrators from various societies raised issues of extortion by mathadi labours (head loaders), local property agents, traffic problems, installation of CCTV cameras, black tinted glass, overcharging by autorickshaws drivers, illegal shops and footpath theft.The three-hour meet saw Prakash answer queries of society representatives. Problems of mathadi labour have been faced by many societies as labours are harassing people and demanding extra money.“Those facing problems of extortion should come forward and expose such people. If only one person complaints then the culprit may get bail, but if all those who face the same issue lodge complaint then these things will stop,” said Prakash. Meanwhile, Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta has also urged builders to come forward to file complaints against mathadi labourers.“Action against such people will be taken under the ordinance of Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA),” said Prakash.The police commissioner also explained the concept of “Majha Shejari Majha Paharedari (My neighbour my caretaker)”. “It means we as neighbourhood of each other should take care of each other’s belongings in one’s absence,” he said.Neighbourhood engagement is keyPCMC commissioner Shravan Hardikar said, “Work of installation of CCTV cameras will be completed in the next three months. I also urged residents to keep giving timely feedback to PCMC on various aspects. Along with administration, engagement of people is very important.” According to the municipal commissioner, while solving the problems of one area, coordination and communication regarding other areas is also important and it involves the participation of all stakeholders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/register-complaint-and-expose-culprits-pcmc-top-cop/story-oO64eOksTjrVJRrQazkaIJ.html
05-11-2020||City||Cold weather conditions for next two days in Pune: IMD||Pune: The city on Thursday recorded 15.1 degrees Celsius and the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecasts colder temperatures for the next few days.According to IMD forecast, the temperature in the city will fluctuate between 15 degrees C and 16 degrees C. The weather department said that the trend of low degrees temperature due to absence of clouds and cold wave will persist for the next two days. Pune recorded minimum temperature of 15.1 degrees C while Shivajinagar recorded 15.5 degrees C on Thursday.The regional observatory stated that Pune has witnessed minimum temperature due to withdrawal of monsoon and absence of cloud cover.Pune recorded 15.2 degrees C on October 31 and the temperature climbed to 18.1 degree Celsius on November 1. On Wednesday (November 4), the minimum temperature recorded was 15.01 degrees C at 8.30 am, IMD stated.According to IMD, cold wave conditions have started gripping the state during the last five to six days and conditions were ideal for cold. The forecast adds that dry weather conditions will continue for next one week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cold-weather-conditions-for-next-two-days-in-pune-imd/story-eHH38tKI6UBRhzonwV1qYL.html
05-11-2020||City||524 fresh Covid cases reported in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir recorded six deaths and 524 fresh coronavirus infections on Thursday, taking the total Covid count to 97,224 and death toll to 1,517.Officials said that 339 people tested positive in Kashmir and 185 in Jammu. Two people succumbed to the disease in Jammu and four in Kashmir. A total of 1,005 people have succumbed to the disease in Kashmir and 512 in Jammu. Meanwhile, 89,905 people have recovered from the disease in the UT after 651 were discharged on Thursday and the recovery rate has increased to 92.4%. The active cases have dropped to 5,802 in J&K. The total number of tests conducted in the UT has crossed 24.14 lakh.In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 155 more people tested positive, followed by Baramulla at 54. In Jammu division, the highest number of cases was recorded in Jammu district at 99, followed by 19 in Kishtwar.Srinagar tops the case tally with 19,990 cases and 370 deaths followed by Jammu district with 18,087 cases and 265 deaths.Till date, 6.64 lakh people have been enlisted for observation – 16,155 in home quarantine, 5,802 in isolation, and 43,762 under home surveillance. Besides, 5.96 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/524-fresh-covid-cases-reported-in-j-k/story-63GKwmfLnGtsGPtN9oPe8J.html
05-11-2020||City||Reopening of Darbar Move: IGP Jammu reviews security||Inspector general of police, Jammu zone, Mukesh Singh reviewed the law and order situation and security arrangements during a high-level meeting on Thursday. The meeting was called ahead of the reopening of Darbar Move offices in the winter capital for the next six months.During the meeting, a presentation was given by SSP Jammu regarding arrangements being made around the civil secretariat and on Darbar Move reopening day security.The IGP issued directions to officers concerned to ensure that elaborate security measures are in place in Jammu district, including the border areas, and that adequate security arrangement is made in and around the civil secretariat, Raj Bhawan, Chowks, junctions and other important areas in Jammu city.He briefed the officers on different challenges in view of the ongoing strikes by PHE, contractual lecturer, teachers, and the privatisation of the power development department.He asked the officers to stay alert to deal with any law and order situation and also to thwart “nefarious designs of anti-national elements and their mentors across the border.” The Darbar Move offices is to reopen in Jammu on November 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/reopening-of-darbar-move-igp-jammu-reviews-security/story-2DhcavAlaxxHN98ulmbaSL.html
05-11-2020||City||J&K prisoners’ kin desperate to meet them: CPI(M)||Jammu and Kashmir CPI (M) leader Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami, on Thursday, demanded the jail administrations in the UTs to allow meetings of prisoners with their families. The practice was stopped due to the coronavirus pandemic in March this year.“Prison authorities in Jammu and Kashmir should facilitate meeting of prisoners with their families while following the standard Covid-19 protocol,” Tarigami added.He said that some relatives of the prisoners met him to convey that they are desperate to see their kin. “Since March, the meetings have been stopped in prisons. The prison authorities are allowing phone and video calls at the moment,” he said.“The prison authorities should review the existing protocol and facilitate physical meetings while maintaining Covid protocol,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-prisoners-kin-desperate-to-meet-them-cpi-m/story-AS49mx7rfDq0NOQMLeqxFJ.html
05-11-2020||City||Kashmir counter-insurgent dies in jail custody||Former pro-government gunman Ghulam Muhammad Lone alias Papa Kishtwari, who is accused of kidnapping, extorting and killing many civilians between 1995 and 2001 and was in jail for past many years undergoing trial, has died on Thursday, prison officials said.“He was taken to police hospital in Srinagar on Thursday for routine check up when he died of heart attack,” said SSP Central Jail Srinagar, Tej Ram Katoch.A call to the medical superintendent of Srinagar police hospital Dr Bilal Raja to confirm this did not elicit any response.Kishtwari, 75, was a member of Ikhwan (armed militia), who switched sides from militancy and worked for the state in counter-insurgency operations, during the 1990s.SSP Katoch added that Kishtwari was in jail for over 10 years undergoing trail as there were many cases against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kashmir-counter-insurgent-dies-in-jail-custody/story-upwxmv84RWgOirKk9WSW8I.html
05-11-2020||City||DDC elections: Training of general, expenditure observers held||Training of general and expenditure observers to be deputed during the district development council elections, panchayat bypolls and municipal bypolls was held at the office of the chief electoral officer here on Thursday. Officers from Kashmir division attended the training virtually from the Srinagar CEO office. The elections will start from November 28 and shall last till December 19. State election commissioner KK Sharma and J&K chief electoral officer Hirdesh Kumar gave a detailed briefing to participants about their duties and responsibilities. “You the eyes and ears of the state election commission and are responsible for the conduct of free, fair and transparent elections,” the SEC told participants. While briefing them, the SEC said DDC elections and panchayat bypolls were being conducted through ballot box and municipal elections on EVMs.The CEO also apprised the officers to be alert and non partial while performing their duties. He said besides Kashmiri migrants, the postal ballot facility was also being extended those aged 80 or above, Covid patients and those in quarantine. Polling will take place between 7am to 2pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ddc-elections-training-of-general-expenditure-observers-held/story-a1qA1x4wncLTMP6RDxI04N.html
05-11-2020||Chandigarh||Peoples’ Alliance to take call on participation in DDC polls||All leaders of the alliance will be consulted before taking a call on whether the Peoples’ Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) will contest or boycott the upcoming polls for district development councils, which are being held for the first time from November 28. The J&K government on Wednesday announced the dates for the DDC polls and panchayat bypolls, which will be held simultaneously in eight phases. Bypolls for 234 vacant seats of urban local bodies will also be held. Besides, the National Conference and the PDP, Peoples Conference, CPI (M), and Awami National Conference are part of the newly formed PAGD. While two mainstream parties — National Conference and the PDP — had boycotted the last panchayat elections, the Peoples Conference had participated in the polls.Peoples Conference spokesman Adnan Ashraf said, “The leaders will meet on November 7 to discuss participation.” Peoples Conference had participated the 2018 panchayat polls and had bagged a significant number of seats in north Kashmir’s Kupwara district. Peoples Democratic Party youth president Waheed ur Rehman Parra said the PAGD leaders will meet in Jammu on Saturday. “Many issues will be discussed in the meeting and this is an issue that could be on the agenda. A decision can only be taken after the meeting.” Parra, however, said the BJP wanted important mainstream parties to stay away from these polls. “Our leaders will take a call on the issue. For us it is not a big issue but on the other hand we do not want to give space to the BJP. This is a double-edged sword.”NC spokesperson Imran Nabi Dar said, “So far nothing has been decided.”Farooq, Omar to reach Jammu today National Conference president and Lok Sabha member Farooq Abdullah and his son Omar Abdullah will reach Jammu on Friday afternoon. A party spokesman said that Farooq and Omar will straightaway head to NC headquarters on Residency Road to attend a party meeting. He added that Farooq, Omar, PDP president Mehbooba Mufti and other leaders will hold a meeting of the PAGD at Farooq’s Bhatindi residence on November 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/peoples-alliance-to-take-call-on-participation-in-ddc-polls/story-6pSDZzvXRe2TksXSSlL2tJ.html
05-11-2020||City||Six more Covid deaths in Himachal||Six more patients succumbed to Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Thursday taking the state’s death toll to 355. Three deaths have reported in Shimla, two in Solan district and one in Hamirpur.Also, 444 people have tested positive for the virus on Thursday taking the state Covid tally to 23,809. Of the new cases, 107 were reported in Shimla, 81 in Mandi, 64 in Kangra, 44 in Hamirpur, 42 in Kullu, 38 in Solan, 22 in Bilaspur, 20 in Chamba, 17 in Sirmaur, seven in Una and two in Kinnaur district.Meanwhile, 201 patients were cured of the contagion, and the recoveries climbed to 19,755. With 3,739 cases, Solan remains the worst-hit district, followed by Kangra 3,280, Mandi 3,321, Shimla 2,944, Sirmaur 2,329, Una 1,601, Kullu 1,759, Bilaspur 1,385, Hamirpur 1,348, Chamba 1,235, Kinnaur 442 and Lahaul-Spiti 426.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-more-covid-deaths-in-himachal/story-ckUQdNqFEurQSZFb3dq57J.html
05-11-2020||City||Jai Ram lays foundation stones worth ₹193 crore in Ghumarwin||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Thursday laid foundation stones of different developmental projects cumulatively worth ₹190 crore in Ghumarwin, Bilaspur. Speaking on the occasion, the CM said, “The state government is working on ensuring equitable and balanced development of the state with special focus on areas that have remained neglected so far due to one reason or the other.” The CM inaugurated an additional accommodation at the Public Works Department Rest House that was built at cost of ₹ 72 lakh. He laid foundation stones of ₹53.32-crore lift water supply schemes for the constituency under the Jal Jeevan Mission, ₹21.17-crore mini-secretariat Building at Ghumarwin, ₹6.5 crore science block at Government College Ghumarwin, ₹4.35 crore multi-purpose hall in Government Senior Secondary School (Boys) Ghumarwin, ₹2.51 crore school building of Government Senior Secondary School, Bharari, ₹2.39 crore augmentation work of 33/11 KV manned sub-station Naswal under HPSEB Ltd. and ₹1.33 crore construction of an e-library hall in Swami Vivekananda Government Degree College, Ghumarwin. He also laid the foundation stone of the municipal council parking at Ghumarwin that will cost ₹4.46 crore. Jai Ram Thakur also performed laid the foundation stones for up gradation of Dadhol Ladraur Road via Bharari that will cost ₹82 crore, upgradation of Rohal Khad to Ghandalwin road via Lehri Sarail that will cost ₹5.5 crore and Mehra Nain Jalaun Pangwara Talai Takrehra Road that will cost ₹2.52 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jai-ram-lays-foundation-stones-worth-193-crore-in-ghumarwin/story-eRLu1mT5H5iKf4wqLmdNrN.html
05-11-2020||City||Reinstall foundation stone having Sonia’s name at Atal Tunnel: Himachal Congress||The Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) staged a protest outside the DC office here on Thursday demanding reinstallation of the foundation stone plaque bearing UPA chairperson Sonia Gandhi’s name which was removed during the inauguration of the Atal Tunnel on October 3.During the protest, HPCC president Kuldeep Singh Rathore appealed to the party workers to unify and strengthen the party at grassroots level and criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for setting wrong precedent by removing the foundation stone bearing Sonia’s name.MLA Sunder Thakur warned the administration of serious consequences if the foundation plaque is not reinstalled in its original position at the earliest.HPCC leaders said that they will continue to stage block-wise protests daily till the foundation stone is reinstalled. They said that they will also organise a massive protest on Dhalpur ground, Kullu, after Diwali.A similar protest, under the leadership of Kuldeep Singh Rathore, will be organised in Keylong, the district headquarters of Lahaul-Spiti on Friday.Accusing the state government and district administration of removing the plaque with Sonia’s name, the HPCC had given a 15-day ultimatum on October 13 for reinstallation of the foundation stone and had even submitted a memorandum to Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur regarding this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/reinstall-foundation-stone-having-sonia-s-name-at-atal-tunnel-himachal-congress/story-q1jHuZFj2qQ175UXeL5T7I.html
05-11-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana high court, Bar to go to polls on Nov 6||As many as 3,604 lawyers will elect the new executive body of the Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association (PHHCBA) on Friday. The polling will take place between 9.30am and 4.30pm. Election committee’s chairman senior advocate KS Sidhu said voting will take place with all Covid protocols notified by the government and local administration. “After polling is over, counting will start immediately and results will be announced the same day,” he said.Incumbent Dayal Partap Singh Randhawa is among the three persons contesting for the post of president and is pitted against GBS Dhillon and Puneeta Sethi. Three candidates — Hirdey Pal Singh Rahi, Vikas Malik and Sharmila Sharma — are running for the post of vice-president. Chanchal K Singla, Ravinder Kumar Bangar and Aman Rani are in the fray for the post of honorary secretary and Kanu Sharma and Manjit Kaur are fighting for the post of joint secretary. As of treasurer’s post, Jagjit Singh Chatrath, Parampreet Singh Bajwa and Sahil Gambhir are contesting. Chandigarh, Mohali DBA to also elect bodiesSimilarly, elections of the District Bar Associations of Chandigarh and Mohali are also scheduled on Friday. However, the Punjab and Haryana high court has prohibited declaration of results of the Chandigarh DBA till further orders.The order came on the petition of one Bhag Singh, who contended that names of 69 members of the DBA were not included in the voters’ list on the grounds that they had availed of waiver in arrears of subscription, which according to the DBA constitution was not permissible.Hence, the court ordered, “Elections may go on, but the result may not be declared. The votes of respondents number 4 to 71 be cast and kept in a separate ballot box and not be opened and counted till further orders by this court.” The matter will next come up for hearing on November 9.For the post of president, three advocates – Bhaag Singh Suhag, Munish K Dewan and Neeraj Hans – are in the fray, while Amrit Veer Singh, Ankit Gupta and Palvinder Singh are contesting for the post of vice-president. There are two candidates, Gagan Aggarwal and Karamjeet Singh, for the post of secretary and for joint secretary, the competition will be between Gurvinder Kaur and Pooja Rani. Lastly, for the position of treasurer, Chandan Sharma and Vikas Sharma, are competing.In Mohali, 500 members will vote to elect the new body of the local DBA. Manpreet Singh Chahal is once again contesting for the post president, along with Anil Kaushik and Parminder Singh Toor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-bar-to-go-to-polls-on-nov-6/story-KRvQvCt3THMS5GSovh8vsK.html
05-11-2020||Delhi||Fire breaks out at a shop in Delhi’s GB road area, 8 fire tenders at spot||A fire broke out at a shop situated in Delhi’s GB road on Thursday night. As many as right fire tenders are present at the spot. No casualties have been reported so far, Atul Garg, director of Delhi Fire Service said.  Delhi: Fire breaks in a shop on GB Road; 8 fire tenders present at the spot pic.twitter.com/zUA5f8P7rtMore details are awaited. This incident in the national capital comes a day after 12 labourers died and 10 others were injured after a portion of a godown located on Pirana-Piplaj road in the outskirts of Ahmedabad city in Gujarat collapsed on Wednesday morning after a powerful explosion. The Ahmedabad police on Thursday summoned the godown owner and his tenant who had kept chemical drums inside the godown which caused the explosion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-fire-breaks-out-at-a-shop-in-gb-road-no-casualties-reported/story-4CYuZTUKE6qG4lYHTOYUuN.html
05-11-2020||City||Mohali admn issues 44 permits for firecracker sale||The district administration on Thursday issued licences to 44 shopkeepers for setting up firecracker stalls in the city. The firecrackers will be sold only at 12 designated places for three days from November 12 to 14.As per the directions of the Punjab and Haryana high court, temporary licences were to be restricted to 20% of those issued in 2016. The draw was held at the District Administrative Complex, Sector 76, on Thursday, in the presence of additional deputy commissioner (D) Aashika Jain and assistant commissioner (G) Yashpal Sharma.Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said 771 applications were received for 44 licences in Mohali, Sohana and Balongi. He said bursting of firecrackers will be allowed only between 8pm and 10pm on Diwali on November 14, and from 4am to 5pm on Gurpurab, which falls on November 30. The designated places where firecrackers will be sold can be found on www.sasnagar.nic.in.The DC said sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs) and deputy superintendents of police (DSPs) will report any illegal stalls. Besides, sale or use of firecrackers manufactured in China is banned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-admn-issues-44-permits-for-firecracker-sale/story-mRmj98tV3v8r5XIoydzJMJ.html
05-11-2020||City||Property tax dues mount to ₹7 lakh, three industrial units in Mohali sealed||The municipal corporation on Thursday sealed three industrial units in Industrial Area, Phase 2, for not clearing property tax dues amounting to Rs 7 lakh.All three units – Plot Numbers C-29, C-31 and C-35 – were not functioning.“On the directions of the municipal commissioner, we sealed three industrial units as they failed to deposit the tax despite notices and reminders,” said MC inspector Avtar Singh Kalsia.Earlier, the civic body had issued notices to tax defaulters under Sections 137 and 138 of the Punjab Municipal Corporation Act and given them 10 days to pay the tax. The sealing drive was initiated after defaulters failed to clear the dues.MC is in the process of identifying more property tax defaulters, who will be sent notices. “Defaulters should pay their pending tax at the earliest to avoid penal action. We will continue to seal properties of tax offenders in the future too. Under the Punjab Municipal Corporation Act, the corporation can attach defaulters’ movable and immovable properties and auction these,” said Bhim Sen, superintendent, property tax, MC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/property-tax-dues-mount-to-7-lakh-three-industrial-units-in-mohali-sealed/story-WNyq0jZieKhC8aIsQ4F15M.html
05-11-2020||Delhi||Sadar Bazaar light sellers: Get online tutorial, we’ll deliver products at doorstep||Visiting Sadar Bazaar ahead of Diwali gives an altogether different high. A nip in the air, festive vibes and the aroma of lip-smacking foods from almost every corner of the place makes the experience worthwhile. But this year, are you ready to step out and wade the pollution to reach this part of Old Delhi to procure lights to make your Diwali bright? Not many would say yes to this, due to the pandemic, and thus seeing the low footfall at this popular market, the shopkeepers have taken the virtual route. To make up for the lost business due to Covid-19 situation, shopkeepers here have started accepting orders on call and even enabling home delivery of products through courier. But, above and beyond all this, these shopkeepers have taken the help of online channel to boost their sales. “I’ve made my Facebook page. And what I do is record and upload videos showing how to assemble strings of lights that reach people via home delivery,” says Manpreet Singh, owner of Kuku Light House, adding, “There is awareness among people, not just about precautions related to Covid-19, but also about the need to support and buy Indian items. So, we create our own patterns, designs and even provide customised lights to those who are keen. This time as we start home delivery of lights, of course for orders that have a minimum of 10 items, we are also exporting our products outside India, and the response has been good.” Singh explains how “all parts are delivered separately” and thus there is a need to learn how to assemble them. “Rather than plain textures, Madhubani, Marwari, and flower pattern lights are more in demand this year because of their appealing look. Some customers are also asking for metal and wooden lights. We try to revive old art by recreating wall hanging lights. And since we show how to do put all the bulbs and wires yourself, one of the MNC’s in Jaipur got impressed and placed an order of 700 wooden lights, with their company name carved on it!” While some have adapted to online ways of the trade, a few others are planning to follow suit, seeing the success in the medium. Prahlad Yadav, another shopkeeper in Sadar, who sells bandarwals and torans alongwith lights, says, “Most of our products are made in India. Most of the bandarwal we’ve, we got it from Ahmedabad. Despite stocking up on new designs and a huge variety, there are hardly any takers in the market this year. Due to strict Covid-19 precautions, customers are not turning up for the fear of being in a crowded place. Even the street hawkers are not allowed to set-up their stalls. So, I have now started talking to a few dealers who sell products online, and they have expressed that they are keep to collaborate with me, and help me sell my products via internet.”It’s also this reason why more online sellers can be spotted shopping in Sadar of late. “I’m not a direct seller. I pick up all the festive decor from Old Delhi, and then sell it to a second party that sells these products under a brand name on a website,” says Priya Khoundal from Himachal Pradesh, who was visiting Sadar recently, and add, “I am not surprised to know that there is more online sale this year. This gives another reason to shopkeepers to think about the better prospects they have, if they partner with us. At least they will make a fair deal and not go down in losses this Diwali!” Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sadar-bazaar-light-sellers-get-online-tutorial-we-ll-deliver-products-at-doorstep/story-E8McuOInZlSaxH8mQBwNhK.html
05-11-2020||Delhi||Testing must for those negative on antigen test in Delhi: Harsh Vardhan||Amid surge in coronavirus cases in Delhi, union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Thursday asked the state government to ensure mandatory testing for all those who develop symptoms after testing negative on a rapid antigen test.Despite an increase in the number of the more accurate RT-PCR test, Delhi continues to have a skewed ratio of almost 77% of all tests being conducted using rapid antigen tests.The rapid antigen tests are cheaper, easier to deploy in clinics and dispensaries, and can give results within 15 minutes. However, instead of amplifying the genetic material as in the RT PCR test, it just detects certain proteins in the sample. This leads to the test throwing up false negatives if the viral load is not high or the sample is not collected properly.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “Delhi continues to have a highly skewed RAT to RT-PCR ratio -- 77% of the tests are RAT based while RT-PCR comprises only 23% of the total tests. The false negative results might give way to complacency among the Covid infected, hence mandatory testing of all RAT negative persons if they develop influenza-like or acute respiratory symptoms afterwards,” said Harsh Vardhan during a review meeting of the Covid situation in Delhi.The city reported 6,842 new cases of Covid-19 in a single day on Wednesday, with the number of active cases or those with a current infection hitting a high of over 37,000.The minister asked the state government to focus on six districts - North, Central, North East, East, North West and South East - districts with high positivity rate.“There are six districts in Delhi where the positivity rate is between 12 and 14%. Ideally, this should be less than 5%. There is a need to increase testing and surveillance in these areas. Delhi is a cause of concern; It is the capital and hence there are more activities that happen here. At 1.71%, the fatality (case fatality ratio; the proportion of deaths among total tested positive) rate in Delhi is more than the national average of 1.49%. The recovery rate of Delhi is 86%, lower than the national average of 92%,” the minister said.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage At the meeting, the Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain urged that the Centre increase the number of ICU beds in AIIMS and the other central government-run hospitals. He was informed by the union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan that the makeshift facility developed by the army at Dhaula Kuan has a facility for 125 ICU beds that can be utilised.The number of hospitalisations in the city has also gone up. Over 72% of all the ICU beds, earmarked for the treatment of Covid-19, were occupied as on Thursday morning, according to the ‘Delhi Corona’ app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/testing-must-for-those-negative-on-antigen-test-in-delhi-harsh-vardhan/story-8GAZa2c0uKoWCzICtlnXyH.html
05-11-2020||Election:||Bihar Assembly Election 2020: Madhepura seat set for a triangular contest||Madhepura assembly constituency is one of the 78 seats that are going to polls in the third phase of the Bihar assembly elections on November 7. The constituency which falls in the Madhepura Lok Sabha seat is currently held by Rashtriya Janata Dal’s (RJD) Chandra Shekhar.What makes the contest on this seat interesting is that out of the 78 seats, Madhepura is one of the 65 where Yadavs have a sizeable population - around 40 per cent. The Nitish Kumar-led ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) and the RJD-led grand alliance, therefore have high stakes in the seat as they are hoping to get a slice of the Yadav votes. This is evident as both chief minister Nitish Kumar and Rahul Gandhi (for grand alliance) have addressed massive rallies in the region.Click here for complete coverage of Bihar assembly elections. As per the seat agreement between alliance partners JD(U) and BJP, the former has fielded its candidate in Madhepura this year. And it has chosen Nikhil Mandal, the grandson of former chief minister and chairman of Mandal Commission recommendations report on job reservations, B P Mandal. From the grand alliance, the RJD has again given a chance to Chandra Shekhar to defend the seat. Another prominent candidate from the seat is Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav who is contesting from the Jan Adhikar Party - Loktantrik (JAP-L). Pappu Yadav, former MP and muscleman politician is a prominent Yadav face in the region, thus being a direct threat to JD(U) and RJD candidates.In 2015, Chandra Shekhar had defeated BJP’s Vijay Kumar by 37,642 votes. But the seat is not going to be a cakewalk for the RJD this time as in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, it had lost all parliamentary seats in this heartland of Yadavs including Madhepura, which was won by Dinesh Chandra Yadav of the JD(U).As per the voter list of 2019, the assembly seat had a total number of 3,19,658 voters in Madhepura constituency. The counting of the votes will be done on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-assembly-election-2020-madhepura-seat-set-for-a-triangular-contest/story-Msshsh8j78KnYL5v7JMVMI.html
05-11-2020||Election:||Bihar election 2020: In Yadav heartland Bihariganj, GenNext of politics to test the waters||In her maiden electoral plunge, Subhashini Raj Rao of Congress is pitted against two-time Janata Dal (United) MLA Niranjan Mehta, Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) candidate Vijay Kumar Singh and Prabhash Kumar of Janadhikar Party (JAP) in Bihariganj, where voting will be held in the third phase of the Bihar Assembly election on November 7. It is certainly not an easy contest for Subhashini who is trying to protect her father Sharad Yadav’s political legacy.Sharad Yadav, the 73-year-old former Union minister, is a veteran parliamentarian. He launched a new political party Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) in 2018 after parting ways with Nitish Kumar-led JD(U).Niranjan Kumar Mehta of JD(U) is the present MLA of this largely rural constituency which is a part of Madhepura Parliamentary constituency from where Dinesh Chandra Yadav of JD(U) is the present Lok Sabha MP. As chief minister Nitish Kumar widely campaigned for the JD(U) candidate from the seat, he refrained from speaking anything against Sharad Yadav and Subhashini.Click here for complete coverage of Bihar assembly election. Yadav represented the Madhepura Lok Sabha seat four times but lost the last two Lok Sabha elections. Therefore, salvaging her father’s legacy is an uphill task for Subhashini who called the region her father’s “karmabhoomi” in an election rally adding, “I am your candidate, your daughter. I have come here to serve you, to fulfill the dreams of my father.”The Yadavs form a major chunk of the voters from the seat, and there is also a significant presence of other backward castes such as Kushwahas. Subhashini is eyeing the Yadav vote but faces a challenge from JAP’s Prabhash Kumar, a Yadav by caste who recently left Rashtriya Janata Dal after the Bihariganj seat went to the Congress, which is part of the grand alliance along with RJD. Though the Madhepura assembly seat would have been ideal for her, the Congress gave Subhashini a ticket from Bihariganj.In 2015, JD(U)’s Niranjan Kumar Mehta, a Kushwaha by caste, defeated BJP candidate Ravindra Charan Yadav by 29,253 votes in Bihariganj.As per the voter list of 2019, there are 3,00,885 electorates in this constituency. The counting of the polls will take place on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-election-2020-on-poll-debut-subhashini-seeks-to-protect-father-sharad-yadav-s-legacy-in-bihariganj/story-4knI7M4kGhSV7RqlAjll1J.html
05-11-2020||Bangalore||Yediyurappa to discuss cabinet expansion with BJP high command after bypoll results||Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday said the much awaited expansion of his cabinet will take place at the earliest and he will talk to the party high command in this regard, soon after the assembly bypoll results on November 10. “Our candidates are going to win with a huge margin in both Sira and Rajarajeshwari Nagar constituencies, results of which will be declared on November 10.On that day or after that I will go to Delhi or talk to our national president (JP Nadda) and Amit Shah (union home minister)over phone and discuss about expanding the cabinet at the earliest,” Yediyurappa said.Speaking to reporters ahead of the BJP state executive meeting in Mangaluru, he said he will expand the cabinet at the earliest.Earlier in September, Yediyurappa had paid a visit to Delhi to seek approval from the high command for the cabinet expansion, but failed to get any green signal.He had then even hinted about the possibility of cabinet reshuffle by stating that things would depend on what the party leadership decides.The cabinet expansion or reshuffle is expected to be a tightrope walk for 77-year-old Yediyurappa, considering that there are too many aspirants.While several of the old guard like 8-time MLA Umesh Katti are awaiting a chance to be inducted into the Ministry, Congress-JD(S) rebels like A H Vishwanath, R Shankar and M T B Nagaraj, who helped the BJP come to power and are now BJP MLCs, are also aspiring for slots.As per the agreement, Yediyurappa will also have to keep space for Munirathna, if he wins the Rajarajeshwari Nagar seat in the bypoll, and also for Pratap Gowda Patil who needs to win the Maski bypoll that is yet to be announced.The cabinet currently has 28 members, and six berths are still vacant.Meanwhile, despite the state BJP denying it, speculation about a possible change in leadership in the future, considering Yediyurappas age, refuses to die down, with some within the party like MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal giving credence to it with their statements.Later speaking at the state executive meeting, Yediyurappa expressed confidence about the BJP coming back to power by winning a minimum of 140-150 seats in the 224-member assembly in the next assembly polls.He urged the workers not to take any election lightly and to strengthen the organisation where the party is not strong.BJP will win Rajarajeshwari Nagar bypolls by a margin of over 40,000 votes and over 20,000-25,000 votes in Sira, he claimed as he predicted defeat for the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/yediyurappa-to-discuss-cabinet-expansion-with-bjp-high-command-after-bypoll-results/story-s6PkiB4pXQRryhBGV8m1QN.html
05-11-2020||Election:||Bihar election 2020: BJP and RJD in direct contest in Sikti seat||Situated on the Indo-Nepal border, Sikti assembly constituency, situated in Araria district, has been a conduit of smuggling. It comes under the Araria Lok Sabha constituency.The largely rural seat is one of the 78 seats that are going to polls in the third and final phase of the Bihar assembly elections on November 7. The seat will witness a direct fight between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD).The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), part of Mahagathbandhan (grand alliance), has fielded Shatrughan Mandal from here, whereas sitting MLA Vijay Mandal will defend the seat for BJP and National Democratic Alliance (NDA).The seat is crucial as it is one of the 20 constituencies where BJP and RJD are in a direct contest in the third phase of Bihar assembly elections.Click here for complete coverage of Bihar Assembly elections.In 2015, when the Janata Dal (United) JDU was in an alliance with the RJD, BJP’s Vijay Mandal defeated JD(U) candidate Shatrughan Prasad Suman by 8,106 votes but this time when BJP and JD(U) are in an alliance, the BJP is aiming to consolidate the votes held by the JD(U) and repeat its 2015 election performance.The BJP is attempting to mark its presence in the Araria region which is evident as Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed a rally in Forbesganj that falls under the Araria district. In the rally, PM Modi said, “The NDA has given the poor their right to vote in the real sense. All social categories of Bihar have the right to choose a leader of their choice.”The seat has a larger presence of Yadav and Muslim voters and RJD is attempting to garner those votes as they have been the traditional voter base of the party. As per the voter list of 2019, there are 277862 electorates and 287 polling stations in this constituency. Voter turnout was 68.68% in 2019 Lok Sabha elections whereas it was 63.98% in the 2015 assembly elections. The counting of the polls will take place on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-election-2020-bjp-and-rjd-in-direct-contest-in-sikti-seat/story-Y4rdrJ8bEetuVlxNx2vgpI.html
05-11-2020||Delhi||CM Arvind Kejriwal reviews Covid situation in Delhi, decides to ban firecrackers||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejwiral on Thursday held a review meeting to discuss the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the national capital. After the meeting, he ordered a ban on firecrackers amid the ongoing festive season and ramping up of the medical infrastructure.In a tweet, Kejriwal said the Covid-19 cases in Delhi have increased due to the festival season and pollution. The review meet was attended by the chief secretary and all district magistrates.“Del HC has stayed our order to increase ICU beds in pvt hospitals. Filed appeal in SC yesterday. We hope SC will lift the stay keeping in view the critical situation,” the chief minister said in the tweet. 3. Del HC has stayed our order to increase ICU beds in pvt hospitals. Filed appeal in SC yesterday. We hope SC will lift the stay keeping in view the critical situation4. Targetted testing5. All steps shud be taken to ensure that fatality rate does not increaseOn Wednesday, the chief minister said that Delhi has been witnessing a third wave of the Covid-19 outbreak, but added that the government is closely monitoring the situation and there is no need to panic.For the past few days, Delhi has reported a huge surge in its daily Covid-19 tally. 6,800 fresh cases and 51 more related fatalities were registered on Wednesday which pushed the overall tally to over 400,000. This was the second consecutive day when nearly 7,000 cases were reported in a span of 24 hours.The government has now started conducting Covid-19 tests in markets and other crowded areas to strengthen its surveillance mechanism.Also Read: Delhi reporting third Covid-19 wave, says CM Arvind KejriwalThe Union home ministry had recently attributed the recent rise in cases in Delhi due to festive season and leniency shown by residents in following Covid-19 related restrictions.As the use of firecrackers increases pollution which could lead to a spike in respiratory disease (critical in times of Covid-19), the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had on Monday issued notices to Delhi along with Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan to ban their use as these four states are massively affected by air pollution ahead of the winter season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/arvind-kejriwal-reviews-covid-situation-in-delhi-decides-to-ban-firecrackers/story-gWG1jI1NajjSn2n3afy1CL.html
05-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi youngster who created app for autistic: Want to enable those with ASD communicate with ease||“One evening, sitting in my mother’s dental clinic, I met a boy, roughly my age. I was intrigued by his confidence and attitude towards life. It was later that I learnt that he had been diagnosed with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD). This brief interaction compelled me to research and learn more about his disability,” says Shruti Kakar, a 17-year-old Delhiite, who has developed an app to help those with ASD, communicate better. Kakar, a student of class 12 at Springdales School in Dhaula Kuan, says she came up with the idea for the app, called We Can Express, about a year ago. But, it was the pandemic induced closure of physical classes at school that led this athlete miss her routine, and spend more time in fine tuning the app. “After initial hiccups, I finally struck a balance between my online classes and working on the app. In the last few months, I conducted webinars to explain the app to people and incorporated changes, including a special section on the app that has icons related to Covid-19 pandemic that has masks!” “Last year I volunteered at my school’s inclusive education centre, and worked with children who are on the autism spectrum. The experience helped me understand the needs of these individuals. Many of the people on the spectrum have issues in communicating; they are often dependent on caretakers. I decided that I had to do something to enable the autistic people to be able to communicate with ease. That’s how came up the idea of developing an app with visual cues, to help those with ASD interact with others,” explains Kakar. A year of extensive research, extra hours, and support of her family and school is what went into making this app see the light of day. “Everyone around me, including my parents and teachers were extremely supportive of the idea, and helped me at every step of the journey. I spoke to experts in the field, and did in-depth research on what people with ASD would be comfortable to use, before starting work on this,” says Kakar, who learnt coding, to make the application.“The focus is on visual communication. There are customisable icons with colours and images that can help autistic individuals express their thoughts,” says Kakar, sharing how the app stores and records information of their behaviours, emotions and preferences. “This app works on a multi-platform interface, and can help the users overcome their biggest fears to accomplish some of the daily life activities, which often become challenging for those with ASD. It can also help in navigating social challenges such as going to a salon or for coffee etc,” she adds. So far, the app has received a positive feedback, and is currently being used at Saath-Saath centre in her school, and at the Mumbai-based Om Creations Trust, which works towards education and rehabilitation of differently-abled women. “After my board exams, I plan to pursue a career in computer science, and take up software development and machine learning, but I haven’t locked that down just yet,” says the young gun who certainly has a plan on her mind!Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-youngster-who-created-app-for-autistic-want-to-enable-those-with-asd-communicate-with-ease/story-cIZgvPisSKeFsyzG3HZZsM.html
05-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi Jal Board to issue challans for illegal connections, water wastage||Delhi Jal Board (DJB) Vice Chairman Raghav Chadha on Thursday asked officials to take stern action in cases of illegal connections and water wastage.He also called for strict and swift action against anyone found guilty of dumping garbage in sewers.“The DJB will no longer tolerate wastage of water or illegal connections. The entire society has to suffer because of the mistakes of one or two people,” Chadha said at a meeting with officials.He said the DJB will conduct a month-long vigilance campaign to create awareness about judicious use of water. Challans will also be issued against anyone found having illegal connection, wasting water or dumping garbage in sewer lines.“It has also been found that water meant for domestic purposes is used for non-domestic purposes. Any individual or body found guilty of such an offence must be issued a challan on the spot,” Chadha said.All authorised officers of DJB can check for water wastage from overflowing tanks or misuse of water for gardening, etc. and file challans at designated courts of the special metropolitan magistrates of their respective areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-jal-board-to-issue-challans-for-illegal-connections-water-wastage/story-uZSoPhF1e6KSG0YJtFohQM.html
05-11-2020||City||335 water supply schemes on verge of drying up in rain-deficit Himachal||The inordinate delay in rains has hit the drinking water supply schemes across the state with 335 of them on the verge of drying up. The dry spell has impacted the sowing of rabi crops, too. There was scarcity of rainfall in October as only 0.4 mm precipitation was recorded, which was 99% less than the normal rainfall. Of the 12 districts, nine were rain deficit as they received zero actual rainfall, while light snowfall and rainfall were recorded in Lahaul-Spiti, Chamba and Kullu districts. Chamba and Kullu were 99% rain-deficit with 0.3mm of actual rainfall each, while Lahaul-Spiti reported 95% less rainfall as it received 1.5 cm of rain. Last year, Himachal Pradesh got 18% less rainfall than normal, while in 2018 it got 73% less rainfall than normal and in 2017, the state got 99% less rainfall than normal. The water level at the perennial sources has reduced from 25% to 75%, deepening the water crisis. The jal shakti department reviewed the water supply situation in the state two days ago. Minister Mahender Singh Thakur directed the department to ensure measures to meet water scarcity in the rural areas, particularly the rain-fed areas, particularly in Hamirpur zone. State meteorological department director Manmohan Singh said that there were only two rainfall and snowfall spells during the month on October 29 and 31. “On October 29, light rainfall was witnessed in Manali and Kothi, while traces of snowfall were recorded in Keylong. On October 31, light snowfall occurred in Keylong, while light rainfall occurred in Manali and Chamba. On October 22, snowfall occurred on the Kinner Kailash mountain range,” he said. Water committees set up in panchayats Rural drinking water and sanitation committees are being constituted in all gram panchayats of the state, according to the guidelines of the Jal Jeevan Mission. A total of 47 laboratories have been set up to ensure the availability of clean drinking water in the state and it will also be ensured that all district-level laboratories are accredited by the National Accreditation Board for Laboratories (NABL), said chief secretary Anil Kumar Khachi. He said by April, 9.21 lakh households had been provided drinking water connections and by March 2021, 2.66 lakh more households will be provided tap water of which 1,81 lakh households have already been given water connections. He said all houses in Kandaghat, Pooh, Lahaul and Spiti development blocks, 311 panchayats and 5,081 villages of the state have been provided with tap water. He said that Rs 243 crore has been received from the Centre under the Jal Jeevan Mission this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/335-water-supply-schemes-on-verge-of-drying-up-in-rain-deficit-himachal/story-84knxhVJLYmo3Si2i0sCIO.html
05-11-2020||Pune||Lockdown impact: 30% fewer fire cases in Pune from March to June 2020 as compared to 2019||PUNE The city witnessed 30 per cent fewer fire incidents during the lockdown period from March to June this year as compared to the same period in 2019, according to the fire department of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC).From March to June 2020 the firefighters received 745 calls related to fire incidents, as compared to 1,067 calls during the same period in 2019.According to civic officials, the fall in the number of calls is not much as expected given that most commercial establishments were completely shut during these four months.Prashant Ranpise, chief fire officer, PMC, said, “Although we did see fewer calls we had expected even lesser fire incidents given that almost all commercial establishments were shut, traffic was shut and also there was not much movement of people at that time.”“However, fire calls do not just come from those places but also homes, gas leakages, electric short circuits and also fire to vehicles by miscreants,” he said.He further added that the already short-staffed PMC fire department is also overburdened with work related to Covid-19 right from fogging, sanitisation to even disposing of dead bodies in the morgue vehicles.He said, “Even during the rains a few days ago we got as many as 55 phone calls only for waterlogging and four to five related to tree falls.”As per the data 2020 saw 232 fire calls from homes while 397 were reported in 2019, while 181 fire calls due to electric short circuits were reported in 2019 and 2020 saw 137 such calls and 294 fire calls due to burning garbage were reported in 2019, 2020 saw 263 such incidents. However, there was a rise in the number of fire calls due to gas leakage in 2020 (57) which in 2019 was only 30 for the same period.Month/ Calls related to fire incidents in 2019/2020March 330/346April 301/210May 272/133June 164/56Total1,067/745||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/lockdown-impact-30-fewer-fire-cases-in-pune-from-march-to-june-2020-as-compared-to-2019/story-l69d3m4dV1qsplCfAItAWM.html
05-11-2020||Pune||Single-screen owners will not resume business for now in Pune||Pune: Despite the state government allowing cinema halls, multiplexes and auditoriums owners to reopen, single screen theatre owners have decided not to reopen their premises so soon. The state on Wednesday allowed cinema halls, drama theatres, multiplexes, swimming pools and yoga institutes outside containment zones to reopen from Thursday. As per the order, cinema halls, multiplexes and drama theatres will be allowed to operate with 50 per cent seating capacity and no eatables will be allowed inside the premises. Following the order, single screen cinema owners association met and decided not to implement the order until the government offers betters SOPs (standard operation procedures). Sadanand Mohol, president, single screen theatre owners association and owner of Vaibhav theatre in Hadapsar, said, “Members of the single screen theatre owners association, Pune district have decided it is not possible to conduct any business given the restrictions. The reality is that there is nothing for single theatre owners. There are only 17 of 31 single theatres operational in Pune while Maharashtra has 520 single theatres operational out of 2,600 single theatres.” According to Mohol, considering the potential low audience and scepticism about new films, screenings, it has been decided to wait until the vaccines are available as a cure. Dilip Nikam, single theatre owner of Vijay Talkies, Kelkar street, said, “We are not sure about patrons coming to theatre as film watching is luxury. Besides, there are no good movies for release, and the government has not given any time to be prepared.” Meanwhile, Multiplex Owners Association has welcomed the decision. Arvind Chaphalkar, owner of Citypride Multiplexes in the city said, “It will take another 15 – 20 days until we have the halls ready according to the standards and protocol asked for by the government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/despite-order-single-screen-cinema-owners-won-t-resume-business-for-now-multiplexes-to-reopen-after-few-days/story-Bw97J30qRCaol1uOjADajI.html
05-11-2020||Pune||Committee formed to spread Covid awareness in rural Pune||Pune: Collector Rajesh Deshmukh has signed an order to form a Covid-19 committee comprising local public representatives and medical officers. The committee would be in charge of spreading awareness and clearing rumours regarding the virus. Rural Pune has been reporting the same number of coronavirus cases as Pune city and the administration has taken the step to keep the surge in control. The decision has been taken keeping in mind the possibility of community transmission in rural areas where over 150 Covid fresh cases are being reported on a daily basis. Deshmukh also informed that the administration has begun preparation for distribution of Covid vaccine distribution. Deshmukh said, “This three-member committee would be formed specifically for information, education and communication. Keeping in view a possible second wave we need to be prepared and so the committee will spread the right message. We will involve local NGOs which have been working during the pandemic to spread the word.”The committee will include tehsildar, block development Officer (BDO), taluka medical officer and the order also states that the MLA, zilla parishad member, panchayat samiti member and municipal council officials will also be part of the team. The order states that the committee may include NGOs and social activists for spreading information. The committee will meet twice every month and will primarily be involved in spreading information about social distancing and using masks compulsorily in public places in the rural areas. As of Tuesday, rural Pune, including the gram panchayats and municipal councils, have reported over 68,500 Covid positives of which 63,211 have recovered and discharged, 1,812 deaths have been reported and remaining are in isolation.The central government has asked all the states to create a database of health care workers who would be prioritised for vaccination whenever a vaccine is approved for administering. Deshmukh said, “There are about one lakh and 10 thousand health care workers in the district and for which the database is being prepared through CVBMS ( COVID 19 Vaccination Beneficiary Management System). To ensure that the vaccine reaches the common public, a NEGCAV (National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID 19) has been formed under which the administration is inspecting the necessary training, required vaccination machinery and also manpower to ensure that the vaccine reaches the common man.” “It will be a mammoth task to ensure that every individual gets the vaccine which will be done by the government healthcare machinery and so it is important to first prioritise the healthcare workers so that the infection spread is controlled. Currently there are multiple researches going around in the world to develop a vaccine, but until then we have to ensure that the spread is under control by following all the norms,” Deshmukh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/committee-formed-to-spread-covid-awareness-in-rural-pune/story-xW8rLdVOidStye5WLXSPdO.html
05-11-2020||Pune||Special squads to check violation of Covid-19 norms in market areas in Pune ahead of festive season||The Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC’s) Bhavani peth ward office has formed special squads to check violation of the Covid-19 safety norms in the area during the festive season.These squads include senior officials from different departments - junior engineer, sanitary inspector, encroachment inspector, sky signs department inspector and a clerical staff from one of the department.They will keep a close watch in the market areas which come under Bhavani peth ward office jurisdiction and check if all safety protocols are followed and take action against violators.“As the Diwali festival is around the corner the crowd at markets is increasing and there is a risk of spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 infection. So we have formed special squads and at the ward office level,” said Sachin Tamkhede, assistant municipal commissioner PMC, who is also Bhavani peth ward officer.“These squads include senior officials from different departments - junior engineer, sanitary inspector, encroachment inspector, sky signs department inspector and one clerical staff from one of the department,” he said.The squads held a drive at the busy Bohri Ali market in Ravivar peth area on Wednesday. Those who were found violating Covid-19 safety norms and not wearing a face mask had to pay a fine of Rs 500.“We are checking if all the shops in the area are following safety norms. We appeal to shop owners and people to follow protocol as it is for their own safety. Many people are still not wearing a face mask,” said Sayyed Mukhtar, divisional inspector, Bhavani peth ward office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/special-squads-to-check-violation-of-covid-19-norms-in-market-areas-in-pune-ahead-of-festive-season/story-LzqyjAXs0Mj29KEGKPBBfP.html
05-11-2020||Pune||38-year old arrested for molesting minor in Yerawada||The Yerawada police have arrested a 38-year-old person on charges of sexually harassing an 11-year-old minor girl. The child’s mother lodged an FIR against the man stating that the accused touched her daughter inappropriately and sexually molested her. The police have also booked him under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Yerwada Police officials said that on Tuesday morning , the girl was alone in the house when the predator entered the house , touched the girl improperly and sexually assaulted her . Later, he forced her to sit on her after which the victim narrated her ordeal to her mother who returned home later in the evening. 29-year-old arrested for stalking The Shivajinagar police have arrested a 29-year-old person on charges of stalking and harassing a 36-year-old woman since January 2020. The police have applied charges under the Information Technology (IT) Act against the accused after the woman stated that he created her fake account on social media and sent sexually laced messages to different people. The Shivajinagar police said that the woman and the suspect stayed in the same locality and the accused had been stalking the woman since January . He used to call her on her mobile and also used to follow her till her workplace. He also used to threaten the woman that he would defame her husband, if she did not answer his calls on mobile, the complaint stated. The FIR added that the accused suspect created a fake profile of her on social media and sent lewd messages to her contacts. The accused even made video calls to the complainant’s female friends with the intention of defamation and threat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/38-year-old-arrested-for-molesting-minor-in-yerawada/story-GFxkOU5NSJ5JsjNxBJ47hJ.html
05-11-2020||Pune||Transgender beaten up by four; Pune police register case||A 23-year-old transgender was beaten up by men, one of them a cross-dresser, in Kondhwa on Tuesday night. The city police have registered a non-cognizable case in the matter against four accused. A complaint was lodged by Mehek who lives in Kondhwa and works as an investigator at National AIDS Research Institute (NARI), according to her. “I have undergone sex reassignment surgery 3 months ago. They kicked me in the crotch, vandalised my vehicle, and broke my phone. One of them is a friend, who cross-dresses, called me and asked me if I wanted to hang out. I resisted but eventually went to meet her but she was present with these other men who beat me up and verbally abused me,” said the 23-year-old. The accused allegedly were upset about the complainant not spending enough time with them. However, the complainant claimed that she could not do as they said due to her working hours and personal choice. A non-cognizable case was registered under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation), 504 (insult with an intention of provoking a breach of peace), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code at Kondhwa police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/transgender-beaten-up-by-four-pune-police-register-case/story-ZOmXdCwR83v3mtxDmGVlGM.html
05-11-2020||Pune||NGT orders Pune civic body to get environment clearance for HCMRT||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has issued an order that necessitates an environment clearance for the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) ambitious High-Capacity Mass Transit Route (HCMRT) project. The bench that passed the order included chairperson Adarsh Kumar Goel, judicial member Sheo Kumar Singh, and expert members Dr SS Garbyal and Dr Nagin Nanda. The order was issued on Monday through video conferencing and made available on Tuesday in an application filed by Sarang Yadwadkar, a city-based activist and architect and represented by advocate Ronita Bhattacharya. “Basically, this is a monstrous project at a monstrous cost. A lot of land acquisition will be required. Dozens of buildings will have to be destroyed. Trees are required to be felled. This is like taking a 40-year-old child to a paediatrician. It was conceived 40 years back. But now the city has changed. Logically, it becomes nonsensical to implement this project that too without getting environmental clearance. Our bureaucrats and corporators and politicians are hell bent of destroying the city,” said Yadwadkar. The HCMTR is a 24 metre, six-lane fully elevated road having a length of 35.96 km with two exclusive lanes for Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) one on each side. Additionally, 26 BRTS stations and 17 up ramps and 16 Downs ramps are proposed in the construction of HCMTR. Various grade roads and structure below the elevated HCMTR, as well as minor bridges, are also proposed in the project. The order passed by the tribunal has pointed out that for the project to be initiated, it needs to acquire an environment clearance. The EC is to be acquired as per the Environmental Impact Assessment Notification (EIAN), 2006. “We allow this application and direct that the project may be undertaken after requisite statutory clearance, in accordance with law,” read the conclusion of the NGT order. The NGT order pointed out that Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has failed to respond to the notice served to them on December 3, 2019. The notice was served to PMC along with the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change and the State Environmental Impact Assessment Authority. The PMC had conducted a Regional Environmental Impact Assessment (REIA) of the project and mentioned that the project does not fall under the ambit of item 7(f) EIA Notification 2006. However, MoEF and CC submission in the case states that the project falls under item 8(b) of the EIA Notification, 2006. “After detailed deliberation, the expert committee observed that the project in question may be treated as a construction project and the project may be appraised under schedule eight of the EIA Notification. Since the project covers a construction area more than 1, 50,000 square meters, the expert committee opined that the project may be appraised under schedule 8 (b) of the EIA Notification, 2006,” reads a part of the ministry submission to NGT. In another issue with the project as per the project plans that went through the REIA has mentioned felling of 1,982 trees in a stretch of 8.5 hectares to 10.10-hectare forest land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ngt-orders-pune-civic-body-to-get-environment-clearance-for-hcmrt/story-H7ZZiv3bn5L8ILJKz5RvqJ.html
05-11-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab to open colleges, universities from November 16||The Punjab government will open colleges and universities from November 16. The decision to resume classes in colleges and universities after eight months was taken by the state home department in consultation with the higher education department. The higher education department, which will issue the detailed guidelines and standard operating procedures (SOPs), plans to start with in-person classes for sciences or medicine, and research-related courses initially, according to sources. Thereafter, classes for management, commerce, and arts and language courses are likely to be started in that order after regular assessment of the Covid-19 situation. The Union ministry of education had on November 2 issued guidelines for reopening of universities and colleges after the lockdown restrictions were eased and left it to the state governments to decide on resuming physical classes. Sources said the contours of the academic calendar would be decided in consultation with the vice-chancellors of the state universities. In hostels, not more than one student will be accommodated per room to begin with.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-to-open-colleges-universities-from-november-16/story-YE7FupPDrYiS3PWT22GDrN.html
05-11-2020||Pune||BJP demands subways be opened; Cong wants cleaner gardens||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Sandeep Khardekar demanded to open all the subways in the city which were closed during lockdown. Khardekar said, “All the subways in the city have been closed since lockdown began due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Now everything is opening up. There is no concrete reason from the administration to keep them closed.” Khardekar wrote a letter to Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar and appealed to him to open the subways immediately after proper cleaning. Meanwhile, Congress leader Aba Bagul raised a question over the maintenance of gardens in the city. Bagul said, “PMC opened up its 81 public gardens in the city but most of the gardens are not clean or do not have enough manpower. The contract employees are not joined yet as their contracts have not renewed.” Bagul said that the employees have not joined the gardens which is needed to for basic maintenance and cleaning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/bjp-demands-subways-be-opened-cong-wants-cleaner-gardens/story-B20FJVFTvEQJzzZXPPhEzJ.html
05-11-2020||Pune||Demand to allow private buses from Sangamwadi BRTS corridor||Commuters passing through the Sangamwadi BRTS road have reported of inconvenience due to the closure of the BRTS corridor for private vehicles.Shivajinagar member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) Siddharth Shirole has written a letter to state chief minister and Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar to open the corridor for common private buses. “From the last few months there has been a huge pressure on the traffic movement on the Sangamwadi BRTS route and as the BRTS corridor is closed for other vehicles there are daily traffic jams. So our demand is that private buses should be allowed to pass through the corridor, which is also the demand of the local public. The public transport buses do not run full capacity on the BRTS corridor, so most of the times it is vacant throughout the day. So to reduce the pressure of other vehicular movement we are demanding to allow private buses from the BRTS corridor,” said Shirole. “In the past, local citizens in Hadapsar had raised a similar demand to allow private vehicles from the BRTS corridor but the government did not listen to the residents. Later, citizens broke the barricading of the BRTS corridor and now all vehicles pass through it. To avoid such law and order situation at Sangamwadi BRTS corridor, we are asking for an immediate decision,” he added. Nishant Sahani, a regular commuter on this route said, “I daily go to my workplace from Sangamwadi road and during the morning and evening office hours we suffer for almost half an hour on this road. It is very tiring to pass from this road, and on one side the entire BRTS corridor is empty from where the heavy vehicles or buses can pass. So, private buses should be allowed to pass so that traffic congestion will somehow reduce.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/demand-to-allow-private-buses-from-sangamwadi-brts-corridor/story-dy9ihKoLv8CyaKdhauAVZJ.html
05-11-2020||City||SPPU begins declaring final year exam results||Pune: The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has begun declaring results of the final year examinations, which were held from October 12. The result of the Bachelor of Science, Biotechnology, was declared by SPPU’s examination department on Wednesday, and now, all results will be declared online. “We have started declaring results of the final year examinations and our effort will be to announce all the results by second week of November. The examination was held both, online and offline, and as one subject ended we immediately started the evaluation. Students can now check their results on the official website of the university,” said Mahesh Kakade, director of the board of examination and evaluation. For students who have not given the exams for any reasons, re-examination will start from November 5. For the next three days, November 5-7 re-exams will be conducted, online only. The examination department has appealed to all affected to apply and re-appear for the exams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sppu-begins-declaring-final-year-exam-results/story-pmsWBc8Pu61kgRra1YthzI.html
05-11-2020||City||AFMC develops patient isolation device for healthcare workers||Pune: Armed Forces Medical College (AFMC) has come up with “Raksha Kawach”, a patient isolation device to protect healthcare workers from infectious aerosols. The device is not just Covid specific, but intends to minimise the contagion load in hospital atmosphere housing patients with other airborne diseases. An infectious aerosol is a collection of pathogen-laden particles in air.The device is developed by a team led by Lt Col (Dr) Shamik Kr Paul, a neuro anaesthesiologist and assistant professor in the department of anaesthesia and critical Care at AFMC and Dr Ajay Suryavanshi, a biomedical engineer and an alumnus of IIT Bombay. The device is a compact, quickly-deployable, portable, user-friendly and cost-effective aerosol containment system with two modules: a retractable canopy unit to create a physical barrier around the patient and a fan-filter unit to scavenge and filter contaminated air.The canopy is made up of a disposable transparent collapsible plastic enclosure and a reusable retractable plastic frame with all-detachable components. The fan-filter unit selectively clears off aerosols released from the patient by applying negative pressure over the patient’s exhale cloud by means of suction blower, further filtering through high-efficiency particulate air (HEPA) and disinfecting by UVC radiation to vent off decontaminated air.The unique feature of this device is two modes for immediate access to the patient: suitably sized “on-off” windows at front and back walls of canopy for brief procedures (canopy on) and instant retraction for long-term procedures (canopy off). The canopy dimensions are large enough to avoid any patient claustrophobia while still maintaining a smaller footprint to accommodate into ICU limited floor space. The canopy is lightweight, easy and fast to install (and uninstall) within 5-10 minutes and can be packed into a carry bag similar to a cricket kit bag for easy transport and storage.The safety and effectiveness of the device has been established by comprehensive third party validation from National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL)-accredited testing facility. The provisional patent and design registration have been filed for the technology which is ready for tech-transfer to interested licensing partners on a non-exclusive basis.“Raksha Kawach” is beneficial for diverse user-cases like single-bed and multi-bed (array of canopies connected to single fan-filter unit) ICUs, Covid/TB hospitals/wards, triage centres, quarantine facilities as well as home isolation. The innovation would have a greater impact in reducing the infectiousness of the airborne diseases like Covid and TB thus creating a safer work environment for health care workers improving patient care and becoming an integral part of hospital infrastructure as airborne infection-control strategy in post-Covid era.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/afmc-develops-patient-isolation-device-for-healthcare-workers/story-dQ0yHCyHPq0S2i0bIb4FXM.html
05-11-2020||City||Micro containment zones in Pune down to 13||PUNE: With number of new Covid cases coming down in the city, the municipal commissioner on Wednesday brought down the micro containment zones.Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar issued an order to keep only 13 zones in the city under micro containment.When the city was reeling from surge in virus cases, more than 75 zones were under containment. Many slums and housing societies were sealed and restrictions were imposed on public movement.As part of the unlock process, now only 13 localities with maximum positive cases are in micro containment zones.The new micro containment zones include some parts of Kasba peth, Guruwar peth and Mahatma Phule peth; Ambegaon Budruk, Chandrangan society and Silver Park society; Katraj- Santoshnagar area; Wanowrie SRPF; Lohegaon survey number 74-75; Spring Society on Ahmednagar road; Phursungi; Bhekrainagar; Sasanenagar; Postman and PMC colony in Kothrud and Sutardara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/micro-containment-zones-in-pune-down-to-13/story-zbWdsck23fZ9NgFP9GBJtM.html
05-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi can soon become ‘corona capital’, AAP govt going haywire on pandemic: HC||The Delhi High Court Thursday expressed displeasure over the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the national capital and observed that the city could soon become ‘corona capital of the country’.A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad said the Delhi government has gone completely “haywire” on the pandemic.The bench said the AAP government took the health of citizens for a ride and it will deal with it separately. The high court said the Delhi government made many claims that they are topping charts in testing but the number of cases have overshot. “The city could soon become Corona capital of the country. Thanks to the number of cases shooting up,” the bench said and added “We are going to take it very seriously.” The remarks were made by the bench while hearing a bunch of petitions relating to non-payment of salaries to doctors, paramedical staff, safai karamcharis, teachers and retired engineers and others, employed with North Delhi Municipal Corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-can-soon-become-corona-capital-aap-govt-going-haywire-on-pandemic-hc/story-waC6Ytt2oK8fVLSXmDy7hI.html
05-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: NCB arrests man for ‘supplying’ drugs to actors||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Thursday said it has arrested a man from Mumbai for allegedly supplying drugs to television actors and seized drugs and cash from him.An NCB officer said Abdul Wahid, the accused, has allegedly been in the business for around three years. “He was supplying drugs to actors and other people despite the fact that the NCB is going after those trafficking drugs in the city and having drugs links with the film industry,” the officer said, requesting anonymity. He refused to divulge further details as the agency was on the lookout for more suspects linked to Wahid.The officer said Wahid is known in the narcotics circuit by the name of Sultan Mirza. “He adopted this name from the actor Ajay Devgan’s Once Upon a Time in Mumbai in which Devgan played the character of Sultan Mirza, a character based on smuggler Haji Mastan from the Mumbai underworld.”The officer said they have started analysing his phone call details and contact list.Wahid has been booked under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. He was expected to be produced in court on Thursday.Officials said 750 grams ganja (marijuana), 75 grams charas (hashish), and three grams of mephedrone were allegedly seized from him along with Rs1.75 lakh in cash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-ncb-arrests-man-for-supplying-drugs-to-actors/story-sKjym3PmMy4ltAEcLmyTnM.html
05-11-2020||Delhi||NGOs running shelter homes ask Delhi govt to release payment for lockdown period||Shelter Management Agencies (SMAs), which are engaged by the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB), have asked the Delhi government to release payment for expenses incurred by them since March, when coronavirus disease (Covdid-19)-related lockdown restrictions were announced.The agencies said that the government had reimbursed between 15% and 20% of the total amount due since March.In October, the agencies had written to Satyendar Jain, urban development minister, Delhi, highlighting the financial difficulties faced by them in providing services due to non-payment of dues and sought an appointment with him.The 223 shelter homes, which are managed by six SMAs, were among the list of shelters, where free meals were provided to homeless and migrant workers since the lockdown was enforced from the end of March. The Delhi government had provided free meals to around 1 million people twice a day during the lockdown. The government has decided to continue its scheme till the end of winter.Vinay K Stephen, chief functionary of Sadik Masih Medical Social Servant Society, said, “We were paid 50% of the expenses incurred in March and April. But since May, we have not been reimbursed at all. We are facing financial problems and are finding it difficult to run our operations smoothly. We have been unable to pay salaries to our staff.”Stephen said that his organisation manages 45 DUSIB homeless shelters, where nearly 1,500 people are provided free meals daily.SMAs said their other source of funds has dried up considerably because of the Covid-19 pandemic, which further aggravated their financial woes. “It is challenging to sustain operations and to provide quality service under the present circumstances due to an acute shortage of funds. There has been a drop in donations owing to the viral outbreak. SMAs have been reimbursed between 15% and 20% of the total amount due since March,” said Rajesh Kumar, national executive director, Society for Promotion of Youth and Masses, which manages over 60 DUSIB shelters.Santosh Kumar, executive director, Safe Approach, which manages 44 DUSIB shelters, said, “We understand the Delhi government’s problem. But we are also feeling the pinch. We have to start preparations for winter. It will be good if the government can tell us for how long we need to continue with the free meal scheme. We will make the arrangements accordingly.”Indu Prakash Singh, a member of the Supreme Court (SC)-mandated monitoring committee for homeless shelters, said, “I have raised the matter with DUSIB officials after it was brought to my notice. How will SMAs do their work properly, if they are not paid on time? I feel that there is an immediate need to change the reimbursement system. SMAs should be paid in advance for a few months.”DUSIB officials said that the government has initiated the process to release all pending dues. While DUSIB officials admitted that there has been a delay in releasing the payments, they also blamed the SMAs for not submitting their bills on time.Bipin Rai, a DUSIB member, said, “We held a meeting on Monday, where the reimbursements due to SMAs were cleared. For financial activities above Rs 1 crore, we have to take the cabinet’s approval due to the Covid-19 pandemic. We have secured all the approvals. The money will be released soon. But what the SMAs are claiming is not correct. There has been a delay at their end while submitting bills. If they submit bills late, then how can they blame us for delay in payments?”A government spokesperson said, “We have taken the decision to release the funds. The amount will be released at the earliest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ngos-running-shelter-homes-ask-delhi-govt-to-release-payment-for-lockdown-period/story-G5STPR8HmuQfPII9csChGM.html
05-11-2020||Chandigarh||Role of Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee at Kartarpur Sahib intact, says its chief||Amid reports that the Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee has lost control over Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, Kartarpur, with the setting up of a government body to manage the historic shrine, its president Satwant Singh on Thursday clarified that the PSGPC’s role in the gurdwara management remains intact. His clarification comes even as the ministry of external affairs said India received representations from the Sikh community expressing concern over the decision to transfer the management and maintenance of the Kartarpur gurdwara from the PSGPC to the administrative control of the Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETBP), a non-Sikh body. “The fresh move of the Pakistan government is being misreported. Arrangements for the construction, maintenance and security outside the gurdwara are made by the ETPB, while arrangements related to Sikh rituals are still under the control of the PSGPC at Kartarpur Sahib and other historic gurdwaras in Pakistan,” Satwant Singh said over phone. “The PSGPC will continue to control the arrangements inside the gurdwara, including langar (community kitchen), accommodation of pilgrims, preparation and distribution of karah parshad, holding Akhand Path Sahib and managing the golak (donation box). These arrangements are related to Sikh Rehat Maryada and are being conducted by the PSGPC,” he said. The ETPB is a statutory board of the Government of Pakistan that administers evacuee properties, including educational, charitable or religious trusts left behind by Hindus and Sikhs who migrated to India after Partition. According to a notification on November 3, a project management unit (PMU), a self-financing body, for the management and maintenance of Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, Kartarpur, has been constituted under the administrative control of the ETPB. A total of nine officers have been posted under this body and all of them are Muslims. SIKH LEADERS EXAGGERATING, MISINFORMED: PSGPC CHIEF The move has evoked harsh reactions from the Sikh leaders in India. “Disgusted and shocked to see PSGPC losing control of the management of Gurdwara Sri Kartarpur Sahib and Pak Govt setting up a Project Management Unit to implement project business plan,” said Manjinder Singh Sirsa, the president of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC), in a social media post. He said, “The management of Gurdwara Sahib & Langar snatched from Sikhs and given to an Islamic organisation. Gurdwara Sahibs have always been managed by Sikhs but dictatorial Pak govt has given this sewa to non-Sikhs who have no understanding of Sikh Maryada or teachings of Guru Sahibs.” “On behalf of global Sikh community, we strongly condemn this move & demand restoring the right of sewa back to PSGPC. This move is not acceptable to Sikhs and we request @DrSJaishankar Ji to take up this issue at the very earliest with Pak Govt,” he added. The PSGPC president said, “I reject this statement which is exaggerated and full of misinformation.” YEAR AFTER CORRIDOR OPENING In November last year, the two countries threw open a corridor linking Dera Baba Nanak in Gurdaspur in India with Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib in Pakistan, in a historic people-to-people initiative. The Kartarpur gurdwara is the last resting place of Sikhism’s founder Guru Nanak and Indian pilgrims have a visa-free access to it. The shrine is barely 4 km from the India-Pakistan border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/role-of-pakistan-sikh-gurdwara-parbandhak-committee-at-kartarpur-sahib-intact-says-its-chief/story-aJTEK85CjQIvy1461GdjRL.html
05-11-2020||Kolkata||‘Mamata govt preventing poor people from accessing Centre’s schemes’: Amit Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah lashed out at Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee on Thursday saying that the Trinamool government in West Bengal is stopping poor people from availing the benefits of schemes launched by the Centre. Shah is on a two-day visit to the state and was speaking to mediapersons after paying tribute to freedom fighter Birsa Munda in Bankura.Speaking to ANI, Shah said, “I can see in the eyes of people the hope for change in West Bengal that is possible only under the leadership of our PM Narendra Modi ji. Mamata govt is not letting the benefits of over 80 schemes of the Central govt reach the poor.”Shah is scheduled to address rallies in Bankura and Kolkata on Thursday and Friday. Shah’s visit to Bankura is aimed at increasing the support base for BJP after it gained 18 seats in West Bengal during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. BJP is aiming to form the government and win the 2021 West Bengal elections.Shah also said that the days of Trinamool Congress at the helm are now numbered. While speaking to PTI in Bankura he said, “The death knell of Mamata Banerjee’s regime has rung. We will form the next government in Bengal with a two-third majority. Since last night, I am in West Bengal and can sense the massive public anger against the Mamata Banerjee government.”BJP has also protested against the deaths of BJP workers in Bengal. After his arrival on Wednesday, he met the family members of Madan Ghorai, a BJP worker who died in police custody in Patashpur in Purba Medinipur district on October 13. The Calcutta High Court had ordered a second postmortem of Ghorai on Tuesday after his kin alleged that he died due to torture.Trinamool Congress chief and West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee took a veiled dig at Shah and said his visit was only aimed to win votes from the Matua community. Banerjee highlighted her work for the tribal community and said, “For the last 20-25 years, till the time Boroma [elder mother of Matua community] was alive, I used to take care of her. I used to admit her to the hospital. I was the first to visit the Matuas and started developing the area. Some people are new and trying to parachute.”Mamata Banerjee said that she will be forming a Matua Development Board for the development of the community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/mamata-govt-preventing-poor-people-from-accessing-centre-s-schemes-amit-shah/story-KVLbOOpOORp5pLjnev0OkL.html
05-11-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Farmers block Delhi-Amritsar highway to protest against farm laws||Several farmer organisations in Punjab have declared a nationwide protest against the farm laws by blocking the Delhi-Amritsar highway from 12pm to 4pm on Thursday, according to the Kisaan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee. “Farmers organisations will block highways from 12pm to 4pm today against Centre’s farm laws. The protest will take place in around 46 places today and will bring a monumental change in the country,” Sarwan Singh Pandayer, General Secretary, Kisaan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee told ANI.He also said that while the roads will remain blocked for four hours, however, ambulances, fire brigades and other emergency services will be allowed to move.“Passage to all emergency services will be given. Our motive is not to create inconvenience for the public but the government will have to take note of our agony. Unless the corporate giants stop interrupting in the farmer’s everyday affair, there cannot be a feasible solution to our distress,” Sarwan Singh added.Meanwhile, the Punjab Police is ensuring that the common public should face minimal trouble due to the highway blockage. “We have ensured diversions on the Amritsar-Delhi national highway from 12pm to 4pm for the common public. The farmers are protesting but our job is to ensure liquidity in the traffic,” Inspector Anup, Traffic Incharge, told ANI.The farmer organisations had blocked the Ladowal Toll Plaza in Talwandi Kalan of Ludhiana and staged another protest at Rajpura-Ambala National Highway last month against the farm laws passed by the parliament in its monsoon session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-farmers-block-delhi-amritsar-highway-to-protest-against-farm-laws/story-2vjMnjWrAVa8vatH1hJOkN.html
05-11-2020||Delhi||Cracker ‘less’ Diwali? Sellers in Delhi-NCR say sale is not good so far||As AQI goes from bad to poor in the Capital, worsening air quality recently led to the launch of an anti-cracker campaign, to inspect and crack down the sale of polluting crackers. But, cracker sellers in Delhi-NCR say that they have already been experiencing a low footfall with people not visiting their shops to buy even green crackers. “We have sanitised out shops, all the boys working in our shop wear mask, we try to maintain all standards of social distancing and sell only green crackers. Still, our sale of crackers this festive season is two times lesser than last few years. People are not coming to buy crackers in numbers as they used to earlier,” says Pawan Kumar Goyal, owner of Balaji Fireworks in Mangolpuri. Some sellers claim that owing to the pandemic, production of crackers has been severely impacted. Rajesh Khurrana, owner of Mayur Patakha Shop in Paschim Vihar, says, “The production of crackers usually happens during summer, but this summer factories remained closed due to lockdown. So the supply of green crackers couldn’t be generated unlike previous years. At this point, I only have a limited stock, which I thought will get exhausted prior to Diwali. But, the demand is even lower than the supply. Till now I have sold only 10 to 15% of what we usually used to sell by this time ahead of Diwali every year. Also, the awareness of green crackers being available in the market is quite less. After 2016, the ban on crackers has been almost a constant, but people haven’t learnt much about green and eco-friendly crackers.” Most cracker sellers point towards the current dip in the economy as a reason why customers aren’t splurging as much on crackers this festive season. “The sale is extremely low because people are on a very tight budget since a lot of them have either suffered losses in their business or lost jobs or are facing salary cuts. So obviously no one want to spend so much in a thing like crackers! Their pocket isn’t allowing them to indulge in them,” says Vishal Kumar from Shivam Fireworks in Rohini, sector 16.Reiterating that the sale is on an all time low, Rajan Rajpal, owner of Yash Pal and Sons in Gharoli Chowk, Gurugram, says, “We decided to keep only certified green patakhas this time, to encourage those who are environment conscious to also buy these. But, we haven’t been able to even sell our old stock, leave apart the new one! No new crackers have been introduced this time either. Customers are very few, and even those who come in, are preferring to buy a very limited quantity. So if someone used to buy stock worth ₹2,000 from us, that person is only buying crackers for ₹500. Don’t know how our Diwali will be of this lull continues.” Author tweets @FizzyBuddha Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/cracker-less-diwali-sellers-in-delhi-ncr-say-sale-is-not-good-so-far/story-0uY47FJ9n3Ak0Vgerk3OcN.html
05-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Arvind Kejriwal urges for ‘cracker-free Diwali’, asks people to join him in Laxmi Puja||To dissuade people from bursting crackers, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said the Delhi government will organise a Laxmi Puja this Diwali and live stream it for people to perform the rituals at their homes. He said this is being done as the Covid-19 situation is worsening because of the rising pollution while appealing to people against bursting firecracker during the festivities to curb the toxic air from worsening.“Just like last year, this year too we will pledge not to burst firecracker on Diwali. Last year, we celebrated Diwali together as the Delhi government organised a mega light and sound show at Connaught Place’s Central Park. This time also Delhi’s two crore [20 million] people will celebrate together. But this time we will organise a Laxmi Puja on Diwali which will be live-streamed from 7.39pm. We urge people to view the live stream at their homes and perform the same rituals instead of going out and bursting crackers and adding to the pollution,” Kejriwal said at a digital press conference.Also read | No manufacturing units in new industrial areas, says KejriwalKejriwal said if every household does Laxmi Puja on Diwali, it will create a harmonious and positive environment. He added his cabinet colleagues will join him for the puja.Kejriwal said Delhi is facing rising Covid-19 cases and pollution levels. “Corona cases are increasing also because of pollution. Every year Delhi’s pollution peaks during this time of the year due to stubble burning in the neighbouring states of Punjab, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh. We hope that from next year these states also start using the chemical solution which the Delhi government is using to convert stubble into manure,” he said.Delhi’s air quality rapidly worsened to the “severe” category with the Air Quality Index (AQI) of 452. AQI between 401 and 500 is considered to be severe, which can impact healthy people and seriously affect those with existing health conditions, according to the Central Pollution Control Board.Delhi reported another single-day record of 6,842 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday. As the daily infections inched closer to 7,000, the positivity rate continued to rise as well. As many as 11.6% of the 58,910 samples tested over the past 24 hours returned positive. Delhi’s positivity rate has been in double digits over the last five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/diwali-delhi-govt-to-organise-laxmi-puja-live-stream-it-says-cm/story-8kKb3Jv7zb1WnXdLEuaEqO.html
05-11-2020||Mumbai||Saamana hits out at Amit Shah over Arnab Goswami’s arrest||Maharashtra’s ruling Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana on Thursday hit out at Union home minister Amit Shah in an editorial for condemning Republic TV’s editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami’s arrest for allegedly abetting an interior designer’s suicide in 2018. The editorial said the law prevailed in Goswami’s case as he was arrested after a grieving widow sought justice for her husband.“This arrest is absolutely not an attack on the fourth pillar of democracy [media] like home minister Amit Shah has said. Many journalists have been arrested in Gujarat for writing against the government. In Uttar Pradesh, several journalists were killed. Nobody was reminded of the Emergency then,” the editorial said, referring to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled states.Shah on Wednesday blamed the Congress, which shares power with Shiv Sena in Maharashtra, and its allies for “shaming democracy” while calling Goswami’s arrest earlier in the day “blatant misuse of state power”. “It reminds us of the Emergency [imposed in the 1970s]. This attack on free press must be and WILL BE OPPOSED,” Shah tweeted.Other top BJP leaders and Union ministers also condemned the arrest. BJP’s Maharashtra chief Chandrakant Patil said there is an “Emergency-like situation” in the state. He added BJP workers in Maharashtra will wear black badges or black clothes until Goswami is released.The editorial criticised the BJP for supporting Goswami while questioning his credentials as a journalist. It added the BJP allegedly tried to suppress the matter when it was in power in Maharashtra. “An innocent man and his mother killed themselves. His widow is crying for justice. Police followed the law.”The editorial added the widow ran from pillar to post for two years for justice. It said a note recovered after the interior designer’s death by suicide said Goswami did not pay his dues and he killed himself due to the stress caused by it. “His widow has now moved the court seeking re-investigation into the matter and the police have only acted accordingly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/saamana-hits-out-at-amit-shah-over-arnab-goswami-s-arrest/story-QuQgAvPXki3BoAmcy7IrXM.html
05-11-2020||Lucknow||Monuments reopen, heritage tourism looks up in Lucknow||Things have begun to look up for heritage tourism in Lucknow since monuments reopened after the Covid-19 lockdown. Officials said there is a considerable rise in footfall as people are visiting heritage structures to beat the lockdown blues. The number of visitors is expected to increase.“The Bada Imambada is one of most preferred destinations for tourists...it seems the monument continues to attract visitors even in times of pandemic,” said deputy superintending archaeologist Manoj Saxena.The Imambada and other heritage sites were closed on March 17 in view of the Covid pandemic.Also read | Worried about hygiene of prasad at temples, UP govt launches operation BHOGOn November 1, 1,985 tourists visited the monument. “In October, around 27,600 tourists visited the Bada Imambada, which is much above expectations. However, all were domestic tourists,” said an official in charge of ticketing at the Imambada.The Imambada reopened for the public in September after a closure of nearly 190 days. Only 100 tourists can visit the monument at a time.There has also been an increase in tourists visiting the Residency, the other preferred destination in the city. “In October, around 4,485 tourists, including one foreigner, visited this place,” said Saxena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/monuments-reopen-heritage-tourism-looks-up-in-lucknow/story-O3FexyqytCJepyKHLNNQrL.html
05-11-2020||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee doles out sops for Bengal’s Dalit community; BJP says it won’t work||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday doled out sops for Dalit communities, who account for nearly one-fourth of the state’s population, ahead of the crucial assembly polls slated to be held in April-May next year. Banerjee distributed land right documents (pattas) to the refugees, who had settled in the state decades ago, and announced her government’s plans to make it easier for the Scheduled Castes (SCs) to get caste certificates. She said several boards and committees would be set up for their development. “People from the SC community had to run from pillar to post to get a caste certificate. If a person belongs to the SC community, where at least one member has a caste certificate, the state government will ensure that the document is made available within two weeks,” said Banerjee. “We are setting up a Matua development board and have allocated a budget of Rs 10 crore. Cultural boards will be set up for each of the sub-castes, including Bagdi, Bauri and Dom, among others,” she added. The CM was interacting with representatives of various Dalit communities and sub-castes based on their professions, including weavers and dokra artisans, at Nabanna, the state secretariat in Howrah district. Plans are afoot to extend the benefits of the state-sponsored health coverage plans to various SC sub-castes. Banerjee sanctioned most of the requests made by the representatives such as building community centres, donating ambulances and setting up schools for girls across districts. The CM also urged the representatives to suggest eminent names from their castes and communities after whom state-run universities could be named.The SC population in West Bengal is estimated at 2.14 crore, which is around 23% of the 9.14 crore population of the state, as per the 2011 Census. The rival, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), lashed out at the ruling Trinamool Congress government for the latter’s alleged bid to appease the Dalits. “The TMC has been unmasked and the public has become more aware than ever before. These poll sops won’t work. The TMC will be voted out of power. The TMC knows its poll prospect all too well and the move explains its desperation,” alleged Sayantan Basu, general secretary of the BJP’s Bengal unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/mamata-banerjee-doles-out-sops-for-bengal-s-dalit-community-bjp-says-it-won-t-work/story-23nCiRdLQvgRe75I4zyPXL.html
05-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: BMC amends tender rules for GMLR project; puts curbs on bidders from neighbouring countries||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has changed tender rules for the Goregaon Mulund Link Road (GMLR) project, which is expected to ease traffic snarls and reduce travelling time, to put restrictions and make compliances stricter for the bidders from countries like China that share borders with India.The amendment comes following the Centre’s directives for restrictions on bidders from the neighbouring countries in the backdrop of the border standoff with China in Ladakh. The directive two months back prompted BMC to cancel the bidding process for GMLR. It has now floated fresh tenders enabling global bidders to participate in the bidding with riders.The BMC has not named any country in the bid documents floated on Tuesday. The document cites restrictions on countries that share borders with India. “ Any bidder from a country which shares a land border with India will be eligible to bid in this tender only if the bidder is registered with the Competent Authority.”The Centre on July 23 amended the General Financial Rules to enable the imposition of restrictions on bidders from countries that share borders with India citing national security. This essentially means entities from such countries can only bid after special permission from the Centre.A BMC official said they have not restricted anyone but asked firms from countries sharing a land border with India to comply with the Centre’s directions.“In case we do not get any response or participation by Chinese contractors, we are hoping to get responses from contractors in Japan, South Korea and European countries. There will be no impact on tunnelling,” the official said on condition of anonymity.In August, the BMC scrapped and re-invited tenders for the construction of two 10-km underground sewer water tunnels six months after it shortlisted Chinese companies with joint ventures with Indian firms for them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-bmc-amends-tender-rules-for-gmlr-project-puts-curbs-on-bidders-from-neighbouring-countries/story-gslx2buLpTEyAL2WlwWnLL.html
05-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots case: Court finds evidence against him sketchy, grants bail to UAH member Khalid Saifi||A Delhi court on Wednesday granted bail to United Against Hate (UAH) member Khalid Saifi in connection with one of the cases of the north east Delhi riots. The court said booking Saifi on the basis of “insignificant material (witness statement) was total non-application of mind by the police which went to the extent of vindictiveness”. The judge also said that Saifi could not be permitted to remain behind bars on the basis of such sketchy material against him.Additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav questioned the claim of the witness, one Rahul Kasana, that he was standing outside a building in the Shaheen Bagh area, where he had dropped principal accused Tahir Hussain, and he saw Saifi and Umar Khalid enter the same building.“I fail to understand from the aforesaid statement how a lofty claim of conspiracy can be inferred. In my humble opinion, charge sheeting Saifi in this case on the basis of such an insignificant material is total non-application of mind by the police which goes to the extent of vindictiveness,” the judge said.The court said that the argument of the Special Public Prosecutor contending that Saifi was in regular contact with Tahir Hussain and Umar Khalid over mobile phone, which is evident from their CDR location on January 8 when the trio allegedly met at Shaheen Bagh, “is hardly of any consequences, as prima facie that does not in any way go on to establish the criminal conspiracy alleged against the applicant in the matter”.The court said that Saifi was not visible in any CCTV footage or the viral videos pertaining to the scene of crime on the date of the incident. It said that there was no identification of the accused either through independent public witness or any police witness of he being present at the scene of crime on the date of incident.Communal riots had broken out in Delhi in February this year, claiming 53 lives and leaving over 400 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-riots-case-court-finds-evidence-against-him-sketchy-grants-bail-to-uah-member-khalid-saifi/story-SbyGsnbmUWMeNsG0g23QUK.html
05-11-2020||Chandigarh||3 IPS officers transferred in Himachal, Sirmour gets new SP||The Himachal Pradesh government has transferred three Indian Police Services (IPS) officers with immediate effect. The notification was issued on Wednesday evening. Ahmed Payam Siddique, a 1991-batch IPS officer, is the new additional director general and commandant general, home guards, civil defence and fire services, Shimla. Sirmour superintendent of police (SP) Ajay Krishan Sharma has replaced Khushal Chand Sharma as the SP, law and order, Shimla. Sharma has been transferred in his place as the SP, Sirmour. Three Himachal Pradesh Administrative Service (HPAS) officers have also been handed over the additional charge of municipal corporation commissioner with immediate effect. The registrar of the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Cluster University, Mandi, Rajiv Kumar, will hold the additional charge of the Mandi MC chief, while the registrar of CSK University of Agriculture, Palampur, Pankaj Sharma, will hold the additional charge of the Palampur MC commissioner; and the Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni, registrar, Prashant Kirkek, will hold the additional charge of the post of the Solan MC chief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/3-ips-officers-transferred-in-himachal-sirmour-gets-new-sp/story-2VKC1JTZXPPElQWOVeFYgL.html
05-11-2020||Mumbai||Arnab Goswami’s bail plea: What could be the possible scenarios||Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami was remanded in judicial custody until November 18 after he was arrested in Mumbai on Wednesday for alleged abetment of the suicide of an interior designer in 2018. Here are possibilities with respect to his custody and bail: First possibility The police could move a sessions court to get Goswami’s custody along with the two other accused in the case. If the court rejects the plea, then a magistrate will hear Goswami’s bail plea.Second possibility If the magistrate does not grant him bail, then Goswami can move the sessions court for it and later the Bombay high court.Third possibility If the high court, which is expected to hear Goswami’s petition for quashing the case on Thursday, accepts it, then there would be no case against him and the other accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/arnab-goswami-s-bail-plea-what-could-be-the-possible-scenarios/story-6J7M2IqYmLijOToi3Q02XL.html
05-11-2020||Mumbai||The 2018 suicide case against Arnab Goswami: Here’s what you need to know||Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami was arrested in Mumbai on Wednesday for alleged abetment of the suicide of an interior designer. Here are the details of the case that dates back to 2018:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/the-2018-suicide-case-against-arnab-goswami-here-s-what-you-need-to-know/story-EmjQjTzgiQlqff8JVqzQHP.html
05-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Minimum temperature improves slightly, reaches 11°C||A moderately foggy day is expected in Delhi on Thursday with the minimum temperature of 11 degree Celsius, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 10.6 degrees Celsius on Wednesday.Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “There will be shallow fog on Thursday. The minimum temperature has increased because of the layer of pollution, which does not allow the surface heat to radiate back at night.”Also read | Delhi wakes up to severe air pollution, AQI at 452A layer of smoke and pollution settled closer to the surface on Wednesday, which blocked sunlight and reduced visibility through the day. The weather condition led to a dip in the maximum temperature to 28 degrees Celsius (C)--2 degrees below normal. The maximum temperature is expected to be 30 degree Celsius on Thursday.The national capital has recorded minimum temperatures of 11-10 degrees Celsius for the past four days. The Regional Meteorological Centre, Delhi, said cold wave-like conditions were prevailing in the national capital.IMD scientists said the minimum temperature is expected to remain around the 10-degree mark throughout the week. The minimum temperature has been hovering between 3 and 5 degrees Celsius below normal for the past five days.A cold wave occurs when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees C or less, and 4.5 degrees less than normal for two consecutive days.“Technically, the cold wave has not been announced yet, but the conditions are close to a similar weather condition,” said Shrivastava.Scientists have said minimum temperatures have dropped significantly for the past four days because of cold north-westerly winds from the Himalayas blowing over the northern plains and subsidence of cold air over parts of the north-western region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-minimum-temperature-improves-slightly-reaches-11-c/story-AADNFZWn0vWAW8aBTu8txN.html
05-11-2020||City||Land dispute leaves 1 dead, 10 injured in Bengal’s Murshidabad||A man was killed and 10 people were injured on Wednesday during a violent clash over ownership of a plot of land at Dhulian in West Bengal’s Murshidabad district. The deceased was identified as Imran Sheikh (52). The injured men were admitted to the state-run Jangipur Hospital and Murshidabad Medical College and Hospital in the district. The injured men have accused the brother of a Trinamool Congress (TMC) district leader of carrying out the attack. An old dispute between two rival families over ownership of a plot of land under the jurisdiction of Dhulian municipality area led to the violent clash, local people told the police. On Wednesday morning, around 50 armed men arrived at the plot to occupy it by force. Members of a family, who claims to be the legal owner of the plot, were allegedly attacked with crude bombs and firearms, when they tried to put up a resistance. Sheikh and some other men sustained bullet and splinter injuries. Sheikh died on the way to the hospital. Salim Sheikh, one of the injured men, said, “Barik Sheikh, who is the brother of TMC leader Anarul Haque, led the attack. The goons fired at (Imran) Sheikh, who was my uncle.” Haque denied the allegation. “My brother was not present at the spot, where the clash had broken out. Some people are trying to frame him,” he said. TMC legislator from Shamserganj, Amirul Islam, led a sit-in demonstration in front of Shamserganj police station and condemned the attack. “The incident occurred because of the negligence of the local police authorities. The officer-in-charge of the police station should be transferred,” said the lawmaker. Prasenjit Banerjee, sub-divisional police officer, (SDPO), Jangipur, said, “We have started a case on the basis of a written complaint. Four persons have been arrested. Raids are in progress to nab the other accused.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/land-dispute-leaves-1-dead-10-injured-in-bengal-s-murshidabad/story-cEu7KEVTuk0t0CGKTdUa5N.html
05-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi wakes up to severe air pollution, AQI at 452||Delhi’s air quality has rapidly worsened to “severe” on the air quality index (AQI) on Thursday morning, as residents woke up to an AQI of 452.AQI between 401 and 500 is considered to be severe, which can impact healthy people and seriously affect those with existing health conditions, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).The AQI was in the “very poor” – between 301 and 400 -- category till Wednesday afternoon, but worsened rapidly to “severe” due to a shift in meteorological conditions. Wind speed gradually reduced and became calm, which left no room for dispersal of pollutants at night.Also read | Change in wind pattern covers Delhi in a thick blanket of smokeIndia Meteorological Department (IMD) scientists said a layer of smoke and pollution had settled closer to the surface on Wednesday, which blocked sunlight and reduced visibility through the day. The weather condition led to a dip in the maximum temperature to 28 degrees Celsius (C) -- 2 degrees C below normal – on Wednesday.“Smog-like conditions have developed because of air pollution, low wind speed and subsidence of cold air over this region. Air is subsiding over the northern plains, particularly Delhi-national capital region (NCR). As a result, dispersal of pollutants is not possible,” said Vijay Soni, scientist, air quality division, IMD.The Air Quality Early Warning System under the Union Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES) had said air quality has started worsening significantly after 10:00 am on Wednesday due to strong subsidence and accumulation of pollutants. The AQI may reach the higher end of the very poor to severe category before improvement starts on Thursday, it has forecast.“We are expecting wind speed to be low for the next couple of days. I don’t see these conditions improving immediately,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.The minimum temperature on Thursday increased to 12.1 degrees C, as compared to 10.6 degrees C on the previous day.“There is shallow fog on Thursday. The minimum temperature has increased because of the layer of pollution, which doesn’t allow the surface heat to radiate back at night,” Shrivastava added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-wakes-up-to-severe-air-pollution-aqi-at-452/story-GxcGL4woxwqd0H6LQgYVdL.html
05-11-2020||Lucknow||Ram Mandir Trust invites architectural designing ideas from professionals||The Ram Janmbhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust on Wednesday invited architectural designing suggestions from professionals among the general public.“The Trust invites pro bono suggestions that may be included in the masterplan, which is under preparation for the 70-acre Ram Mandir complex,” it said in an advertisement issued in major national dailies.The Ram Mandir Trust has hired the leading construction company Larsen and Toubro for the construction of the Ram Mandir.Later, the Trust had also involved the experts and engineers of Tata Consulting and Engineering firm in the construction of the temple.The Trust has also sought expert suggestions from IIT-Roorkee and IIT-Madras regarding the Foundation of the temple. According to Trust members, they want to build such a grand and strong temple that it must last for at least 1,000 years and must resist all natural calamities Dr Anil Mishra, a Trustee of the Ram Mandir Trust, told PTI that “the Ram Janambhoomi Tèerth Ksetra Trust has invited ideas from worldwide experts for their incorporation in the upcoming Ram temple’s masterplan.The suggestions should address the major elements of the project namely religious Yatra, rituals, culture and science, he added.Experts, architects and designers may submit their suggestion by 25 November on Trust’s emails – aida.rjbayodhya@gmail.com and design@tce.co.in, he said. This year, the gathering of devotees in Ayodhya on the occasion of Parikrama, which is held every year after the Diwali festival, will remain suspended due to the COVID-19 pandemic.During the three-day Deepotsav celebration, the general public will be kept out of the venue and only leading Hindu seers will be invited to participate in it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/ram-mandir-trust-invites-architectural-designing-ideas-from-professionals/story-seDRU74MMOuswNmqLveuJP.html
05-11-2020||Lucknow||Hathras case: ADJ issues show-cause notice to CJM over bail plea of arrested Kerala journalists||A Mathura court on Wednesday remanded four persons, including a Kerala journalist, arrested here last month on way to Hathras, in the UP STF’s custody, inviting a superior court’s objection to hearing the STF’s plea on a day when it was to hear the bail applications of the accused. Mathura Chief Judicial Magistrate Anju Rajput remanded the four accused in STF’s custody for two days, said prosecution counsel Brijmohan Singh. The STF, which had been transferred the case from the state’s Crime Branch belatedly on October 18, had approached the CJM Rajput’s court on Monday, seeking their police custody, but she had deferred the hearing on the plea to Wednesday.Wednesday was also the day slated by Additional District Judge Amar Singh to hear the bail pleas of three of the four accused, barring that of Kerala journalist Siddique Kappan.ADJ Singh took exception to the CJM’s decision to hear the STF’s plea for the police custody of the four on Wednesday when the CJM, after hearing the matter in the morning, also reserved her order and gave it in the evening with the police diary and other prosecution document lying in her court.As ADJ Singh took up the hearing of the bail plea of Kappan’s three co-accused Atiqur Rahman, Aalam and Masood, the STF pleaded to the court to adjourn the matter for another day, saying the police diary of the case and other documents were lying in the CJM’s court.The STF counsel also pleaded to the court not to hear the bail pleas of the accused on the day arguing that the probe into the case was still going on and the accused were needed for further custodial interrogation. ADJ Singh had earlier on October 29 also adjourned the hearing on the bail pleas on the STF’s request that the accused were still needed for the investigation. But while adjourning the matter then, ADJ Singh had also warned the STF that he was doing it for the last time.Not being able to hear the bail pleas even on Wednesday, ADJ Singh issued a show-cause notice to CJM Rajput, said defence counsel Madhuban Dutt Chaturvedi.ADJ Singh considered the CJM’s conduct of hearing the STF plea for the police custody of the accused on November 4 as an “obstruction in the functioning of his court”, said Chaturvedi.After issuing a show-cause notice to the CJM’s court, ADJ Singh slated Thursday to hear the bail pleas of the three Hathras case accused. Kerala journalist Kappan and three others -- Atiqur Rahman, Aalam and Masood – were arrested by Mathura police on October 5, while they were on their way to the village in Hathras to meet the family members of an alleged gang-rape-cum-murder victim there.Arrested initially on suspicion of being a threat to the peace, the four were booked two days later on a slew of stringent charges, including those of sedition and terrorism, and were sent to a Mathura jail under the judicial custody.The Crime Branch of the UP police, which had then been investigating the case, had taken the four in their custody for a few days for their interrogation, after which they were sent back to the judicial custody.Meanwhile, the three of them had also moved the court for bail but CJM Rajput had rejected their bail plea on October 16, following which they had again sought it from the district judge and the pleas of the three were taken up together for hearing for the first time on October 29 by ADJ Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/hathras-case-adj-issues-show-cause-notice-to-cjm-over-bail-plea-of-arrested-kerala-journalists/story-4IZZXdbNd3cMKSam4gicII.html
05-11-2020||Chandigarh||Don’t call Punjab anti-national, says CM Amarinder Singh||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday slammed critics calling his state anti-national for seeking to negate central laws that seek to reform agricultural markets but farmers fear would leave them at the mercy of powerful agribusinesses, noting the presence of tens of thousands of Punjabi soldiers on the borders.“Please don’t think Punjab is out to disturb the peace of the country. It is not. We are there to preserve the peace of the country. We have given blood many times in the past and we will never shy away from doing so in future,’ Singh said at a protest against the farm laws in the Capital. “Our men are deployed in far greater numbers along borders with China and Pakistan in Siachen, Drass, Kargil, Gurez, Leh, Ladakh, Chushul, Galwan Valley and Daulat Beg Oldie and are fighting in tough terrain to ensure the nation’s safety and security,” he said.Lawmakers from Punjab gathered in New Delhi’s Jantar Mantar to protest against the bills after President Ram Nath Kovind reportedly refused to meet a delegation from the state, led by the chief minister, to allow the three farm bills passed by the state assembly last month to negate the central legislation. On a smoggy morning, Singh and some MPs and state legislators from Punjab paid tribute to Mahatma Gandhi at Raj Ghat, where they had originally planned to hold the protest. They shifted the protest it to Jantar Mantar after Delhi Police imposed restrictions under section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The chief minister warned that any move to tinker with religion and the livelihood of the people was bound to trigger resentment and anger. “ No ruler should meddle in religious and livelihood issues,” he said. In September, the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government signed into law three bills amid protests by farmers groups -- The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, Farm Services Bill, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020. The Centre has asserted that these laws would be beneficial for farmers and would also increase their income, even as several opposition parties and farmers’ organisations have been protesting against the legislations, alleging that these will harm the interests of farmers and benefit corporate entities. Singh warned that failure to resolve the issues of farmers would lead to unrest, which both China and Pakistan would try to exploit to the detriment of national security. Former state minister Navjot Singh Sidhu also joined the protest, indicating a thaw in his strained ties with the chief minister at the intervention of the Congress leadership. Lok Insaaf Party legislator Simranjit Singh Bains, as well as Punjabi Ekta Party MLAs Sukhpal Khaira and Shiromani Akali Dal (Democratic) MLA Parminder Singh Dhindsa, were also present. In a reply to the Punjab CM’s open letter to JP Nadda on Sunday expressing concern over the continued suspension of goods trains, the BJP president slammed Singh. Nadda, in the letter, said, “in my view you are fully responsible for the unfortunate situation that has emerged in the State of Punjab”.The Punjab assembly last month adopted a resolution, rejecting the Centre’s new farm laws and passed three bills to counter the contentious legislation enacted by Parliament. Singh urged the President to give his assent to the farm bills submitted to Punjab governor VP Singh Badnore on October 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/don-t-call-punjab-anti-national-says-cm-amarinder-singh/story-kK0RlfwBCCCcSJ1uJhTYEN.html
05-11-2020||Jaipur||Half-burnt body of a woman found in Rajasthan||A partially charred body of a woman in her early 20s was found on the National-Highway 79 in Ajmer district on Wednesday, police said.“Between 6am and 7am, police received information that a partially charred body of a young woman was found on Naseerabad-Derathu crossroads. Prima facie, it appears the woman was burnt late night (on Tuesday) and her body was thrown on the highway,” said Kunwar Rashtradeep, superintendent of police (SP), Ajmer.“The woman appears to be between 20 to 22 years of age. She has ‘Payal’ tattooed on her left leg,” he added. “When we checked with nearby police stations, we found that no one has registered missing complaint. Special teams have been formed to solve the case. Teams are checking CCTV footage of nearby areas,” .he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/half-burnt-body-of-a-woman-found-in-rajasthan/story-KbP1y2XpZljkdpOroTmIJM.html
05-11-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: A dish with character||Let’s get straight to the point—the sookhi aloo subzi. It is too yummy, almost like the one we make at home, but homelier. And it looks so delicious that you can have a nice time just gazing on it. Small cubes of potatoes tossed in a mix of spices. Each piece of aloo silently tempting you with the words—“What are you waiting for, come eat me!”This is just one of the dishes this south Delhi’s Green Park stall is offering. Apparently, it is not considered of much consequence for the eatery is named after another dish. The modestly named Yadavji Chole Parathe Wale wants to be known for its chhole and parathe. The place also serves rice and kulche. But really, you ought to come for its aloo subzi. The trick is—the aloo subzi is not available daily. It’s there if the owner feels like cooking it in the morning.In any case, dry potato subzi is hard to spot by in pavement eateries. Even the best of restaurants, if they serve it, don’t do full justice to it. Many of these fancy destinations deep-fry the potatoes and toss it in spices afterwards. That’s cheating. One could as well eat aloo chaat or finger fries.An ideal aloo subzi is arguably just about diced potatoes (not mashed) boiled to perfection (not too soft, not too hard) and shallow fried—just a hint—with a bit of spices (including jeera, or cumin seeds). The spices should be so light that they only help to accentuate the potato’s essence. Yadavji’s potato subzi is close to that ideal. The only drawback is that the dish looks so beautiful that you might not want to touch it.In his 30s, Mr Yadav, a native of Bulandshahr in UP, founded the stall 17 years ago. It opens daily from 8am to 4pm. The aloo subzi goes best with paratha. And if you really insist on knowing it, the chhole dish is passably tasty. Try their kadhi and chaas (buttermilk) too. Have the feast right by the stall, or get it packed and walk over to nearby Deer Park for a picnic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-dish-with-character/story-AmxbwJsOrQoGKNfZMP20NM.html
05-11-2020||Mumbai||Arnab Goswami arrest: Another face-off between MVA and BJP||The state’s ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) – the ruling alliance comprising Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress – is once again locked in a bitter face-off with the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Centre, this time, over the arrest of Republic TV’s editor Arnab Goswami. The earlier tussles were over the Bhima-Koregaon violence case, which the Centre handed over to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) despite the state’s protest and formation of a task force; and the recent handing over of the Sushant Singh Rajput (SSR) death case to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), besides several other instances in the past 11 months of the Uddhav Thackeray-led state government. The Centre and BJP had also cornered the government over Palghar mob lynching, two members of a sect were killed by a mob on suspicion that they were child-lifters. The BJP had cried foul even when a case was filed in the television rating points (TRP) fraud, naming Republic TV. The face-off over Goswami’s arrest comes at a time when the state is unhappy with the Centre for objecting to the transfer of land in Kanjurmarg for the Metro car shed, after moving it out of Aarey Colony. Home minister Anil Deshmukh had last year indicated that the state would reopen investigation in the Anvay Naik suicide case, even though the local police had closed it, soon after Naik’s wife and daughter met him. On Wednesday, BJP leaders took to the streets across the state, terming the action against Goswami “an assault on democracy”. Union home minister Amit Shah, information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar condemned the arrest on social media. Leader of Opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis tweeted in Marathi: “Emergency came to an end in 1977, but the tendency of imposing it still persists. After Shiv Sena, which stood by the Emergency and Congress, and the party which imposed it joined hands in the state, the tendency has surfaced. Such attempts of suppressing the voice against government are detrimental to democracy.” Fadnavis has been aggressively targeting the MVA government over various issues, from the handling of Covid-19, relief to flood-hit farmers, to SSR case probe and infrastructure projects like Metro car shed. “The arrest is likely to create more bitterness in the relations between the ruling MVA and the BJP as well as the Centre. The state has taken an aggressive role over federal issues. Thackeray has been attacking the Centre over GST compensation dues and SSR case. It may hurt the interest of the state as the Centre enjoys financial and other powers related to the state governments,” said a senior minister, who did not wish to be named. “After a recent letter war between Thackeray and governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, the next episode will be nominations to the legislative Council. This is definitely not a good sign,” said the minister. Leaders from the ruling partners, however, stood united. “BJP workers and leaders are shielding an accused in a suicide case and are giving it an angle of Emergency and attack on the freedom of press. Why is the BJP shielding Goswami,” asked transport minister and Sena spokesperson Anil Parab. Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said, “There was a lot of political pressure on police from the then Fadnavis government to hush up the case.” Minority affairs minister and NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik said the fact that all BJP leaders are crying foul proves that he was shielded by the previous Fadnavis government. Meanwhile, officials from the home department said that the case was strong. “Naik’s wife Akshata was told to approach the court for reopening of the case, so that it could be reinvestigated. Thackeray had directed the home department in April to look into the case, but the closure report was a hurdle. The officers who handled the case previously are not involved in the probe now,” said an official from the department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/arnab-goswami-arrest-another-face-off-between-mva-and-bjp/story-gYA6yqa9Ou7IPuyM5IS5JL.html
05-11-2020||Mumbai||Arnab Goswami arrest: Can’t forget 2018; action is justice for us, say Anvay Naik’s family||Soon after the Alibag police arrested editor-in-chief of Republic TV Arnab Goswami on Wednesday for abetting the suicides of 53-year interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother Kumud in 2018, his wife Akshata and daughter Adnya thanked the Maharashtra Police for taking action in their case. According to police, in his suicide note, Naik alleged he was forced to take this step as he was not paid his dues collectively amounting to Rs 5.4 crore by Arnab Goswami, Feroz Shaikh and Neetish Sarda. “We can’t forget 2018. We want to thank the Maharashtra Police for standing by a daughter of Maharashtra,” said Akshata. “My husband, in his suicide note, had mentioned three names, but no action was taken against them. Goswami is behind my husband’s death and I request every Indian to not help him. Maharashtra Police’s action is justice for us,” she said. Adnya said, “My father spent his money, energy, sweat and blood on the project. Despite this, Goswami ensured my father did not get his dues. He continuously threatened my father saying that he will finish his and my career.” She also levelled allegations against the former investigating officer. “From February-March 2019, we had gone to Alibag police station to collect my father’s suicide note and chemical analysis report. The investigating officer, Suresh Wadare, asked us to sign a paper and when we read it we found that they had mentioned a line the paper which read “we have filed this complaint to take revenge and now we want to take our case back.” I remember this line, but not the entire content. After reading the paper, I tried to take a picture of that which the officer opposed and then he tore the page and asked us to leave,” she said. “Why was Arnab given privilege as an accused? Is he god? His statement was recorded in the joint CP’s office in Mumbai police commissionerate. We met Sanjay Barve at that time. We met Anil Paraskar, SP Raigad, several times and also wrote to PMO India. But no one helped us.” “On May 5, 2020, on my father’s death anniversary, we decided to raise our voice for justice and we uploaded some videos. A few days later, Republic TV issued a statement on their Twitter handle saying that police had filed a closure report in this case. It is then that we learnt that our case has been closed. The investigation was botched up,” added Adnya. Adnya said they filed four complaints in 2020 after they started getting threats. “We filed two complaints at Murbad police station and two at Dadar police station, after my mother and I started getting threats and people started following us,” she said. “We don’t want to make it a political issue. We just want justice and a fair investigation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/arnab-goswami-arrest-can-t-forget-2018-action-is-justice-for-us-say-anvay-naik-s-family/story-qQjQTIltdJAyAg45vtYIsI.html
05-11-2020||Noida||Arnab Goswami arrest: Will look into role of cops who carried out probe too, says Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Wednesday said reopening of the investigation into the 2018 Anvay Naik case, in which Republic TV’s editor Arnab Goswami has been arrested for suicide abetment, was not owing to political vendetta and every angle, including the role of the police officers investigating the case then, would be looked into. Excerpts: What made police reopen the case? Is there any fresh evidence? After the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi came to the power last year, Anvay Naik’s wife, Akshata, and his daughter, Adnya, met me requesting a re-investigation into the case. She alleged that the case was hushed up under political pressure by the previous Fadnavis government. We assured them that we would investigate the case. She had also moved the local court demanding reopening of the case under section 173(8) of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). She alleged that police did not carry out a proper investigation and due procedure of closure, too, was not followed. Neither was their statement taken, nor were they informed about the closure. On October 15, the court allowed the police to reopen the case. The Raigad police are now investigating it thoroughly. You had announced a CID probe in the case in May... Yes, I had announced a Criminal Investigation Department (CID) probe after the Naiks met me, but then we realised that the case was closed by the police. Now, the Raigad police will continue the investigation. There is no need for a CID probe at this juncture. Why did the police close the case without investigating it properly, as is being alleged? A suicide note by Anvay Naik was precise and sufficient to prove abetment. Handwriting experts had certified that it was written by the deceased. There was no reason to close it. Akshata and Aadnya, however, told me the police hushed up the case under pressure from the then political leadership. She even named then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. She said she had met Fadnavis, who also headed the home department, urging for the justice, to no avail. It is also alleged that Goswami’s statement in the case was recorded in the cabin of one of the top officers from the Mumbai Police force at its headquarters. There is a murmur in the force that investigating officer in the case submitted his report after his transfer to other district… There are allegations. The police will look into them too. Naiks have even alleged there was pressure from the political leadership to not call Goswami to Alibag for the statement. The role of the investigating officer too will be look into. Based on the report, action would be initiated. The investigation will also bring forward the political role in the case. The BJP has termed it “indirect imposition of the Emergency” and “suppression of freedom of press”. Comment. This case has nothing to do with the freedom of press or action against the fourth pillar of democracy. It is an individual case against Goswami as a person arising out of a breach of contract between his company and Naik. BJP leaders should answer why they were blowing the Sushant Singh Rajput (SSR) case out of proportion by projecting it as a murder, when there was no suicide note, like in this case. Why have they been beating around the bush even after an expert panel of doctors from Cooper Hospital in Mumbai and AIIMS in Delhi said there was no foul play in SSR’s death. There is no question of any political vendetta, but we are trying to get justice for the family.Does it mean the BJP is shielding Arnab Goswami? Why would it do so, according to you? I don’t want to say anything, but people say or even Naiks have said that Goswami speaks BJP’s language. Police have been investigating the cases against him as per the law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/arnab-goswami-arrest-will-look-into-role-of-cops-who-carried-out-probe-too-says-maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh/story-VQO4CJCBGwFwIq8xNKSABL.html
05-11-2020||Noida||Arnab Goswami arrest: How is it about press freedom, asks Shiv Sena||While the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders criticised the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government and held protests against the arrest of Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami in a 2018 suicide abetment case, the Shiv Sena asked if the journalist was a BJP functionary. Transport minister and Sena leader Anil Parab said, “This case is not connected to the freedom of press in any manner. BJP workers and leaders are screaming and crying as if Goswami is their functionary and he was falsely arrested. He has been arrested in the case for further investigation. Where does the question of freedom of press arise?... The investigation in the cases has restarted after a court order.” “The question here is why is BJP shielding Arnab Goswami. A Marathi woman lost her husband… The BJP is shielding a man because of whom the woman has lost her husband and are giving it an angle of emergency and attack on freedom of the press,” he said, adding why “there was no hue and cry over the arrests of two other accused in the case”. Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil termed the arrest an “Emergency-like situation”, saying party workers in Maharashtra will wear black badges or black clothes until Goswami is released. Patil staged an agitation in Nagpur. Earlier in the day, Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut asserted the arrest of Goswami was as per the law. “The Maharashtra government never takes revenge, so it is not appropriate to use this term. The law is followed in Maharashtra and there is no place for anarchy here. Police can take action if they have evidence against anyone.” Parab said the state government would inquire why the case was not investigated properly when it came to light. “Strict action will be taken against those police officers who are found to be guilty to suppress the case. The government will inquire into this matter,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/arnab-goswami-arrest-how-is-it-about-press-freedom-asks-shiv-sena/story-TB3qLndtU9M3MmABkNeN4N.html
05-11-2020||Mumbai||MPCB elaborates 5-year roadmap for Centre’s ₹396.5-crore fund for air quality improvement in Maharashtra||Two days after the Centre announced its decision to disburse funds to improve air quality for cities with more than 42 million population, based on the 15th Finance Commission recommendation, the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) has explained the five-year (2021-25) roadmap on how the funds would be utilised for cleaner air. Maharashtra will be getting a fund of ₹396.5 crore in the first instalment under the initiative.MPCB said all urban local bodies will be receiving the funds over the next seven to eight days after the funds are routed to the state via the Union environment ministry. “Air quality improvement will be under the Centre’s National Clean Air Programme (NCAP). So far, only 50% of the total funds (₹793 crore) has been sanctioned for all states. Extensive work will be carried out from 2021 onwards to understand the source of pollution and monitor the efficacy of air pollution action plans in each city,” said VM Motghare, joint director (air quality), MPCB.On February 1, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced ₹4,400 crore for clean air in large cities having population above one million in her Budget speech. Among major cities, the minister had said Maharashtra would get ₹793 crore for air pollution control with Mumbai receiving a lion’s share of ₹488 crore, which is the highest among all million plus cities in India. Funds to be disbursed for other cities include ₹134 crore for Pune, ₹66 crore for Nagpur, ₹41 crore for Nashik, and ₹32 crore each for Aurangabad and Vasai-Virar.As a part of the first instalment of the program, the Centre on Monday announced the disbursement of ₹396.5 crore for the six Maharashtra cities with ₹244 crore allocated for Mumbai, ₹67 crore for Pune, Nagpur ₹33 crore, Nashik ₹20.5 crore, while Vasai-Virar and Aurangabad will be receiving ₹16 crore each. While Aurangabad, Mumbai, Nashik, Nagpur and Pune are among the 18 non-attainment cities from the state, Vasai-Virar was included for the funds as a city with a population of over one million.Motghare explained that the funds will be used as per broad headers defined by the Central government such as strengthening of institutional air quality monitoring and policy framework including setting up of manual, automatic air monitoring stations and frequent assessment of sources of air pollution in each city. This would be followed by source-wise cause analysis of air pollution, monitoring the progress on action plans, compliance of statutory guidelines, and quantification of air quality improvements.“Eight action points have been identified for each of these six cities. The measures include control of vehicular emissions, road dust re-suspension, biomass burning, control of industrial air pollution, treatment of construction and demolition waste, air quality monitoring network strengthening, monitoring of diesel-generator sets, and shifting to liquefied petroleum gas from solid fuels,” said Motghare.There was a marking system for each of these action points for each city, said Motghare. “The performance of the cities will be evaluated under these broad headers and action points. When the quantification of air pollution is calculated, the percentage of compliance and percentage of air quality improvement will be checked. This will be done in 2023-24,” he said.Funds for the second instalment (as per the Finance Commission recommendation) will be released based on performance. “If there is 100% compliance and improvement in air quality in a city, the entire second tranche will be released to that city. For example, Mumbai would get ₹244 crore again by 2024-25 if it achieves its targets. However, those cities with 80% compliance will get partial funds. But those below 40% compliance will not be issued the second instalment at all, and that city’s fund will be allotted to another city which is performing better,” said Motghare.Maharashtra presently has 79 manual monitoring and 23 continuous ambient air quality monitoring stations (CAAQMS – real time assessment). “Using these funds, 126 new manual and 47 new CAAQMS will be installed in the first phase and 40 CAAQMs in the second phase. Additionally, our low-cost monitoring study in Maharashtra with Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Kanpur, if successful, will also be funded using this money,” said Motghare.Experts said the metric formulated by the Centre would lead to better accountability. “Maybe not immediately, but in a few years if cities perform in accordance to these metrics, they will not only be provided the second tranche of the funds but there will be more appreciation of their efforts to improve air quality. Now, in a way cities have been empowered to fight air pollution but are also held accountable. Urban local bodies (ULBs) will have to be cautious about their efforts,” said professor SN Tripathi, head of civil engineering, IIT-Kanpur and apex committee member, NCAP.NCAP 2019-20 BUDHET FOR MAHARASHTRA DISBURSED TO ALL 18 NON-ATTAINMENT CITIESMeanwhile, MPCB said that the earlier grant of ₹41 crore for 18 non-attainment cities in Maharashtra had been received by the state and disbursed to all ULBs over the past three months. Of the ₹460 crore allocated for air pollution control by the finance ministry in 2019-20, Maharashtra was to receive ₹41 crore – ₹10 crore funds for two years for cities with more than four million population (Mumbai, Pune, Navi Mumbai, and Nagpur) and ₹10 lakh per city with a population of less than 5 lakh, and ₹20 lakh per city for those with a population of five to 10 lakh. Non-attainment cities are those with particulate matter concentration consistently below the national ambient standards. “Due to Covid-19, implementation of air pollution action plans using this budget has been slow but it will take up pace from 2021,” said Motghare.However, independent experts said the Finance Commission grant, which was 22-times the earlier grant for similar objectives as the NCAP budget, needs to be better understood, especially if this grant would be utilised on the same action items as the earlier NCAP city action plans. “There would be a significant cause of concern if the Finance Commission budget gets utilised for multiplying the actions given in the NCAP city action plans, as those actions when done 22-times may not translate into the same level of impact. Significantly innovative approaches would be needed to implement effective plans versus resources provided to cities,” said Ronak Sutaria, founder and director, UrbanSciences.AIR QUALITY WORSENS IN MUMBAIA day after Mumbai recorded ‘poor’ air quality for the first time in eight months, pollution levels further increased on Wednesday. The air quality index (AQI) was recorded at 221 (poor) on Wednesday and is expected to be 211 (poor) on Thursday. The AQI was 218 (poor) on Tuesday morning, which fell to 211 (poor) by the evening. Mazagaon was the most polluted site with an AQI of 310 (very poor) followed by Bandra-Kurla Complex (306 or very poor). Meanwhile, the maximum temperature in the city was recorded at 35 degrees Celsius, a degree above normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mpcb-elaborates-5-year-roadmap-for-centre-s-396-5-crore-fund-for-air-quality-improvement-in-maharashtra/story-jPwxXOppw9kpfXpZatRr6K.html
05-11-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death: NCB questions Deepika Padukone’s ex-manager||Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) officers on Wednesday questioned actor Deepika Padukone’s former manager Karishma Prakash for nearly six hours from 12.30pm at NCB office in Ballard Estate, in connection with an alleged drug connection linked to actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. “Her questioning has not been completed yet. Hence, she has been again summoned for questioning on Thursday,” said an NCB officer. Prakash was allowed to go home in the evening as women cannot be subjected to questioning post sunset as per law. Her lawyer had accompanied her, but he was not allowed to be present during questioning. NCB officers refused to divulge the details of the questioning.Prakash presented herself before NCB investigators on Wednesday afternoon after the central agency had given an assurance to a special Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) court on Tuesday that it would not take any coercive action against Prakash. The assurance came as the court was hearing Prakash’s plea for anticipatory bail. Following this, Prakash, through her lawyer, had also informed the court that she will cooperate with the investigation.While opposing Prakash’s plea in court, NCB’s counsel Atul Sarpande had said that her had name cropped up during the investigation of drug link connected to Rajput.The agency had last week searched Prakash’s residence in Versova and recovered 1.7 gram hashish and three bottles of cannabidiol (CBD) oil. It is alleged that she was in contact with drug peddlers arrested in the case. NCB had questioned Prakash on September 25 and 26 for approximately 12 hours.NCB has so far arrested 25 people in the case including actor Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik, Rajput’s staffers Samuel Miranda and Dipak Sawant, alleged drug peddlers Zaid Vilatra and Abdul Basit Parihar.Chakraborty was granted bail by the Bombay high court on October 7, while her brother’s bail application was rejected. The special court on Tuesday extended his judicial custody till November 11.“Prakash has tendered her resignation (from her service in KWAN) on October 21 with immediate effect and it was accepted. She now has nothing to do with KWAN or with any of the artists that the agency represents including Deepika Padukone. The ongoing investigations are on Karishma Prakash as an individual,” a statement by Vijay Subramaniam, co-founder and CEO of KWAN reads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-ncb-questions-deepika-padukone-s-ex-manager/story-LZZkDNOsRajmVCIQppHKQP.html
05-11-2020||Mumbai||Row over Kanjurmarg plot to further delay Mumbai’s Metro-3 underground corridor||The tussle between Centre and state government over the Kanjurmarg plot earmarked for the car shed of Metro-3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz) corridor is expected to further delay work on Mumbai’s only underground line. The ambitious 33.5-km corridor has already been delayed, with a cost escalation of around ₹10,000 crore. The Centre has challenged a 2018 order of the state revenue ministry declaring more than 40 saltpan lands as state- and privately-owned. This includes 1,464 acres of land in Kanjurmarg, of which 102 acres was handed over to the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) in October for a common depot for Metro-3 and Metro-6 (Swami Samarth Nagar-Vikhroli). While the petition filed by deputy salt commissioner on September 22 is pending for hearing before the Bombay high court, state authorities are continuing with preliminary work on the plot. “The work will not be stopped unless there is a stay by the court. However, this does bring in certain uncertainty to the project,” said a state official, on condition of anonymity. Metro authorities have multiple times said that operations on the corridor cannot start without a car shed, which will take at least two years to construct. The project has already been stuck for a year, after the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government ordered a stay on constructing of the depot at Aarey Colony in November 2019. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced the state’s decision to shift the car shed in October this year. Paresh Rawal, a transport expert from Mumbai, said, “Now, it’s just getting murkier by the day and further pushing the deadline for the Metro, a transport system that Mumbai needed long ago, to meet its growing demands.” The delays are also going to result in further cost escalation. According to the state-appointed Manoj Saunik committee report, a day’s delay amounts to ₹5.87 crore loss to the exchequer. The project, which was estimated to cost ₹23,000 crore, has already witnessed an escalation to ₹32,000 crore. Meanwhile, environmentalists on Wednesday claimed that the Kanjurmarg depot plot does not fall under the land being claimed by the Centre. Zoru Bhathena, environment activist from the Save Aarey group, said, “The area allotted for Kanjurmarg depot falls under plot 657A, which is part of larger survey no 275 of the Kanjurmarg land. The 657A belongs to Maharashtra government, which the Central government has not claimed. It has claimed remaining part of it. This is a ploy to just create confusion.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/row-over-kanjurmarg-plot-to-further-delay-mumbai-s-metro-3-underground-corridor/story-i7rb4uUy0a4xJDrBH6V8PI.html
05-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s daily Covid-19 cases hit a worrying record at 6,842||As the Covid-19 outbreak in Delhi continued to spiral to record levels under the third wave of infections, the city reported yet another single-day record for cases as 6,842 new infections were detected on Wednesday.As the daily infections inched closer to 7,000, the positivity rate continued to rise with 11.6% of the 58,910 samples tested in the past 24 hours returning positive. Delhi’s positivity rate has been in double digits the last five days.The number of cases has seen a sharp uptick over the last three weeks, forcing the Delhi government to concede on Wednesday that a third wave had gripped the Capital. “This can be called the third wave,” said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday during an interaction with the press. In the past week, the seven-day average of new cases, also referred to as the case trajectory, in Delhi has touched 5,703 and now stands 37% higher than the peak of the second wave when Delhi was reporting 4,174 new cases every day for the week ending September 17. Delhi saw a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases in June-July, which was the first wave, and then again in September, which then was identified by experts as the second wave.A committee led by Niti Aayog member Dr VK Paul has said this surge may go even higher and that Delhi might see up to 15,000 cases a day during winter. “The rise in the number of cases is because we have focussed on aggressive contact tracing and testing all contacts of the positive cases in the last 15 days,” Jain had said on Wednesday. Data available with HT shows that for each positive case, Delhi traced only two contacts till September 30. This number has now gone up to 13 contacts per positive case, according to health officials.Experts, meanwhile, disagreed with the government’s reasoning that testing was the primary reason behind the spike in cases in the Capital and said the current surge could largely be fuelled the by laxity shown by people in adhering to the basic principles of safe Covid behaviour.“Look at what is happening outside, people are out and about. The markets are crowded, traffic is back to normal on the roads. The masks have become chin-accessories and no one is following social distancing. Add to that the increase in the levels of air pollution in the city and the dip in temperature,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head of the department of microbiology at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). Other experts added that early onset of winter and pollution was not helping either. “We have always maintained that the number of cases is likely to go up in the winter. This is what happens with every respiratory infection. And, this is what we have seen in the other European countries,” said Dr Puneet Mishra, professor of community medicine at AIIMS. The current spread in Covid-19 cases is among the population that was not affected during the previous surge. “In April and May, most of the cases in Delhi were recorded in congested areas and slums where social distancing was not possible. However, the middle and upper middle class people who weren’t stepping out of their homes due to the lockdown remained safe. Now, with people joining back at offices and going out to restaurants and pubs has led to them getting infected,” said Dr Mishra. Delhi health minister agreed, adding that this was one of the reasons private hospitals were running out of beds. “The issue is that many people want to go to private hospitals. People who come from outside Delhi already have a particular hospital in mind. The other reason is that the number of cases now being recorded are mainly in middle and upper middle class. Earlier when the cases came it was from the congested areas. These are people who go to the private hospitals, they can afford it, or many have insurance. However, we have the same facilities in government hospitals as well,” said Jain. Currently, 44.7% of the total beds and 71.1% of the ICU beds are occupied. Private hospitals bear a higher burden of the disease, with 60.2% of the total beds and 79.8% of the ICU beds being occupied. Experts consider the spread of the infection to be in control when the positivity rate remains at 5% or less over two weeks||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-daily-covid-19-cases-hit-a-worrying-record-at-6-842/story-eZDlTKckONlceOChtPRqBL.html
05-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra allows cinema halls, multiplexes to reopen at 50% capacity from today||After being shut for around eight months owing to Covid-19, cinema halls, theatres, multiplexes and drama theatres are set to reopen in Maharashtra from today (November 5) as the state on Wednesday decided to allow them to restart operations at 50% occupancy.The government has also allowed yoga centres and indoor sports such as badminton, tennis, squash, among others, to reopen, besides the use of swimming pools, but only for the training of state, national and international level sportspersons, from today. As the state government has decided to give further relaxations, Maharashtra’s Covid-19 case count came close to 1.7 million after 5,505 cases were recorded on Wednesday, pushing the count to 1,698,198.A drop in active cases was maintained as it reached 112,912, — 6.64% of the total. The toll reached 44,548 as 125 casualties were reported in the past 24 hours, health officials said.“Cinema halls, theatres, multiplexes and drama theatres will be allowed to open with 50% capacity in areas outside containment zones only with effect from November 5. No outside eatables will be allowed inside. The standard operating procedure will be issued by the culture affairs department and local authorities,” stated the notification issued by chief secretary Sanjay Kumar on Wednesday“All indoor sports like badminton, tennis, squash, indoor shooting ranges etc. will be allowed with physical distancing and sanitation measures with effect from November 5,” it adds.“Yoga institutes outside containment zones will be allowed to function from November 5. The SOP for the same will be issued by the public health department,” said the notification.Maharashtra has continued the trend of low Covid-19 cases for over a month. It was the 18th consecutive day when daily cases recorded were fewer than 10,000 However, the concern for a rise in cases by November-end still persists due to festivals and winter. Mumbai continued to record the highest cases in the state with 983 fresh infections on Wednesday. Its case count reached 260,840. The number of active cases in the city also reduced to 16,756. The city’s toll also reached 10,352 after 29 casualties were reported.Pune district contributed the second-highest infections in the daily caseload as it recorded 304 cases, taking its tally to 78,177.Pune city recorded 300 cases, third-highest number of cases, pushing its case count to 173,216.Along with a trend of fewer Covid-19 cases, the state has recorded a slight drop in Covid-19 deaths. In the past four days, 462 fatalities were reported, against 1,422 casualties reported in the first four days in October, revealed the figures issued by the state health department.However, the case fatality rate (CFR) is yet to come down. It has maintained second position after Punjab in the country with 2.62%. The CFR of Punjab was 3.15% (with 4,245 deaths) till Tuesday, according to the information shared by the state medical education department.The state has completed 9,185,838 Covid-19 tests, with 65,323 conducted on Wednesday. The positivity rate for the day was recorded at 8.42% against the overall positivity rate of the state that stood at 18.49%.The number of recovered patients reached 1,540,005 with 8,728 recoveries recorded in the last 24 hours. The recovery rate was recorded at 90.68%.The state government is yet to open schools and colleges, swimming pools for general public, places of worship, local trains for general public in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), cultural, political, religious, academic congregations and sporting and entertainment events.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-allows-cinema-halls-multiplexes-to-reopen-at-50-capacity-from-today/story-kiAen1BBhKCYndcH52OuAO.html
05-11-2020||Mumbai||Republic TV’s Arnab Goswami held in 2018 suicide abetment case, moves Bombay HC||Arnab Goswami, Republic TV’s editor-in-chief, was on Wednesday morning arrested by the Alibag police from his Lower Parel residence for allegedly abetting the suicide of a 53-year-old interior designer and his mother in 2018, police said. The arrest marked the sharpest turn yet in Goswami’s tussle with the state’s police, as well as the government, while also sparking a political storm with senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, including Union home minister Amit Shah, comparing the development to “Emergency”. In scenes of high drama, which were aired on Republic TV and videos circulated on social media platforms, a police team arrived to arrest Goswami, 47, amid arguments and the journalist’s allegations of “physical assault” by the police, before he was taken into a van. The Alibag police have also arrested Feroz Shaikh, owner of IcastX/Skimedia, and Nitesh Sarda, owner of Smartwork, in connection with the case. “I am the editor-in-chief of Republic TV, you are physically assaulting me, is this right?” Goswami was heard asking in a video shot by his family. Television footage also showed Goswami asking for medical aid. Police officials present in the flat countered Goswami and said nobody assaulted him. In a statement, Republic TV called the allegations against Goswami unfounded. The Mumbai Police, meanwhile, registered a fresh FIR at NM Joshi Marg police station against Goswami, his wife Samyabrata, their son and two other unknown people on charges of assault or criminal force to deter a public servant from discharge of his duty, and also insulting and threatening police personnel from Alibag police, when they had gone to arrest him. The complainant in the case is Sujata Tanawde, senior inspector of Rasayni police station, Raigad.Arnab, Shaikh and Sarda were produced in the Alibag magistrate court and late on Wednesday, public prosecutor Girish Kulkarni confirmed that all three had been remanded in judicial custody for 14 days. Goswami, however, moved an application before the Bombay high court (HC) to quash the FIR filed against him.Abad Ponda, senior counsel and lawyer for Arnab Goswami, called the entire arrest illegal and with an “oblique motive”.“The entire arrest is illegal. He was exonerated by the judicial order of a magistrate. That order has not been set aside by any competent court much less the magistrate’s court or a superior court. He has been arrested based on an investigation which is completely illegal. At any rate he was always willing to appear, they have issued a notice to him. This is not a serious case where he should have been picked up in the manner that he is a hardened criminal or a terrorist. The entire police action smacks of malafide and clearly demonstrates that there is something more than that meets the eye. There is an oblique motive involved in this entire arrest. Hence, the rule of law is at stake and law needs to be upheld by the superior courts intervening in this completely arbitrary and illegal arrest,” Ponda said. He later said, “We have moved an application for bail. It will be heard tomorrow [today].”In May 2018, almost a year after Republic TV was launched, Anvay Naik, and his mother were found dead at their farmhouse in Kavir village of Alibag taluka. Naik’s wife Akshata, 48, had then registered a complaint. A suicide note was found, police said, in which Naik alleged that he and his mother were forced to end their lives because he was not paid dues amounting to ₹5.40 crore by Goswami, Shaikh and Sarda. After the case was closed by the local police last year over “insufficient evidence”, Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh in May 2020 announced a fresh investigation, saying Naik’s daughter Adnya approached him, alleging that the Alibag police had not properly investigated the case. According to the FIR in the abetment to suicide case, police claimed ARG Outlier Media Private Limited – the parent company of Republic TV – didn’t pay dues of ₹83 lakh to Naik for building Republic TV’s studios project. Police also alleged that Shaikh didn’t pay Naik ₹4 crore for his project in Andheri in Mumbai; and Sarda didn’t pay ₹55 lakh for his projects at Magarpatta and Baner in Pune. On Wednesday, soon after his arrest, Goswami was taken to Alibag police station and later produced in Alibag court amid heavy security. According to the police, Goswami was booked under sections 306 (abetment to suicide), 34 (acts done by persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Goswami was produced before court around 12.30pm where he levelled allegations of being assaulted by the police. A team of riot control police and over 100 policemen were deployed outside court premises and police station. Following the allegation, the court asked Alibag police to conduct a medical examination and to produce a report. The court hearing later resumed at 3pm, where Alibag police sought Goswami’s custody for 14 days. Goswami’s arrest became the latest episode in the increasingly bitter face-off between the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA), the ruling alliance comprising Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress, and the BJP and the Central government led by it, with almost all key state BJP leaders taking to the streets over the “assault on democracy”. Union home minister Amit Shah, information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar quickly reacted on social media and condemned the arrest as BJP leaders across the country criticised the “attack on press freedom”. Leader of opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said it was an attempt of suppressing anti-government voices. Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh said the case was reopened for the investigation and every angle, including the roles of police officers investigating the case then, will be looked into. He said there was no question of political vendetta or politics of revenge as the case was clearly established as abetment of suicide Goswami and the Maharashtra government have been at loggerheads over a host of issues this year, with Republic TV particularly critical of the state police’s handling of the Palghar lynching case, the Sushant Singh Rajput death case, while the journalist was recently accused by the force of being involved an alleged rigging of television ratings. On the abetment to suicide case, Alibag police claimed that the case was earlier closed on the basis of the statement given by the accused, claiming that Naik had failed to do the work on time and also there were lot of shortcomings, because of which the payment was not made. The accused had claimed that because Naik had not finished the work, they had to hire other designers to finish the work. But Alibag police told the court that the previous probe had not mentioned the names of other designers. Police officials claimed they would want to question Goswami and two other accused about the contractors who finished the remaining work. Alibag police officers also said they had found several lacunae in the closure report submitted by the previous investigating officer, and hence had sought permission to further investigate the case. Alibag police officials in their remand application, stated that the notices have been issued to many witnesses, including those examined by the previous investigating officer. Alibag police officials also claimed that during their investigation that they found all the accused resisting to release payment to Naik. The police also claimed that the accused had allegedly issued a debit note to Naik’s company against his repeated demand for payment of the work done by him. However, when they went to verify the records with Naik’s company, the staff had no knowledge or record about the debit note allegedly issued by the accused. The police also alleged that they found no evidence of proper service of debit notes to Naik. The police claimed that they looked for various communications and messages exchanged between Naik and his company with the accused and their company, but found no mention of the alleged debit note. Further, the debit note, which the accused company supposedly had given to Naik, had neither the signature of the issuer or of the receiver, which the prosecution claimed as mandatory. The police also claimed the accused had threatened Naik’s wife and daughter, and had also tried to offer money to close the case, and that they feared that the accused could try to threaten and influence other witnesses in the case. Meanwhile, an IPS officer of the rank of deputy commissioner of police from Mumbai Police confirmed that another FIR was lodged against Goswami, his wife and son and said that a case under section 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 504 (intentionally insults, and thereby gives provocation to any person, intending or knowing it to be likely that such provocation will cause him to break the public peace, or to commit any other offence), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code has been registered against Goswami and four others for resisting police personnel from the local crime branch of Raigad police who had gone to arrest him. Besides sections 353, 504, 506, 34 of IPC, section 3 of Prevention of Defacement of Public Property Act has also been invoked against Goswami, two of his family members, two unknown persons, for obstructing, assaulting, verbally abusing and intimidating a police officer on duty and also for tearing up government papers for informing the arrest of a person, at the NM Joshi Marg police station, on the complaint of a police officer from Raigad police, said Mumbai police spokesperson DCP (Operation) Chaitanya Siriprolu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/republic-tv-s-arnab-goswami-held-in-2018-suicide-abetment-case-moves-bombay-hc/story-oafGIoVzXR4bmw6k2gS7qL.html
05-11-2020||Chandigarh||Meet Panjab University teachers ranked among top scientists||As many as 11 Panjab University scientists, including five from the University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, have been featured in the ‘World Rankings of Top 2% Indian Scientists’, subject-wise analysis of which has been conducted at Stanford University. A team at the US-based varsity has created a database of at least 1-lakh top scientists around the world on the basis of standardised citation indicators such as information on citations, H-index, co-authorship and composite indicator. VR Sinha, 57 Department: UIPSField: Pharmacology and pharmacyResearch areas: Sinha has developed site-specific drug delivery to colon for treatment of IBD and cancer besides pharmaceutical technology. He is also known for the development of nano-scale emulsions for ocular delivery of anti-virals, and vitamin D3.Honours: A dean research at PU, he has over 100 publications in his name. Thomson Reuters had in 2012 placed him among the top-1% researchers with most-cited documents in specific fields.Indu Pal Kaur, 55 Department: UIPSField: Pharmacology and pharmacyResearch areas: Indu Pal’s research contributions include nano-ocular drops. She has worked to enhance bio-performance of drugs and plant extracts.Honours: The UIPS chairperson is also Indian Pharmaceutical Association’s Punjab Branch secretary. She has to her credit the US Fulbright-Nehru Academic and Professional Excellence Fellowship, OPPI Women Scientist Award, and Researcher of the Year Award. She has over 100 publications in her name and has been granted seven patents.Bhupinder Singh Bhoop, 63Department: UIPSField: Pharmacology and pharmacyResearch areas: Bhupinder Singh has worked on novel and nano-structured drug delivery besides 27 research projects given by various government agencies and international industrial houses. He has also contributed to Pharma Quality by Design approach and advanced pharmacokinetics.Honours: He has six patents and two technologies transferred in his name. He is the recipient of numerous global and national awards and accolades for excellence in science. He has published over 400 publications and 15 books.Shrinivas Krishnarao Kulkarni, 74 Department: UIPS Field: PharmacologyResearch areas: A former DUI of PU, Professor (Emeritus) Kulkarni has worked in the fields of neuroscience and drug developments.Honours: He is also a fellow of National Academy of Medical Sciences, National Academy of Sciences and Indian Pharmaceutical Association. He has been awarded the Ranbaxy Research Foundation Award and life-time achievement award of the Association of Pharmaceutical Teachers of India. He has five patents, 505 research publications, more than 13,000 citations and h-factor of 61.Kanwaljit Chopra, 55 Department: UIPS Field: Pharmacology and pharmacy Research areas: A former chairperson of UIPS, she has 28 years of research experience. Chopra’s research areas include diabetes and its complications, metabolic syndrome and obesity, and neuropsychopharmacology — Alzheimer’s disease, movement disorders, pain and inflammation. She has applied the Reverse Pharmacology approach on plant based molecules and investigated them in animal models of disease.Honours: She has completed seven government-funded and three industry funded projects. Chopra has contributed 234 publications in high-impact international journals. Harsh Nayyar, 55Department: BotanyField: Plant biology and botanyResearch areas: Besides effects of climate change-related factors on crops, Nayyar has also worked on developing climate resilient genotypes of crops. He has devised multiple methods and techniques to screen large populations of crops for improving tolerance against changing climate besides identifying several high-temperature tolerant genotypes in food crops.Honours: A former botany department chairperson, Nayyar has worked on 15 projects with various national and international organisations. Sushil Kumar Kansal, 46 Department: UICETField: MaterialsResearch areas: He has done extensive research on waste water management and nanotechnology.Honours: Kansal has worked for different government-funded projects and received DAAD fellowship. He is also a visiting scientist at the South China University of Technology. He is a recipient of the Hiyoshi Corp award and has 119 publications in his name. He was also given the Prem Lata Jain ‘Best Researcher Award’ besides another award by the American Chemical Society.Madan Mohan Aggarwal, 70 Department: Physics Field: Nuclear and particle physicsResearch areas: Experimental high energy physics. He is participating in the STAR detector at Relativistic Heavy-Ion Collider in New York’s Brookhaven National Laboratory, and ALICE (A Large Ion Collider Experiment) at Large Hadron Collider at CERN in Geneva to investigate in heavy-ion collisions, the characteristics of quark-gluon plasma, a state of matter that may have existed first few microseconds after the Big Bang.Honours: He is emeritus fellow of University Grants CommissionSatya Prakash, 79 Department: Physics Field: MaterialsResearch areas: His significant contributions to the teaching and research are phonons in simple and d and f band metals, magnetic excitations in metals, and electronic properties of metallic solid solutions.Honours: Also a Professor (Emeritus), he has written more than 200 research papers besides four books on materials. He was the chairman of PU’s physics department in 2001-02. He is a recipient of Burse Joliot Curie Orsay Award and Lifetime Achievement Award by ITDC, New Delhi. Kewal Krishan, 46 Department: Anthropology Field: Legal and forensic medicine Research areas: His area of research includes forensic facial identification, the examination of skeletal remains, fingerprints, and footprints. He has also devised the Heel-Ball Index and its value in anthropology and forensic science. He is also known for inventing and developing various methods and techniques for assisting in crime scene investigation.Honours: An associate professor, he has 236 publications in his name, and is a fellow of Royal Anthropological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland. Harminder Pal Singh, 49Department: Environmental studiesField: Plant biology and botanyResearch areas: Harminder Pal Singh has contributed to the field of chemical and physiological ecology besides environmental botany.Honours: He has been awarded Indian Science Congress Association Award and Young Scientist Award by Asian-Pacific Weed Science Society. He is also the visiting faculty at the School of Environment and Research Development, Thailand. He has 134 research papers in SCI journals on his name.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/meet-pu-teachers-ranked-among-top-scientists/story-IAMfO3DoZjg9WMfOoEnXJI.html
05-11-2020||Chandigarh||Man who opened fire in Chandigarh’s Sector 25 held||The main accused in the Sector-25 shooting incident was arrested by the Chandigarh Police’s crime branch on Wednesday. Vijay, 27, of Bhaskar Colony, had on October 19 fled to Patiala after the crime, where he had hid himself with the help of Harvinder Joy, a Lawrence Bishnoi gang member. The duo were also involved in another firing incident at a political rally on October 25 there, wherein three persons were injured. Police said that the main reason behind the shootout was the old rivalry between victim Sandeep and accused Vijay. Sandeep had earlier attacked Vijay’s father, the police said, adding that the accused also had suspicion that Sandeep was involved in the murder of one of his associates.Sandeep had even accused Sector-24 police post in-charge sub-inspector Shiv Charan of organising the attack. However, Chandigarh SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal termed it “unlikely” and said a probe was on. The SSP had issued a show-cause notice to DSP (central) Krishan Kumar, while marking a departmental inquiry against Sector-11 SHO Rajiv Kumar and placing Sector-24 police post in-charge Shiv Charan under suspension for lack of supervision one day after the incident. Victim’s brother arrestedThe crime branch also helped quell a gang war by arresting the victim’s brother, Johnny, 22, who had planned to avenge the attack on Sandeep. He was caught with one countrymade revolver and four live cartridges. Both Vijay and Johnny are historysheeters. Vijay had been arrested in 15 cases of snatching, robbery and attempt to murder by the Chandigarh Police. He was jailed for three years and was presently out on parole. Johnny was also arrested by the police in one case.2 held with armsTwo persons were arrested with weapons in separate incidents with police recovering two firearms and eight live cartridges from them.The crime branch arrested Jagdeep alias Jaggi, 25, of Panchkula from Manimajra with one pistol and two live cartridges. A case under the Arms Act has been registered against him.The operation cell of the Chandigarh Police arrested Bir Bhan, 30, of Kharar and recovered one revolver with six live cartridges from his possession. The police said he had a licensed weapon, but it was valid only in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-who-opened-fire-in-chandigarh-s-sector-25-held/story-HXfDHsO8rVEOf3NUr2fI1N.html
05-11-2020||Chandigarh||HC upholds Panjab University’s decision to scrap law entrance tests||The Punjab and Haryana high court has upheld the Panjab University’s (PU’s) decision of scrapping entrance tests for law courses offered by University Institute of legal Studies (UILS) and department of laws. Calling the decision “fully justified”, the HC bench of Justice AG Masih and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma said that the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic being an exceptional, unexpected and peculiar circumstance, the opinion formed by the PU committee constituted that congregation of large number of people at the only centre, which the varsity has for holding the examination could cause the spread of virus and, thus, is neither suitable nor feasible to hold the entrance test. It further added that the conclusion that even the residents and other students on campus would be put to risk apart from the staff invigilators, candidates and those accompanying them is not unfounded. Therefore, decision appears to be in public interest, which cannot be faulted, especially when varsity says it has been done only for one year. The high court judgment came on a clutch of petitions filed to challenge the varsity move to scrap exam for its five-year law course at UILS and LLM course at the department of laws. Petitions were filed unsuccessfully last month before single judge benches too. The petitioners had argued that various competitions/admission tests have been held by different institutions in the country. The court found that varsity had powers to scrap the test though decision is open to judicial scrutiny and review. The court also found that suggestion for online test, too, was considered but in view of inability to ensure fairness, it was not considered. Consultation with other government agencies and various government universities were also carried out, where the reports again came against holding the online entrance examination. The court also took note of the fact that steps have been taken for moderation/rationalisation of the marks obtained by candidates in the qualifying examination coming from different boards. “If a person expects to lead a healthy infection free life, a duty is also cast upon him/her to ensure that he/she does not on his/her part resort to anything which would endanger the health of other fellow beings. The court is also required to follow the same and ensure that it is not violated,” the bench said. It further added that the court would not issue any such a direction which would be contrary to the guidelines laid down by the authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-upholds-panjab-university-s-decision-to-scrap-law-entrance-tests/story-x247qkwcU8t5AMK4HwF5AN.html
05-11-2020||Chandigarh||Don’t pay Diwali bonus till finance ministry’s nod, PGIMER told||The Union health ministry has asked autonomous health institutes, including the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, not to pay the Diwali bonus to a certain category of healthcare professionals until the Union finance ministry gives its nod for the same. Official sources said that in a communication to the institute on November 2, Sunil Kumar Gupta, undersecretary in the health ministry, has said that the matter of grant of non-productivity bonus in favour of groups C, D and non-gazetted Group B employees of All India Institute of Medical Education and Research, New Delhi, other institutes of national importance and autonomous bodies of the health ministry has been taken up with the ministry of finance at the level of the minister of health and family welfare. “However, the response of finance ministry is awaited. In view of above, you (director, PGIMER) are requested to await the decision of the ministry of finance and not to pay the non-productivity-linked bonus to employees of the institute for the year 2019-20,” the communication states. It has come as a Diwali shocker to around 5,000 employees of the institute, including clerks, sanitation attendants, and nurses. About ₹15 crores will be paid to approximately 5,000 group B (non-gazetted), C and D employees as non-productivity linked bonus. Group B includes nursing officers, office superintendents, and personal assistants; Group C comprises clerical staff on different pay scale levels, and Group D employees are hospital and sanitation attendants. This has also prompted the PGIMER nurses’ association to shoot off a letter to the finance and health ministries, expressing displeasure over the move. “Nurses have been working as frontline warriors for months to combat Covid-19 pandemic. Nursing officers at PGIMER are also working with full dedication and determination in routine and dedicated Covid hospitals where patients from Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, and Chandigarh are undergoing treatment and thus, bonus to employees should be released,” the nurses’ body has said. Last year, too, the ministry of health had asked PGIMER to start the process to recover the bonus paid since 2015 on the pretext that the finance ministry has stopped issuing any such separate orders for payment of bonus to the employees of autonomous institutes.At a standing finance committee meeting headed by then Union health secretary Preeti Sudan, PGIMER representatives had raised the agenda for regularisation of bonus payment for 2015-16, 2016-17, and 2017-18 on the lines of what was paid at AIIMS, New Delhi. The committee, however, had rejected the proposal stating that the finance ministry had not issued any order on bonus payment to autonomous body employees.Similarly, the governing body meeting headed by the health minister too rejected the PGIMER authorities’ request for regularising bonus payment of previous years. The authorities had expressed the fear that discontinuation of bonus could result in a strike and hamper patient care. It was then decided to refer the matter again to the finance ministry for consideration. However, institute’s officials refrained from commenting on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/don-t-pay-diwali-bonus-till-finance-ministry-s-nod-pgimer-told/story-XVgcMrBaW4mjPGMQYUrsTO.html
05-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh traffic police to fix weekly off for field personnel||The Chandigarh traffic police have introduced a new manpower management policy wherein weekly offs of all field personnel will be fixed and the replacement for the cop on day off will be specified.This was announced by officiating senior superintendent of police (SSP) (traffic) Manoj Kumar Meena. “The system will take out the human factor from the system and chances of favouritism or partiality. Field personnel, who have a very stressful job, will know which day they will get off and can even make plans accordingly.”Earlier, offs were given at the discretion of the deployment officer. “There was a possibility that if the deployment officer played favourites, he could give more offs to some of the cops. This practice will be removed,” Meena said. However, he added, that no cases like this had come to his notice.The system has been designed by SP (traffic) Ketan Bansal. Speaking about this, he said, “There are a total of 405 traffic police personnel of whom, 250 have field postings. This system will work on a trial basis for November. If the response is positive, then it can be introduced to other wings of the police, including PCR.”The duty and replacement roster is made with the help of a software to randomise the process and remove any favouritism in it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-traffic-police-to-fix-weekly-off-for-field-personnel/story-nPdi0S9MJDey8AhNVKHDxJ.html
05-11-2020||Mumbai||Admission to Mumbai’s JBIMS masters course dependent on outcome of students’ grievance in HC||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday directed the Jamnalal Bajaj Institute of Management Studies (JBIMS) to clear its stand on the objections raised by around 191 students who were not shortlisted for admissions to the Masters in Human Resource Development course. The students claimed that though they had raised a grievance with the institute about being unable to appear for the aptitude test due to technical glitches, the institute came out with a merit list.The petition by the students has sought constitution of a committee to look into the conduct of the institute, to quash the list of shortlisted candidates and to reconduct the online aptitude test.A division bench of justices KK Tated and GS Kulkarni, while hearing the petition of 12 students, was informed by advocates Harpreet Singh Hora and Amritpal Singh Khalsa that the institute had held the first round of admission in the form of entrance test on July 27 through the online mode. Around 610 students were to participate, however, due to technical glitches around 192 students were unable to do so. Hence, they raised a grievance with the institute on the same day.The advocates further submitted that despite the pendency of the grievances, on August 4 the institute came out with a notice stating that students who qualified in the entrance test stood qualified in the personal interview and statement of purpose round as well. As their grievances were pending, the students decided to approach the HC and filed a petition.On its part, the institute through an affidavit denied the allegations of technical glitches made by the aggrieved students and said that the entire process was based on software which did not allow students to minimise the exam window. The affidavit stated that if the students minimised the window, the software closed the exam window, and the same was considered as a final submission by the student.The affidavit by the director of the institute Dr Kavita Laghate further stated that the allegation about the criteria of only 200 eligible students being shortlisted being violated, was also unfounded as the institute had included an additional 32 students as they had also got the requisite 45% and 50% cut off marks.After hearing the submissions, the court wanted to know how over 190 complaints about exams and admission process could be made in a day in an institute of repute. The court said that in light of the demand by the aggrieved students for the constitution of a committee to look into the conduct of the exams and re-conduction of the entrance exam procedure, it wanted a clarification from the institute on the issue. The court further added that the merit list announced by the institute would be subject to the outcome of the petition and posted hearing to November 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/admission-to-mumbai-s-jbims-masters-course-dependent-on-outcome-of-students-grievance-in-hc/story-3Txv3tAP5n30OI53Uhu5SJ.html
05-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM reviews Navi Mumbai airport progress, directs to speed up work||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, who reviewed the progress of the Navi Mumbai International Airport project on Wednesday, directed the officials to speed up the work and resolve technical glitches. During the meeting, officials reviewed the technical aspect after Adani Group took over the control of the proposed airport from GVK Group, which handled Mumbai International Airport. “There were technical issues that needed ironing out, including the shareholding pattern and the qualifying criteria of GVK etc. It was decided that these matters will be put before the Cidco board for its approval. Following which it will be sent to the chief secretary. Meanwhile, the chief minister has asked everybody to expedite the work to make the airport operational,” said a senior bureaucrat who was present in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-reviews-navi-mumbai-airport-progress-directs-to-speed-up-work/story-V8K91oH9K4zyKmpHxGH6bN.html
05-11-2020||City||Shaurya Chakra awardee killing: 3 main accused still at large, cops yet to ascertain ‘motive’ behind murder||Three main accused in the high-profile killing of Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh Sandhu, including notorious gangster Sukhmeet Singh, alias Sukh Bhikhariwal, are yet to be arrested even as the police claim to have solved the case. Moreover, the police are yet to ascertain the motive behind the killing, more than a fortnight after Sandhu was gunned down by two bike-borne masked men at his house at Bhikhiwind village in Tarn Taran district. Deputy inspector general (DIG Ferozepur rage) Hardial Singh Mann, who is heading the special investigation team (SIT) probing the case, said, “We have some leads about the motive of the killing but we are waiting for concrete evidence to establish it.”The police have arrested 11 persons in the case so far. Those arrested are Sukhraj Singh, alias Sukha, Ravinder Singh, alias Gian, Akashdeep Arora, alias Dhaliwal, Ravinder Singh Dhillon, alias Ravi, Rakesh Kumar, alias Kala Bahman, Ravi Kumar, Chand Kumar Bhatia, Manpreet Singh, alias Mony, Jagjit Singh, alias Jagga, Jobanjit Singh, alias Joban and Prabhjit Singh, alias Bittu.The police claimed that the conspiracy to kill Sandhu was hatched in the Patiala and Ferozepur jails by two of the accused Sukh and Gian at the behest of gangster Bhikariwal. This has put a question mark on the security in Punjab’s jails once again. The state’s prisons have been in limelight for the last few years for allegedly being used by gangsters as havens.Tarn Taran senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruman H Nimbale said, “Sukha is a close associate of Bhikhariwal while Gian is the latter’s cousin. We have also recovered mobile phones at the instance of the accused.”Gian and Sukha are facing 10 criminal cases each, including murder, attempt to murder and smuggling of arms and drugs. Gian is also a prime accused in the Nabha jail break case.DIG Mann said, “Gian and Sukha were brought on production warrant. Gian revealed that he and Sukha asked Sukhdeep Singh, alias Bhura and Gurjit Singh, alias Bhaa of Gurdaspur to execute the killing. Bura and Bhaa, who shot Sandhu dead, are absconding.”Bura and Bhaa, who were out on bail, had kidnapped a girl in Gurdaspur and were looking for a hideout, the police said. Sukha arranged shelter for Bura and Bhaa at accused Chand Kumar’s house through Akashdeep Arora in Ludhiana’s Slaim Tabri area in lieu of killing Sandhu, said the police. Bura and Bhaa were also given Rs 80,000 by Bhikhariwal, they added.One of the accused, Ravi, according to the police, dismantled the bike used in committing the crime and threw it in the Sutlej river. The others provided logistics, clothing, mobiles, food and financial assistance to Bura and Bhaa, including, it was claimed.“The motive behind the murder will be ascertained once we arrest the three accused, particularly Bhikaripur, Mann said. SSP Nimbale said they have not found any radical link in the case so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shaurya-chakra-awardee-killing-3-main-accused-still-at-large-cops-yet-to-ascertain-motive-behind-murder/story-JIBuWIgftZTuskc2MwCxQL.html
05-11-2020||City||Need to be prepared for second Covid-19 wave, will not shut any hospitals: Thane civic body||Despite demand from several sections to shut down some of the civic-run Covid hospitals, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has decided not to close any hospitals, as the civic body wants to be prepared in case of a second wave in the city. The second wave is predicted to be much intense than the first, for which the TMC claimed that the current infrastructure will be required. The corporation, however, will decrease the staff in some of its Covid centres and transfer them to hospitals where more patients are admitted. Thane city has recorded 47,117 cases so far, out of which 44,071 have recovered, while the active cases are 1,920. More than 50% of the active cases are under home isolation, due to which, 93% beds in around 32 Covid hospitals in the city are vacant. Around 1,127 patients have succumbed to the virus so far, the death rate at present is 2.39% The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had last week demanded to close down some of the hospitals, to save the expenses, while the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) too had asked the corporation to not spend money on constructing additional Covid facilities. Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC said, “With the onset of winter, there is a possibility that the cases will increase in the next two months. We will need this infrastructure in case of a second wave, as it will not be easy to set it up again. We have no plans to shut any of the hospitals at present.” The corporation has a 1,300-bed Covid Care Centre at Balkum, apart from Covid centres in Kalwa, Mumbra and Wagale Estate. These centres have eased the pressure on private Covid hospitals. Malvi added, “We will decrease the number of staff in those hospitals where the number of patients is less. They will be transferred to hospitals where the cases are more.” Committee to audit deaths Following the demand from the city mayor to audit the Covid deaths in the city, the TMC has now formed a committee under Dr Bhimrao Jadhav, the superintendent of Rajeev Gandhi Medical Hospital in Kalwa. The committee will analyse each of the Covid deaths so far, how long the person was seeking treatment, his comorbidities, the symptoms and other factors and prepare a report to find solutions to prevent further deaths, informed Malvi. The committee will also have civil surgeon, health officer of TMC and members of Indian Medical Association’s Thane chapter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/need-to-be-prepared-for-second-covid-19-wave-will-not-shut-any-hospitals-thane-civic-body/story-FCLcEN8meQxK8aW880YUPL.html
05-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body to get air analyser balloons to help detect source of gas leak||Following multiple complaints of unidentified gas leaks in the city over the past year, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to procure air analyser balloons to help detect the source of such leaks. The civic body plans to deploy these balloons in the island city as well as the eastern and western suburbs.Air analyser balloons, which cost ₹45 lakh each, collect samples of air that can then be sent to be analysed in laboratories to identify the gas. Knowing the gas would help identify the source of a leak.“These balloons are sent up in the air to collect the air in the atmosphere and then, they can be retrieved and the air can be tested. The equipment is a portable unit and can be mobilised quickly after complaints,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner (disaster management). “Once the gas is identified, it will narrow down our search. We can then specifically look for entities or transporters who deal with that kind of gas,” he said.In the past year, there have been three incidents when Mumbaiites reported gas leaks, but no source was identified despite the authorities alerting petrochemical factories (mostly in Chembur) to check their premises. Citizen complaints came in from Chembur, Ghatkopar, Govandi, Kanjurmarg, Vikhroli, Bhandup Mulund, Andheri and Goregaon.A probe panel with experts from Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), the fire brigade, National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), University Institute of Chemical Technology (UICT) and petrochem representatives was set up by BMC, but its findings were inconclusive. The panel suggested collection and testing air samples.A senior civic official said that a proposal for air analyser balloons is being prepared and will soon be tabled at the standing committee meeting for final approval. Ravi Raja, leader of Opposition and Congress corporator, said, “There needs to be a sub-department under BMC’s disaster management cell for gas leaks specifically. There are hundreds of tankers carrying hazardous chemicals that ply within the city daily. They are parked anywhere and it could be disastrous. The civic administration should focus on regulating the functioning of chemical tankers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-to-get-air-analyser-balloons-to-help-detect-source-of-gas-leak/story-HFI2qjEj20qA193jLJmBGN.html
05-11-2020||Chandigarh||Virus claims 11 lives in Himachal||Eleven patients succumbed to the coronavirus disease in the state on Wednesday, taking the state’s total death toll to 349. Meanwhile, 433 new cases surfaced in Himachal.Four deaths were reported in Shimla, two each in Kangra, Mandi and Kullu and one in Kinnaur. There has been a spurt in deaths in the state over the last week with 49 patients succumbing. The state’s cumulative infection tally stands at 23,365. So far, 19,554 patients have recovered in the state.Of the new cases reported on Wednesday, 105 were reported in Shimla, 76 in Mandi, 48 in Kangra, 46 in Kinnaur, 33 in Kullu, 25 in Sirmaur, 21 in Bilaspur, 20 in Hamirpur, 19 in Lahaul-Spiti, 18 in Chamba, 17 in Solan and five in Una.With 3,701 cases, Solan remains the worst-hit district, followed by Kangra (3,216) , Mandi (3,240), Shimla (2,837), Sirmaur (2,312), Una (1,594), Kullu (1,717), Bilaspur (1,363), Hamirpur (1,304), Chamba (1,215) and Kinnaur (440) and Lahaul-Spiti (426).“Due to surge in Covid cases in Kaza in the Spiti Valley, the 21st Jan Manch that had been scheduled for November 8 will no longer take place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/virus-claims-11-lives-in-himachal/story-A96F6p82aRN49f153RpcLJ.html
05-11-2020||City||Thane cab driver cheated of ₹2 lakh, 2 arrested||The Shil Daughar police in Thane arrested two people for cheating a cab driver to the tune of ₹2 lakh. The arrested accused took the cash on the pretext of exchanging it for US dollars. The arrested accused have been identified as Shafiuallah Shaikh, 25, and Yakub Shaikh, 22, both residence of Kausa in Mumbra. Police said the complainant Shrinath Ayodhay Sonath, 41, a residence of Vashi, is an Ola cab driver. In his statement to the police, the complainant said that he met the accused who were posing as customers, in September. “The accused claim that their aunt used work as the caretaker to a businessman and had received US dollars from him. They wanted to exchange the foreign currency and needed help. Sonath agreed to exchange the currency in the hopes of making a profit. He gave ₹2 lakh to the accused who then took the money and fled,” said an officer from Shil Daughar police station. The Shil Daighar police have registered a case under sections 420 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). “We arrested the accused on October 31. They are in police custody till November 6. During the investigation, we found that the duo was also booked by Rabale police in Navi Mumbai in another cheating case. We are in search of the woman and some other gang members who are absconding,” said Chandrakant Jadhav, senior police inspector, Shil-Daighar police station. The police have recovered ₹23,500 and a few US dollars from the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-cab-driver-cheated-of-2-lakh-2-arrested/story-Yd6GfC6uQVMpM4fMahX4uK.html
05-11-2020||Chandigarh||Bihar resident held for online fraud in Kullu||A Bihar resident was arrested by a special team of the Kullu police for tricking an Ani resident of Rs 10.62 lakh on pretext of updating their ATM card.The accused was identified as Chandan Kumar, 20, a resident of Banka district in Bihar. The case was registered at Ani police station on December 30, 2019.According to police, the accused fraudulently extracted information from the 61-year-old complainant, who is a retired JBT teacher of Ani in Kullu on pretext of updating his ATM card.Of the said amount, the accused had transferred Rs 2,61,440 two of his bank accounts.Kullu superintendent of police Gaurav Singh said police are conducting probe. He appealed o residents to not to share any bank account-related information with anyone.“In case of doubt, please inform the police immediately. Fraud can be avoided by prompt information,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bihar-resident-held-for-online-fraud-in-kullu/story-Gi9AFOFOiYwuehyIRf2XyH.html
05-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai man gets 10 years’ rigorous imprisonment for attempt to murder cop wife, her friend||The sessions court on Wednesday sentenced a man to 10 years rigorous imprisonment for attempting to murder his cop wife and her friend over a matrimonial dispute.The accused, Pritam Ahirekar, 32, and the victim, a constable with Mumbai Police, have been married since 2015. The prosecution alleged that Ahirekar used to suspect the character of the constable and also used to assault her. It was claimed that once when the woman was at Andheri, the accused assaulted her, following which a case was registered with Andheri police station.Public prosecutor Geeta Malankar told the court that because of the alleged harassment, the constable moved out of her marital home and shifted to Charkop. She was residing with other women in a house.On October 18, 2016, the accused came to the house where the constable was staying. He tried to barge into the house but was stopped by the constable’s roommate. During the argument with the roommate, Ahirekar attacked the other woman with a knife and later stabbed his wife more than 13 times. After the attack, Ahirekar managed to escape and the two women were taken to a hospital. Ahirekar was arrested later the same day and was booked for murder by the Charkop police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-man-gets-10-years-rigorous-imprisonment-for-attempt-to-murder-cop-wife-her-friend/story-SIla8AuYbfLa69QWuGtZcP.html
05-11-2020||Mumbai||Covid centre doctors allege dues not paid; Mumbai civic body denies||Private medical practitioners who have been appointed to treat patients at the civic-run jumbo Covid-19 centre in Goregaon have alleged that the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has not paid them salaries since June. BMC has denied the claims. In April, BMC converted the Nesco Ground in Goregaon to a jumbo Covid-19 treatment centre, mostly for mildly symptomatic patients. The centre has 1,000 beds and over 200 intensive care unit (ICU) beds.The civic body also hired hundreds of private medical practitioners to treat patients at the centre. Of these, 137 doctors say they have not received their salaries from BMC since June. Doctors with Bachelor of Homeopathic Medicine and Surgery (BHMS) are paid ₹60,000 per month. Those with Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) are paid ₹80,000 and doctors with specialisations are paid ₹1 lakh and more per month.“I was supposed to get ₹1 lakh as my salary. But now, BMC owes me over ₹3 lakh as I haven’t received my salary since joining in August. We are working six to eight hours every day at the centre but no one pays heed to us,” said an orthopaedic doctor. Another doctor who works at the centre also said he hadn’t received his salary and additionally, the long duty hours made it difficult to run his clinic. “Due to the duty hours, I run my clinic only for two hours. This has led to economic constraints for my family as I am not getting the promised salary from the corporation,” he said.However, BMC has denied these allegations. Dr Neelam Andrade, in-charge of the Covid-19 centre at Nesco Ground, said, “We have given more than ₹3 crore as their [the doctors’] salary from the civic body’s budget. Moreover, till September, all payments have been cleared.”Previously in July, a team of doctors and nurses from Kerala had complained that BMC kept postponing their payment dates and they returned to their home state without receiving salaries. Doctors at the centre also complained about the accommodation provided by BMC as an alternative to returning home and exposing their families to the infection while on duty. “The bedsheets aren’t washed, bathrooms aren’t cleaned, and they just give dal and rice. If we complain, the hotels and lodges say the civic body hasn’t paid them,” said a doctor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-centre-doctors-allege-dues-not-paid-mumbai-civic-body-denies/story-LzUR2LFCgUA51c0mCAPAcI.html
05-11-2020||Mumbai||BMC standing committee passes proposal on property tax waiver for Mumbai hotels used to house Covid-19 frontline staff||Amid opposition from all political parties including the Congress, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Samajwadi Party and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Shiv Sena-headed standing committee of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday passed a proposal to give exemption in property tax to 182 hotels where frontline staff were stationed during the lockdown.According to the proposal, BMC’s health department will pay ₹22-crore tax of 182 hotels to the property tax department. The BMC said the exemption is a kindness package.However, all other political parties opposed the move, citing that of the 182 hotels, many have defaulted on their property tax payments, and hence should not be given any relief.Ravi Raja, leader of opposition from the Congress and standing committee chairman, said, “The Shiv Sena corporator Vishaka Raut had also proposed referring back the proposal, but withdrew her request later. Why should we give exemption to hotels that have defaulted on property tax?”Asif Zakaria, Congress corporator and standing committee member, said, “The BMC is already facing a financial crunch, and should not be giving relief selectively. Even hospitals and nursing homes have contributed towards the fight against Covid-19, so why pick only hotels?”Zakaria pointed out that hotels had charged the civic body a fixed rate to house frontline workers. “It was not that the hotels gave anything for free. So why give exemption only to them?” he added.The BMC, on the other hand, maintained that the decision was being taken as hotels helped out during the lockdown. “This is our way of saying thank you. They helped us when we needed space to house our staff and doctors, and people arriving from other countries,” municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal had said earlier.Bhalchandra Shirsat BJP corporator and standing committee member, said, “We all opposed it. Even the Shiv Sena initially requested to refer back the proposal, but later passed it. BMC should give exemptions to the common man, not to hotels.”Yashwant Jadhav, Shiv Sena corporator and standing committee chairman, said, “I have passed the proposal after taking voting from all parties based on majority voting in favour of it.”The standing committee kept back a proposal to appoint Veermata Jijabai Technological Institute (VJTI) and College Of Engineering, Pune and Sardar Patel College of Engineering and Certification Engineers International Limited as third party auditors to proof-check road construction work in the city.“Earlier, private companies used to do third-party audits, and we used to get poor results. Now, the institutes are engineering colleges are renowned. However, all parties opposed the same,” said Shirsat.Rais Shaikh, Samajwadi Party corporator and standing committee member, said, “I opposed it considering the responsibility should be on the engineers of the BMC. In the past, when wrongdoings were found, engineers blamed auditors. Hence, all responsibility should be on engineers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-standing-committee-passes-proposal-on-property-tax-waiver-for-mumbai-hotels-used-to-house-covid-19-frontline-staff/story-Mbyru9lTDGHQQVVOoESu6H.html
05-11-2020||City||Jxto hold mega-tractor rally against new land, farm laws on November 9||Congress will take out a mega-tractor rally to protest against the new land laws in J&K and three the “anti-famer” legislations of the BJP government in Jammu on November 9. J&K Congress president GA Mir disclosed this in a meeting of senior leaders of the border belt of Jammu district.Venue of the proposed rally has been fixed between Miran Sahib and RS Pura, which will be led by AICC J&K party affairs in-charge Rajni Patil, besides Mir and other senior leaders.They took stock of the current situation on the political and security front in Jammu and Kashmir besides discussing the ongoing protests against the new anti-farmers legislations across country. They took a serious note of the new land laws for J&K “which have come as a cause of anger and unrest in Jammu and Kashmir as they are against the overall interests of J&K residents.Mir said that Congress is with all those who are opposing the anti-J&K and anti farmers laws of the BJP government. The memorandum along with signatures opposing these anti farmers and anti J&K laws, will be forwarded to the President after November 10.PDP dissolves Nowshera unitMeanwhile, the People’s Democratic Party has dissolved the zonal committees of the party unit in Nowshera of Rajouri with immediate effect. “On approval of party president Mehbooba Mufti, the party zonal unit of Nowshera was dissolved,” an order issued by the general secretary and former legislator Surinder Choudhary read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-congress-to-hold-mega-tractor-rally-against-new-land-farm-laws-on-november-9/story-4li6Ca9qaXU7AOCa2Hc1gK.html
05-11-2020||Mumbai||BMC schools used as Covid-19 centres were not cleaned afterwards, claim Mumbai teachers||Several teachers from Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) schools have complained about lack of cleaning and sanitisation at the schools. On Wednesday, Shikshak Parishad, a teachers’ group, wrote to the BMC’s education department, pointing out the poor state of cleaning at the civic schools. “The state education department has asked for 50% attendance from teachers. But when they go to school, the place has not been cleaned. How will teachers work in such an atmosphere?” said Shivnath Darade, secretary of Shikshak Parishad. Mahesh Palkar, education officer at the BMC, said, “Principals have been instructed to get schools cleaned after they were opened for teachers. We have urged them time and again to ensure cleanliness of the premises. We will issue a circular yet again.” In August, BMC schools that were used as quarantine centres were handed back to the civic body. Schools were asked to ensure sanitisation and cleaning before they were opened for teachers and students. Teachers, however, said that in many cases, no cleaning was done. “The washrooms have become so bad that they cannot be used. We travel from far and it is a big inconvenience to us,” said the teacher of a BMC school in the western suburbs. Many teachers alleged that the civic body had not provided sanitisers and other cleaning material. “We have asked teachers to carry their own sanitisers because we have not got any,” said the principal of a school in the eastern suburbs. As per standard operating procedures (SOP) released in October, teachers from all schools in the state can be called in for work related to online learning or other academic work. Schools have been asked to ensure that they sanitise their premises and get temperature checks done. Teachers have been asked to follow safety guidelines like wearing masks, following physical distancing, etc. Similarly, schools need to follow the policy of ‘staying home if unwell’ for teachers who are not feeling well, and especially those who have comorbidities or are above the age of 50.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-schools-used-as-covid-19-centres-were-not-cleaned-afterwards-claim-mumbai-teachers/story-89n1jb3Hupw5M4aKaV1hoJ.html
05-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body panel clears construction of waste-to-energy plant at Deonar||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) standing committee on Wednesday approved a ₹1,000 crore proposal to set up a waste-to-energy plant at Deonar. The decision will pave the way for the construction of the project. According to BMC officials, the work to set up the plant will start within a fortnight.As per the plan, the BMC has proposed a waste-to-energy plant that will process 3,000 metric tonnes of waste at Deonar and generate 25-30 megawatt of energy. The plant will be functional for 25 years. In 2013, the BMC was directed to stop dumping waste at Deonar. In 2016, the Bombay high court (HC) had banned new construction in the city, until BMC increases its waste treatment capacity. Following frequent fire incidents in 2015 and 2016 at the Deonar dumping ground, BMC was directed to stop dumping waste there.The BMC was directed to augment waste treatment capacity to at least 11,000 tonnes per day by June 30, 2017. In 2019, the Bombay High court had set the deadline of December 31, 2019, for BMC to dump waste at Deonar dumping ground. The BMC had later sought extension citing it will need more time to appoint contractors responsible for the waste-to-energy plant at Deonar.Meanwhile, as the proposal was passed on Wednesday, Rais Shaikh, Samajwadi Party corporator and standing committee member alleged that the proposal was passed without giving any members a chance to conduct a discussion on the same. Shaikh said, “The proposal was of ₹1,000 crore and all members should have been given a chance to speak on the matter.”Yashwant Jadhav, Shiv Sena corporator and standing committee chairman said all proposals were passed after taking all members in confidence. Ravi Raja, Congress corporator and leader of Opposition also said that it was important to pass the proposal as the waste-to-energy plant is needed.Meanwhile, according to BMC, of the 10,500 metric tonnes of waste that the city generates, Deonar receives 25% of it, while around 70% of waste is handled by the Kanjurmarg dumping ground. Another dumping ground in Mulund was shut by the BMC last year, but it is still not been able to process the waste out of the area.The BMC had invited bids for the plant in December 2019 and according to BMC records, it has received two bids — one firm quoted ₹1,020 crore while the other quoted ₹1,291 crore.Sena had in February 2020, passed a proposal in favour of the second-highest bidder citing that the tendering process was rigged, but later the proposal on Wednesday was passed in favour of the lowest bidder after taking legal opinion from the BMC’s administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-panel-clears-construction-of-waste-to-energy-plant-at-deonar/story-1GtO2dxnM1HghRLdFlbLNI.html
05-11-2020||Chandigarh||First-ever district development council polls in J&K from November 28||The Jammu and Kashmir poll panel on Wednesday announced an eight-phase election to 20 district development councils (DDCs) beginning November 28, in the first major electoral exercise since the abrogation of Article 370.J&K election commissioner KK Sharma announced the schedule for the first district development council (DDC) polls that will be held between November 28 and December 29. They will be held in eight phases--on November 28, December 1, 4, 7, 10, 13, 16 and 19 from 7 am to 2 pm. “DDC polls are being held in 20 districts for the first time. Each district has 14 constituencies. Thus, 280 constituencies, 140 each in Jammu and Kashmir divisions will go to poll,” Sharma said. Constituted under the J&K Panchayati Raj Act, the DDCs will have a five-year term. The government had in October amended the Jammu and Kashmir Panchayati Raj Act to provide for setting up of DDCs in each district, which will have directly elected members.Bypolls for the vacant seats of sarpanch, panch and urban local bodies (ULBs) will also be held simultaneously. This time around 935 sarpanch halqas in Kashmir and 153 in Jammu will go to poll. In the Panchayat bypolls ballot boxes will be used. General observers, who will be assisted by micro-observers, will also be appointed. Expenditure ceiling set “For DDC polls, a limit of ₹5 lakh per candidate has been set. For sarpanches the limit is ₹1 lakh, and for panches it is ₹30,000. All candidates will maintain a separate bank account to meet poll-related expenditures, which will be scrutinised,” Sharma said. “The DDC elections will be held via electronic voting machines (EVMs) on party basis while postal ballots will be used for sarpanch and panch bypolls to be held on non-party basis,” he informed. Sharma said apart from Kashmiri Pandits, this time postal ballot facility will also be made available to senior citizens, the differently abled and Covid patients. The model code of conduct comes into effect from Wednesday. “West Pakistan Refugees (WPRs) will also be entitled to exercise their right to vote for the first time. Before October 31, 2019, they were only eligible for Lok Sabha polls,” he said. Sharma said subsequently polls will also be held for 234 vacant ULB seats . Counting of votes for sarpanch and panch by polls will be held on the same day of polling in the evening while counting of votes for the DDC polls will be held on December 22. Chief electoral officer HK Singh also announced the schedule for polls to vacant seats of the ULBs said, “The polls will also be held in eight phases on November 28, December 1 , December 4, December 7, December 10, December 13 , December 16 and December 19.”said. The administration will hold elections in snow-bound and remote areas in the first two phases.“Counting of votes will take place on December 22 and by December 24 the process will be completed. Voting hours for ULB polls will also be from 7 am to 2 pm,” said Singh. The election process will be held to fill over 13,000 vacant panchayat seats and it will be seen as an attempt to restart the political process in the region once again. As per official data, there are around 11,500 panchs and 890 sarpanch seats are vacant in Kashmir, while 185 panch and 124 sarpanch seats are vacant in Jammu division. A watershed moment for us, say West Pak Refugees West Pakistani Refugees Action Committee chairperson Labha Ram Gandhi said, “It is a watershed moment for us. Finally, the voting rights have been given to us after over 72 years of discrimination and neglect by the successive Kashmir-centric regimes.” Gandhi said around 15 to 20 candidates from West Pakistan refugees will contest the ensuing elections. Gandhi, who represents 1.25 lakh refugees, belonging to scheduled caste and backward classes, he said. West Pakistan refugees were not considered residents of the state after 1947. They could not apply for jobs and or seek admission in professional courses. The refugees, who had fled Sialkot, had settled in Jammu, Samba and Kathua districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/first-ever-district-development-council-polls-in-j-k-from-november-28/story-OSZrfvENVCI09tqGiaYywM.html
05-11-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand to give dry ration to sex workers without identity proof||In a move to rescue the pandemic-hit sex workers, the Jharkhand government has decided to provide them dry ration and enrol under National Food Security Act (NFSA), maintaining confidentiality of the identity and address of the workers, officials said on Wednesday.The move follows the Supreme Court order on October 28 when it asked the state governments and union territories to provide dry rations to the sex workers who are identified by the National AIDS Control Organization (NACO) without insisting on proof of identity.According to NACO’s Jharkhand wing, Jharkhand State AIDS Control Society (JSACS), population of sex works in the state is 12,077.JSACS additional project director Dr Shyam Sundar Paswan said they recently submitted the data to NACO so that they could avail the dry ration.“Since their identity could not be revealed, the society would assist the workers and the department to get their name registered for ration cards under NFSA,” he said.State food public distribution and consumer affairs (FPDCA) department on Wednesday issued a press advertisement in this regard.FPDCA joint secretary Shantanu Agrahari said, “We provided dry ration to destitute and needy people during Covid pandemic triggered lockdowns. However, due to non-disclosure of identity, the benefits might not have reached the sex workers. So, we have decided to help them in two ways. If they immediately require the ration relief, they may contact the local mukhiyas or urban councilors. For regular ration, they could apply for ration cards through online or offline.”He said every mukhiya has an emergency fund of Rs 10,000 provided under the Jharkhand State Emergency Foodgrain Fund. “The mukhiyas have been asked to provide immediate relief if any such case comes,” he said.Agrahari said, “The sex workers would also be enrolled under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) and given ration cards so that they could get subsidised foodgrains regularly. Since they would not be asked for proof of identity, we have decided to take help from JSACS and the district legal services authority (DLSA) in the process of their enrollment,” he said. The NFSA had been rolled out in the state from October 1, 2015. Around 57 lakh households covering 2.63 people, around 80% of the state population, have been receiving rice at Re 1 per kg in Jharkhand under the scheme.However, around 22 lakh applications for ration cards are still pending with the department, an official, who did not wish to be quoted, said.To deal with the pending applications, the Jharkhand government has announced to roll out Jharkhand State Food Security (JSFS) scheme under which 15 lakh people deprived of NFSA would be benefited.The state sponsored scheme would be launched from January 1, 2021. Earlier, the scheme was to be launched from November 15. However, it was deferred due to some technical issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-to-give-dry-ration-to-sex-workers-without-identity-proof/story-5SOk2heSSgn9GPXJIq1pYJ.html
05-11-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput’s’s sisters claim Rhea Chakraborty filed false FIR, seek prosecution against her||Reiterating that Rhea Chakraborty had levelled false and malicious allegations against them, late actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s sisters have sought prosecution of the 28-year-old actor for filing a false police complaint.In their rejoinder to the affidavit filed by Chakraborty, Rajput’s sisters Priyanka Singh and Meetu Singh have claimed that the actor has levelled unfounded allegations against them based on unsubstantiated facts, with the ulterior motive to wreak vengeance for the offence registered against her at Patna in connection with Rajput’s untimely death.Rajput’s sisters have claimed that Bandra police hurriedly registered the offence against them based on the false complaint lodged by Chakraborty on September 7. Had the police conducted a preliminary inquiry, they would not have registered the first information report (FIR).In her complaint, Chakraborty has alleged that Priyanka had, on June 8, sent Rajput prescriptions given by cardiologist Dr Tarun Kumar, attached to Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital in Delhi, for medicines containing psychotropic substances controlled under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985. The same were prescribed without Kumar examining the actor, and consumption of the psychotropic substances “may have caused and contributed to the suicidal death of the actor”.In this regard, Rajput’s sisters have, in their rejoinder, stated that there was absolutely no material to indicate that the medicines were procured and administered to anyone, and therefore, Chakraborty’s complaint was based on speculations.Chakraborty had filed the affidavit in reply to a petition filed by Rajput’s sisters for quashing of the FIR registered by Bandra police on September 7 – a day before the actor was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB).In the petition, filed through advocate Madhav Thorat, Rajput’s sisters have claimed that the medicines prescribed for the deceased actor were not banned and the guidelines issued by the Medical Council of India on April 11, 2020, for telemedicine allow the medicines to be prescribed to a patient even at the first consultation.Their petition stated that a bare perusal of the complaint along with the FIR showed that the statements made therein do not make out any cognisable offence. It added that lodging of the complaint by Chakraborty was nothing but a feeble attempt on her part to scuttle the investigations against her by NCB and blame Rajput’s family members for his suicide, as she was on the verge of being arrested by NCB.CBI has supported the sisters by terming Chakraborty’s allegations as “mostly presumptive and speculative in nature” and also claimed that the FIR was “visited and bad in law” for being the second FIR on the same cause of action.Chakraborty, on her part, has asserted that the FIR registered at Bandra police station at her behest, was required to be investigated thoroughly, as Rajput has ended his life barely within a week of receiving these prescriptions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-s-s-sisters-claim-rhea-chakraborty-filed-false-fir-seek-prosecution-against-her/story-8LcAh3UhogxkUp6HrehOEO.html
05-11-2020||Chandigarh||Parents increasingly opting for private schools in Himachal’s rural areas, finds survey||More students are being enrolled in private schools over government schools in rural areas of Himachal, the Annual Status of Education Report (Rural), 2020, Wave 1 (ASER) has revealed.The survey report revealed that in 2018, 64.9% girls were studying in government schools and 35.1% in private schools. The percentage of girls studying in government schools had reduced to 62.9% in 2020 while the percentage of those studying in private schools increased to 37.1%. In 2018, 58.8% boys were studying in government schools while 41.3% were studying in private schools. However, in 2020, 52.3% boys were studying in government schools and 47.7% in private schools.The report also revealed that parents of students studying in private schools were more educated as compared to parents of students studying in government schools. The report revealed that 8.4% mothers and 4.2% fathers of students studying in government schools had never gone to school themselves.Access to online education through smartphones has reached most households due to the ongoing global health crisis. In 2018, 47.4% government schools and 75% private schools used smartphones while in 2020, the tally had increased to 86% for government schools and 94% for private schools. WhatsApp, a popular messaging application is being used by 93% of government schools and 98% of private students for online classes.This survey was conducted in September 2020, nearly six months after schools were ordered to close due to the pandemic. This year, the survey was conducted through smartphones for the first time. The survey explores processes, curriculum, activities and access to distance education for children in rural India. Established in 2008, ASER is an autonomous assessment, survey and research and evaluation unit, which estimates the status of schooling and learnings of children of rural areas of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/parents-increasingly-opting-for-private-schools-in-himachal-s-rural-areas-finds-survey/story-oZ0IMypN62K8fomGRbo4lO.html
05-11-2020||City||Navi Mumbai trekker’s body found, no evidence of foul play, says police||Two days after a 22-year-old photographer and trekker from Navi Mumbai went missing while going for a trek to Prabalgad Fort in Raigad, the police have found his body in a ravine in Panvel on Tuesday. The Panvel police have now filed an accidental death report following the incident.Investigating officers said it appears to be a trekking accident. The victim Anurag Gudile was a resident of New Panvel, and was a regular trekker. He was also into wildlife and nature photography.Police have recorded the statement of his father, who informed them that Gudile had left on Saturday night saying he will return the next day.“Gudile had left from his house on Saturday, informing his parents about his trek to Prabalgad. When his parents were unable to contact him for over a day, they approached the Khandeshwar police. We then joined in a search operation to find him,” said an officer from Panvel rural police, requesting anonymity.The police said their investigations revealed that Gudile had left for the trek alone.With the help of technical analysis and mobile tower location, police managed to triangulate Gudile’s location. The search party then found his body in a ravine.“After finding the body, we sent it for a post-mortem. The autopsy reports did not hint at any suspicious injuries and ruled it as an accidental fall. We will record more statements soon,” said Ram Gopal, an assistant inspector at Panvel rural police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-trekker-s-body-found-no-evidence-of-foul-play-says-police/story-7FvSVenXl8c5nO2vMnxBMM.html
05-11-2020||Delhi||Day after ISBTs reopen, Delhi L-G asks govt for report on teething problems||Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Wednesday sought a report from the state transport department on arrangements made at the three interstate bus terminals (ISBTs), a day after they opened for the public after remaining shut for more than seven months due to the pandemic.The L-G sought the action-taken report after Hindustan Times on Wednesday highlighted some teething problems that emerged at these ISBTs, especially at Anand Vihar, senior government officials said.Transport minister Kailash Gahlot also took cognisance of the HT report and directed officials to ensure the standard operating procedures (SOP) were strictly followed inside the premises. On its second day of operation, the three ISBTs received a total of 629 buses from the neighbouring states, up from 542 buses that came on Tuesday. The Anand Vihar ISBT once again saw the highest number of buses (358) on day two, followed by Kashmere Gate ISBT (170 buses) and Sarai Kale Khan ISBT (101 buses).Following the directive, the transport department, the Delhi Transport Infrastructure Development Corporation (DTIDC) Limited that manages and operates the ISBTs, and the southeast and central district administrations on Wednesday initiated a series of measures to resolve the problems.“Three senior officers have now been deployed at each of the three ISBTs. The officers will monitor if the staff is alerting people to follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour such as wearing masks, not spitting and maintaining social distancing. They will ensure cleanliness of public toilets inside terminals, especially those for women. Liquid soap will be made available for hand wash. Arrangements are being made to install foot-operated sanitisers inside the ISBTs,” said a senior transport official.After HT pointed out the lack of Covid-19 testing camps at Kashmere Gate and Sarai Kale Khan, the district administrations on Wednesday initiated the process of setting them up. “On the directions of the LG and the minister, today we have set up a Covid-19 testing camp inside the Kashmere Gate ISBT. It is near the arrival area where people from neighbouring states such as Haryana, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh set foot on the Capital. The good news is we had expected the testing to be launched from tomorrow. But our medical teams started testing at Kashmere Gate today (Wednesday) itself,” said a senior official of the Central district. At Sarai Kale Khan, the southeast district administration said there was a Covid-19 camp which was discontinued a while ago. “The DM has today (Wednesday) issued an order to set up a Covid-19 testing camp inside the ISBT where around 400 rapid tests will be conducted daily on passengers and volunteers. Four medical staff including two doctors and two lab technicians have been deputed at the ISBT to conduct these tests from tomorrow (Thursday),” said a senior district official. On Wednesday HT had reported that Covid testing camp was available only at the Anand Vihar ISBT which conducts around 1,500 tests daily, but used to wrap up by 3:30 pm. The time for testing will be extended further, said an official of DM Shahdara. In case a person tests positive, the staff sends him/her to the nearest quarantine facility, in this case the Akshardham Covid Care Centre, through an ambulance, he added.Gahlot said the transport department explained to him that all passengers cannot be thermally screened at the Anand Vihar ISBT, as is being done at Kashmere Gate, because the premises has at least four different entry points and there is a staff crunch.“At present, around 20,000-25,000 people are coming to all three ISBTs combined as there is a cap of 50% on the total number of buses. But, after November 15 the numbers will increase. I have once again asked the transport department to ensure strictest compliance of the SOP inside the ISBTs,” Gahlot said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/day-after-isbts-reopen-delhi-l-g-asks-govt-for-report-on-teething-problems/story-kMD7k8wUEJU8iBvp3zTpjM.html
05-11-2020||Delhi||Pusa bio-decomposer successful in Delhi, says CM Arvind Kejriwal||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal hailed as effective a bio-decomposer solution developed by the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI), after an inspection of farmlands in north Delhi’s Hiranki Village, where the compound had been sprayed 20 days previously as a trial.The “Pusa bio-decomposer” is a solution developed by scientists at IARI in Pusa to turn crop residue into manure within 15 to 20 days, and has been vouched to stop the practice of stubble burning in the agrarian states such as Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. Kejriwal added that the government would inform the Supreme Court of the effectiveness of the solution.Delhi has found a solution to the problem of crop residue burning and now “no state can now make any excuse”, he said addressing the media in Hiranki Village. “The Pusa bio-decomposer was sprayed free of cost in non-basmati rice fields here. It has been successful. It has completely decomposed the stubble and turned it into manure. Farmers can now start the sowing of the next crop in the fields,” the chief minister said. He added, “We are going to tell the Supreme Court, too, that it is an effective way to prevent stubble burning. The people of Delhi and the scientists of Pusa institute have found a cost-effective solution to the problem of stubble burning. I hope this is the last year that we are tolerating it (pollution due to farm fires). Now states cannot make any excuse,” The CM said he had earlier spoken to Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar over the phone about the utilisation of this composition to control farm fires in other states as well. “He (Javadekar) said it will be used in other states the next time if the experiment was successful in Delhi,” the chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pusa-bio-decomposer-successful-in-delhi-says-cm/story-2VjX4NerPSjnjBWDvslk0K.html
05-11-2020||Delhi||Alleging harassment, guest teacher tries to end life on govt school premises||A 26-year-old guest teacher at a Delhi government school in Molarband on Wednesday tried to take his life on the school premises, after alleging “harassment” by school authorities. The teacher, who claimed to have been working at the school since 2013, also streamed the entire incident live on social media.According to the deputy commissioner of police (south-east) RP Meena, “Today a PCR call was received at Jaitpur police station regarding a person who was trying to set himself on fire at Molarband Government School. On reaching the spot -- the Sarvodaya Bal Vidyalaya No.1 School Road in Jaitpur -- we found the man who said he had doused himself with petrol and had taken a sulphur tablet,” Meena said.The man told police that he was allegedly being harassed by the school principal. “He told me that as per government guidelines, guest teachers are to be called to the school on alternate days. But the principal was calling him in daily and harassing him. Due to this harassment, he tried to commit suicide,” the DCP said, adding the teacher was shifted to AIIMS and is undergoing treatment. His statement will be recorded after he recovers. The man’s cousin said his condition was stable by evening. “He was going through a lot at school and was under immense stress. He was being mentally harassed by school authorities for a long time. He was trying for a transfer to another school but the principal did not sign his application,” he alleged.Despite several attempts, the school’s vice-principal and officiating principal did not respond to calls and texts sent for comment. In the Facebook live, the other teachers could be seen pacifying him and trying to stop him from taking the sulphur tablet. Officials at Delhi government’s education department said action will be taken in the matter. “The department has sought a report from the district director education officer concerned. We are closely looking into the matter,” said an official, who wished not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/alleging-harassment-guest-teacher-tries-to-end-life-on-govt-school-premises/story-iPvseCZIWQPTAgQXIvmvHM.html
05-11-2020||Delhi||Accountant murdered, robbed of Rs 2.15 lakh, family says he was stabbed 28 times||A 32-year-old accountant working with two transport companies in Azadpur died after he was stabbed multiple times and robbed of his bag containing around Rs 2.16 lakh by unknown assailants near the Zakhira flyover in west Delhi’s Moti Nagar on Tuesday night, the police said. His family members have alleged that he was stabbed 28 times, but the police said they were waiting for the autopsy report to ascertain the number of stab wounds. Although the preliminary investigation into the murder case indicated that the accountant, Jitender Sharma, may have been killed for resisting the robbery, the multiple stab wounds on his body have led to police to probe other possible angles, including personal rivalry, police officers privy to the developments said. Sharma lived with his family in Nathupura area in north Delhi’s Burari. He worked as an accountant with two transport companies having their offices at the transport centre, Azadpur Vegetable Market, the police said. Deputy commissioner of police (west) Deepak Purohit said around 10pm Tuesday, the Moti Nagar police station was informed that a man was stabbed near the Zakhira flyover. A police team reached there and rushed the injured man to Acharya Bhikshu hospital, where he was declared brought dead, Purohit said. The caller, Anil Kumar, an astrologer, said he was travelling in a car with his friend when they noticed a crowd on the road and stopped to check on what had happened. “I saw a man bleeding on the road and pleading for help with folded hands to the people who had surrounded him. I immediately called the police. A police van arrived after 10 minutes and rushed the injured man to the hospital. I don’t know what happened thereafter,” Kumar said. DCP Purohit said a case of murder was registered and investigation was taken up. During the probe, the investigating team collected details about the dead man and his day’s movements. Through his employers and colleagues, the police learnt that as on the other days, Sharma had collected Rs 32,600 from one employer and Rs 1.83 lakh from the other. The money was meant to be distributed to drivers of trucks owned by the two companies towards road expenses, the police said. “Around 9.30pm, Sharma left on his motorcycle with the money in a bag. Prime facie, it appears that the assailants, who are yet to be identified, intercepted him near the Zakhira flyover. Sharma may have tried to resist the robbery attempt and was stabbed in the process. The suspects fled with the cash bag,” the DCP said, adding that several teams have been formed to identify and nab the killers. In a video circulating on social media, a relative of Sharma’s is heard saying, “The police have told us that he was stabbed 27-28 times by the unidentified assailants who only took away the money but not his bike or cellphone. His wife was making arrangements for the Karwa Chauth festival when he was murdered. He was the only earning member of the family. His father died some years ago while the younger brother is employed but he met with an accident some days ago,” the relative is saying in the video.HT cannot independently verify the authenticity of the video. The police suspect that the assailants may have been following Sharma after he left office with the money. They are scanning CCTV cameras of the routes he had taken to get clues about the suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/accountant-murdered-robbed-of-2-15-lakh-family-says-he-was-stabbed-28-times/story-GNfTjMbJCo3J8qQQzvnD2K.html
05-11-2020||Delhi||South civic body plans to provide e-bicycle sharing service by the year-end||With an aim to boost last-mile connectivity and provide a low-cost, environment friendly mobility option to city residents, the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has decided to start a facility to lease out e-bicycles from different locations under its jurisdiction by the year-end. The project is designed on the lines of a similar e-bicycle hiring service provided by the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) in its areas. A policy to start the project was cleared last month by the south corporation.SDMC officials said to avail of the service, users will have to register on the SDMC’s app and then they can hire an e-bike for a maximum of up to 10 hours and use it within the SDMC area. Users will be charged a nominal fee for the use of e-bikes, which will be available at sheds set up across different locations in the SDMC jurisdiction. Rajdutt Gehlot, chairman SDMC standing committee, said the move would help reduce people’s dependency on automobiles and consequently reduce traffic congestion, vehicular emissions and parking menace. “There is an enormous demand for cycling in the city, especially during this Covid-19 pandemic. We wish to create a dense network of non-motorised e-bike sharing service around Metro stations, bus stands, markets, office complexes, tourist destinations, residential areas, and parks, among others. We will integrate this with the city’s public transport system,” Gehlot said.A senior SDMC official said e-bikes will be tracked through a wireless tracking system such as a radio frequency identification device (RFID) or through the mobile app that locates where the vehicle has been picked up from and later returned.“The system will have real-time monitoring of station occupancy rates. We hope to launch this project in the next two or three months,” a south civic body official said on condition of anonymity.However, experts suggest that development of dedicated cycling infrastructure is very important for the success of such projects. They also stressed on the need to integrate the bike sharing service with public transport options and to ensure their availability near crowded places such as markets and hospitals in order benefit the most number of people.Anumita Roychoudhury, executive director, Centre for Science and Environment, said cycling or public bike sharing system is gaining traction especially in the time of Covid-19 as it’s a contactless medium to move about the city. “We certainly want such environment friendly systems for last-mile connectivity. But the civic authorities will have to ensure improvement in the infrastructure for cyclists. As an immediate solution, the authorities can make short-term changes in road design by creating pop-up by-lanes dedicated to cyclists with the help of soft barriers. Geometry of intersections will also have to be improved to make this model successful,” she said.Anuj Malhotra, an urban mobility expert and knowledge partner, Union ministry of home affairs, said such projects can only be successful when the cities have equally robust infrastructure for cyclists and have an abundance of e-cycle stations. He said according to the bicycle sharing transport system guidelines, issued by the ministry of housing and urban affairs, there should be nearly nine to 16 e-bike stations in a square kilometre area so that the public would have a bicycle available within a distance of a two-minute walk. “To make the model successful the civic body should start working on creating necessary cycling infrastructure such as dedicated lanes, pedestrian and cyclist friendly intersections, and adequate streetlighting. They should take a cue from Dwarka, where the DDA has started work on creating cycling infrastructure. People will only opt for e-bikes when they will feel safe on roads,” Malhotra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/south-civic-body-plans-to-provide-e-bicycle-sharing-service-by-the-year-end/story-EGu8rOzQg3mvgSaZwaDcWJ.html
05-11-2020||Delhi||5 drummers held for murdering man who constantly bullied them for money||A 23-year-old man, who allegedly bullied and extorted money from five drummers in his neighbourhood, was bludgeoned to death with a spade allegedly by the five men on Tuesday evening, police said.Police said the five allegedly attacked and killed the man, a habitual criminal according to the police, at a public park in south Delhi’s Lajpat Nagar 2. All five suspects were arrested on Wednesday and the murder weapon recovered, they said. Deputy commissioner of police (south-east) RP Meena said on Tuesday around 6pm, the police control room received a call that a man’s body was lying in Lala Lajpat Rai Park. A police team reached there and found that the dead man had sustained severe head injuries. A bloodstained spade was found near the park’s gate. “The caller was the security guard of the park. he told us that he had gone to buy vegetables from a nearby vendor. When he returned, he found the man lying dead and called the police from the vegetable vendor’s cellphone. A case of murder was registered at the Lajpat Nagar police station,” said an investigator, who did not want to be named. Police said that the dead man was identified as Akif, a habitual criminal listed at the Lajpat Nagar police station, and involved in nearly 20 cases of robbery and snatching. Since there was no eyewitness to Akif’s murder, the investigating team scanned the CCTV footage from around a dozen cameras installed in the park’s vicinity. “In some of the footage, the suspects were seen running into a lane near the park around the time of the murder. Their images were shown to locals who identified them as residents of an adiwasi camp in Nehru Nagar. All five were arrested on Wednesday,” the officer added. The arrested persons were identified by their first names Rakesh,24, Rahul,22, Shyam, 24, Mukesh,24 and Mahesh,22. All of them are drummers by profession and played in wedding bands and at other social or religious gatherings. During the interrogation, the DCP said the five men revealed that on Tuesday afternoon, they were playing cards with Akif in Lajpat Nagar-2. Akif demanded ₹100 from each of them for buying liquor. When they refused, Akif slapped Rakesh and went away, he said. “Since Akif often bullied them and extorted money from them, the drummers decided to take revenge. They followed Akif for nearly 300 metres and accosted him near the park. They picked up a spade lying nearby and hit him on the head twice, killing him on the spot,” the investigator said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/five-drummers-held-for-murdering-man-who-constantly-bullied-them-for-money/story-ksvTHz0U8gpFNSlbKKJFNP.html
05-11-2020||Delhi||Luxury car runs over Delhi cop’s legs near Sarita Vihar, fractures them||A Delhi Police constable, posted at Sarita Vihar police station, suffered fractures in both his legs after a rashly driven luxury car ran over him, before crashing into a juice shop at Khadar Mod near Sarita Vihar, around Tuesday midnight, the police said. The owner of the juice shop was also injured in the incident, police said.The driver of the luxury car and his friends had first indulged in an altercation with the constable, Jitender, and his colleague, Ankur, who were on patrol duty in the area. The policemen had approached the group after spotting them creating ruckus on the road near Pocket H market in Sarita Vihar. The suspects apparently had got a cake and put it on the parked car in order to celebrate the luxury car driver — identified as Kuldeep Bidhuri’s — birthday, said deputy commissioner of police (south-east) RP Meena. “When the two constables asked them to go back to their homes, the men, all of who appeared drunk, started arguing with them,” said DCP Meena. The police said that when the suspects did not leave, the two constables informed the emergency response vehicle (ERV) team of the police station. Seeing the police vehicle and more policemen approaching, the men fled towards Janta Flats, Madanpur Khadar in the luxury car and another vehicle that they had come in. The constables and other policemen chased the vehicles. The luxury car took a turn near the K-Pocket divider and sped towards ABC Pocket. The two constables overtook the luxury car, stopped their bike in front and signalled the car driver to stop, the police said. “The driver of the luxury car then intentionally tried to kill the constables by running over them. While constable Ankur saved his life by jumping out of the line of the speeding luxury car, Jitender was not so lucky and the car knocked him down and ran over both his legs over his both legs. The ERV at the spot then chased the luxury car, which in its hurry to flee crashed into a juice shop. The owner who was standing the shop sustained injuries. The occupants of the luxury car, however, managed to flee,” said DCP, adding that a beer bottle was found inside the vehicle. The injured constable and the juice shop owner were admitted to a nearby private hospital, where doctors said that there were fractures in the constable’s legs. The condition of the injured juice shop owner was stated to be out of danger. A case of attempt to murder, rash driving, mischief, voluntarily causing hurt to a public servant in the discharge of his duty and common intention was registered under Indian Penal Code Sections 186, 279, 332, 353, 307, 323, 427, 34 IPC and 184 of Motor Vehicle Act at the Sarita Vihar police station, DCP Meena said. During the probe, the DCP said, the luxury car was found registered in the name of one Amit Bhadana, a resident of Faridabad, Haryana. It was also learnt that Bhadana had given his vehicle to his cousin, Kuldeep Bidhuri, a resident of Madanpur Khadar. “It was Bidhuri who was celebrating his birthday and creating nuisance with his friends on the road. Bidhuri as well as Bhadana are absconding, along with other men involved in the crime,” he added. Police have impounded the car.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/luxury-car-runs-over-delhi-cop-s-legs-near-sarita-vihar-fractures-them/story-S5uva0x70WSP2kHd3ByihK.html
05-11-2020||Delhi||16-year-old in Delhi gives birth on terrace, abandons baby; 60-year-old held for rape||A discovery of a newborn baby on October 31—found dumped in a garbage dump in north Delhi’s Burari — has led the police to a 16-year-old, who was allegedly raped by a 60-year-old grocery shop owner living in her neighbourhood, investigators said on Wednesday.The girl, who got pregnant after being raped, had delivered the baby on the terrace of her house without anyone’s help on October 31. Her family members were unaware of the rape, their daughter’s pregnancy and the delivery of the baby. The girl dumped the baby boy to get rid of him in order to ensure that nobody knows about her pregnancy, the police said. The shopkeeper was arrested on November 1 (Sunday) and sent to jail after a case of rape was registered at Burari police station. Police have withheld the alleged suspect’s identity to protect the identity of the minor girl and her family, as they all live in the same neighbourhood. “We have arrested the 60-year-old man after a case was registered on the girl’s complaint. Further investigations in the case is on,” said deputy commissioner of police (north) Anto Alphonse. The police said that the crime against the minor girl came to fore on the evening of October 31, when some residents of Burari found a newborn baby — wrapped in a cloth — lying in the garbage dump in their neighbourhood and called the police control room. A police team rushed to the spot and the infant was shifted to a nearby hospital. The police, in the meanwhile, began investigating the case. Since nobody had seen the baby being dumped in the garbage dump, the police scanned footage of CCTVs installed in the neighbourhood. In one of the cameras, a girl was seen carrying something wrapped in clothes and keeping the bundle in the garbage dump before fleeing, said a police officer associated with the case. “We identified girl, met her and enquired about the incident. Initially, she was reluctant to say anything. But after counselling, she told us everything – about her rape, pregnancy and that she delivered the baby on the terrace of her house. We checked the terrace and found blood there, which corroborated the girl’s version,” the officer said. During counselling, the officer said, the girl alleged that she was raped by a local shopkeeper months ago. Since she was scared, she did not tell anybody in her family or neighbourhood about the incident and kept it to herself. “We spoke to the girl’s mother, who works as a domestic help, and asked if she knew about the rape and the pregnancy. The mother told us that she had noticed some changes in her daughter’s body and even asked her about it. But the girl never told her about the rape or her pregnancy,” the officer said. On October 31, the minor delivered the baby on the terrace. To get rid of the baby, she wrapped him in a cloth and polythene bag and lowered it down to the ground from the terrace using a rope. She then picked the baby up, abandoned him in the garbage dump some distance from her home, and returned, the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/burari-16-year-old-delivers-on-terrace-abandons-baby-60-yr-old-held-for-rape/story-mF7J06EkvfGUCRBrYXfSxH.html
05-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC tells AAP govt to release funds to colleges for salaries||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday directed the AAP government to release funds to pay salaries to teachers and staff of four colleges affiliated to the Delhi directorate general of higher studies (DGHS), remarking that a major festival is round the corner and people cannot be deprived of their wages.A bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad ordered the government to release the salaries of two quarters to Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar College, Bhagini Nivedita College, Aditi Mahavidyalaya Women’s College and Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies.“Delhi government without prejudice to the special audits and without prejudice to their rights and contentions, is directed to release funds for two quarters from April in favour of the four colleges on or before November 9. Immediately on receiving the funds, the colleges would release salaries to staff and teachers,” the bench said.There was no response from the Delhi government to HT’s requests for a comment.The judge said the money would be equivalent to what was being given in 2019 and there should not be any deduction. The court had earlier asked the colleges to file their response to a plea filed by the teachers, seeking a direction to the institutions to release their salaries pending for the last four months.Initially, the plea was filed against 12 colleges. The court deleted the names of eight from the memo of parties as two colleges had paid salaries till August and no employee from the rest six had approached the court.The petition filed by eight teachers through advocate Ashok Agarwal said there other employees, teaching and non-teaching staff who also have not received salaries for May, June, July and August.The plea said they have been writing to the Delhi government for the release of funds to enable the 12 DU colleges, funded by the government, to pay pending salaries to 1,500 teachers and non-teaching staff.On Wednesday, the four colleges filed an affidavit in court, stating that the Delhi government subsidises them up to 100%. They said while two of them have got funds from the government till May 2020, the other two have been paid only till June and July.The college counsels said they were facing difficulty in paying salaries as the government had not disbursed funds.Countering the claims, the Delhi government counsel Jawahar Raja told the court that funds have been disbursed regularly. He said that the government was conducting special audit of the colleges’ accounts after it received complaints in June 2020 that the funds were being diverted for other purposes.The government counsel said the audit of two colleges is over while another would be done by Thursday. He said the audit is over for a fourth college and funds have been released, a claim disputed by the counsel of the colleges.To this, the court said, “Release the funds. You cannot deprive salaries to teachers. ….A major festival is round the corner and you are depriving staff of their salaries. The excesses can be settled later.”The matter would be now heard on November 11.Poonam Verma, principal of Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies, termed the order as a relief. “It’s very unfortunate we had to go through this route for something which was a statutory obligation of the government. I wish we had not reached this level,” she said. The college had not paid its staff since June. Manoj Sinha, president of the DU principals Association (DUPA), said, “The Delhi government should look at the spirit of the order and pay due money to all other colleges funded by them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-hc-tells-aap-govt-to-release-funds-to-colleges-for-salaries/story-Ox1Q6PGrHFiRITjP8fwtTK.html
05-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt blacklists 207 firms from its job portal for demanding money from aspirants||The Delhi government has blacklisted at least 207 registered employers from its job portal Rozgar Bazar for allegedly demanding money from job seekers whom they contacted through the platform, said a senior Delhi government official in the know of the matter.The portal was launched by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on July 27, with the aim of helping those who had lost their jobs during the nationwide lockdown imposed on March 25 in view of Covid-19 and also for boosting the national capital’s economy.More than 1.25 million net job seekers (those still awaiting employment) and 44,440 employers are registered on the portal and there are 826,603 net job openings (those that are still open) as on Wednesday, said the senior official quoted above.Through feedback forms in the portal , the government had received complaints that some employees were charging money from aspirants, the official said. An inquiry into this was ordered by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who also holds the labour and employment portfolio. The minutes of a meeting chaired by Sisodia on October 8, which HT has seen, read: “It was informed that some complaints have been received wherein money has been demanded from job seekers by the employers who are registered on Rozgar portal… It was informed that the complaints are examined. The minister then directed that the name of such employers may be deleted from (the) portal after due examination.”A Delhi government spokesperson said, “There is a feedback mechanism in place for job seekers registered on the portal. Through this mechanism, we received information about some potential employers charging money from applicants. The checks and balances on our part have allowed us to blacklist 207 registered employers from the portal so far. We have directed further inquiry into the matter and sought the help of our legal team as well.”“The quality team helps validate that there are no spam job postings, and the team closely follows up on all jobs postings to ensure a win-win experience for both the job seeker and employer,” the spokesperson said.Another government official , also on condition of anonymity, said the most sought-after jobs are in the sectors of business and marketing development, data entry, customer support services, accounting, and domestic services such as plumbers, electricians, gardeners, etc.The second official further said, “This is a platform to connect job seekers with potential employers. It maintains data of net job openings and also of job entries closed. Entries may be closed to those who are already hired or shortlisted from the portal, from outside the portal or when the employer withdraws the position. There is no separate data maintained specifically on people hired through the portal.”This method of data management is similar to that done at job fairs organised by the government over the past five years, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-blacklists-207-firms-from-its-job-portal-for-demanding-money-from-aspirants/story-c8TY9049SqWwGIHT2VF2yM.html
05-11-2020||Delhi||CBSE reschedules CTET exam to January 31 next year||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Wednesday announced that the Central Teacher Eligibility Test (CTET), which was scheduled to be held in July and later postponed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, will now be conducted on January 31, 2021.In order to ensure social distancing norms, the board has also announced to add 23 new centres for the exam. In a statement issued on Wednesday, the board said, “The 14th edition of CTET, which was scheduled to be held on 05-07-2020 (Sunday) in 112 cities all over the country and later postponed due to administrative reasons, the said examination will now be held on 31.01.2021. To maintain social distance and other safety measures, the said examinations will now be conducted in 135 cities.”The new examination cities are Lakhimpur, Nagaon, Begusarai, Gopalganj, Purnia, Rohtas, Saharsa, Saran, Bhilai/Durg, Bilaspur, Hazaribagh, Jamshedpur, Ludhiana, Ambedkar Nagar, Bijnor, Bulandshahar, Deoria, Gonda, Mainpuri, Pratapgarh, Shahjahanpur, Sitapur and Udham Singh Nagar.CTET is a national-level exam conducted by the CBSE twice a year to determine the eligibility of candidates for appointment as teachers in Classes 1 to 8.Following requests from candidates making changes in their choice of centres, the board has also decided to give one time chance for corrections. “The candidates who wish to change their examination city can make online corrections from 07.11.2020 to 16.11.2020 up to 11.59 pm. Every effort will be made to accommodate the candidates in the cities opted by them, but if the situation arises, they can be allotted any city other than the four cities opted by the candidates,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/cbse-reschedules-ctet-exam-to-january-31-next-year/story-mRpTZPE0trwvK5bVD2k36M.html
