07-11-2020||Gurugram||Haryana government drafts policy for setting up retirement homes||The Haryana government has come out with a draft policy for the development of retirement homes for senior citizens that will ensure the facilities and infrastructure required for the comfortable stay of ageing citizens, who want to live independently. As per officials, the policy was drafted because of the high demand for such projects due to the rising number of nuclear families.These projects would only cater to those senior citizens who are willing to pay for this service. As per the policy, only eligible senior citizens will be allowed to buy units and the only the owner be allowed to reside there. Such retirement houses can be set up by colonisers after acquiring a valid licence. The sale of such units is possible if the project is registered with Haryana-Real Estate Authority (H-Rera), said DTCP officials. The minimum and maximum area requirements for such projects would range from 0.5 acre to 10 acres. The maximum ground coverage allowed would be 40 percent while four percent of the area would be reserved for shops. A 12-metre-wide access road would also be required for such projects. The policy also calls for such projects to have medical facilities on the site and accommodation for attendants and staff. The project should also have an on-site ambulance and tie-up with leading hospitals for healthcare. The site also needs to have basic medical facilities and a geriatric care centre, the policy states. It also needs to have an emergency medical room with oxygen facility. Stairs, lifts, rooms and bathrooms must have fixtures which are compliant with the needs of senior citizens, the policy states. RS Bhath, district town planner, enforcement, said that there is a high demand for retirement homes. “The policy will streamline this sector and allow for the development of quality retirement homes in the district and state. Developers with a good record and experience will enter the sector,” said Bhath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-government-drafts-policy-for-setting-up-retirement-homes/story-6RCPq6UbMcOUTsWVjnHOTO.html
07-11-2020||Gurugram||Education department to start exchange programme between government-private schools||The state education department is initiating an exchange programme for elementary level schools with the aim of facilitating knowledge exchange between schools of different backgrounds. The programme — titled ‘Milan — Partnership between schools’ — seeks to rope in diverse schools in a twinning arrangement with the aim of ensuring that partner schools adopt the best practices of each other. In a letter shared with all district education officers last week, the department said that as part of the programme, different schools will enter into a twinning arrangement as part of which knowledge-sharing will take place through a range of activities. The programme seeks to bring students on a common platform while strengthening school management and administrative capabilities. Sangeeta Chaudhary, district project coordinator, said that the initiative was aimed at linking students in schools of different backgrounds. “As part of this initiative, schools in rural areas will be linked with schools in urban areas, government schools with private schools, so that students can interact with each other and share their experiences,” said Chaudhary. She said that the aim was to familiarise students with diverse experience, beyond their own classrooms. The partner schools will also be expected to share available resources with each other The programme targets children in the age group of 10-14, in classes 6 to 8. The schools that will be considered for the programme will include government middle schools, central government schools and private unaided schools in rural and urban areas. Chaudhary said that the department will start working on the programme soon by identifying schools in different blocks. A joint meeting between the two partner schools will be organised to prepare a detailed outline of the program, she added. “We will be forming a district-level core committee to discuss and finalise the program in line with the directions that we have received. The program will take place from November to January once schools reopen,” said Chaudhary The department has shared a number of collaborative activities which can be chosen by the partner schools. These include sports activities, cultural activities, quizzes, discussion among teachers, visits to laboratories and libraries. In view of the pandemic, the program will be organised as per the SoPs . “Schools have been asked to select activities that can be done with zero contact and physical distancing. NoC from parents will be sought and all Covid-19 precautions will be observed during the visits,” said Chaudhary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/education-department-to-start-exchange-programme-between-government-private-schools/story-w2Tz7bWkWTv2Hbvvfqi7GJ.html
07-11-2020||Gurugram||MCG and GMDA to construct cycle tracks from HCC to Galleria Market and Vyapar Kendra||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) and the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) will construct two separate cycle tracks from Huda City Centre (HCC) towards Galleria Market and Vyapar Kendra. This was announced by MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh during a Raahgiri Day event held at the Netaji Subhash Marg on Saturday.Singh said that the construction of the cycle tracks on these two stretches, which run parallel to each other, will commence from this month itself. Overall, 25 kilometres of cycle tracks will be built across the city.The first route — a three-kilometre-long stretch between HCC and Galleria Market in DLF-4 — will be built along the MF Husain Marg and Hamilton Court Road while the second route — a two-kilometre-long, yet-to-be-named stretch — will be built towards Vyapar Kendra in Sushant Lok-1.Although the Hamilton Court Road and the two-kilometre-long stretch are both one-way for motorists, MCG and GMDA will build cycle tracks on both sides of these stretches.Both these stretches would end just before the points where Golf Course Road (GCR) starts.GMDA has plans for constructing cycle tracks along GCR as well.Following the Raahgiri event, Singh along with senior MCG and GMDA officials also conducted a site inspection of both these stretches on cycles.“It was important to conduct a site inspection, along with MCG and GMDA officials, as it gave us a first-hand experience about the problems faced by cyclists on these two stretches on a daily basis. We want to incorporate the lessons learnt from this experience while designing these two cycle tracks. We went ahead with this project only after receiving adequate feedback and observations from our first pilot project along Netaji Subhash Marg,” said Singh.Apart from the residential areas of Sushant Lok-1, DLF-4, and the two markets, the two stretches also provide connectivity between the Golf Course Road and Gurgaon-Faridabad Road to commuters travelling towards HCC and Mehrauli-Gurgaon (MG) Road and vice versa, as a result of which there is constantly a high volume of traffic on both of them.Last month, the city’s first cycle track was opened to the public on a 10-kilometre stretch between HCC and Subhash Chowk along Netaji Subhash Marg.Regarding the construction of the other cycle tracks across the city, an MCG official privy to the matter said that after these two stretches, the MCG and GMDA are planning on constructing cycle tracks along the 2.5-kilometre St Thomas Marg, between Kanhai crossing and Genpact Chowk.Incidentally, MCG has constructed cycle tracks along St Thomas Marg even before. During its green Raahgiri initiative, the MCG had built cycle tracks using bollards along the stretch in February 2016. However, just a month later, most of the bollards were broken and the track started to be used by motorists and auto-rickshaws.Sarika Panda Bhatt, co-founder of Raahgiri, a body promoting non-motorised forms of transport said that 12-15% of commuters use cycle as a mode of daily transport by choice and, hence, building cycle tracks along major roads is of paramount importance.“Thousands of residents risk their lives daily by cycling on Gurugram roads. As such, roads need to be accordingly re-engineered. By making roads cycle-friendly, more people can opt to use this as a mode of transport, thereby reducing air pollution levels as well,” said Bhatt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-and-gmda-to-construct-cycle-tracks-from-hcc-to-galleria-market-and-vyapar-kendra/story-84ry2YoLjj3mh0V6gxaSBM.html
07-11-2020||Chandigarh||Congress to take part in DDC elections in J&K||The Congress will take part in the upcoming District Development Council (DDC) elections in Jammu and Kashmir to fight against the ‘unconstitutional’ policies of the BJP through the power of the ballot, the party said on Saturday.Elections to the DDCs and vacant posts of sarpanch and panch will be held in eight phases from December 1 to December 24, according to a notification issued by the State Election Commission on Friday.“The Congress with an open heart is going to put up its best candidates for the upcoming DDC elections to fight the wrong and unconstitutional policies of the BJP which has left the people of Jammu and Kashmir unhappy,” Jammu and Kashmir Congress president G A Mir said.He also said mainstream parties that are demanding the restoration of special status of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir are not against the country or its people but their “fight is against the wrong policies” of the BJP.The Centre on August 5 last year had abrogated the special status of the erstwhile state and bifurcated it into union territories of Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh.The BJP has taken a vow to finish the identity of Jammu and Kashmir through “unconstitutional and undemocratic” moves like abrogation of special status, introduction of new land laws and bifurcation of the erstwhile state into union territories, the Congress leader alleged.Mir appealed to the people to vote in the upcoming elections and said that “the people of Jammu and Kashmir are politically mature and they will use this opportunity”.“The Congress will put forth the best of its candidates who are pro-people,” he said, adding that it was his party which introduced three-tier Panchayati Raj in the country.However, Mir said that there are serious concerns, especially with regard to the security of candidates.“We demand that there should be no back door entry and security concerns are also needed to be addressed to ensure free and fair elections. The focus should be on sensitive areas where extra measures need to be taken,” he said.The Congress has already raised these concerns with the Election Commission, Mir said.To a question on delay in holding of assembly elections in Jammu and Kashmir, the Congress leader said that there is no alternative to a people’s government.“Whether it is the rule of governor, lieutenant governor or officers, it can never be pro-people… Only an elected government can provide a pro-people government because the representatives are accountable to the public,” he said.If the situation is conducive for elections to urban local bodies and DDCs, then why cannot assembly polls be held to give an elected government to the people of Jammu and Kashmir, Mir asked. On the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), he said that “the Congress is fighting the wrong policies of the BJP at the national level”. Seven mainstream parties of Jammu and Kashmir, including the PDP and the National Conference, formed the alliance for the restoration of special status. “We have made it clear that the August 5 last year decision of the BJP-led government was unconstitutional and undemocratic on all platforms including the floor of the Parliament and in the working committee meeting,” Mir said.“If there is an alliance of regional parties, opposing the wrong policies of the BJP government at the Centre, it is a welcome step. The basic demand of the alliance is the same for which the Congress is protesting for the last 15 months,” he said.However, he said a recent remark by a leader of the alliance was not in good taste.Mir was apparently referring to the controversial statement of PDP president and former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti, who is also the vice chairperson of the PAGD, on the tricolor.“We are not against the country or its people. Our fight is against the wrong policies of BJP,” he said. PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/congress-to-take-part-in-ddc-elections-in-j-k/story-i7V9vEi2bOWD0RiOjgco9I.html
07-11-2020||Delhi||Home delivery of HSRPs to start today; over 45 riders to make deliveries||The home delivery service of high security registration plates (HSRPs) for vehicles registered in Delhi will begin Sunday, senior government officials said Saturday. “On Day One of the drive , around 250 HSRPs will be fixed by our riders at vehicle owners’ homes. Over 45 riders will carry out the home delivery service on Sunday,” said a senior official of Rosmerta Safety Systems Private Limited (RSSPL), one of the three HSRP manufacturers. Transport department officials said over 17,000 applications have been received until now for HSRPs, in which over 90% applicants have volunteered to pick up the number plate from vehicle dealer outlets. HSRPs are hologram plates made with a laser-branded permanent identification number, which cannot be copied. The colour-coded stickers are meant to identify vehicles based on their fuel type. The stickers also include details such as the registration number, the registering authority, a laser-branded PIN, and the engine and chassis numbers.Currently, the doorstep delivery of HSRPs and fuel stickers is available only in Mayur Vihar, Patparganj, Janakpuri, Rajouri Garden, Punjabi Bagh, Kirti Nagar, Ashok Nagar, Vasant Vihar, Mohan Garden, Rajender Nagar, Maya Puri, Dilshad Garden and Ghazipur. A Rosmerta spokesperson said after the festival season, the service will be available in others areas as well. Slots for fitment can be booked through www.siam.in, the website of Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM).To avail of the home delivery, vehicle owners will have to pay an extra sum of ₹125 for two-wheelers and ₹250 for four-wheelers, a senior government official said. “The rates have been decided in consultation with Delhi government and SIAM,” the Rosmerta spokesperson said. Last month, state transport minister Kailash Gahlot had stopped the online booking of HSRPs after complaints were received from vehicle owners about delays in getting HSRPs and fuel stickers. Bookings were then reopened on November 1. “When the plate reaches the dealer, an SMS will be sent to the customer and in case of any delay, the customer will be informed over telephone. Dealers will ensure that HSRP entries are made on a daily basis in the software so that the same can be uploaded on to Vahan, a central database of all registered vehicles in the country,” he said. There are approximately 3 million vehicles, including 1.6 million two-wheelers, 1.2 million four-wheelers and 200,000 commercial vehicles that are required to be affixed with HSRPs. The transport department had issued a public notice on September 22, stating that an enforcement drive would soon start and vehicles without fuel stickers and HSRPs will be penalised. Owners were advised to get these fixed at the earliest. But after overcrowding and violation of Covid-19 norms were reported from dealer outlets, the government decided to have the HSRPs home delivered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/home-delivery-of-hsrps-to-start-today-over-45-riders-to-make-deliveries/story-WtWQ4S7Sjj1PJt2QGrp7xO.html
07-11-2020||Delhi||After doctors and nurses, now north corp teachers threaten strike for wage dues||After doctors and nurses of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation hospitals, the primary school teachers of the north civic body have now threatened to launch an indefinite sit-in protest outside the municipality’s headquarters at Civic Centre from November 11 if their pending salaries are not paid. There are nearly 9000 teachers at 714 primary schools of the north corporation who have not been paid salaries for the last 3-4 months. In four zones of the north corporation, teachers were paid salaries till July 2020 on Friday while in two zones they were paid salaries only till June 2020. These teachers are demanding that all their pending wage dues till October 2020 be cleared before Diwali. If not, the teachers have said that they should for now at least be paid two months salary along with a Diwali bonus.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia had on Friday also written a letter to the mayor of north corporation demanding immediate payment of salaries of teachers. Kuldeep Khatri, convener of Joint Council of MCD Teachers’ Union, said that teachers have not been given their wages for 3-4 months. Out of 9,000 teachers, he claimed, there are nearly 3000 who have not been paid since June this year. The remaining 6,000 received their salaries for July only on Friday night. “Instead of being given peanuts in the form of one month’s salary selectively, we want all our pending salaries to be cleared. We want the civic body to give us at least two months of salary and Diwali bonus, which has been due for the last four years. If these demands are not met till Tuesday, then from November 11 (Wednesday) we will go on an indefinite strike outside the civic centre. We will observe a ‘Black Diwali’ there this year,” Khatri said. Khatri also said that a memorandum had been submitted to Union home minister Amit Shah along with officials of the civic authority. The teachers strike may impact work related to online teaching of primary students as well as the process of enrolment and admission of new students for the new academic session, municipal officials feared. Ramniwas Solanki, general secretary of Municipal Corporation Teachers Association said that due to non-payment of salaries, the north civic body teachers are not able to take care of their families and are unable to pay loans. “Diwali is round the corner, but north corporation teachers do not have money to celebrate the festival. We have made several communications with the civic authorities but to no avail. We want our pending salaries to be cleared before Diwali,” Solanki said. This is not the first time that the teachers have threatened to go on an indefinite strike on the issue of non-payment of salaries in the cash-strapped north civic body. In June this year, teachers of north corporation schools had staged a symbolic strike on pending salary issues. But they called off their strike after the civic body paid them a month’s salary at the court’s intervention. Similarly doctors at north corporation hospitals had last month called off their strike after the civic body paid their dues till September 2020. However, the salaries of paramedic and nursing staff were paid till June 2020 and July 2020 respectively, which irked the health workers and they went on a strike on November 2, which was finally called off on November 6 after their salaries till September 2020 was released by the civic body. Jai Prakash, mayor of North Delhi Municipal Corporation, said that strike is not the solution and the employees should understand that the civic body is undergoing financial crisis but still efforts are being made to release their salaries.“I had a meeting with the delegation of corporation employees and I have appealed them to withdraw their proposed strike. Salaries of July has been credited and we are making efforts to give the remaining salary of teachers before Diwali,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/after-doctors-and-nurses-now-north-corp-teachers-threaten-strike-for-wage-dues/story-cwoHJJv7Sc467zSojoXmGI.html
07-11-2020||Chandigarh||Roundabout: Play the rabab, Mardania, November is here||November is the season of numerous festivals. This year, the fasting act came early with women going without food from sunrise to moonrise and defying the pandemic to dance to the DJ’s music after the sacred rituals. And now all eyes are set on the festival of lights, crackers, sweets and songs to Lakshmi the Goddess of Wealth to be kind enough and look the way of sparkling clean and lit homes. And the last day of this autumn month will see the celebration of Gurpurab, the birth anniversary of the founder of Sikhi, Guru Nanak (1469-1534).In recent years there has been an effort by poets, painters, fiction writers and scholars to retrieve the story of Mardana not just as Guru Nanak’s disciple but as a friend of his youth and travel companion in all of his spiritual journeys, stringing the words of love in ragas as he played the rabab. The rabab, a musical instrument, originated in Central Asia, and took its name from the Arabic word rebab (played with a bow). Together they travelled on foot far and wide capturing hearts and souls of people by spelling out as is been beautifully captured by Punjabi poet Surjit Patar in a couplet:Rait te Babur da si, roohan te uss da raaj siO’ ki jehrha aakhda si chherh Mardane rabab(The sands were ruled by Babur, he ruled the soulsThe one who would ask Mardana to play the rabab).This relationship of two persons born to different faiths and different castes reposed faith in humankind free of caste, creed and religion to better the lot of the common man crushed between the oppression of the Muslim rulers and the prejudices of the Hindus. It was not in words alone but in practice. Punjabi novelist Jasbir Mand is perhaps the first writer to explore this relationship afresh, free from the oral tradition of Janamsakhis replete with myth and miracle, and review it in its historical context. The novel, Bol Mardania (Speak out Mardania) breaks many myths, including the popular conception of Mardana as just a Mirasi musician. Mand brings out the dedication, simplicity and understanding in new light. Mardana was a friend to Guru Nanak and appreciative of his teachings which spelt out a new prejudice free path.Amarjit Chandan, a Punjabi poet now based in London, but seeped in the spirit of Punjab, where he had his first encounter with revolutionary movements, looks at this jugalbandi of Guru Nanak and Mardana as the union of two elevated souls. Baba is the word for Guru in Punjabi and he is perhaps the first who calls Mardana a Baba too in his poem, Baba Nanak te Baba Mardana:Baabe di baani mardana gaveBaba apna ucharea aap sune haiJorhi khoob suhaae baba te MardanaEk rabab bajaye dooja anhad baaja(Mardana sings the words of BabaBaba hears the words he utteredOne plays the rabab and the otherutters words of boundless truth).Pakistani anthropologist and writer Haroon Khalid, who literally walked in the footsteps of Guru Nanak across the border, put a question to one of the descendants of Mardana, Ghulam Hussain: “Why weren’t the Muslim rababi protected? They held such high status in Sikhism? Why were they allowed to leave East Punjab at the time of Partition?” Ghulam, whose family elders had been singing and playing the rabab at Shri Harmandir Sahib in Amritsar, spoke thus about their migration from villages around Amritsar: “We were Muslims, therefore we had to leave. It did not matter if we were rababi. What mattered was our Muslim identity. That became our only identity. In fact, a couple of our rababi even lost their lives during the riots. My father-in-law, Bhai Moti, was one of them. He used to play the tabla at a gurdwara in Patiala. Another rababi who used to perform at Guru Amardas Gurdwara at Goindwal was also killed.”The communal polarisation in the early 20th Century and the final death knell of a composite order representing the cultural fabric of Punjab came to an end, and with it the tradition of the rabab, replaced by the less soulful harmonium. The pain of this alienation from the very tenets of Sikhi was best expressed in a heart-wrenching poem by well-known Punjabi poet Harbhajan Singh: Mera Nanak ikalla reh gya/Bahut din beet ga’ay/Sangat ich Mardana nahi aaya! (My Nanak is all alone/Mardana is absent from Sangat for long).nirudutt@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/roundabout-play-the-rabab-mardania-november-is-here/story-Sxno74KEtVGxL45Q6eBuHO.html
07-11-2020||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: A fawn not spared||A section of Chandigarh’s citizens blindly advocate that the forest areas spreading down to the city from the Shivaliks be fenced off totally so as to avoid road kills of wild animals. No doubt a well-intentioned outrage but it misses the depth and complexity of wild animals’ needs such as seasonal movements for food/water and the imperative to diversify gene pools by interbreeding between subpopulations of the species. These natural needs would be stifled were fencing undertaken in a manner that each jungle area divided by peripheral roads turned into “big zoological enclosures”. That said, there can be no justification for a hazardous and cruel fencing erected within the Sukhna Lake Nature Trail. It has spear-like points that impaled a Sambar fawn on Wednesday. The fawn was probably trying to jump across with the family but failed and paid with its life. The point where this incident took place is the trail that leads left from the observation tower and about 500 m from the entry gate adjacent to the Lake Sports Complex tennis courts.A vigilant and anguished citizen, Divye Mathur, who has morning walked this trail since decades, took a photograph to highlight the wanton killing. His picture posted on social media drew acerbic comments from citizens, who pointed out the contradiction: was fencing meant to save wild animals or to spear them to death with a thoughtless measure?“Why does the forest department have these sharp spikes? Early morning I saw this sad accident. The brutal death of a poor creature behind Sukhna Lake just because this killer boundary has been installed. To save wild animals or to kill them? Very sad. Everywhere around wildlife areas, a net fencing is imposed not these spear tips,” Mathur, a Sector 8 resident, told this writer.GOLF’S GLORIOUS BIRDIESThe tricity’s golfing greens, which are buzzing with professional players from all over India, are also hosting delightful avians, some of whom are altitudinal migrants fleeing the chill in the mountains like the durbar moves of the British Raj and still in vogue in Jammu Kashmir! A delightful bundle of colour with a ceaselessly shivering tail is the Black redstart, observed grabbing insects on the ground in front of the tee box at the Chandigarh Golf Club’s 16th hole. The shy redstart found a lookout perch on the trees flanking the tee box to the left and would sally forth to the ground whenever the golfers were not firing drivers and moving across the redstart’s hunting grounds. On spotting the golfers moving towards it from the corner of the eye, the redstart would dart in flight to the safe, welcoming hug of leafy boughs.At the Panchkula Golf Club, little birds afforded a variety of behaviours, calls and songs to serenade the grim-looking professionals, their minds obsessed with birdies, eagles and albatrosses!. On the tree left flanking the green of the first hole, a male Magpie robin, a Red-vented bulbul and a Black drongo flitted about competing for perches. As the pros drove the ball hard from the 6th hole tee, a migratory warbler perched deep in the tree to the left let out a soft call, very much like beads being rubbed together. Three white, dimpled golf balls drew the close attention of a Pond heron, which was stalking the fairway of the 9th hole for insects/grubs like a respectable-looking but cunning hermit. Upon the golfers’ arrival to their balls, the heron did not fly but scuttled off like a fox driven from the hen coop! vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wildbuzz-a-fawn-not-spared/story-Y2WnpDQyOP6YBzwzNdjtcM.html
07-11-2020||City||Ludhiana MC to propose 60% hike in water-sewer tariff in House meet||At a time when residents’ household budgets have been disturbed by the pandemic, the fund-starved Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) is set to propose a 60% hike in the water-sewer tariff for the city.A resolution regarding this will be tabled during the House meeting on November 10 at the Rose Garden. If the proposal is approved by the MC General House, water-metering system will also be introduced in the city. Until now, the MC had only been charging the fixed slab rates from users. Once the metering system kicks in, residents will have to pay the fixed charges as well the consumption charges. The MC is also likely to do away with the exemption currently being given to residential properties on 125 square yards. The benefit will only be given to houses on 50 square yards or less.3% annual hike in slab rates on cardsThe MC will also be proposing an annual increment of 3% in the slab rates, which will further be revised after the city starts getting 24/7 water supply. Residents will be penalised if they fail to install water meters within the time given to them. The proposal to revise the rates has been hanging fire since the last year and the new rates have been finalised by the sub-committee formed by the House. The committee is headed by senior deputy mayor Sham Sundar Malhotra while councillors Ashwani Sharma, Mamta Ashu, Sunny Bhalla, Jai Prakash, Harbhajan Singh Dang, Sunita Rani and others are part of it. When contacted, mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “The final decision will be taken only after the House meets.”Residents with no connections will also have to pay user chargesResidents who have their own source of water supply, in addition to the MC connection, will have to pay the fixed user charges for the water lines installed by the civic body. For domestic category, 50% of the slab rates will be charged and for non-domestic categories, charges will be equal to 100% of the slab rates.Private firm to be hired for recovery of taxes/duesIn view of the past instances where the MC was unable to achieve the recovery targets, the House will mull on appointing a private company for recovery of water-sewer charges, property tax etc. The company will also check illegal water-sewer connections in the city. As per information, the MC has failed to recover over ₹200 crore from residents in the form of water-sewer charges. The proposal states that the company will be given 15% incentive on the amount recovered above ₹25 crore. Further, 15% incentive will also be given to the company out of the amount recovered from defaulters with illegal connections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-to-propose-60-hike-in-water-sewer-tariff-in-house-meet/story-QcUuXrAEqFXMF2ra5db4OL.html
07-11-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC refuses pre-arrest bail to Chhota Rajan’s niece||The Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday rejected anticipatory bail application of Priyadarshini Nikalje, niece of gangster Chhota Rajan, booked for trying to extort ₹50 lakh from a local builder.“In the nature of accusation levelled against the applicant (Priyadarshini Nikalje), her custodial interrogation is very much necessary,” said justice Bharati Dangre while rejecting the pre-arrest bail plea. Justice Dangre also took into consideration that crime took place in March 2020, investigation with regards to other accused was complete, and charge sheet was filed against them, but Nikalje has been absconding since. The builder, in his complaint to the anti-ransom squad of Pune Police, said that he had promised to buy a car for his wife and her sister last Diwali, but he could not fulfil the promise. His wife and her sister then left his house and disappeared without trace. In this backdrop, the builder claimed that he received a call on March 8, 2020 from an unknown number. The caller told him that he was calling from the Seth’s office —gangster Chhota Rajan’s office in Chembur, and verbally abused him.Later he received another call wherein the caller identified herself as Tai Nikalje and asked him to meet her in her office in Pune. Following this, an alleged accomplice of Nikalje, Dhiraj Sable, called the builder and told him that Nikalje is Chhota Rajan’s niece and looks after Rajan’s business in Pune. The builder further alleged that when she met Nikalje, she told him that his wife and sister-in-law had approached one of her accomplishes, another accused in the case. She further claimed that a police case has been registered against the builder and demanded ₹50 lakh to settle the matter. In her anticipatory bail plea, Nikalje, however, maintained that she is a social worker and that she was helping the builder’s distressed wife in that capacity. She claimed that the builder himself had criminal antecedents and his version cannot be accepted as truth.The claims, however, failed to impress upon justice Dangre who refused to grant pre-arrest bail to her primarily in view of the seriousness of the allegations against her and the fact that she was absconding for about eight months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-refuses-pre-arrest-bail-to-chhota-rajan-s-niece/story-Gvd4Al0GmgWVxDYgDt5xKK.html
07-11-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death: Court extends interim protection to Karishma Prakash in drugs case||A special Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) court on Saturday extended interim protection from arrest to Karishma Prakash, former manager of actor Deepika Padukone, booked in connection with the drugs case linked to actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. Prakash came under scanner after her name cropped up during the investigation. The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) had in the last week of October searched Prakash’s residence in Versova and recovered 1.7g hashish and three bottles of cannabidiol (CBD) oil. Fearing arrest, Prakash, on November 2, moved an anticipatory bail plea before the special NDPS court. The court had on previous hearing granted her interim protection from arrest as NCB assured that it would not take any coercive action against her. Meanwhile, Prakash’s lawyer assured that she would cooperate with the probe and be present for interrogation. The agency so far has called her twice and questioned her on various aspects. On Saturday, during the hearing, the agency submitted a reply on her plea and opposed the same, claiming she has not been answering questions. The hearing on Prakash’s plea is now scheduled for arguments on Tuesday. Meanwhile, the court extended interim protection till further hearing. NCB has, so far, arrested 25 people in the case. It is alleged that Prakash was in contact with the peddlers arrested in the case. The anti-drugs agency had questioned Prakash on September 25 and 26 for approximately 12 hours as part of its probe into Rajput’s death. Actor Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik, Rajput’s staffers Samuel Miranda, Dipak Sawant, alleged drug peddlers Zaid Vilatra and Abdul Basit Parihar were arrested in the course of the case. Chakraborty was granted bail by the Bombay high court (HC) on October 7, while her brother’s bail application was rejected. Showik has now again approached the special NDPS court for bail, citing the recent Supreme Court (SC) ruling, which said that “confessional statements” made to NCB officers cannot be considered as evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-court-extends-interim-protection-to-karishma-prakash-in-drugs-case/story-sAdNrhyv4uQI7f4ae1bHLL.html
07-11-2020||City||Tractors illegally transporting urea to Punjab seized in Ambala||A day after the Ambala agriculture department found five heavy vehicles that were allegedly being used to transport urea illegally to Punjab, the police lodged an FIR here on Saturday.As per details, the urea bags were being transported through trucks from Yamunanagar to Ambala. The department officials reached the grain market in Ambala City where they found the said trucks.Deputy director of agriculture (DDA) Girish Nagpal said his department had been receiving complaints that the urea sanctioned for Ambala was being transported to Punjab on tractors.“On reaching the grain market, we found that the urea bags from trucks with bills were being transferred to tractors illegally. We found no document on where the urea was being taken to. We have given details to the police and they’ve held one of the drivers. We will cancel the dealer’s licence,” DDA said.Nagpal told the police, “The driver, Keshav Kumar of Aligarh, told me that he works at Kharar grain market and came to Ambala on instructions of his manager Suresh Kumar. He said that he had already sent a loaded tractor to Punjab. I have confirmed with him that the urea is meant for the farmers in Haryana and was being black marketed to Punjab.”A case was registered under Sections 120B (criminal conspiracy) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code and under the Essential Commodities Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tractors-illegally-transporting-urea-to-punjab-seized-in-ambala/story-WbHBY7Ys4qG52ITqWHPAgJ.html
07-11-2020||City||One dead, 4 injured in clash over urinating outside shop in East of Kailash||New Delhi: A clash between two groups over urinating outside a grocery shop in south Delhi’s East of Kailash led to the death of a 28-year-old man while at least four persons were injured in the violence late Friday night, the police said. Two men who ran the shop have been apprehended after the autopsy report of the 28-year-old man showed that he was stabbed in his back with a sharp weapon. A case of murder was registered on the complaint of his friend, Jagjeet alias Vicky, the person who was caught urinating outside the shop by its two owners, identified by their first names Vinay and Vimal, said deputy commissioner of police (southeast) RP Meena. DCP Meena said that two calls were received by the police control room in the intervening night of Friday and Saturday, regarding a quarrel at C-block market in East of Kailash, A police team reached there and enquired about the incident. It was learnt that Jagjeet was urinating in front of the grocery shop owned by Vinay and Vimal. The shop was closed and the two were sitting outside it. “An argument broke out between Jagjeet and the two shop owners. Jagjeet left but soon returned with his friends Amit, Ramandeep, Gurvinder, Jaspreet, Jagat Singh, Karan and Amandeep Singh. They started fighting with the duo,” said the DCP. Soon more people of the market gathered and joined Vinay and Vimal. They caught Jagjeet and assaulted him and his associated. As the eight men found themselves in trouble, they fled. While fleeing Amandeep fell down between C Block market and ISKCON temple and became unconscious. His friends admitted him to a nearby hospital, where he was declared brought dead. Vimal, Vinay, Jagjeet and another man sustained injuries in the fight, the police said. “The autopsy on Amandeep’s body was conducted at AIIMS and an stab wound was found on his back. Accordingly, a murder case was registered and Vinay and Vimal were apprehended,” said DCP Meena. Amandeep worked in a travel company but had lost his job due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-dead-4-injured-in-clash-over-urinating-outside-shop-in-east-of-kailash/story-cmL3N0Fnx3sdS7ykBGu1UN.html
07-11-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: BJP slams Bittu for calling Union minister Puri a ‘fake Sikh’||Slamming member of Parliament (MP) Ravneet Singh Bittu for calling Union minister Hardeep Puri a “fake sikh”, the district unit of Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) staged a protest near Clock Tower on Saturday. They also burned Bittu’s effigy. The BJP leaders said that sentiments of the Sikh community have been hurt by Bittu’s comment and Akal Takht should take action against the MP. An FIR should be lodged against Bittu under Section of 295-A of Indian Penal Code for hurting religious sentiments, they said. BJP district president Pushpinder Singal said, “Bittu has lost his ground in the district and is making such statements just to remain in the headlines. We have also asked BJP state president Ashwani Sharma to form a five- member committee, which will take up the matter with the Akal Takht. Bittu is trying to disturb the peace of the state by hurting the religious sentiments and we will not allow that.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-bjp-slams-bittu-for-calling-union-minister-puri-a-fake-sikh/story-AsPisGwWxKX9THjwgFtivM.html
07-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s Covid count goes past 15,000 amid rise in active cases||It has taken 234 days for Chandigarh’s Covid-19 tally to cross the 15,000 mark, after the first infection was reported on March 18 this year. With 98 people testing positive for the virus on Saturday, the total has reached 15,025.Meanwhile, two elderly men with comorbidities succumbed, taking the toll to 232. Aged 60 and 79, they belonged to Sectors 38 and 40, respectively. The infection has witnessed an uptick since the beginning of November, with the daily count crossing 100 after a span of more than a month on Friday. Even as the number of deaths has dropped in the past two weeks, with another surge, the number can jump again, warn health officials.In the first two weeks of October, the average number of deaths reported daily was between two and three. In the first week of November, it dropped to less than one. This also led to a marginal decrease in fatality rate from 1.6% to 1.5%. However, the ratio of active cases to the total, which had dropped below 5%, has again reached 5.4%.Active cases had reached their peak amid a surge in infection in September. As many as 3,171 cases were active on September 16. With the pandemic hitting a plateau in October, and recoveries surpassing fresh cases, active cases started a downward trend. However, the number has gone up from 593 on November 2 to 815 on Saturday (November 7). “As active cases increase, the chances of death also increase. We have lately seen a gradual increase in the number of active cases, which is not a good sign,” said a senior health official, who did not wish to be named.As air pollution due to firecrackers could increase fatalities, the authorities have banned them, said Dr Amandeep Kang, director, health department. “It will certainly help contain the situation. Residents should adhere to the norms,” she said.85% patients who died had comorbiditiesA few days before the ban, the administration had issued a health advisory, stating: “People should desist from bursting firecrackers in order to prevent air pollution and to protect the elderly and people with comorbidities.”In fact, nearly 85% patients from Chandigarh who died while undergoing treatment for Covid-19 had succumbed to other underlying diseases that got aggravated due to the infection, according to data provided by the UT health department.Chandigarh has reported deaths of 232 Covid-19 patients so far, of whom four had died due to suicide and one by accidental fall. Of the remaining 227 patients, as many as 190 had other diseases (comorbidities). Dr VK Nagpal, joint director, health department, Chandigarh, said comorbidities had emerged as a key factor behind the deaths. “It is clear the patients had other ailments before getting infected,” he said, adding that data suggests the major cause has been uncontrolled conditions, which mainly include diabetes, pneumonia, hypertension and acute respiratory distress syndrome. The other factors include cancer besides kidney and heart ailments.A major cause of worry for the city is the high prevalence of diabetes. Among 15 states and UTs surveyed in a study carried out by the Indian Council of Medical Research in 2017, Chandigarh recorded the highest prevalence rate (14.6%) of diabetes, almost twice the national average of 7.3%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-covid-count-goes-past-15-000-amid-rise-in-active-cases/story-QQUhT1gO6VB58HRcOiYqUM.html
07-11-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC ropes in sports bodies to develop infra||: With the municipal corporation (MC) working to establish a sports park in Jainpur area and upgrade the existing sports infrastructure in the city under Smart City Mission, the civic body has roped in different sports associations to get their suggestions so that the projects can be developed as per the requirement of the players.A meeting was held at the MC’s Zone D office on Saturday wherein mayor Balkar Sandhu, municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal and councillor Mamta Ashu reviewed the ongoing project along with members of different sports associations.Apinder Singh Grewal, former mayor and president of Punjab Swimming Association, also participated in the meeting and deliberated upon developing the all-weather pool near Rakh Bagh on the lines of Talkatora Stadium in Delhi.Mayor Sandhu said that two open basketball courts at Ludhiana Basketball Academy will be converted into indoor courts soon. He said that the detailed project report in this regard has already been prepared.Mamta Ashu said, “It has already been decided that all existing sports facilities in the city will be upgraded. The projects include laying of a new athletics synthetic track at Guru Nanak Stadium, developing indoor (all weather) swimming pool, upgradation of Shastri Hall, construction of a new table-tennis court, upgradation and repair of astroturf and a velodrome (cycling track) at PAU, besides construction of a sports park over 32 acres of land in Jainpur village of Ludhiana district.”After the soil testing report, the topographic survey and land demarcation at the Jainpur Sports Park site is underway and will be completed shortly. Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu had decided to rope in different sports associations so that the infrastructure could be developed as per the needs of the players and every point should be covered, said Ashu while adding that meetings with some other associations will also be held in the coming time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-mc-ropes-in-sports-bodies-to-develop-infra/story-cWfllQxJKNiWqqJ2GpMpCO.html
07-11-2020||Chandigarh||Kurukshetra man’s ashes hang in balance as 90-year-old wife, son spar to stake claim||Over two weeks after he died of Covid-19, the ashes of Mahinder Singh are stashed in a locker at the Sector-25 crematorium, awaiting final rituals.Reason: An impasse between his family members over who gets the remains.The dispute has reached the Punjab and Haryana high court, with Mahinder’s wife Jaswant Kaur,90, levelling allegations against her son, Daler Singh, 45, an NRI living in Germany.It was Daler, who brought his 79-year-old father from Kurukshetra to PGIMER for treatment on October 13, but he died on October 20. Of the couple’s six sons, one died, Daler lives abroad and the remaining four sons and their nonagenarian mother live in Kurukshetra. Jaswant has alleged that Daler did not inform them of her husband’s death and only sounded them after cremating him on the evening of October 20. The family rushed to Chandigarh and asked the crematorium caretaker for Mahinder’s ashes.However, as Daler was the signing authority at the cremation, they were turned down, with the NRI even threatening them of criminal action, forcing them to approach the police.Daler, however, did not yield even after police intervention, prompting Jaswant to move the high court on October 27, staking claim over the ashes.The Chandigarh administration counsel had then assured the court of mediation to try and pacify both the parties. However, Daler has never turned up for the meetings on five occasions between October 28 and November 3.Appearing for Daler in court on November 4, his counsel sought time to respond to the plea of his mother.Law experts say the ashes can now neither be collected by Daler nor his other family members till a decision by the court that will hear the case next on January 14. Awaiting the final goodbye, Mahinder’s remains will till then stay locked away at the crematorium.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fate-of-kurukshetra-man-s-ashes-hangs-in-balance-as-wife-nri-son-spar-to-stake-claim/story-K9QX3uxbYVk7Wnizcc0vDK.html
07-11-2020||Chandigarh||Seven govt school in Ludhiana district receive tablets||: Teachers from seven government primary schools received 49 tablets from deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Saturday during a district-level function at Bachat Bhawan. This will enable students to continue with their studies online amid the Covid-19 pandemic.A total of 38 government primary schools will receive 267 tablets under this scheme which will equip students to study digitally.The schools which received tablets during the function on Saturday are Government Primary School, Burj Naklian, Government Primary School, Sidhwan Bet (girls); GPS Barundi, GPS Malsihan Bhaike, GPS Kamalpura (boys), GPS Bagga Khurd and GPS Manj Faguwal.  During the event, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh virtually inaugurated 107 smart schools in the district.Jashanpreet Kaur, a Class 5 student from government primary school, Burj Naklian, is a meritorious student. But, due to schools closing down in March amid the Covid outbreak, she faced many difficulties in continuing with her studies online as she belongs to a poor family and does not have a mobile phone. When her school’s teachers received seven tablets, she was overjoyed and thanked the officials as she will now be able to continue her education virtually.Kaur, 10, said, “I was attending classes through television. Sometimes, I had queries, but due to one-way communication, I was not able to clear my doubts. But now, I can talk to my teachers and will be able to access online material made available by the education department.” The cluster head teacher, Gupreet Singh, said, “The school has 66 students and we received seven tablets today. These gadgets will help many students study online and will provide aid to children who do not have gadgets to continue with their studies.”  District education officers, secondary and elementary, Swaranjit Kaur and Rajinder Kaur were also present during the event.Councillors, parents and MLAs also attended the event virtually. Social distancing went for a toss during the event and even officials were seen flouting Covid safety norms while handing over the tablets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/seven-govt-school-in-ludhiana-district-receive-tablets/story-O5ITzktzYHhtKoH0vFslGJ.html
07-11-2020||City||Mohali civil surgeon, 6 family members test positive for Covid-19||Mohali civil surgeon GB Singh and his six family members are among 92 people who tested positive for Covid-19 in the district on Saturday. “We all are under home isolation with mild symptoms. We will soon come out of it,” said Dr Singh. Sources said his children had recently returned from a holiday. The district on Saturday recorded 18 recoveries and no death. Active cases went up to 683, while recovery rate slipped from 93.4% to 92.8%. Among the fresh cases, 53 surfaced in Mohali city, 13 in Gharuan, 11 in Dhakoli and 10 in Kharar.As many as 12,822 people have tested positive so far, of whom 11,894 have recovered and 245 have died.60 cases in PanchkulaSixty people tested positive in Panchkula district, taking the count to 7,443.As many as 43 of the new cases surfaced in Panchkula city, followed by seven in Pinjore.While 7,015 (94.2%) patients have been cured and discharged, 117 have succumbed to the disease, leaving 311 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-civil-surgeon-6-family-members-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-CX3LjksMjgeI7gfO9nS7KN.html
07-11-2020||City||Satish Mangal elected president of Ludhiana District Cricket Association||Officials of the Ludhiana District Cricket Association (LDCA), an affiliated body of the Punjab Cricket Association (PCA), were elected on Friday. The elections were being conducted after 17 years on the directions of Punjab and Haryana high court. This is for the first time in Punjab that former cricketers, Satish Kumar Mangal and Rakesh Saini, have been elected for the posts of president and senior vice-president, respectively. Permod Kohli, former Chief Justice of Sikkim high court , was appointed observer for the smooth conduct of the elections. Satish Kumar Mangal is a former Ranji Trophy player who has also been on the selection panel for Indian School Boys under School Games Federation of India and Punjab junior cricket.  “We want to continue the good work done by the association. Moreover, we want to involve Ranji Trophy players with the association and utilise their valuable experience. We have been struggling since a long time for a cricket ground of our own for the young players. Currently, they have been practising at the GRD Cricket Association ground,” Mangal said. “Till now, cricket was generally being empowered in Mohali and Patiala districts of Punjab. But now, we want to boost the game in Ludhiana and bring it up to the level of these two districts,” he added. Rakesh Saini, senior vice-president of the association, was also a Ranji player from Punjab in the years 1997-99. He has played for Vijay Merchant Trophy, Cooch Behar Trophy and was a gold medallist in college for outstanding performance in cricket. He said, “These elections are a boon for the young players as first-class cricket players have been elected for the post of president and senior vice-president. The newly elected officials will fight for the demands of the players and opportunities will be provided to them.” Elaborating on the need for a cricket ground, Saini said, “We will try to coordinate with the higher authorities to get a cricket ground as early as possible.” Ajaay R Jain, Rakesh Saini, Suresh Katyal and Keshav Rai were elected for the posts of senior vice-presidents. Surinder Pal Singh, Naresh Marwaha, Charanjit Singh, Girish Dhir, Kusham Parmod and Ashok Sikka were elected for the post of vice-president. Harinder Bir Singh, Iqbal Singh Ahuja, Jasinder Pal Singh and Roshan Lal Chopra were elected associate vice presidents. Anupam Kumaria was appointed general secretary and Manik Bassi as treasurer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-dist-cricket-association-polls-former-ranji-player-satish-mangal-elected-president/story-qF5M3o4VshP8peg94TfzSI.html
07-11-2020||Chandigarh||Two men held for stabbing Chandigarh financier, snatching gold chain||Two men have been arrested for snatching a financier’s gold chain after attacking him with a knife at his office in Sector 44 last week. Identified as Mohit Thakur, 26, and Vijay Singh Rawat, 28, they are residents of Phase 11, Mohali. They were arrested on Friday, on a tip-off about a duo roaming in Sector 38 and trying to sell the stolen chain, which has been recovered. Police said the accused had planned to rob financier Ravinder Bindra of money. A Sector-51 resident, he was at his office in Sector 44 when the duo reached there and attacked him with a knife around 8:45pm on October 31. After a brief scuffle, they fled with his gold chain. Bindra sustained stab wounds on his hand and lower hip. Besides the blood-stained knife, police had also recovered a fake pistol from the spot. A case was registered at the police station in Sector 34.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-men-held-for-stabbing-chandigarh-financier-snatching-gold-chain/story-W9jGZMKwRis5nwTSFwflYM.html
07-11-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana college adopts 32 villages to make them stubble-burning free||The extension cell of Guru Nanak National College, Doraha, has adopted 32 villages this year and resolved to make them stubble-burning free. The team, under the guidance of the management and principal, is moving from door to door to convince farmers to adopt agricultural machinery. Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma has appreciated the efforts of the college management for contributing to this noble cause. The team of extension cell has surveyed villages in Doraha, Samrala and Sahnewal block and identified villages more prone to stubble burning. The cell is motivating farmers of these to avail of the services being offered by the college to upgrade their agricultural knowledge. It has also given a call to farmers for effective utilisation of natural resources and efficient management of crop residue for sustainable agriculture and safeguarding the environment. The villages that have been adopted include Ghulal, Bijlipur, Lal Kalan , Kubba, Khattran, Balala, Lopon , Khaira , Neelon, Chak, Rampur, Chak Sarwan Nath, Panglian, Mehdoodan, Pangalian, Madpur, Mutton, Khattran, Ghulal, Bhagpur, Barwala, Bhagwanpura, Bharthala, Ajnaud, Tibba, Majara, Umdepur, Daburjee, Bhathal, Gidri, Raul and Dugri. The cell, in order to provide a practical solution to the problem of scant machinery with marginal farmers, is supplying happy seeders, mulchers, rotodrill, MB Plough, zero till and super seeders with the assistance of the agriculture department and CII Foundation. The cell had adopted seven villages of Samrala block last year and made them stubble-burning free. This year, despite the Covid pandemic, the volunteers went from door-to-door and convinced farmers to adopt agri-machinery. The team given machines to farmers daily basis and maintain accountability as well.Harpratap Brar, general secretary of the college management committee of Guru Nanak National College, said, “We are motivating the farmers to avail the services being offered by the college for their agricultural knowledge up-gradation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-college-adopts-32-villages-to-make-them-stubble-burning-free/story-4yqdKTkdPKJEsr4NJThTRN.html
07-11-2020||Chandigarh||Tricity buzz: HT Chandigarh reporters’ tracker on all those making, or faking, news||Celebrate this Diwali with Beej Bombs insteadThe Chandigarh administration and the Haryana government have banned firecrackers this Diwali, but Panchkula-based Tanika Bansal has come up with eco-friendly Beej Bombs to spread the cheer. Packed as chakris, rockets and phooljhadis, the special crackers carry seeds of herbal plants and flowers. “Phooljhadis have seeds of flowers such as calendula and poppy, while anaar bombs have seeds of fruit trees such as pomegranate, guava and papaya trees,” she says. The bombs can be planted directly and come with a set of instructions on how to care for the plants.Mohali cops take press route to impress tough bossIt’s raining press conferences ever since tough boss Satinder Singh took charge as the Mohali district police chief on September 30. Incidentally, it’s not Satinder Singh but his subordinates who have been convening press conferences at the drop of a hat to announce the solving of a crime or the arrest of an accused. In these Covid times, SPs, DSPs and SHOs have been calling at least four press meets a week to tom-tom their achievement even if it’s a small drug recovery. We hope the boss is impressed.Battle of press notes in run-up to Chandigarh MC elections The Chandigarh Municipal Corporation elections are nearly a year away but the political battle has picked up pace. The weapon of choice is the press note and the aim public perception management. The BJP has a well-oiled press note churning setup that puts out at least two releases daily. A copy of all press notes is marked to the state BJP president and the party sure has a lot to say from sector-level functions to international issues. The Congress is catching up with leaders releasing multiple press notes at both the organisational and individual levels. Most notes are directed against the BJP and letters issued to the UT administration at a personal level. The latest entrant in the press note battleground is the Aam Aadmi Party. Though it is still building its base, AAP press briefings show the party is proactively taking on the BJP in the city.Health dept prescribes Covid curbs amid rising casesWith the resurgence of Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh, a number of health department officials are in favour of restrictions in market areas amid the festival season as safety guidelines are being flouted openly. Of late, markets have started seeing crowds and restrictions in terms of timings or strict monitoring of safety measures being followed is required, officials said. Everything illegal about it There was much drama at the Chandigarh district court on Friday during the District Bar Association elections. As the voting ensued the advocates, much to their horror, found a man falsely representing himself as a lawyer all ready to cast his ballot. The hungama that ensued after he was caught wasn’t surprising: After all, who carries out an illegal act to elect a legal member of the Association? No announcement on student council yet As no decision was taken on allowing the members of the Panjab University Campus Students Council (PUCSC) to continue, PU is yet to have the students council in place for this academic year. The matter was also discussed in the university’s last syndicate meeting, but no formal announcements were made. Tch, tch! Sad, that in this tough year with Covid and all that, the students (so far) don’t have anyone to speak up for them.12-year-old pens adventure novelJaiveer Singh Katial, a 12-year-old student of St John’s High School, has written a 238-page adventure novel. Titled “The Double Force and The Fallen Kingdom”, it was completed in three years and was released by school principal Kavita Das in association with Chandigarh Literary Society on Saturday. It is a story of twin brothers John and Jeremy, always looking for an adventure. “It reminded me of Hardy Boys, and I feel it has the potential to be turned into a web series,” said author Khushwant Singh.  Inputs by Hillary Victor, Munieshwer A Sagar, Rajanbir Singh, Tanbir Dhaliwal, Dar Ovais and Amanjeet Singh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/tricity-buzz-ht-chandigarh-reporters-tracker-on-all-those-making-or-faking-news/story-ajq2nuZcQ4sCRhAEr7tYLL.html
07-11-2020||City||Banks must be more careful in preserving important document of their customers||The minimum standards of banking practices, drawn up by the Banking Codes and Standards Board of India, expects banks to return within fifteen days of repayment of a loan by a customer, all documents and title deeds of the mortgaged property. In case of delay in handing over the papers or loss of such valuable papers, the bank has to compensate the consumer.However, forget compensation, in most cases, banks do not even acknowledge the loss of papers and even when consumers approach the consumer courts, resist paying the compensation, leading to prolonged legal battle. If one considers the appeals filed by banks in such cases before the consumer courts, it is obvious that they spend on their standing counsel, far more than the compensation that they eventually pay the customer.In fact these cases highlight the need for banks to upgrade their system of storing and preserving important documents entrusted to them by their customers. Besides, in all such cases, they should investigate into the loss of papers, identify those responsible for the loss, hold them accountable and also take appropriate measures to prevent recurrence. It is equally important to get the victim, duplicate copies of the document and also pay adequate compensation. A recent order of the apex consumer court underscores some of these issues. In this case, the complainant had taken a loan of Rs 3,50,000 to buy a house and after repayment of the loan, when she asked the bank for return of the original sale deed, the bank denied having ever received them. The lower consumer courts had asked the bank to return the original sale deed along with compensation of Rs 50,000 and costs of Rs 10,000.The apex consumer commission modified this order, asked the bank to issue a certificate that the original deed was lost, pay the amounts awarded by the lower consumer commissions and in addition, pay Rs 1 lakh to compensate the consumer for the decrease in the value of the property on account of the loss of original papers(State Bank of India Vs Vallu Sowjanya, RP No 4550 of 2013, date of order: October 21, 2020)In State Bank of India Vs Amitesh Mazumdar (RP No 2732 of 2019), decided on Jan 3, 2020, the lower consumer courts had asked the bank to give an acknowledgement of the loss of the title deed to the consumer, lodge a police complaint, issue notice on the loss in three newspapers, pay Rs 5 lakh as damages and Rs 30,000 as costs. The bank in its revision petition before the apex consumer court argued against the award of compensation.Dismissing such a plea of the bank and upholding the award of compensation and costs to the consumer, the apex consumer court observed: “The erosion in the value of the property if it is to be sold without the Title Deeds would be substantial and in fact even the compensation awarded by the District Forum and maintained by the State Commission may not be sufficient to make up such erosion in the market value of the property”.Again in Sheel Sohal Vs Axis Bank Ltd (CC No 1021 of 2016, order dated January 8, 2018), while awarding a compensation of Rs 10 lakhs, the Commission observed:. “ No one would extend a loan against equitable mortgage of the property only by deposit of the copies of the title documents of the house….” In fact in a number of such cases, the apex consumer court has pointed to the difficulty in assessing the adverse effect of the loss of original papers on the value of the property. This also explains the varied compensation given in different cases, but damages in all such cases not only need to recompense the consumer, but also act as a deterrent in so far as banks are concerned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/banks-must-be-more-careful-in-preserving-important-document-of-their-customers/story-sybQKk22l4IR2YebFQxazJ.html
07-11-2020||City||Delhi: Africans protest outside police station||New Delhi: At least 30 Africans on Friday evening demonstrated outside the Mohan Garden police station in southwest Delhi to protest against the recent police action against compatriots. Police said since the protest was in violation of the government’s guidelines on social distancing during the pandemic, they have police registered a case under sections of disobeying government’s order and negligent acts likely to spread infection. The FIR was registered under Indian Penal Code sections 188, 269, and 270, police said. “The protestors were apprised that by holding the protest they were violating the Covid-19 guidelines issued by the government. They were urged to leave. The protestors dispersed after around 15 minutes. We have registered a case and action would be taken as per law against the foreigners after identifying them through video footage,” said deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena. According to DCP Meena, the Dwarka district police had been taking action against foreigners who were found living illegally in areas such as Uttam Nagar and Mohan Garden. Last month, 25 cases under the Foreigners Act were registered against as many people from African countries, after the verification of their documents through Foreigners Regional Registration Office (FRRO) confirmed that they were staying illegally, as their visas had expired. “Some local representatives of the community were making an issue out of it. They gathered at the police station to protest and demanded that arrangements be made to send them back to their country. The crowd dispersed after being informed about the violation of the Covid-19 rules,” said the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-africans-protest-outside-police-station/story-GfdzDMzimne7AdUYwQ3d4M.html
07-11-2020||City||Father-daughter among three held for job fraud in Mohali||With the arrest of three persons including a father-daughter duo, the Mohali police claim to have busted a gang who were duping people on the pretext of providing them jobs.The accused, Seema, alias Anushka, her father Amar Singh and Harpreet Singh, alias Rohit, were operating from an office in Phase 2. “They were operating from a training institute in Mohali. Raids were conducted and accused were arrested,” said senior superintendent of police (SSP) Satinder Singh.“We found 62 application forms that are being verified; we suspect that many more victims will be detected,” he added.A case under Sections 420 (cheating), 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 120B (conspiracy) was registered.Inspector Manphul Singh, station house officer (SHO), Phase 1, said one Kajalpreet Kaur of Kaithal, Haryana, told the police that she and her friend who are pursuing BBA had on October 4 approached the company for a government job.Anushka, alias Seema, and Harpreet Singh, alias Rohit, had promised to get them government jobs for which they registered by paying ₹1,000 each and after a few days, deposited ₹10,000 each as processing fee, it was alleged.Kaur told the police that she and her friend had paid ₹33,000 each to the company in different installments to get employment letters that never arrived.The accused will be produced in a court on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/father-daughter-among-three-held-for-job-fraud-in-mohali/story-27NQMPfuKVYqtlK5LqxTQI.html
07-11-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER non-faculty employees stopped from carrying out protest march in Chandigarh||The police on Saturday erected barriers outside the campus of Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research to stop non-faculty employees’ unions from carrying out a protest march to the governor house.The employees are demanding the implementation of a backlog promotion scheme to the non-faculty staff on completion of eight years of service on a continuous basis, cadre review of technical staff from 1992, the grant of grade pay of ₹4,600 to junior technicians from 2006, payment of arrears of hospital patient care allowance of group B employees, and grant of Diwali bonus.Raising slogans against the PGIMER administration, the protesting employees have said that it was an undemocratic and autocratic attitude of the administration towards the genuine demands of the working class.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-non-faculty-employees-stopped-from-carrying-out-protest-march-in-chandigarh/story-CTu0qSvumwGweoYKK4ypjO.html
07-11-2020||City||5th DU cut-off: Seats still available in popular courses||New Delhi: Delhi University (DU) colleges released the fifth cut-off list for admission to undergraduate courses with a marginal drop in the eligibility score, between 0.25 and 1 percentage points, on Saturday. In the fifth list, many colleges have reopened admission to popular courses such as English (Hons), Mathematics (Hons) BCom (Hons), and Economics (Hons).Although over 60,000 out of 70,000 available seats across DU colleges have already been filled after the four cut-offs, seats in many popular courses are still up for grabs. For instance, English (Hons) is still available in 22 colleges including Miranda House (97.75%) and Lady Shri Ram (LSR) college at 98%. Some colleges have also reopened the course in the fifth list. It includes Indraprastha College for Women or IP College at 96T, Kirori Mal College at 96.75 %, Maharaja Agrasen College at 91.50 %, and Maitreyi College at 94.50 %. Similarly, seats are still available in BA (Hons) in Economics in at least 17 colleges, including Ramjas (97.25%) and Motilal Nehru College at 95.5%. The course has reopened in some colleges, including Delhi College of Arts and Commerce at 96.25 %, Dyal Singh College at 95.5%, Gargi College at 96.75%, and Maitreyi College 94.50%.Students wishing to pursue BCom (Hons) can still apply in 24 colleges including Shri Ram College of Commerce (98.12%) and Rajdhani College (94%). The course has reopened in the fifth list at Daulat Ram College at 96.50 %, Delhi College of Arts and Commerce at 96.25 %, and Kirori Mal College at 97 %, among others. History (Hons) is only available in five-six colleges including Kirori Mal College at 97.25 % and Ramjas College at 97 %. Political Science (Hons) is also available in 10 colleges including LSR at 98.75% and Ramjas College at 97.75%. Miranda House has reopened Political Science in the fifth list at 98.75%.Seats are also available in Science stream courses. For instance, BSc (Hons) in Mathematics is still open in around 20 colleges including Hindu (97.75%) and Ramjas College at 96%. The course has reopened at some colleges including Kirori Mal College at 96%, Rajdhani College at 91.25%, and Indraprastha College for Women at 94.75%, among others. BSc (Hons) in Chemistry is also available at several colleges, including Daulat Ram College at 94.33%, Hindu (97.66%), Miranda House (96.67%), and Ramjas (94.66%). Explaining the reason behind the reopening of courses, Sanjeev Singh, head of the University’s computer center which monitors the admission process, said, “There have been several withdrawals since students are switching colleges after every consecutive list and taking admissions in their preferred courses or colleges. We are still analysing the number of cancellations and withdrawals up to the third list.”The process for admissions under the fourth cut-off will be conducted between Monday and Wednesday. This was be the last scheduled cut-off for admission this year. The university will release a special cut off on November 18 to fill the remaining seats. “Special drives will be conducted for admissions in certain categories in case the seats remain vacant even after the special cut-off,” said a member of the DU admission committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/5th-du-cut-off-seats-still-available-in-popular-courses/story-guixD1iDlk0hNMhZF3wDZO.html
07-11-2020||City||11-year-old girl raped by her father’s friend in Outer Delhi||New Delhi: An 11-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her father’s 42-year-old friend at her home in outer Delhi’s Vijay Vihar on Saturday afternoon, police said. Police have arrested the man and registered a case against him. The man fled from the crime scene after a woman in the neighbourhood saw him sexually assaulting the girl and raised an alarm. He was later caught from outer Delhi, said the police. “We registered a case of rape under the relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. He is a friend of the girl’s father,” said deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) Pramod Kumar Mishra. Police said that the girl lives with her parents and younger brother at their home in Vijay Vihar. Her father is a mason while the mother is a home maker. Her mother had gone to her village for some work. Police said that on Saturday morning, the child’s father had left for work, leaving his two children at home. Around 1 pm, the friend of the girl’s father reached home and forced himself on her while her brother was sleeping. A woman in the neighbourhood saw it and raised an alarm. The man fled before the police could reach the spot. “The girl’s medical examination was done at a hospital and she was counselled. On her statement, a case was registered, the suspect was identified and arrested,” added the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/11-year-old-girl-raped-by-her-father-s-friend-in-outer-delhi/story-GrRqJzZcoKBbBFdVLQzy1H.html
07-11-2020||Delhi||Anti-dengue campaign to end next week, no dengue deaths this year, says Delhi govt||After running the campaign for more than two months, the Delhi government said their anti-dengue awareness campaign, commonly known as the 10 Hafte 10 Baje, 10 Minute campaign, will end the following week.In the last week of the campaign, the government Saturday said chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will thank and congratulate everyone who participated in the campaign. The government said because of the campaign, Delhi has seen zero dengue deaths this year.“The chief minister appealed to all citizens to join the campaign this Sunday. Kejriwal has also expressed his gratitude to the citizens of Delhi for their massive participation this year. People from Delhi have successfully managed to bring dengue cases to 489 this year from 15,867 in 2015. Compared to 60 dengue-related deaths in 2015, there have been no dengue-related deaths this year,” the government said in a statement on Saturday. “Responding to the appeal made by Delhi CM, this year, everyone from children to RWAs, traders, celebrities and the citizens made the 10 Hafte 10 Baje, 10 Minute campaign a significant success story,” it said. The campaign was also hailed by Anand Mahindra, chairman of Mahindra Group, who tweeted, “A seemingly small piece of news but such ‘human development’ indicators affect the quality of our everyday lives. Such milestones are worth celebrating.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/anti-dengue-campaign-to-end-next-week-no-dengue-deaths-this-year-says-delhi-govt/story-KV71z8tl2LYpvGjADyNJ9M.html
07-11-2020||Delhi||Four couples arrested for cheating 13 banks of over ₹3 cr; they used forged ID papers to procure credit cards, loans||Four couples, three of them of the same family, were arrested for allegedly duping 13 banks of over ₹3 crore by opening accounts using forged papers, procuring credit and debits cards, and then using them for shopping and obtaining loans, police said Saturday.A total of 63 credit and debit cards and 83 cheque books of different banks, all obtained fraudulently, jewellery items, ₹14.67 lakh in cash, and 15 cellphones were seized from the eight arrested persons by teams of the economic offences wing (EOW). Two card swipe machines, 31 PAN cards, 18 Aadhaar cards, and 30 voter ID cards, all prepared using forged documents, were also recovered from them, joint commissioner of police (EOW) OP Mishra said.“We are now looking for the suspects who prepared the fake identification documents. One of the arrested persons said he procured the fake IDs from two persons – Umesh and Ravi Sachdeva. Our teams are looking for the duo and other persons involved in the racket,” Mishra said.The arrested persons were identified as Kawal Raj,66, and his 65-year-old wife; their two sons Manish Kshatriya, 40, and Ajay Kshatriya,35, and their wives aged 37 and 32 years; and Arun Sharma,39, and his 35-year-old wife. The names of the arrested women were not revealed by the police. All of them are residents of north Delhi’s Rani Bagh and each of them had got made at least three fake IDs, the police said.Joint CP Mishra said a private bank, after an internal audit, had filed a complaint with the EOW regarding 36 customers who had cheated the bank by opening saving accounts in different names and addresses, using forged papers, and procuring credit and debit cards.“The suspects used the cards for obtaining loans and shopping; they never paid the money back. During subsequent verification, the bank found that the suspects were missing from the addresses provided on the ID documents,” the joint CP said.A case of cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy was registered and investigation was taken up by multiple teams. During the probe, it emerged that the same set of persons used different names, IDs and addresses to open the accounts.“While preparing the IDs, the male suspects used to change their physical appearances -- they sported different styles of beard and moustaches in the photographs. The women also used a software to alter their facial features,” Mishra said.Police said the suspects were arrested from their homes in Rani Bagh between Thursday and Friday, after their identities were established by technical surveillance, human intelligence and scrutiny of forged documents and IDs that they had submitted with the bank.Explaining the modus operandi, an investigator said after opening the accounts and procuring credit or debit cards, the suspects immediately exhausted the credit limits on these cards by buying jewellery and other expensive items.“They had also procured two swipe machines in the name of their bogus business ventures. They further misrepresented to the banks that credit cards were swiped but payment couldn’t be carried out. Thus they got the provisional payments from the banks credited to their accounts. After that, they also obtained loans on these credit cards and then absconded,” said the investigator, who did not want to be named.The joint CP said Manish is the mastermind of the racket. His father Kawal Raj owned a small electric switch manufacturing factory in Rani Bagh and both were directors of the company. “In 2012-13, they suffered huge losses in the business, after which Manish involved himself and his family in cheating banks,” Mishra said, adding that the suspects have disclosed that nearly ₹50 lakh of the money they fraudulently obtained is lying in different bank accounts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/four-couples-arrested-for-cheating-13-banks-of-over-3-cr-they-used-forged-id-papers-to-procure-credit-cards-loans/story-K5zkDVLuvZRgrKs1osOLIJ.html
07-11-2020||Chandigarh||Hooch deaths: Toll rises to 39 as three more die in Sonepat||Three more people died due to the alleged consumption of spurious liquor in Haryana’s Sonepat on Saturday, officials said. The death toll in the tragedy that has been unfolding for the last six days has risen to 39. The residents of Sonepat’s Gumar village are scared and grief-stricken as nine co-villagers have succumbed so far, including three on Saturday.The three deceased are Vikram, who was undergoing treatment at a Delhi hospital, Ramesh and Dalar Chand, a migrant labourer from Bihar, who were admitted at Rohtak’s Post-graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS).The family members of a deceased said, “Due to the hooch tragedy, nine families have lost their bread-winners and it is difficult for the widows to meet the expenses. The liquor mafias have destroyed these families and police have failed to arrest them,” they added.The villagers have alleged that large amounts of liquor is manufactured and sold every day under the nose of police and excise department. “The government should compensate the families of the deceased and introduce a rehabilitation programme in the area to end this business, which has destroyed many families. Children are also getting involved in this illegal business. Some families are running the bootlegging business in the area for other villages as well,” they alleged. The villagers claimed that 31 people, including 18 locals and 13 migrant labourers, are admitted at various hospitals.Sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Surender Pal said the villagers have removed blockades from Ganuar–Gohana road after 18 hours of dharna. Police had booked Virender, Jitender, Chander Bhan, Karambir and other residents of Gumar village for blocking the road.Six persons from various areas of the district, who were involved in supplying illicit liquor, have also been arrested.Khattar announces ₹2 lakh compensation  Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has announced a compensation of ₹2 lakh each to the kin of those who have died due to the consumption of adulterated liquor in Sonepat and Panipat. Khattar said the compensation amount will be given from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. He said directions have been given to bust the network of illicit bottlers.Khattar also said strict action will be taken against officers, employees, contractors or members of liquor mafia involved in illegal sale of liquor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hooch-deaths-toll-rises-to-39-as-three-more-die-in-sonepat/story-SZp8rgzjH0TIS1xkJoW84K.html
07-11-2020||Delhi||‘Covid-19 cases in Delhi should drop soon,’ says Satyendar Jain||The national capital is currently reeling under the “third wave” of the Covid-19 infection, but cases should begin to come down soon, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Saturday.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19Interacting with reporters, he also said that the Delhi government has filed a special leave petition (SLP) in the Supreme Court after the high court did not allow reserving 80 per cent ICU beds for Covid-19 patients at several private hospitals here.Delhi’s Covid-19 tally increased to 4,23,831 on Friday after the national capital for the first time recorded over 7,000 coronavirus cases. The 7,178 fresh cases came out of the 58,860 tests conducted on Thursday, while the positivity rate on Friday stood at 12.19 per cent amid the festive season and rising pollution in the city, according to a bulletin issued by the Delhi health department.The previous highest single-day spike till date here -- 6,842 cases -- was recorded on Wednesday.The number of daily cases had crossed the 6000-mark for three consecutive days from November 3-5.Sixty-four new fatalities were recorded, pushing the death toll in the national capital to 6,833 on Friday. Sixty-six fatalities were reported from Covid-19 on Thursday.Health Minister Jain said, “Yesterday, we issued an order to add 1,185 beds for Covid patients in both Delhi government hospitals and many private hospitals.” “Five hundred beds are to be augmented at city government-run Covid facilities, including 110 ICU beds,” he said.Asked about the spike in cases, Jain said, Delhi had seen first wave around June 23, second wave around September 17 and this is now the third wave of Covid-19 infection, and case should begin to come down as it has been a spell of rising cases in the last five to six days. “Also, we had made preparations and issued orders to reserve 80 per cent ICU beds at many private hospitals, but the high court has stopped that, so we have filed an SLP in the Supreme Court,” he added.Asked about the factors behind the third wave of the coronavirus infection in Delhi, he said among other factors, it could be because of easing of restrictions and the “festive season”, while reiterating the importance of wearing masks.Also Read | Delhi govt orders 22 hospitals to add over 1,100 Covid beds“Many people are going the market to shop because it is a festival season. Markets are crowded in many places...there are many reasons,” Jain said. He again appealed to Delhiites to treat wearing masks as a vaccine, till the real medication is developed. On rising level of pollution and rising cases of Covid-19 in Delhi, he said pollution is not the cause of it. “But both are dangerous. The biggest reason for the increase in infections is our lax behavior. If we do not wear masks, don’t follow social distancing, then it is the main reason for the surge,” Jain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-cases-in-delhi-should-drop-soon-says-satyendar-jain/story-i96jjZi72kbPPc7dSpQdIJ.html
07-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh police prepare traffic mgmt plan for festive season rush||In anticipation of the festive season rush, the traffic police have released traffic management plans for some of the busy markets of the city. The detailed traffic circulation plans have been shared on their Twitter account – https://twitter.com/trafficchd.Barricades have been set up in front of the Sector 22 market near Kiran Cinema to make the road one-way, while the turn near the Sector 35 market has also been sealed. Besides, a one-way system has been introduced at the Electronics Market in Industrial Area, Phase 2. Pick and drop zones have been highlighted at the Sector 15 and 22 markets. Apart from this, parking areas have been earmarked near the markets in Sectors 32, 34, 35 and 41. Signboards will guide people to the designated parking areas temporarily arranged at government schools and colleges in Sectors 8, 13, 15, 18, 19, 20, 22, 29, 30, 32, 34, 35, 37, 38, 40, 41, 44 and 46 till November 15.“Although similar plans were made every day, these were released only for Elante Mall. This year, we have displayed these for all major markets on the Twitter page of Chandigarh traffic police and will continue this for all major festivals based on feedback from residents,” said Manoj Kumar Meena, senior superintendent of police (SSP, Traffic).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-police-prepare-traffic-mgmt-plan-for-festive-season-rush/story-C7qK7YuU2zSniHs2Su2ZSI.html
07-11-2020||City||Karnal market committee secretary, 8 others booked for paddy procurement fraud||Police have booked nine people, including Karnal market committee secretary, for allegedly obtaining fake gate passes as well as J and I forms to provide payment for about 27,700 quintal paddy worth ₹ 5.42 crore, officials said on Saturday. Following an investigation by Karnal sub-divisional magistrate, Ayush Sinha, market committee secretary Sunder Singh and contractual employees Vinod, Sanny, Tushar, Balbir, Prince, Nikhil, Ankush, Amit, and some unknown commission agents were booked under Sections 120B, 420, 467, 468 and 471 of the Indian Penal Code. The complaint was lodged by DFSC department inspector Sameer.Deputy commissioner (DC) Nishant Kumar Yadav said a panel was formed following the complaints of bogus procurement of paddy in some mandis of the district. “During investigation, it was found that fake gate passes were obtained to procure over 20,000 quintal paddy in Karnal. However, the paddy did not reach the mandi. As per the CCTV footage from the cameras installed in Karnal grain market, there was no arrival of paddy in the mandi when the gate passes were procured,” he said. The DC said, “Physical verification of records will be done to find out how much paddy has been procured in the mandi.”When asked about the need to investigate the procurement operations in other mandis of the state, Haryana food, civil supplies and consumer affairs department additional chief secretary PK Das said, “There was some prima facie information about the bogus procurement in Karnal. We will look into the matter if we get such reports from other places.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/karnal-market-committee-secretary-8-others-booked-for-paddy-procurement-fraud/story-WbtKRqE6rLu9AOdlP7i07L.html
07-11-2020||City||Air quality in 10 Haryana cities turns ‘severe’ as farm fires rage||The air quality in 10 cities of Haryana turned ‘severe’ on Saturday even as farm fires continued to rage in the state. As per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of 10 Haryana cities, including those in the national capital region (NCR), was measured above 400. The AQI of Dharuhera was 474 followed by Faridabad (442), Jind (440), Gurugram (439), Manesar (434), Hisar(430), Rohtak (424) Bahadurgarh (421), Ballabhgarh (418) and Fatehabad (414).The air quality of six cities—Bhiwani, Kaithal, Narnaul, Panipat, Sonepat and Sirsa— was ’very poor’ as the AQI remained above 300. Ambala, Kurukshetra and Palwal recorded ’poor’ AQI. Meanwhile, the number of active fire locations (AFL) in the state have crossed 7,000-mark. As per the figures of Haryana Space Applications Centre, the state reported 215 incidents of farm fires in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of AFLs to 7,030. Kaithal district topped the list with 1,303 incidents of farm fires since September 25, followed by 1,034 in Fatehabad, 1,001 in Karnal, 829 in Kurukshetra, 783 in Ambala and 645 in Jind.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/air-quality-in-10-haryana-cities-turns-severe-as-farm-fires-rage/story-wuOB52MPM4W0M3Mf7MQTjO.html
07-11-2020||City||Yamunanagar MC collects ₹3.5 crore property tax in October||The Yamunanagar municipal corporation has collected around ₹3.50 crore property tax in October, commissioner Dharamveer Singh said on Saturday.This comes days after a scheme of the Haryana government which provided rebates to property owners under different slabs ended on October 31.The commissioner said out of pending ₹48 crore, the civic body has so far collected ₹9.27 crore from the owners. “Most of the tax was collected from May/June till October when the government announced the scheme. However, out of the new pending figures, the government departments including the railways, owes the MC nearly ₹25 crore,” Singh added. Rent department official suspendedThe commissioner has accepted the suspension of an official of the civic body’s rent department for alleged failure to abide by orders.The suspension was accepted on Wednesday, a day after the proposal was kept before the house meeting chaired by mayor Madan Chauhan.The order comes after the Congress councillor from Ward no. 13 Nirmal Chauhan had kept a proposal to cancel the lease of a land on garhi road, where a community centre was to be constructed.“She alleged that even after the proposal to build a community centre was passed at the last house meeting, the corporation gave the land on lease. The mayor sought a response from rent branch assistant Deshraj after Chauhan proposed the construction again. However, he could not give a proper answer and the mayor recommended his suspension,” a statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/yamunanagar-mc-collects-3-5-crore-property-tax-in-october/story-Y6kUIqMJnvB5PVzqZl0UEJ.html
07-11-2020||City||3 months on, Ludhiana inspector, brother booked for assaulting siblings||An inspector, his brother and their 10 accomplices have been booked for assaulting two brothers, leaving one of them with a broken nose, in August.The accused inspector, Bittan Kumar, is deputed at the RI branch of police lines in Ludhiana. His brother has been identified as Sajan Atwal, while their accomplices remain unidentified.The accused were booked on the statement of Asha Rani, 70, mother of the two siblings attacked by the accused.Rani, a resident of Chandar Nagar, Salem Tabri, told the police that her sons, Onkar Singh, alias Babu, and Kuldeep Singh, alias Deepu, had a business of lifting debris from sites using a JCB machine and tractor trolley.On August 4, Kuldeep was working in Chhawni Mohalla, when Onkar, who was home having dinner, got a call from his brother that some people were troubling him. The accused had taken Kuldeep’s phone and threatened Onkar as well.When Onkar reached the spot, inspector Bittan Kumar, his brother, Sajan Atwal, and their accomplices assaulted both her sons with baseball bats, Rani alleged. The attack left Onkar with a nasal fracture, while Kuldeep also suffered multiple injuries. Later, the family came to know that the siblings had been booked under Sections 307, 188, 148, 149, 269 and 270 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act at the Division Number 4 police station on August 5.Rani contested this FIR through a complaint to commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal, while producing her sons’ medical reports. On this, the police chief marked an inquiry through ACP (central).However, accusing the police of dilly-dallying the matter and sheltering the accused, Rani also approached the Punjab and Haryana high court. Following this, police have now registered a cross FIR under Section 323, 325, 188, 148, 149 and 506 of the IPC and Section 3 of Epidemic Diseases Act at the Division Number 4 station.Sajan was also booked for an extortion bid on the complaint of the mother of a firecracker trader in October 2019.When contacted, inspector Satwant Singh, station house officer, Division Number 4 police station, said he was not aware about the development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-months-on-ludhiana-inspector-brother-booked-for-assaulting-siblings/story-0WXekjGtEee2tqLrBaU0yK.html
07-11-2020||Chandigarh||Voting on farm laws resolution in House would have exposed BJP-JJP govt in Haryana: Hooda||The Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Saturday said Haryana Vidhan Sabha speaker Gian Chand Gupta had committed “illegality” by rejecting the Congress’ plea to first put to vote an official resolution on farm laws before discussion in the House on Friday.Hooda, who is also leader of opposition, said had the speaker allowed voting, it would have brought to fore not only the simmering tension within the Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP-JJP government over the Centre’s three contentious farm laws but also the number of lawmakers supporting and opposing it. Speaking to HT, Hooda said the voting on official resolution hailing the farm laws would have left the government red-faced. “We knew that some JJP MLAs would vote against the government’s resolution,” Hooda said, referring to those who have been openly airing views against the party and the farm laws outside the House.“The lone INLD MLA Abhay Chautala, Independents such as Balraj Kundu and a few others would have backed the Congress in the House. The vote outcome would have been unsettling for the government,” he said, pointing out that pressing for voting was his well thought out plot to ambush the government. On Friday, pandemonium prevailed in the assembly as the Congress did not let the House function after chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar moved an official resolution backing the farm laws. Hooda said his party would have supported the official resolution if the government agreed to Congress’ demand to bring in the fourth law i.e promising Minimum Support Price (MSP). “By refusing our repeated pleas that let there be voting first and discussion afterwards on the official resolution, the speaker committed an illegality,” Hooda said, citing Haryana Vidhan Sabha rule number 183 to back his contention. Asked why the farmers agitation in Haryana against the farm laws was not as intense as it was in Punjab, Hooda accused the state government of crushing the farmers movement. “In Haryana, the agitation against the farm laws is being spearheaded by the farmers and the Congress does not want to politicise it by taking the lead,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/voting-on-farm-laws-resolution-in-house-would-have-exposed-bjp-jjp-govt-in-haryana-hooda/story-cWpGpHv5Nc7jhBbuBaRIHM.html
07-11-2020||Election:||Bihar Exit Polls 2020: Edge to RJD-led alliance, NewsX-DV Research||With the third and final phase of Bihar assembly elections coming to an end, all eyes are set on the exit polls for the 243 assembly seats. Exit polls or post-voting polls are conducted soon after a voter walks out after casting his/her vote and they aim at predicting the result based on the information collected from voters. Pollsters, assuming that the voters have correctly revealed their choice, predict the results much before the actual counting of votes begins. Therefore, on many occasions, the predictions are known to be off the mark. These exit polls are conducted by a number of organizations.Among them, is the exit poll projections carried out by NewsX with DV Research. According to NewsX, the scale of the exit polls is 100 forms per assembly seat, therefore 24,300 as there are 243 assembly constituencies in Bihar. The modes of the survey have been: forecasting, face to face interviews, phone interviews, internet interviews, intercept and executive interviews. Here are the live updates on NewsX- DV Research exit poll:NewsX- DV Research predicts the NDA could end up with 110-117 seats, short of the majority mark of 123 in the 243-member assembly. The Rashtriya Janata Dal’s Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who led the opposition coalition, is projected to get about 108-123 seats.Seat break-up for the alliances: National Democratic Alliance (NDA): 110-117 seats RJD- led Grand Alliance: 108-123 seats Lok Janshakti Party (LJP): 4-10 seatsOthers: 8-23 seatsOther questions asked:Vote share: RJD stands at 39- 47 per cent vote share; NDA stands at 33- 41 per cent vote share; LJP at 7- 12 per cent and others at 5- 14 per cent. Chief minister face: 34 per cent see Tejashwi Yadav of the RJD as the chief minister face while 32 per cent see Nitish Kumar as the chief minister. Click here for the complete coverage of Bihar assembly elections.Modi effect on the elections: 42 per cent responders said that PM Narendra Modi’s rallies changed their decision while 25 per cent say that the rallies did not influence them. 33 per cent said that they are unsure of the effect of the rallies.Why RJD or Congress?: Majority of the voters 33 per cent have voted for RJD or Congress because of unemployment.Do manifestos matter?: According to the survey, 34 per cent of the people said that the promises made in the manifesto matter. 41 per cent of the people have said that RJD’s promise of providing jobs is more believable than NDA’s promise.Read more | Bihar exit poll: Times Now-CVoter says Tejashwi ahead of Nitish Kumar in race to powerWhat were the major issues of the elections?: According to 28 per cent of the people, education and unemployment are the biggest issues in the Bihar elections. Meanwhile, 20 per cent of the people have voted for development.The counting for the Bihar assembly elections will take place on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-exit-polls-2020-edge-to-rjd-led-alliance-newsx-dv-research/story-ECSkc9SP1MV0hHub2WlgFK.html
07-11-2020||City||Delhi riots: Two get bail due to contradictory statements by witness||New Delhi: A Delhi court on Friday granted bail to two persons in a case related to communal riots in north-east Delhi in February, stating that the first statement of a witness recorded by the police in March did not name the two men -- Gulfam and Aatir. Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat granted bail to Gulfam alias Sonu Chikna and Aatir on a personal bond of Rs 25000. The court also stated that there was no CCTV footage of the incident of the case where the two men could be identified. Both the accused persons were lodged at the Mandoli jail complex. The FIR in the case was registered regarding an incident of stone pelting by a mob, in which a few police personnel suffered injuries and a man named Rohit Shukla was shot allegedly by some members of the mob. As per the FIR, the incident took place on February 24 at about 11.30 pm at Maujpur Chowk. The special public prosecutor while opposing the bail applications of the accused contended that Shukla had told the police on April 1 that two men were among the many in a group shouting slogans against the Citizenship Amendment Act and urging others to kill people. However, the judge while granting bail to the accused said that the “said witness in the previous statement recorded on March 9 had not named the two accused persons”. “It is also relevant that the said witness in the previous statement recorded on March 9 has not named the present applicants (Gulfam and Aatir),” the judge said in its order dated November 6. The judge, while granting bail said that the two men would not contact the witnesses in the present case or try to influence any of them. Meanwhile, the court also dismissed the bail application of another accused Salman, named in the same case, while stating that he was arrested on March 12, on the basis of a statement of a public witness, Tahir, who had identified Salman as part of a mob indulging in rioting in Maujpur Chowk on February 24. Judge Rawat said that Tahir had given a statement to the police on March 9 that he had seen Salman, whom he knew, shouting inflammatory slogans along with others. The court noted his submissions that he had specifically stated that he had seen Salman involved in stone pelting at Maujpur Chowk on February 24. Communal riots between Hindus and Muslims had broken out in parts of north east Delhi in February, which claimed 53 lives and left 607 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-riots-two-get-bail-due-to-contradictory-statements-by-witness/story-a3o1ZrpIzoOTW4UfBxPAGP.html
07-11-2020||City||Two brothers arrested for illegally selling liquor at dhaba in Pinjore||Two brothers were arrested on Saturday for illegally selling liquor at their dhaba located on the Pinjore-Baddi road. As many as 657 bottles of liquor, 576 of countrymade liquor and seven of beer were recovered following a raid conducted by the police and flying squad of the Haryana chief minister.The brothers were identified as Keshar Singh and Gurbhim, residents of Kiratpur village, Pinjore.The raid was conducted on a tip-off that “Gill Family Dhaba” was illegally selling liquor, causing many truck drivers and travellers to stop there.According to police, Keshar Singh admitted to selling the liquor for the past six months.Following this, a case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 61-01-14 of the Excise Act was registered at the Pinjore police station on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-brothers-arrested-for-illegally-selling-liquor-at-dhaba-in-pinjore/story-MkAKsxFtXiQX7r9hByVkjM.html
07-11-2020||Chandigarh||Dealers in Chandigarh see red over firecracker ban, to approach HC||Having invested heavily in stocks ahead of Diwali, firecracker dealers in Chandigarh are planning to approach the Punjab and Haryana high court against the ban on firecrackers imposed by the UT administration on Friday.“We are not against the ban, but the way it was imposed. It should have come at least a few weeks back. After the administration held the draw of lots on November 3 to issue 96 permits, dealers had made advance payments to wholesalers in Kurali and Ambala. They will now suffer huge losses,” said Devinder Gupta, president of the Chandigarh Crackers Seller Association. “Even in the previous years, the administration keeps dilly-dallying on the policy for firecrackers. Such uncertainty is harmful for the business,” he added.Gupta said they will appeal to the high court to allow the 96 traders selected through the draw of lots to sell firecrackers and a two-hour period for bursting firecrackers on Diwali. Else, he added, the administration should compensate the traders for their purchases.Supporting the association, Chandigarh Beopar Mandal’s (CBM) chairman Charanjiv Singh said, “It’s not like the pandemic got worse just one week before Diwali. The administration took the decision too late and we stand by the firecracker dealers in opposing this.”Meanwhile, environmentalists have welcomed the ban, saying it will help keep the Air Quality Index (AQI) in check. “There is a correlation between the worsening air quality and the intensity of symptoms being faced by Covid patients. Rather than bursting firecrackers, Diwali can be celebrated by spending time with family and friends and lighting diyas,” said Debendra Dalai, vice-chairman, Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dealers-in-chandigarh-see-red-over-firecracker-ban-to-approach-hc/story-AcVHTwxttYU0XGLdfpmD8H.html
07-11-2020||Chandigarh||249 inmates out on special parole due to Covid to return to Chandigarh jail||Let out on special bail and parole because of the Covid-19 pandemic earlier this year, 249 inmates will return to the Model Jail, Sector 51, in batches of 50 from November 16 onwards. The decision was taken by a high-powered committee chaired by Justice Jaswant Singh of Punjab and Haryana high court.Earlier in March, the committee was constituted for decongestion of jails to check the spread of Covid-19 infection. On September 29, the chairman had directed the prison authorities to submit a detailed plan for re-admission of prisoners.On Saturday, Ombir Singh, IG, prisons, Chandigarh, gave a presentation of the detailed plan prepared by the department of prisons and correctional administration, Chandigarh.The committee was informed that every inmate will first undergo the Rapid Antigen Test outside the jail and those testing positive will be admitted to GMSH, Sector 16, while the remaining will return to the jail and undergo 10-day quarantine.Therefore, it was decided that the convicted prisoners will return in batches of around 50 each between November 16 and December 7, while the undertrials will return after December 12. The inmates will be intimated in advance via calls about their reporting time on the date of surrender, and the area SHO concerned will also be informed. The jail’s total sanctioned strength is 1,120 prisoners (1,000 males and 120 females). As of November 5, there are 779 inmates, including 741 men and 38 women.A total of 202 prisoners, including 193 men and nine women, were released on special parole and another 47, including 46 men and one woman, on special interim bail.With the 249 inmates returning to the jail premises, the total number of prisoners will increase to 1,028 (980 men and 48 women), which is well within the sanctioned capacity of the jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/249-inmates-out-on-special-parole-due-to-covid-to-return-to-chandigarh-jail/story-YSyxQNfaIvaXQ9hfohljeL.html
07-11-2020||Chandigarh||Notices to Centre, Punjab over handing over hydro project to Himachal||The Himachal Pradesh High Court issued notices to the Centre, Punjab and Punjab State Power Corporation Ltd on a petition to demand handing over of the ₹100-crore Shanan Hydropower Project in Jogindernagar to the hill state and providing free power to the public.A division bench, comprising chief justice L Narayana Swamy and justice Anoop Chitkara, passed these orders on a petition filed by one Laxmender Singh of Mandi district.The petitioner contended that the British Government of India had proposed a power project to supply power to Punjab and an agreement was executed with the erstwhile state of Mandi (Darbar) for the Uhl River Hydro Electric Project. It was agreed that Mandi will provide labour, land and water from Uhl River for the Hydro Electric Project and in return it will be supplied 500 KW free electricity from the project.It was also agreed that a high tension line will be installed from the project to Mandi State and a power house will be constructed that will be maintained by Mandi State and a subsequent agreement dated December 26, 1935 was executed between the parties conditional to the supply of free electricity, the petitioner submitted. The petitioner said that prior to the freedom of India, the said project was in the territory of the then Mandi State. However, from August 15, 1947 to April 9, 1965, Punjab occupied the project without any justification despite it being in the territory of Himachal Pradesh. “In 1965 and 1975 agreements were executed and a notification was issued in favour of Punjab Electricity but the interests of Himachal and its public was not taken into consideration,” the petitioner alleged. The petitioner submitted that Himachal was a small state with limited sources of income and the project generated ₹100 crore annually. Thus, if the project was handed over to Himachal, it will strengthen the state’s economy.The petitioner requested the court to quash the agreements and notifications of the government of India and to direct the respondent authorities to hand over the Uhal River Hydro Electric Project to Himachal. He has asked the court to direct respondents to provide free electricity to Mandi town and to pay the whole income of the project to Himachal. The court also directed the respondents to file a response within four weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/notices-to-centre-punjab-over-handing-over-hydro-project-to-himachal/story-6r7h67y9h2YTI6L51UrXXJ.html
07-11-2020||Chandigarh||₹230-cr sanctioned for channelisation of Kangra rivulet||Jal Shakti Minister Mahender Singh Thakur on Saturday said a ₹230-crore project had been sanctioned for channelisation of Naked Khad in Dehra sub-division of Kangra district.He said the foundation stone for the project will be laid soon. “Channelisation will provide relief against extensive damages caused by floods during monsoon.” Thakur also inspected different irrigation and drinking water supply schemes in Jwalamukhi and Dehra sub-divisions. He directed the officials to complete all the under-construction water supply schemes and pay attention to quality in development works.“The state government is taking effective steps to provide better irrigation and drinking water facilities to the people of the state,” said Thakur.He also directed the departmental officers to ensure every household at village-level was being provided potable water. Later, Thakur, who also holds the horticulture portfolio, inspected land in Khabali under the HP-SHIVA project. He said the project was being implemented to promote horticulture in lower regions of the state.Under the project, 7000-hectares land had been found fit for horticulture. Thakur said the land will be fenced and saplings of fruit-bearing plants will be provided to farmers free of cost after soil testing.“Fertilizer and irrigation will be arranged in selected areas and marketing facilities will be improved to boost farmers’ income and create employment opportunities,” he said.Jwalamukhi MLA and deputy chairperson of the state planning board Ramesh Dhwala and Dehra legislator Hoshyar Singh were among those present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/230-cr-sanctioned-for-channelisation-of-kangra-rivulet/story-CVsuBNGxsue9btgN1uISKI.html
07-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai techie takes to drug smuggling after financial stress, held||The Mumbai police’s Anti-Narcotic Cell (ANC) has arrested a software engineer for allegedly taking to smuggling because of financial stress during the Covid-19 lockdown and busted a drug racket he masterminded to smuggle drugs from the US and supply them in India.Deputy police commissioner (ANC) Datta Nalawade identified the engineer as Yash G Kalani, 25, who was arrested on Thursday. One kg of drugs was also allegedly recovered from Kalani’s possession. His aide, Guru Jaiswal 32, an auto-rickshaw driver, has also been arrested and drugs were also recovered from his possession.Kalani led a police team to his house in Bandra West where over seven kgs of drugs were seized. “A total of 9 kg of high-quality weed [cannabis] worth Rs 1.62 crore were seized from the two accused,” said Nalawade.Kalani studied engineering in Australia and ran his own software systems firm. Police said before the lockdown he would allegedly order high-quality weed for his personal consumption from the US through the dark web and get it shipped to Mumbai. He would make payments through e-wallet services, said Bandra ANC unit head inspector Anil Wadhwane, who arrested Kalani.Wadhawane added since Kalani was under financial stress during the lockdown, he decided to supply the drugs to others and make easy money sometimes in August this year. His point-person in the US helped him, Wadhawane added.“He would order drugs from his supplier in the US and once the drugs were shipped to Mumbai, he would send them to his clients in cities like Mumbai, New Delhi, Chennai, Bengaluru, Pune, etc...,” said Wadhwane.He would make anywhere between Rs 1,500 to Rs 3,500 per gram of drugs. “His everyday profit was around Rs 1 lakh,” Wadhavane said. Kalani allegedly rented a bungalow in Bandra to store the drugs.For the delivery of drugs locally, he would allegedly use auto drivers like Jaiswal and give them a commission.“Kalani was doing the drug business smartly and he would do all his dealings and communications through a messaging app... The anonymity providing app not just has end-to-end encryption, but it also has a self-data deleting feature...,” said Nalawade.Kalani’s contacts and phone call details were being scanned to trace his other associates, the police said.He and his aide have been booked under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act and remanded in police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-techie-takes-to-drug-smuggling-after-financial-stress-held/story-Ic3fcJsBvDsng4y57b0FEL.html
07-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: BMC identifies frontline workers for vaccination||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has identified 100,000 frontline workers, who will be given the Covid-19 vaccine first when it is made available.Suresh Kakani, the additional municipal commissioner, said they have compiled the data on the frontline workers who will get priority vaccination followed by senior citizens. Over 2,500 frontline workers of the BMC have been infected while 150 have died.BMC officials said the vaccine distribution strategy will be amended based on the guidelines received from the central and state governments.The Centre has formed an expert committee to oversee its Covid-19 vaccine plan.The identification process undertaken by the BMC is part of the civic body’s vaccine distribution strategy plan. HT on October 4 reported that BMC will draw up the plan for vaccine distribution in November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-bmc-identifies-frontline-workers-for-vaccination/story-Q2mRKOdXW1NKikSC9gNdNM.html
07-11-2020||City||Farmers gherao ex-BJP minister Kalia in Barnala||Barnala Hundreds of farmers gheraoed former Punjab cabinet minister Manoranjan Kalia as part of their protest against the Centre’s three new farm laws in Barnala on Saturday. Kalia had arrived at the residence of district Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Yadwinder Shanty and was to hold a meeting in the town. The protesters, who have been sitting on dharna outside Shanty’s residence for 19 days now, assembled and raised slogans against the Modi government and the agriculture laws.“Kalia entered Shanty’s residence from the rear gate. He wanted to motivate his party workers. However, farmers will continue Kalia’s gherao, when he comes out. Farmers are united,” said Balour Singh, local leader BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan). Another farmer Baljinder Singh said BJP leaders were still trying to convince farmers about the new farm bills than understanding farmers’ concerns. Kalia said, “Everyone has the right to protest in Indian democracy. The BJP, however, will protect farmers’ rights. The farm laws have been made for their benefit. The private mandi is an option, but farmers can sell their crops to government agencies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-gherao-ex-bjp-minister-kalia-in-barnala/story-AMNQGM8c9JRyWgnFTQoJgK.html
07-11-2020||Mumbai||TRP scam: Bombay HC seeks Maharashtra govt’s reply over charges against cops||The Bombay High Court on Saturday asked the Maharashtra government, Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh and two other police officials to respond to a plea filed by Hansa Research Group Pvt Ltd, the complainant in the television rating points (TRP) scam, alleging harassment by the police.The petition filed by the company and three of its senior officials alleged that the city police was conducting the probe in an “illegal and highly objectionable” manner.The petition claimed that the company’s officials were being “harassed and coerced into making false statements” and sought for the probe to be transferred to the CBI.Also Read: Former cop files suit to restrain Arnab Goswami, Republic TV from airing material related to the caseThe petition has named Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Waze and Assistant Commissioner of Police Shashank Sandbhor as the ones who were harassing them.On Saturday, advocate Devadutt Kamat, appearing for the government, Param Bir Singh and the two police officers, refuted the allegations and said the petitioners are being called for questioning only when required.He further told the court that investigation in the case is still on and certain material has also come to the fore against the petitioners. The bench, however, noted that since the petitioners are complainant in the case, they should not be called to the police station without any reason.“They are the complainant and not the accused in the case. We are not saying stop the investigation, but call them only when required and on specific days and for reasonable time,” Justice Shinde said.Kamat agreed and told the court that the petitioners would be called for questioning twice a week for a reasonable time.The bench then posted the petition for further hearing on November 25 and directed the respondents (the government, Param Bir Singh, Sachin Waze and Shashank Sandbhor) to file their affidavits.The petitioner’s advocate C S Vaidyanathan argued that the police was pressurising the petitioners to implicate certain news channels.“The police were repeatedly coercing the petitioners to make false and incorrect statements. When the petitioners expressed inability to do so, they were threatened by the police saying they would be booked in the same offence and placed under arrest,” the petition said.Also Read: Republic disclosing confidential communications, misrepresenting them, alleges BARC IndiaThe company claimed that their senior officials are being harassed by the city police, which calls them for recording of statement at odd hours and then detaining them in the Crime Branch office for long hours and threatening that they would be placed under arrest.“There has been a constant threat by the police that the petitioners would be arrested for conniving and being hand in gloves with Republic TV,” the petition said.It also sought a stay on the investigation being conducted by the city police in the case and a direction to not take any coercive steps against the petitioners.The plea claimed that the FIR was registered on October 6, 2020 and since then the police has been harassing the petitioner company and its officials, asking them to make false and incorrect statements.“Later, media reports quoting the police said that preliminary forensic audit report has revealed suspicious transaction of Rs 32 lakh between the petitioner company and Republic TV. The petitioner has no dealing with Republic TV directly,” the petition claimed.“The petitioner’s group company Hansa Vision had a transaction with Republic TV in 2017. There has been no dealing in the year 2018 and 2019,” it added.The petition claimed that the company and its officials are suffering collateral damage as they are being used by the police to fight their battle against certain sections of the media.Hansa Research Group had lodged a complaint against its employee Vishal Bhandari on October 6 after he was found allegedly accepting payments illegally to make certain households watch specific TV channels, allegedly to fudge TV TRP ratings.Ten arrests have been made so far, including those of former employees of the company.The police, after preliminary inquiry, had claimed that two local regional channels and Republic TV was also involved in the scam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/trp-scam-bombay-hc-seeks-maharashtra-govt-s-reply-over-charges-against-cops/story-IY76yAprD7iXwP9c3ZqW7I.html
07-11-2020||Kolkata||Bengal tourism minister Gautam Deb tests positive for Covid-19, hospitalised||West Bengal Tourism Minister Gautam Deb tested positive for Covid-19, following which he was hospitalised, Health Department officials said on Saturday.Deb undertook the Covid-19 test after he was feeling unwell, they said.His test result came in as positive on Friday, officials said, adding that he was admitted to a hospital in Siliguri.Deb was present at the administrative review meeting held at state secretariat ‘Nabanna’ on Thursday.He also held meetings with party leaders in Siliguri on Friday.“All those who have met him were asked to go on isolation. The vehicle used by Deb and his residence were sanitised on Saturday morning,” a Health official said.Earlier, Sundarbans Affairs Minister Manturam Pakhira, Transport Minister Suvendu Adhikari, Fire and Emergency Services Minister Sujit Bose and Food Minister Jyotipriyo Mullick were diagnosed with Covid-19 and recovered. PTI SCH SOM SOM||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-tourism-minister-gautam-deb-tests-positive-for-covid-19-hospitalised/story-Ak12ywmeoGdrNE17XWJUHI.html
07-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt moves Supreme Court over ICU bed quota against High Court directive||The Delhi government has approached the Supreme Court to lift a High Court stay of its direction to hospitals to reserve 80 per cent of their Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds to treat Covid-19 patients, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said.“Delhi government has augmented 500 beds including 110 ICU beds in government hospitals in addition to the already existing ones. In private hospitals 685 beds for Covid patients have been added yesterday,” said Satyendar Jain, while talking to media. Meanwhile, the Delhi government has moved Supreme Court against the order of the High Court to reserve 80 per cent of ICU beds in private hospitals. Delhi government has filed SLP (Special Leave Petition) in the apex court regarding the issue, said the health minister. “ICU beds are still available in government hospitals in Delhi. But since affluent people prefer private hospitals over government hospitals so, they are facing problems in private hospitals,” Jain said.On the increasing numbers of Covid cases in the national capital, the health minister, “Today, Delhi has recorded around 7000 cases, which can be called the third peak, I think now the number of cases will decrease in the coming days.”Delhi on Saturday recorded 7,178 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-moves-supreme-court-over-icu-bed-quota-against-high-court-directive/story-KxD6TYAfPrwNlz9sLhgEXM.html
07-11-2020||Mumbai||‘Forced to consume liquid’: Arnab Goswami in bail plea in 2018 case||Republic Television editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami, who was arrested along with two others in a 2018 case of abetment of suicide, has accused the Mumbai Police of torture in his bail plea.The petition has been filed by Goswami’s lawyer Harish Salve after the former’s arrest on Wednesday. It is being heard by a bench of justices SS Shinde and MS Karnik at the Bombay High Court.According to Bar and Bench, a website that covers legal news, Arnab Goswami claimed in his petition that during the course of arrest a senior police officer hit him with a heavy boot, he received a half a foot deep gash in his left hand and suffered serious injury to his spinal cord.Goswami also alleged that he was “forced to drink a liquid” by police officers while they surrounded him. He also said that after drinking the liquid he “choked”.The high court was on Saturday hearing the petition filed by Goswami seeking interim bail and challenging his arrest in the 2018 abetment of suicide case of interior designer Anvay Naik.The police said that they found a suicide note where Naik said that Goswami had not cleared his dues. The Republic TV editor-in-chief was arrested by Alibaug police and was remanded to judicial custody till November 18 by a magistrate’s court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/forced-to-consume-liquid-arnab-goswami-in-bail-plea-in-2018-case/story-ihtVHHn6QP8t8pDqAWwZ4K.html
07-11-2020||Noida||Woman, 4-year-old son fall to death from 17th floor in Greater Noida West||A 28-year-old woman and her four-year-old son allegedly fell to death from their 17th floor apartment in Greater Noida West on Saturday morning. The woman’s husband had gone to his hometown in Sambhal when the incident took place.Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said police received information from society residents at 9 am. “A police team reached the spot and found the woman and the child critically wounded. They were rushed to a private hospital where doctors declared them brought dead,” he said.The police team visited the victims’ flat and found the sister of the woman’s husband. “The husband’s sister had some burn injury marks on her face. It appears the two women had quarrelled over some issue, following which the woman jumped to death along with her son,” he said.The woman’s sister-in-law is a student in a private college and she lives in a hostel. She was visiting her brother’s house in Greater Noida West. The woman has been admitted in a private hospital for her burn injuries.Chander said that the deceased’s husband is on the way to Greater Noida West. “We will question him to see what led to this incident. We are investigating the matter from all angles,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/woman-4-year-old-son-fall-to-death-from-17th-floor-in-greater-noida-west/story-sS3U1cfPRFl8v4LIPxXvkJ.html
07-11-2020||Chandigarh||Rain, snow in Kashmir from November 13-15||Jammu and Kashmir will get rain and snow during the Diwali weekend. The meteorological department said a western disturbance is approaching the region after more than two months of dry weather. “There are chances of rain and snow from November 13 to 15,” said the department’s deputy director, Mukhtar Ahmad. Kashmir owes its precipitation mostly to winds blowing from the Mediterranean Sea called western disturbance. The valley has had an unusually long dry spell this year, leading to shortage of water for drinking and irrigation. On November 4, there was light snowfall in the higher reaches of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh but there was no precipitation in the plains.“This year was abnormally dry. The rainfall from July to October was also 35% below normal,” said meteorologist Mohammad Hussain. MERCURY PLUMMETS IN VALLEY, LADAKHThe minimum temperature in Srinagar dipped to below zero for the first time this season to settle at minus 0.9 degree Celsius on Saturday, while it was 20.8 degrees during the day. The lowest temperature in Kashmir was in the tourist resort of Pahalgam that recorded a minimum of minus 2.7 degrees Celsius, while Ladakh’s Leh was cold at minus 7.4 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rain-snow-in-kashmir-from-november-13-15/story-82tcdrjR4GFfhi834F886N.html
07-11-2020||Delhi||Missing auto rickshaw driver’s body found in water plant, family says murder||The body of a 30-year-old auto rickshaw driver, who had been missing since Monday, was found floating on the water at Delhi Jal Board (DJB)’s water treatment plant in east Delhi’s New Ashok Nagar on Thursday afternoon, police said.The probe so far has revealed that the man died of drowning, there were no external injury marks on his body, an investigating officer said. The man’s family has alleged he was murdered, police said, adding that they have initiated inquest proceeding under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure(CrPC). The man’s family made the allegations after seeing a CCTV camera footage in which the auto rickshaw driver was seen in a scuffle with another auto driver in the New Ashok Nagar area on Monday night. In the CCTV clip, two men on a motorcycle and a scooter are seen intervening, after which they all leave on their respective vehicles while the autorickshaw driver (deceased) is seen walking alone on the road. Deputy commissioner of police (east) Jasmeet Singh said that on Thursday afternoon, a guard at the Delhi Jal Board’s water treatment plant in New Ashok Nagar informed the police about a man’s body floating on the water in the treatment plant. Police identified the body as that of the auto rickshaw driver. “It’s a case of drowning and not murder. We are following the legal procedure,”said DCP Singh. Police said the man lived with his parents and three siblings in Kondli. His missing report was filed at the New Ashok Nagar police station on Tuesday. In the complaint, the family mentioned that he left home on Monday after the owner of the auto-rickshaw, which he drove, asked him to meet at Kondli bus stop with the auto driver’s uniform. “ The man did not return home thereafter and the family members could not contact him since his phone was switched off. The next day the family lodged his missing complaint,” a police officer associated with the case said, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/missing-auto-rickshaw-driver-s-body-found-in-water-plant-family-says-murder/story-OB0HxHjqTXV7OHqUNC6oDL.html
07-11-2020||Mumbai||Month after easing Covid restrictions, only 60% hotels open in Maharashtra||A month after reopening of restaurants and hotels, about 60 percent of establishments across Maharashtra have restarted their businesses.There are approximately four lakh hotels and restaurants in Maharashtra of which 2.40 lakh have reopened their establishments.The reasons are many: fear psychosis of Covid-19 virus, acute shortage of labour, lack of transportation, timing restrictions and also no feasibility due to restriction of allowing only 50.percent clients. Both Federation of Hotel and Restaurant Associations of India (FHRAI) and Indian Hotels and Restaurants Association (AHAR) argued that multiple reasons have dissuaded hoteliers from reopening their establishments.“People are still afraid to come to the hotels due to fear of the spread of Covid-19. This has hit our business very badly. So many of the establishments who have not opened are adopting a wait-and-watch policy as the hotels which have opened have hardly any business,” said Gurbaxish Singh Kohli, Vice President, FHRAI.According to Shivanand Shetty, President, AHAR, majority of those who have not opened were on leased premises. “It is not feasible for these restaurants to operate in the current circumstances by paying such exorbitant rents. Many of them have even permanently closed down their business,” said Shetty. Many hoteliers who have not opened said that staff shortage and lack of transport are one of the teething problems faced by them.“The staff, mostly migrants, is reluctant to come as they hardly have any cases in their state. My local staff who lives in the suburbs cannot travel as they are disallowed in local trains. In such a situation, I decided not to open,” said Kamlesh Barot, who runs Revival Hotel at Girgaum chowpatty.The Maharashtra government allowed hotels and restaurants to reopen from October 5 after a gap of close to seven months. However, it restricted operation at 33% capacity for Mumbai eateries and hotels and 50% for such businesses across the state in order to enforce social distancing norms deemed necessary to prevent the spread of Covid-19 infection.Savio D’sa, a consultant in the hospitality industry, says it will take till the end of the year to get things to normal. “Many of the hoteliers are facing a monetary crisis after being closed for such a long time and hence are not opening up. Many who have taken place on lease are negotiating with landlords to lower the rents. Since there are fewer outstation trains, many are deferring the opening date as they cannot open with such fever staff,” said D’sa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/month-after-easing-covid-restrictions-only-60-hotels-open-in-maharashtra/story-CD32k5ZFuH8n6tmbykDHAJ.html
07-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi air in severe zone, no respite likely over weekend||There was no respite from air pollution in Delhi early Saturday as the city recorded an average hourly Air Quality Index (AQI) of 405, which is in the severe category.Delhi’s air quality was also in the same category on Friday, despite marginal improvement. Scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said rising stubble burning cases in neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana have been the primary factor behind the Capital’s foul air.Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data showed that the overall AQI of Delhi on Friday was 406, in the severe category. Even though the wind speed over Delhi improved to around 8-10kmph through the day, it was not enough to bring about much improvement from Thursday’s AQI of 450.IMD recordings showed that the early morning temperature in Delhi hovered around 12 degrees Celsius.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said no significant improvement in the pollution level is likely over the weekend. “The wind will slow down through Friday night, which might lead to deterioration in the air quality early Saturday. The wind direction will also continue to be north-westerly, which will transport smoke from farm fires,” he said on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-air-in-severe-zone-no-respite-likely-over-weekend/story-II9hJPpOX4KgLCVbh1wzAJ.html
07-11-2020||Jaipur||Second Covid wave may come prior to Dec 15, says Rajasthan health minister||Rajasthan health minister Dr Raghu Sharma has stated that experts believe, the second wave of Covid-19 may come prior to December 15 hence, people need to be cautious and follow all protocols. “Experts believe that the second wave may come prior to December 15 this year, so people have to be very cautious, wear masks, maintain social distance and wash hands frequently to keep themselves safe,” said Sharma. He said that according to the experts, there will be an increase in the cases of seasonal diseases, swine flu, dengue, cold and cough, pollution, etc in winters, which is going to severe, and if the pollution levels rise, corona cases will certainly surge. “If people wear masks and maintain discipline for a month, then the coronavirus chain can be broken.”“According to the experts, masks are better than vaccines as the effect of the vaccine will not be more than 60 per cent, but by wearing masks regularly, the chances of infection can be brought down by 90 per cent,” said Dr Sharma. He said that chief minister Ashok Gehlot launched the “Public Movement Against Corona” campaign on October 2 in the entire State, with the nodal officer as the district collector. NGOs, NCC, Scout and Guides, Teachers together with the Local Self Government are distributing masks and raising awareness about this deadly virus.The campaign has been extended up to November 30 and people are being told about the importance of wearing masks. Apart from this, the “No Mask, No Entry” campaign is also becoming successful, as not only government offices, but private offices, shops, commercial establishments, and others are abiding by this, and people are not allowed to enter until they wear a mask.“Rajasthan is ready if the second wave of corona comes. We have a lot of ICU beds, oxygen supported beds, and general beds in the state. At the time when cases were at a peak, the demand for oxygen cylinders was almost 13,000 per day but now has come down to 6,000-7,000 oxygen cylinders per day,” Dr Sharma added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/second-covid-wave-may-come-prior-to-dec-15-says-rajasthan-health-minister/story-abg7H4rCJnQNDQ4OVuc8IN.html
07-11-2020||Chandigarh||First district development council elections in J&K on Dec 1||The first district development council elections will be held in Jammu and Kashmir on December 1 and the poll process will be completed by December 24. In a notification, the state election commission said that November 16 is the last date for filing nominations; November 17 for scrutiny of nominations; and November 19 for the withdrawal of candidature, an official spokesman said. Polling will be held from 7am to 2pm on December 1. Voting for panchayats to fill vacancies for sarpanch and panch will be held simultaneously for which votes will be counted by December 22. It’s not clear yet whether the two mainstream political parties of Kashmir will be participating in the elections or not. The National Conference and the Peoples Democratic Party had boycotted the panchayat and block development council elections. However, leaders of these parties say that the leadership of the newly formed alliance will be consulted before taking a call whether the Peoples’ Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) will contest or boycott the elections. The J&K government on Wednesday announced the DDC polls and panchayat byelections will be held simultaneously. Polls for 234 vacant seats of urban local bodies will also be held. Besides the National Conference and the PDP, the Peoples Conference, the CPI (M), and the Awami National Conference are part of the PAGD. The Peoples Conference had participated in the panchayat elections, however, this time the party will go with the decision of the PAGD. VACANCIES AFTER 2018 ELECTIONS TO BE FILLED Elections to the posts of 39,521 sarpanch/panch were conducted in 2018 of which 13,257 positions are vacant due to resignation, removal, election of sarpanch as BDC chairpersons, death, and non-availability of candidates at the time of election. Among them, 1,089 vacancies pertain to the office of sarpanch, while 12,168 are posts of panch. Since the 2018 elections, more than 504 panches have resigned different reasons. The highest number of 129 resignations came from south Kashmir’s Anantnag, followed by central Kashmir’s Budgam district with 81, while in Baramulla and Kupwara districts 67 and 61 panches submitted their resignations. After getting elected, 12 sarpanches also quit with one each resigning in Anantnag and Baramulla districts. Five sarpanches resigned in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district, while one each quit in Baramulla, Budgam and Bandipore districts. Five panchayat members were killed by militants in the past one year and many panchayat members have been taken to the high-security zone after security forces got inputs that these members are on the radar of militants. By holding these elections, the J&K government wants to complete the three-tier system of panchayati raj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/first-district-development-council-elections-in-j-k-on-dec-1/story-23VpIqAW0ZiHWSne1gLPcM.html
07-11-2020||Election:||NDA, Grand Alliance confident of win as smaller factions eye inroads||As campaigning for the third and final phase of the Bihar assembly election ended on Thursday, both the major camps, National Democratic Alliance (NDA) and the Opposition Grand Alliance (GA), exuded confidence about their prospects even as smaller parties and formations cautioned that they were capable of emerging kingmaker in a close election.The NDA comprises the Janata Dal (United), the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Hindustani Awam Morcha-Secular (HAM-S) of former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi and the Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) of Mukesh Sahani, popularly known as ‘Son of Mallah’. Apart from Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and Congress, the constituents of the ‘grand alliance’ are Communist Party of India (CPI), Communist Party of India (Marxist) or CPI(M) and Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) or CPI(ML). Other formations in the fray are Progressive Democratic Alliance (PDA), headed by Jan Adhikar Party (JAP) chief Rajesh Ranjan popularly known as Pappu Yadav and Azad Samaj Party of Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad. Grand Democratic Secular Front (GDSF)consists of the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RSLP), All Indian Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM), Jantantrik Party and Samajwadi Janata Dal Democratic. A big factor this time is the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), which walked out of the NDA in the state and has put up candidates in 137 of the 243 seats. Party chief Chirag Paswan has bitterly criticised chief minister Nitish Kumar, put up NDA rebels as candidates against Kumar’s Janata Dal (United) in many seats, and is banking on a wave in favour of his late father and Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan. In past state elections in 2010 and 2015, the LJP captured 6.7% and 4.8% of the votes, respectively. Traditionally, the two major formations in Bihar have netted between two-thirds and three-fourths of the vote, according to data from Trivedi Centre for Political Data. In 2005, the NDA won 36% of the vote, while the RJD+ won 31%; in 2010, the NDA won 391% while the RJD+ won 25.6% while in 2015, the NDA won 34% of the vote while the GA won 41.8%. In the past three assembly elections, the so-called third front managed to hold on to at least a quarter of the vote. There are two key questions for the big alliances: Will LJP eat into the JD(U) votes, and will AIMIM-BSP hurt the GA, especially in the Muslim, Dalit dominated Seemanchal region?The NDA is confident of its victory.“The election is between NDA and Mahagathbandhan. Presence of newer alliances are not new to Bihar, but BJP and JD(U) have a vote share of 30-40% which is higher than the 10-20% share that these smaller parties with limited clout have,” said a senior BJP functionary. The JD(U) is dismissive of small factions upsetting its vote bank. “Apart from the fact that Nitish Kumar has changed the face of Bihar and brought in development, there is no denying that he holds considerable clout among Mahadalits (a sub-category of scheduled castes and together with Dalits make up for about 18% of the state’s population), Kushwaha-Koeri-Kurmi combination that is about 12-14%, apart from women,” said a JD(U) leader. A second BJP functionary in Delhi claimed the NDA will cross the majority mark of 122. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi‘s rallies infused fresh energy and gave the election campaign fresh impetus. The rallies galvanised and charged up the atmosphere,” said the leader on condition of anonymity. A third functionary pointed to the high turnouts – 55.69 % in phase 1 and 55.7 % in phase – to indicate that the NDA will return to power. The BJP is confident that its ticket distribution formula, which gave representation to all castes, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s development agenda will swing the outcome in the NDA’s favour. “There are some seats where the contest is close, there are some constituencies where the caste matrix is slightly tricky but people are now voting on larger issues such as development and jobs that only the NDA can provide,” the functionary said.The Grand Alliance said it is certain it will get two-thirds majority. RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav even listed his priorities as chief minister - providing one million jobs and and bringing a law to nullify the recent farm laws passed by the Centre. “Come November 10, Bihar will witness a new dawn,” the RJD leader said. Yadav also dismissed speculation that LJP, BSP, AIMIM and RLSP will dent his prospects. “Biharis have the highest political awareness in the country and these A, B, C parachute alliances of the BJP will have no impact,” he claimed. Congress leaders echoed Yadav’s views and claimed the GA will win around 140 seats. “Muslims see AIMIM as a vote-katwa (vote-divider) party and have immense faith in the leadership Rahul Gandhi and Tejashwi Yadav,” said senior Congress leader Mohammad Shamim Akhtar. AIMIM’s Asaduddin Owaisi contested that.“We fought against Shiv Sena in Aurangabad (Maharashtra) and won. Now, Congress shares power with Shiv Sena in Maharashtra and that is fine with these so-called secular parties. This is sheer hypocrisy. If you support them, then you are secular and if you don’t then you are communal” he said. Mukesh Sahni of VIP and Upendra Kushwaha of RLSP also contended that the third and fourth fronts shouldn’t be underestimated. “Tejashwi got the party (RJD) in virasat (inheritance). His father Lalu Prasad was a big leader, but he lacks experience and he lacks discipline,” Sahni said. “People of Bihar want an end of Nitish Kumar’s 15 years of misrule and on the other hand the GA does not have a credible face,” Kushwaha added. Political analysts agreed that the fight was largely between the NDA and the GA. “Smaller alliances do not have pan-Bihar presence are not strong enough to dent the support base of either the NDA or Mahagathbandhan,” said Patna-based analyst Ajay Kumar Jha. Analyst Manisha Priyam said these factions are representatives of the state-specified politics. “It is the poor and smaller sections who are reflecting themselves through smaller formations,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/nda-grand-alliance-confident-of-win-as-smaller-factions-eye-inroads/story-YmyDmDMtLNcPaZqCje1s8J.html
07-11-2020||Election:||‘Nobody retires from politics’: JD(U) after Nitish’s statement||The Janata Dal (United) rushed to clarify on Friday that its president and chief minister Nitish Kumar was not retiring from Bihar politics, a day after Kumar said at a rally in Purnia that the ongoing election would be his last — a statement that set the political scene aflutter.The JD(U), NDA insiders said, went for a damage-control exercise after the coalition think tank realised that the statement could harm the alliance’s prospects in the third phase of polls scheduled for Saturday. Leading the denial, JD(U) state president and MP Bashistha Narain Singh said Kumar could not retire. “Nobody retires from politics. He has said that this was the last day of his campaigning. Nitish Kumar will continue to work as long as the people of Bihar want,” Singh said while Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh had on Thursday appreciated Kumar for his remark that the present assembly polls would be his last and said the JD(U) leader had changed Bihar for good. “Nitish Kumar changed Bihar after he took over as chief minister and there is no alternative to him. As CM, he has done such good work that many of his schemes in the state are known as models in the country,” Harivansh told news agency ANI. As Kumar took a break on Friday after addressing 113 rallies during the three-phase elections, speculation arose in political circles with each party interpreting the announcement its own way. Kumar, 69, while speaking at Damdaha in Purnia on Thurdsay, said, “All is well that ends well. The day after, there is polling. This is my last election. Will you vote for the JD(U) or not?”Kumar’s statement, which came a day before the final phase of polls for 78 seats of the 243-member Bihar assembly, was lapped up by the opposition alliance. Grand Alliance chief ministerial candidate Tejashwi Yadav said his stand was vindicated. “We have been saying this for long that Nitish Kumar ji has been worn out and he is not able to manage Bihar. Now on the last day of the election campaign, he has announced that he is taking retirement from politics. Maybe he has understood the ground realities,” said Tejashwi. Addressing an election event, Tejashwi said, “I want to tell people of the state that it would be meaningless to vote for a person who is facing his last election...There will be no accountability for next five years as the person is already trying to escape from responsibility.” The Congress and LJP’s Chirag Paswan also attacked Kumar. However, Jan Adhikar Party leader Rajesh Ranjan aka Pappu Yadav called it emotional blackmail. “Why does such a coward, weak and helpless person want to become CM again? He should retire from Bihar politics and join the Centre’s politics. The BJP has scripted this all,” he said.NDA insiders admitted the statement was an emotional appeal but it had the potential to backfire. “The NDA assessment is that the alliance was well and truly on course to forming the government and any confusion created by the opposition over this statement could affect the smooth march to power,” said a senior NDA leader. The BJP came out in defence of Kumar. “The Congress and the RJD are out to create confusion. Where there is PM Modi and Nitish, there is faith, development,” said Union minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai. Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi said no one can take Kumar’s place if he retires. Political experts in Bihar said Kumar always spoke in a calculated language. “He must have felt the pulse of the people and realised that there is a strong anti-incumbency wave against him. This cannot be a slip of the tongue,” said DM Diwakar, former director of the AN Sinha Institute for Social Studies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/nobody-retires-from-politics-jd-u-after-nitish-s-statement/story-6lB4o3Bz4YSwv9OIZ9zUuJ.html
07-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi Police books YouTuber accused of cheating ‘Baba Ka Dhaba’ owner||The Delhi Police on Friday registered a case against YouTuber Gaurav Wasan for allegedly misappropriating funds received as donation for the owner of ‘Baba Ka Dhaba’, an eatery in south Delhi’s Malviya Nagar.Kanta Prasad (80), the owner of the eatery, had shot to fame after a video of him tearfully recounting the desperation of the months since the lockdown was shot by Wasan and shared widely across social media platforms recently.The case was registered against the YouTuber following a complaint lodged by Prasad on October 31, nearly a month after the video went viral.In his complaint to police, Prasad alleged that Wasan “intentionally and deliberately shared only his and his family/friends bank details and mobile numbers with the donors and collected huge amount of donation... without providing any information to the complainant”.Wasan, however, denied the allegations.Also Read | R Madhavan weighs in on Baba Ka Dhaba controversy, says ‘no social media trial here please’Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said, “After we received a complaint, preliminary enquiry was done and an FIR was registered under section 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of Indian Penal Code and an investigation has been initiated.” Earlier in the day, Prasad said he was hurt over being called “greedy” by some people on the social media after he lodged a complaint against Wasan and challenged the YouTuber to disclose his bank details to prove his innocence.Talking to reporters at a press conference, Prasad, accompanied by his lawyer Prem Joshi and blogger Tushant, claimed that Wasan gave him a cheque of 2.33 lakh on October 26 after the YouTuber was trolled for not handing over the donation amount to Prasad.Tushant alleged that Wasan has only disclosed his bank account statements from October 7 to 10 whereas he received more money after that. He demanded that Wasan must reveal his bank account statements till October 26.Joshi highlighted that in the initial videos shared by Wasan, he had claimed that Prasad did not have a bank account or a mobile phone but that was a “lie”.Joshi also claimed that on October 26, when Wasan gave the cheque to Prasad, he made him sign a paper claiming that all dues had been settled. However, later he again gave Rs 1.45 lakh to Prasad. Wasan, however, said that he has submitted to the police his bank account statements till November 2 and maintained that he gave all the amount received as donation for Prasad to him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-police-books-youtuber-accused-of-cheating-baba-ka-dhaba-owner/story-aRnJ1rU8TM22PUBuUP5mJN.html
07-11-2020||Chandigarh||Polling for Chandigarh Bar body completed, results on hold||As many as 1,506 votes were polled for the elections of the Chandigarh District Bar Association that passed off peacefully. The results were put on hold owing to a stay imposed by the Punjab and Haryana high court.Returning officer NK Kapil said out of the 2,749 total votes, only 1,506 votes were cast. “As per the high court directives, a separate ballot box was kept for the 69 votes under challenge. Out of these only 17 turned up to vote.” The HC stay came on a petition by advocate Bhag Singh, who stated that names of 69 members could not be included in the voters list on the grounds that “they had availed of waiver in arrears of subscription, which according to the constitution of the DBA is not permissible.” For the post of president, three advocates – Bhag Singh Suhag, Munish K Dewan and Neeraj Hans – are competing, while Amrit Veer Singh, Ankit Gupta and Palvinder Singh are in the fray for the post of vice-president. There are two candidates, Gagan Aggarwal and Karamjeet Singh, for the post of secretary and for joint secretary, the competition was between Gurvinder Kaur and Pooja Rani. For the position of treasurer, Chandan Sharma and Vikas Sharma, are competing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/polling-for-chandigarh-bar-body-completed-results-on-hold/story-gsXEJcfCdMdHAIHAH5gvWK.html
07-11-2020||Chandigarh||Gurdaspur teen killed as car catches fire after collision with sedan in Chandigarh||A 17-year-old Gurdaspur boy in the city for a friend’s birthday was killed after the gas kit of his car caught fire following a collision with a Honda City. The accident took place at the Sector 28-29 traffic lights around 3.30am on Friday.The deceased was identified as Akashdeep, 17. His friends, Vishal, 28, also of Gurdaspur, and Dilip, 30, of Pathankot suffered serious injuries. The driver of the Honda City, Rajnish Sharma, 52, a resident of Sector 28, Chandigarh, was arrested. According to police Akashdeep, Vishal and Dilip were on their way to Zirakpur in a Maruti Suzuki Baleno after attending a birthday party in Sector 22, Chandigarh. Akashdeep and Dilip had come to Chandigarh on Thursday evening. While Vishal was driving the Maruti Suzuki Baleno, Dilip was sitting next to him and Akashdeep was in the back seat.As they reached the Sectors 28/29 light point, Sharma’s Honda City, which was coming from Tribune Chowk, collided with the friends’ car.The impact of the collision caused the Baleno to overturn and its gas kit caught fire after a blast. Vishal and Dilip managed to get out of the car in time, but Akashdeep got stuck in the back seat and received severe burns.The fire brigade was called in, following which Akashdeep was rescued and rushed to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, where he was declared brought dead. Vishal and Dilip also sustained serious burns and remain unfit for a statement. Akashdeep was a student of Class 11. His father retired as a subedar from the army. His sister, who is pursuing BAMS, lives in Kharar. Vishal drives a cab in Chandigarh. Sharma has been booked under Sections 279, 337 and 304-A of the Indian Penal Code at the Industrial Area police station. He works at the timber market in Sector 26 and was returning home after picking his son from Zirakpur. He was later granted bail. Cyclist killed in collision with truck A 55-year-old cyclist was killed in a collision with a truck while turning near Garcha turn in Dariya village on Thursday night. The deceased was identified as Lotu, who hailed from Uttar Pradesh. Hitesh Kumar, a constable posted at the Dariya police post, told the police that he was on duty around 9.30pm. There he spotted a truck turning towards Dariya village without giving indicator, causing a cyclist to run into the vehicle and getting stuck in its tyre. The constable managed to intercept the truck and its driver, Chandrika Parsad of Dariya village, was arrested. The vehicle was impounded. Police rushed Lotu to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, where he was declared brought dead. The truck driver was booked under Sections 279 and 304-A of the Indian Penal Code. Helmetless man killed as bike skids A youth was killed and his two brothers were injured as their motorcycle slipped near the Sector 32-33 small roundabout on Thursday night. The deceased was identified as Rahul, 20, and his brothers as Shubham, 18, and Nishant, 20, all residents of Burail. The brothers were triple riding the motorcycle without wearing helmets. They were on their way from Burail to Sector 20 to eat ice-cream around 11pm when their two-wheeler slipped. Rahul was riding the vehicle, while his brothers were riding pillion. They were rushed to a local hospital where Rahul was declared brought dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gurdaspur-teen-killed-as-car-catches-fire-after-collision-with-sedan-in-chandigarh/story-GtklKLd41YXGQCZ0ZVGssM.html
07-11-2020||Delhi||Coronavirus surge continues in city, fresh cases breach 7k mark||The Capital crossed another grim landmark in its fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Friday, with the city adding over 7,000 new cases in a single day for the first time. Apart from the 7,178 new cases, as per Friday’s health bulletin, with a positivity rate of 12.19%, the Capital added 64 deaths due to the infection.The number of cases in the capital have shot up over the last fortnight, with over 6,500 cases being recorded for four days in a row now. The Delhi high court had on Thursday reprimanded the government ,remarking that the city was on its way to become the “corona capital of the country.” Delhi is among 10 states that have reported 79% of the cases in the last 24-hours, as per data from the Union health ministry. On average, almost 52 persons died of the infection each day over the previous week. In comparison, 40 people had died each day of Covid-19 the week before. The number of hospitalisations is also on the rise. On Friday, 7,528 people with the infection were admitted to hospitals, the highest the city has seen so far. This has led to hospitals filling up fast. Almost 75% of all intensive care unit (ICU) beds — with or without ventilators — were occupied as on Friday evening. And, over 48% of the total beds earmarked for the treatment of Covid-19 were occupied, according to data on the ‘Delhi Corona’ app. The Delhi government on Friday ordered 22 hospitals – run by it and the private sector – to earmark an additional 1,100 beds for the treatment of Covid-19. “The number of Covid-19 patients coming to the hospital has shot up, we are running almost at capacity. And, with most patients with mild symptoms choosing to remain in home isolation, hospitals are receiving the moderate to severe patients many of whom need critical care. The hospitals are stretched thin because in addition to Covid-19 cases, we will start seeing other respiratory ailments, heart attacks and strokes that go up during the winters,” said Dr Sandeep Budhiraja, group medical director, Max hospitals. Agreeing, Dr Neeraj Gupta professor of pulmonary medicine at Safdarjung hospital said, “Most of the patients needs either oxygen support or ICU care, which is fast filling up. We are also getting many patients referred from private hospitals to us. And, the cases are likely to continue to rise till after chatt. An expert committee headed by NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul had said that Delhi will see up to 15,000 cases a day during the winters. Even with more than 50,000 tests being conducted each day on average over the last seven days, the positivity rate – proportion of samples that return positive among those tested — has gone up to an average of 11.8%. In comparison, it was 8.83% the week before. This is mainly owing to cases being reported from six districts — north, central, north-east, east, north-west and south-east — where the positivity rate is between 12% and 14%, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan had said on Thursday after a review meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/coronavirus-surge-continues-in-city-fresh-cases-breach-7k-mark/story-ynrLDRPqzRD4642x9CeY5J.html
07-11-2020||City||Chahal elected president of Mohali Bar, Kadian clinches chair in Panchkula||Manpreet Singh Chahal was elected the president of the Mohali District Bar Association (DBA) for the second time in a row through the elections held on Friday. As many as 391 votes were polled, out of which Chahal got 182 votes, while his rivals Parminder Singh Toor and Anil Kaushik got 105 and 104 votes, respectively. The body has been elected for the period of one year. The other representatives who won the election include Kanwar Zorawar Singh as secretary, Neeru Thareja as joint secretary, Kuldeep Singh Rathore as vice-president and Gagandeep Singh Thind as cashier. Securing 272 votes, Satish Kadian won the position of president of the Panchkula District Bar Association.Kadian defeated his rival advocate Sameer Sethi by 965 votes. Sethi had got 171 votes. With 303 votes, Sunil Kundu won the post of vice-president against Rohit Anand, who got 147 votes. Saurabh Sharma won the post of secretary with 250 votes against Ketan Khurana, who secured 202 votes. The post of treasurer went to Mohit Sharma (266 votes), who beat Ashok Sharma (180 votes). “The voting took place from 9am to 4.30pm and 90% eligible members cast their votes. All Covid-19 norms were followed and counting was videographed,” said chief returning officer Dinesh Jangra.Iqbal Singh is new Ambala Bar presidentIqbal Singh was elected unopposed as the president of the Ambala District Bar Association. As many as 744 out of the 983 eligible members voted in the elections. The association has 1,550 members. The elections were held only for the post of vice-president and secretary, as all the other candidates were elected unopposed for their posts. As per the tally, Manpreet Singh was elected the new vice-president, beating the only other candidate, Parvesh Goel by 229 votes. Vivek Maharishi became the secretary with a margin of 102 votes. Total four candidates were contesting for the post of secretary and Sanjeev Kumar stood second. “As many as 13 and four votes were discarded as invalid for the vice-president and secretary, respectively. The polling was conducted peacefully,” said outgoing president Rohit Jain, who monitored the elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chahal-elected-president-of-mohali-bar-kadian-clinches-chair-in-panchkula/story-gcxB9DRj9iISRJO3mViqzH.html
07-11-2020||City||Gurkirpal Singh Gill is new president of Ludhiana district bar association||With 1,232 votes in his favour, advocate Gurkirpal Singh Gill was elected the president of the district bar association on Friday.He defeated his closest rival, Ankur Ghai, by 392 votes. The second runner-up, Harjot Singh Harikay, polled 209 votes.Gill has previously served as the bar body’s secretary. Following his win on Friday, Gill said that he will work for the welfare of the advocates throughout his tenure.The results for the posts of vice-president, secretary and joint secretary had not been declared at the time of filing of this report.While advocates Karan Verma, Parvinder Singh Pari and Rajesh Mahajan are in the fray for the post of the vice-president, Gagandeep Singh Saini, Gurmukh Singh and Sukhwinder Singh Bhatiya are fighting for the post of secretary. For joint secretary, Davinder Singh Grewal and Sachin Bawa are in a close contest.Earlier, one of the groups had moved the Punjab and Haryana high court against the decision to hold elections amid the pandemic. The court had dismissed the stay application. The polling went on smoothly on Friday and proper arrangements had been made for voters to sanitise their hands before casting their vote, however, the advocates were seen openly flouting all social distancing norms, many of them even shaking hands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurkirpal-singh-gill-is-new-president-of-ludhiana-district-bar-association/story-EqZQm7Z9BqgeVb1vRE2B5J.html
07-11-2020||City||Capt to virtually lay foundations stones of 107 govt smart school in Ludhiana today||Chief minister (CM) Capt Amarinder Singh will virtually lay the foundation stones of 107 government smart schools in the district on Saturday. The CM will also simultaneously launch Punjabi week celebrations and distribute tablets among primary teachers of 38 schools. The district education department has already received 267 tablets for the purpose. Schools principals of 112 governments remained on their toes throughout the day on Friday, making arrangements for ceremony on Saturday. The school heads have also deputed staff members to arrange web-cams for two-way communication during the conference. Seating arrangements have also been made to accommodate village sarpanches, councillors, MLAs and some parents, in keeping with social distancing norms. District education officer, secondary, Swaranjit Kaur said, “All arrangements have been made and school heads will ensure that Covid-19 norms are followed during event.” DEO elementary, Rajinder Kaur, said, “The teachers are being provided tablets for ease in taking online classes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/capt-to-virtually-lay-foundations-stones-of-107-govt-smart-school-in-ludhiana-today/story-Y2qMEDaUNgyXxjvUcfzYUI.html
07-11-2020||City||Ludhiana man booked for threatening to leak wife’s objectionable pictures||A 23-year-old woman has lodged a police complaint against her husband for allegedly blackmailing her with some objectionable pictures that he had clicked when she was staying at her in-laws’ house.The woman, who now lives with her parents, said that her husband had installed spy cameras in the bathroom and was using the pictures thus obtained to blackmail her. She said that he has been asking her to pay Rs 20 lakh, stating that if she fails to do so, he would leak the images on social networking sites. She also alleged that the accused had already posted some of the pictures on his Whatsapp status. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Gurdev Singh, who is the investigating officer, said the case has been registered under Sections 67 and 67-A of Information and Technology Act. He added that the woman has also accused her mother-in-law and maternal uncles of her husband to be involved in the crime, but police will probe their role before adding their names in the FIR. The ASI said that a hunt is on for the arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-man-booked-for-threatening-to-leak-wife-s-objectionable-pictures/story-Wvfqru7rZAVagoZL4qI68I.html
07-11-2020||Chandigarh||Dhillon new Punjab and Haryana HC Bar body chief||GBS Dhillon defeated incumbent DPS Randhawa by a margin of 155 votes to clinch the post of president of the Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association in the elections held on Friday. While Dhillon secured 1,056 votes, DPS Randhawa bagged 901 votes. Third candidate Puneeta Sethi secured only 164 votes.Dhillon said his priority will be to have the physical hearings resumed at the earliest. “Sincere efforts will also be made to curb infrastructure woes on the high court premises,” he said. For the post of vice-president, Vikas Malik was declared winner with 1,077 votes, defeating Sharmila Sharma (568 votes) and Hirdey Pal Singh (368 votes). Chanchal K Singla was elected as secretary with 1,370 votes followed by Ravinder Kumar Bangar (723 votes) and Aman Rani (84 votes). For the post of joint secretary, Manjit Kaur won with 1,161 votes, while Kanu Sharma bagged 922 votes. Parampreest Singh Bajwa defeated Sahil Gambhir for the post of treasurer. He got 910 votes, Gambhir 714 and Jagjit Singh Chatrath 512. “Voting started at 9.30am and concluded at 4.30pm. Counting was completed by 9pm,” said election committee chairman and senior advocate KS Sidhu. There were 3,604 voters this year, of which only 2,178 came forward to cast their votes. “The term of the newly elected executive body will continue till the first week of April 2021. The elections were delayed by six months due to the Covid-19 outbreak,” Sidhu added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dhillon-new-punjab-and-haryana-hc-bar-body-chief/story-CjO0yNNkZm3haY8Wd4MqHJ.html
07-11-2020||City||Ludhiana: Miscreants injure UP-based trader, rob him of Rs 80,000||Two motorcycle-borne miscreants robbed an Uttar Pradesh-based trader of Rs 80,000 after injuring him with sharp-edged weapons, near the old vegetable market on Friday morning.The victim, identified as Naveen Rastogi, 45, of Farrukhabad, Uttar Pradesh, said he had come to the city to buy shawls and other hosiery items. On Friday, he took an auto to reach the old vegetable market. The driver dropped him near Dr BL Kapoor Memorial Hospital, following which he started to walk towards the market. Suddenly, two miscreants turned up on a bike and asked him to hand over the cash in his possession. When Rastogi refused, the men started assaulting him with sharp weapons and snatched the bag from him. Some passersby rushed to the trader’s rescue but the miscreants had already fled with the bag by then. They then rushed him to the hospital and informed the police.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, Central) Waryam Singh said the incident occurred early in the morning. “Closed circuit television cameras, under the smart city project, are installed near the spot so it is expected that the incident may have been caught on camera,” he said. The victim is currently admitted at a local hospital. Police will lodge the FIR after recording his statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/miscreants-injure-up-based-trader-rob-him-of-rs-80-000/story-2nFFQeivfoPrEkealqE5oO.html
07-11-2020||City||Fresh Covid-19 cases cross 70-mark after 12 days in Ludhiana||With more and more residents venturing out for festive shopping, the district is again seeing a spurt in Covid-19 cases. As many as 72 fresh cases were recorded in the last 24 hours, health officials said on Friday, adding that no death was recorded. It is after a gap of 12 days that the district’s single-day cases have crossed the 70-mark. After recording 77 cases on October 24, the number of new infections had consistently gone down, with the lowest (24 cases) number of infections being recorded on October 26. The number of active cases in the district currently stands at 562. Deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Sharma said, “Efforts are being on to keep people safe from Covid-19. Whenever the district administration and health department officials find out about any positive or suspected case, their samples are immediately sent for testing.” As many as 2006 samples were sent for Covid testing on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fresh-covid-19-cases-cross-70-mark-after-12-days-in-ludhiana/story-qXSOuV296j4p1pDL28u6ZM.html
07-11-2020||City||Ludhiana: Child rights’ body vice-chairman meets 6-yr-old rape victim’s family, assures help||A day after a six-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her father’s colleague, the vice-chairman of Punjab State Commission for Protection of Child Rights, Sebi Thomas, visited Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), where the girl is undergoing treatment.Thomas met the girl’s family and assured them of all possible support from the commission. He also met the CMCH director and officials of the district administration and police and told them to provide financial assistance to the family through the district legal services authority and social welfare department if the victim belongs to the Scheduled Castes community. The girl had been raped by the 45-year-old accused on Thursday when she was playing outside the labour quarters. The accused has already been arrested under Section 376 (A and B) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.Thomas, who was accompanied by Rajwinder Singh Gill, deputy director of the Punjab State Commission for Protection of Child Rights, lauded the district administration, police and doctors for providing timely and quality treatment to the victim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-child-rights-body-vice-chairman-meets-6-yr-old-rape-victim-s-family-assures-help/story-M6ZJ8zzJzCdnsQgKIHtjRN.html
07-11-2020||City||Covid shadow: Kurali’s fireworks business dips by 50%||Famous for its wholesale rates, the firecracker market in Mohali district’s Kurali, the biggest in the region, has suffered due to the pandemic with some wholesalers claiming that the sales have gone down by almost 50%.The wholesalers in Kurali supply firecrackers to Chandigarh, Mohali, Panchkula, Ludhiana, Jalandhar and various parts of Himachal Pradesh, and Jammu and Kashmir, and normally witness business of nearly ₹7 crore every year.Manik Bathla, a fireworks wholesaler, who has been in the business for the last two decades, said due to the pandemic, people of other districts were not coming to the market. “Unlike this year, people used to come one month before Diwali to buy firecrackers, but now the festival is just a week away and the market wears a deserted look.”Another wholesaler, Pankaj Garg, said that this was the first time that the business had gone down by 50%: “Now the Chandigarh administration has banned bursting of firecrackers, which is a major loss to our business.”Even in Mohali, in line with the directions of the Punjab and Haryana high court, temporary licences were to be restricted to 20% of those issued in 2016. As such, against the 771 applications received for permits, the administration issued only 44 licences for Mohali, Sohana and Balongi. Besides, sale of firecrackers is allowed at just 12 designated places in the district.Sundar Lal Manju, president of Kurali Firecracker Dealers’ Association, said there was a slump in the market as retailers had yet to place their orders. He said they hoped to get the orders after the traders in the region received temporary licences. “This year small-time businessmen were scared of investing money in this business,” he added.No green firecrackers this year eitherLike previous years, wholesale dealers said they had not procured any stock of green firecrackers as there was no demand even as Diwali is just a week away. Green firecrackers are environment-friendly as they have low noise, no flame, no harmful pollution-causing chemicals, but emit a lot of light.“When there is no demand for green firecrackers, why would anyone procure them?” said Manik Bathla.“There is still no clear definition of green firecrackers, and there are not many suppliers in the market. Traders order as per demand. We have yet to get any order,” he said.3 illegal shops sealed in MohaliActing tough on illegal sale of firecrackers, sub-divisional magistrate of Kharar, Himanshu Jain, sealed three shops that were operating without licence. Jain said warnings against the illegal sale of firecrackers had been issued. “We have already sealed three shops,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-shadow-kurali-s-fireworks-business-dips-by-50/story-GLIt4FMnVPqcGL6htReANN.html
07-11-2020||Chandigarh||Managers of 2 discos in Chandigarh booked for serving hookah||Cracking down on the serving of hookahs despite ban, the police have registered a case against the management of two discothèques in Sector 26, Chandigarh.As part of a special drive, the police conducted searches based on tip-offs. In the first incident, Manish Sharma of Sector 52, Chandigarh, who is the manager of Riff Bar, was booked on November 5.Police also booked Ravi, manager of Boulevard, Sector 26. Cases were registered under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/managers-of-2-discos-in-chandigarh-booked-for-serving-hookah/story-OnOIpW6oyLPqMODyHeQfIP.html
07-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police get three-day custody of gangster Dilpreet||Finally, the police have gotten three-day custody of gangster Dilpreet Singh Dhahan, alias Baba, who had allegedly arranged weapons for shooters who had shot dead his rival and Lawrence Bishnoi’s close aide Gurlal Brar outside a mall in Chandigarh’s Industrial Area on October 11.The police are pinning investigations to get leads on the whereabouts of the shooters from Dilpreet, who was brought on production warrants from Sangrur jail.The police have already arrested Gurvinder Singh, alias Dhadi, and his friend Gurmeet Singh, alias Geeta, of Rurki Pukhta village in Gharuan, Mohali, who had provided a motorcycle to the shooters. Gurvinder had identified the shooters as Neeraj Chaska and Mani, who are yet to be arrested.Gurvinder had told the police that he and his friend were asked by Gaurav Patial, alias Lucky, who runs the Bambiha gang, to provide a motorcycle with a fake number plate to the shooters at Sunny Enclave in Kharar on October 8, and they were constantly in touch with them through WhatsApp audio and video calls.While Patial had planned the murder, the shooters, arms and ammunition were arranged by Dilpreet. Gaurav had taken over the operations after Dilpreet moved to drug trade.While Dilpreet was arrested in a police encounter in Chandigarh in 2018 and lodged in Ropar Central Jail, Gaurav calls the shots from Armenia. Sukhpreet had also escaped to Armenia, but was extradited and is in jail at present.Soon after Brar was gunned down, slain gangster Davinder Bambiha’s group had taken responsibility on social media. Brar, 26, a former student leader, had allegedly played a key role in killing Bambiha gang’s Lavi Deora at a fair in Kotkapura, Punjab, in 2017. In the post, the Bambiha gang had claimed that Lucky, who is overseas, had got Brar killed to avenge Deora’s murder.Patial’s name had also cropped up when Dilpreet along with Sukhpreet Singh Buddha and two other associates had left Punjabi singer Parmish Verma injured in April 2018 in Mohali.Sukhpreet Singh Buddha to be brought in tooThe police have secured production warrants of Sukhpreet Singh Buddha who is likely to be produced before the court on November 11. Buddha would be interrogated for his involvement in the murder of Surjit Singh, 39, a bouncer-cum-financier, in March this year.The Bambiha gang had bragged about Surjit’s murder on social media, saying it was to avenge the killing of bouncer Amit Sharma at Saketri. Surjit was shot dead by two unknown persons on a bike when he was returning home from Sector 22 on March 16, 2020, in his Maruti Ciaz car in Sector 38 (West) around 11pm. As per police, Surjit was considered a sympathiser of Bishnoi. He was into the business of supplying bouncers in the tricity area. However, in this case too, as in Brar’s murder, no arrests were made.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-police-get-three-day-custody-of-gangster-dilpreet/story-ub000LcKgm7Ltq6r7dOTCL.html
07-11-2020||Chandigarh||In Chandigarh, mismanaged tree pruning leaves residents troubled||Many residents have been complaining that pruning of trees is not being done properly. While many overgrown trees cover streetlights and traffic lights as they await pruning, branches of trees that have been pruned litter roads for days afterwards, residents allege.Trees on the road between Sectors 32 and 33 were pruned over a week ago, but the branches have been carelessly tossed along the roadside, encroaching on cycle tracks in some places. General secretary of the Sector 33B resident welfare association (RWA) Kuljinder Sra said, “Some trees near my house had to be pruned a month ago but the branches have not been gathered yet. Officials of the municipal corporation (MC) and the UT administration keep passing the buck.”President of Sector 38A and B RWA Joginder Singh said, “There is no uniformity in how trees are pruned. The authorities do it as per their whims and fancies. In many areas, trees have covered streetlights to the extent that they don’t work properly at night, thus endangering citizens’ safety.”Traffic police officials confirmed that they had received complaints about overhanging branches covering traffic lights. They said the complaints are forwarded to the MC or the UT administration, depending on who maintains the road in question.The Chandigarh Resident Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED) had also highlighted the issue in their meeting recently. Chairman Hitesh Puri said that all their member RWAs had raised the issue. “We will hold a meeting with the MC commissioner on Tuesday. Improper pruning of trees will be one of the few problems that will be highlighted,” he said.The trees inside the residential lanes in most sectors and along all Paths of the city are pruned by the civic body, while the trees on the Margs are pruned by the UT administration. Speaking about the problem, MC chief engineer Shailender Singh said, “We have not received any complaints. However, we will get them checked. Instructions have been given to MC workers to clear the pruned branches by the next day.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/in-chandigarh-mismanaged-tree-pruning-comes-under-scanner/story-G3uRUChMIwylvxD28mPKsM.html
07-11-2020||Chandigarh||HC stays tribunal order on de-sealing OP Chautala’s farmhouse||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday stayed a tribunal order in which the Enforcement Directorate (ED) was asked to de-seal Dabwali farmhouse of former Haryana chief minister Om Prakash Chautala for a month for the wedding ceremony of his grandsons.  The high court while staying the tribunal order has sought response from Chautala by November 11. The high court bench of justice AG Masih acted on the plea of ED, which had challenged the October 20 order of Appellate Tribunal Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The tribunal order had come on the plea of Abhay Singh Chautala, his son, who had sought permission to use the farmhouse located in Tejakhera village for the wedding ceremony of his two sons on November 27 and November 30. The tribunal had ordered that the farmhouse be de-sealed on November 6 and sealed again on December 7. The farm house has been sealed by ED in the ongoing money laundering probe against Chautala. ED’s counsel, Arvind Moudgil had told the high court that there is no provision in the PMLA to de- seal the attached property connected with the proceeds of crime temporarily. In case it is allowed, it will lead to a bad precedent which will be exploited by the accused to enjoy the proceeds of crime till the decision is rendered by the appellate tribunal, Moudgil had argued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-stays-tribunal-order-on-de-sealing-op-chautala-s-farmhouse/story-AcJ9nTRzFzNv6SVfGcCUDO.html
07-11-2020||Chandigarh||MC’s surprise inspections trigger protests in Ludhiana||Members of Valmiki Samaj and sanitation staff have alleged that the municipal corporation was harassing them by conducting surprise inspections to verify the presence of sweepers and sewer cleaners in the field. The civic body had taken up the practice to check absenteeism. Members of the Samooh Valmiki Samaj staged a protest against zonal commissioner Swati Tiwana at the Zone B office of the MC on Friday. Accusing officials of harassing Class 4 employees, protesters handed hunters and sticks to Tiwana saying that the MC’s harassment harkened the olden system where employees were beaten up by their masters. However, officials said the protest was organised to pressure officials involved in the cross-checking process. Recently, show-cause notices were issued to around a dozen employees, including the sanitary inspectors and a chief sanitary inspector.A heated argument ensued between Tiwana and the protesters. One of the officials, requesting anonymity, said a few of protesters told Tiwana that the supervisors take money from the sanitation staff to allowing them to remain absent from duty. Vipan Kalyan, who was leading the protesters, said, “MC officials are harassing sweepers and sewer cleaners by taking untimely attendance. Cross-checking is being carried out by officials from different branches of the MC who do not understand the working of the health branch. Further, contractual employees are also forced to work at the homes of councillors. Despite that show-cause notices have been issued to employees.” Tiwana, however, said,”Councillors and MLAs have been complaining that MC employees are absent from duty . Officials working in other branches of the MC are also a part of the civic body and can be deputed to keep a check on employees. No one is being harassed. Employees are only being asked to perform their duty.” The issue of absenteeism has been raised in the MC time and again. Authorities have been unable to find a solution for the same due to the mafia in the unorganised sector. Last year, the MC had proposed GPS watches for sanitation staff to check their movement, but the proposal could not be implemented.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mc-s-surprise-inspections-trigger-protests-in-ludhiana/story-WJ030fFNcyvDubCy0dywOK.html
07-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana assembly: Din in House over resolution to vote before debate on farm laws||The Haryana assembly on Friday witnessed an unusual and heated verbal skirmish over whether an official resolution should be put to vote before discussion in the House. Ruckus prevailed in the House and the proceedings were stalled for about 140 minutes that included two adjournments of 75 minutes. The trouble began soon after chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar moved an official resolution backing the Centre’s three contentious farm laws. At the core of the BJP-JJP coalition government’s official resolution was an attempt to checkmate the Congress chorus that these laws are anti-farmer. Earlier, when speaker Gian Chand Gupta rejected the Congress resolution against the Centre’s farm laws, the opposition party had staged a walkout. The state government wanted to convey to the Centre that “this House resolves to express its thanks to the government of India for these landmark reforms in the agriculture sector through these legislations.” The Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda said the party will support the resolution if the government brings in another law, promising Minimum Support Price (MSP). “Otherwise, we don’t support this resolution. And let there be a voting first (on government’s resolution),” Hooda said. “These three laws are against farmers,” he said, adding “and they don’t protect interests of the farmers. How can we call them pro-farmer?” Hooda’s offensive kicked-off heated arguments between the treasury benches and the Congress. It began at 1.30pm and continued till 3.20 pm when speaker Gian Chand Gupta named all the Congress MLAs present in the House and adjourned proceedings for the second time. The order prevailed when the House re-assembled at 3.50pm as the Congress MLAs who had been named by the speaker could not join the proceedings and held a protest outside the Vidhan Sabha. Finally, the debate began and the official resolution after an hour-long discussion was passed in Khattar’s absence who along with the speaker had gone to the Punjab Raj Bhawan. Both sides digs in heels Taken aback by Hooda’s demand for “voting first and debate later” on Khattar’s resolution, the speaker sought to know under what rule the Congress was pressing for voting before discussion. Holding Vidhan Sabha rule book in their hands, Congress leaders such as Hooda, Dr Raghuvir Singh Kadian, Kiron Choudhry and Bharat Bhushan Batra quoted rules in support of their contention. The speaker too referred to the rule book and rejected the Congress’ demand. “I thought the sitting will continue till midnight. Now you are running away from the debate. Hold the debate,” he asked the Congress MLAs, who had trooped to the well of the House and were resorting to sloganeering. Khattar attempted to end the stalemate and parliamentary affairs minister Kanwar Pal, who was speaker during the previous term of the BJP, launched the counter offensive and backed speaker Gupta’s stand that voting, if needed, will take place after the debate. Disorder continued in the House as Congress MLAs refused to relent. The Congress stalwart Dr Kadian was seen tearing some papers in the well of the House, while other MLAs were shouting slogans.The speaker adjourned the House at 1.55pm till 2.40pm. Sources say the speaker held meeting with Congress leaders to break the logjam. During the next 40 minutes after the House re-assembled again, the same chorus “voting first or the debate first” continued. Both the sides refused to yield. At this, Khattar said the government was ready to hold discussion all through the night on farm laws, but the Congress kept insisting for voting. The speaker said: “No voting without discussion.” He said Congress was “bulldozing democratic rights of other members of the House.” The speaker again adjourned the proceedings for 30 minutes at 3.20pm. Ultimately, the debate was held and the resolution was passed but in absence of the Congress lawmakers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-assembly-din-in-house-over-resolution-to-vote-before-debate-on-farm-laws/story-gaCq3akRJZNoivDgftRiKL.html
07-11-2020||City||Man who snatched SUV by injuring driver in Panchkula held||The police have arrested a Pinjore resident for snatching a Toyota Innova SUV from a Mohali resident after attacking him with a rod in broad daylight at Surajpur in Pinjore.The accused, Surender Gautam of Pinjore, was produced before the court on Friday and sent to one-day police remand. The SUV was recovered from Maheshpur area in Panchkula district on October 23, the same day it was snatched.Complainant Iqbal Khan, 40, of Mullanpur in Mohali district, told the police that he had gone to Surajpur on October 23, and while he was returning home, near the Amravati Enclave turn, a motorcyclist stopped him by blocking his way. As he got out of the vehicle, the accused hit him with a rod on his head because of which he fell. The accused then repeatedly hit him, leaving him bleeding from nose and mouth. Hearing Khan’s cries for help, people started gathering after which the accused fled with the vehicle and his purse containing ₹2,500 and other important documents.Khan was rushed to the civil hospital in Sector 6 from where he was referred to PGIMER. A case under Sections 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint) and 379B (snatching) of the Indian Penal Code was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-who-snatched-suv-by-injuring-driver-in-panchkula-held/story-gQ4hTIh3myg2p6WvEBbpnL.html
07-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana assembly session: Bill to control organised crime passed sans wiretap clause||The state assembly on Friday passed six more Bills including Haryana Control of Organized Crime (HCOC) Bill after striking off the wiretap provisions in it. An earlier HCOC Bill passed by the assembly in 2019 and reserved for consideration of the President was withdrawn following objections by the Centre. The modified Bill tabled in the assembly on Friday is sans provisions pertaining to phone interception. The Centre had raised objections regarding provisions pertaining to phone interception and its authorisation in the HCOC Bill on the grounds that such provisions already exist under the Indian Telegraph Act and IT Act. The assembly also passed the Punjab Land Revenue (Haryana Amendment) Bill, 2020 to provide for speedy disposal of partition proceedings pending before the revenue courts. An official spokesperson said it was observed that partition proceedings pending before the revenue courts took a long time as there was a no statutory limit to decide the same. As a consequence, the landowners, especially the rural masses, had to face prolonged litigation. Besides, there is a general tendency to purchase land in share and thereafter get the Girdawari done in specific Khasra numbers on basis of mention of the same in the sale deeds. As a result, there is multifarious litigation both in civil as well as revenue courts. In order to cut short the delay in partition as well as to reduce litigation, it was felt that necessary amendments be carried out in the Punjab Land Revenue Act, 1887. This will provide relief to all the landowners, especially the peasants, and boost agricultural efficiency by lessening the burden of litigation and ensuring time-bound partition. Keeping in view the said position as well as public interest, it is necessary to insert sections 111-A and 118-A after sections 111 and 118 respectively in the Punjab Land Revenue Act, 1887. The Vidhan Sabha also passed the Haryana Accountability of Public Finances (Amendment) Bill to provide for accountability in financial administration of the state. This will be done by way of an efficient and effective system to facilitate accountability through appropriate accounting and internal auditing system in all the departments, boards, corporations, co-operative societies, universities, local authorities, statutory bodies, public institutions, and other authorities established, controlled or financed by the state government, non-government organisations, which receive grant-in-aid contribution from state government and all those entities that receive public monies in any form including organisations that get funds from the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-assembly-session-bill-to-control-organised-crime-passed-sans-wiretap-clause/story-86trjSPPbKIxPSKf02tSgJ.html
07-11-2020||Chandigarh||Resume passenger trains: Army personnels’ kin requests govt||With Diwali round the corner, the families of army personnel posted in distant places across the country have requested the Union government to start plying passenger trains in the state. Atma Raksha Sangh convener colonel HS Kahlon (retd) said that a number of army personnel visit their families during Diwali but if passenger trains do not operate, they will face difficulty in reaching home. “Army personnel get leave only for a limited period of time and if it too is wasted in travelling via buses, their family will also suffer,” he said. A Ludhiana resident, whose son is posted in Maharashtra, says this would be his son’s first visit in nine months. “He will be staying with us for 15 days.However, this time he will only be able to travel till Ambala. From there he will take a bus to our village. His trip will be cut short due to a longer travel.” Another army personnel’s kin, also requesting anonymity, said, “Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh is also an army veteran. He should ensure that the issue is resolved at the earliest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/resume-passenger-trains-army-personnels-kin-requests-govt/story-qZrFMYWJf85sAcFlZDePEP.html
07-11-2020||City||Body of 24-year-old man found floating in drain in Ambala||An unidentified body of a man with a bag on his back was found floating in an open drain on Jagadhri road in Ambala Cantt on Friday morning.Later by the evening, the body was identified as a 24-year-old man from an area behind BD Floor Mill near Mahesh Nagar, Gagan Kumar, who was missing since November 1.As per details, the body was found by some locals in the drain near Gandhi Ground, adjacent to New Sabzi Mandi in the morning and the police were informed.Ambala Cantt station in-charge Vijay Kumar, who was at the spot in the morning, said that the body was taken to the civil hospital in Ambala Cantt and was kept for identification at the morgue. Before evening, the family of the deceased had reached the hospital to claim it.The kin told the authorities that a missing complaint was already lodged on Tuesday by the victim’s brother. The man had gone missing while returning home from a hotel, where he was working in the kitchen.“The family had told us that he had left the hotel in the evening and after an hour his phone went unreachable. They have told us that he used to drink, so he might have slipped into the drain and went untraced,” said Shambhu Lal, the in-charge of the police post where the complaint was lodged.“Doctors have also hinted that he was drunk so we are ruling out foul play for now. The final autopsy report is still pending though,” Lal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/body-of-24-year-old-man-found-floating-in-drain-in-ambala/story-ck5ysPnuv36BcnIAIziI3K.html
07-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana assembly session: 50% quota for women in panchayati raj institutions||The state assembly on Friday passed the Haryana Panchayati Raj (second amendment) Bill to provide 50% reservation to women in panchayati raj institutions. It also provides 8% reservation to persons from backward class (A) for the post of sarpanches. The amendment Bill also introduced a provision for recall of an elected sarpanch reflecting his accountability to the gram sabha. The intent of the provision is to enhance democratic accountability of those governing in panchayati raj institutions, the statement of objects and reasons said. Deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, who introduced the amendment Bill, said seats will be reserved for women and men on the basis of even-odd numbers. Dushyant said these provisions will be applicable in future panchayati raj elections—zila parishad, block panchayat samiti and gram panchayats. He said each village will be given codes based on even-odd numbers. Regarding the right to recall provision, Dushyant said villagers will now have the right to remove a non performing sarpanch before his or her tenure gets over. He said to remove a sarpanch, 33% of the voters of the village will have to submit a complaint of no confidence in writing to the concerned officer. This proposal will go to the block development and panchayat officer and CEO. After this, a meeting of gram sabha will be called for discussion. A secret ballot will be held immediately after this meeting and if 67% villagers vote against the sarpanch, he/she will be relieved of duties. A motion of no confidence can be evoked under this rule only after the sarpanch has completed one year in office. Dushyant said if the two-third votes were not cast against the sarpanch, then the no confidence motion can only be evoked again after next one year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-assembly-session-50-quota-for-women-in-panchayati-raj-institutions/story-qjWfBgvMetwukFa7xc0aRO.html
07-11-2020||Chandigarh||NGO launches langar sewa at Ludhiana bus stand||A Hoshiarpur-based NGO on Friday launched a daily-langar service opposite the bus stand here on Friday.Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, joint commissioner of police J Elanchezhian and DCP (traffic) Sukhpal Singh Brar inaugurated the ‘Dhan Guru Ram Das Ji Langar Seva.’ Speaking on the occasion, the deputy commissioner said the organisation had been providing langar service in 25 hospitals of the state and was also providing three meals a day to the needy. He said the organisation prepared langar for around 72,000 sangats everyday.Langar will be available at the Ludhiana bus stand from 11am to 4pm. “The service will also be started in other parts of Ludhiana shortly,” he said. The service started by US-based Manjit Singh provides ration to the underprivileged and feeds 1.5 lakh people on a daily basis. Being run from Dhan Guru Ramdas Sewa Asthan at Pur Hiran village at Hoshiarpur, the langar is prepared at the state-of-the-art building built over three-kanal space.The building contains several imported machines that churn out around 12,000 rotis an hour. Manjit said special storage utensils ensure food stays warm for six to seven hours. The vehicle is also specially designed with attachments that can be easily converted into tables and stools, if need be.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ngo-launches-langar-sewa-at-ludhiana-bus-stand/story-GVWt3YG759P5BERSF9b9RN.html
07-11-2020||Mumbai||23-year-old man arrested for molesting woman in Mumbai||A 23-year-old man was arrested by Sakinaka police for allegedly molesting a 30-year-old woman around 11pm on November 2. According to police, both the accused and the survivor live in the same society. On the day of the incident, the woman allegedly didn’t lock her door properly. An officer said, “She was watching TV and fell asleep. The accused then sneaked into her house and molested her.” An officer from Sakinaka police station said, “The woman later approached Sakinaka police and lodged a complaint against the accused. We have booked him under sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint) of the Indian Penal Code.” “We arrested the accused on Wednesday night, and produced him before Andheri metropolitan magistrate’s court on Thursday. He was released on bail,” added the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/23-year-old-man-arrested-for-molesting-woman-in-mumbai/story-6nS8ASyzAt3Z6iQZK9WHxO.html
07-11-2020||Mumbai||Mason held for molesting 6-year-old daughter in Vasai near Mumbai||A 35-year-old mason has been arrested for allegedly molesting his 6-year-old daughter since the past few months in Bapane.The mason is jobless and lives with the survivor after his wife deserted him, said inspector Anant Parad of Vasaigaon police station. Their neighbours alerted a non-government organisation (NGO) as the survivor would scream whenever the accused would assault her. The NGO came to the victim’s rescue and filed a complaint with the police. The accused has been booked under sections 354 (molestation) of the Indian Penal Code as well as relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. He was produced before the Vasai court and has been remanded in police custody for four days, said Parad.“We are investigating whether the accused committed rape. If it is proven, we will add the charges,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mason-held-for-molesting-6-year-old-daughter-in-vasai-near-mumbai/story-ebJhTzrBQcvoMEYyIvVsKI.html
07-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: BEST announces two schemes for power consumers||To give relief to citizens during the lockdown and to recover power bill dues, the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) Undertaking on Friday announced two schemes for consumers. BEST supplies power to 10 lakh consumers in the island city. According to a statement issued by BEST on Friday, the first scheme will be for full payment. “If the consumer pays November bill in full immediately, the DPC (delayed payment charges) and IoA (interest on arrears) on electricity usage of April to October will be waived. Consumers will also get a 2% rebate on bills for the months,” it said. The second scheme will be for payment in instalments. “If the November bill is paid in three equal instalments, DPC and IoA on electricity usage of April to October will be waived, while 1% rebate will be given on bills during the same month.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-best-announces-two-schemes-for-power-consumers/story-aPXSou2cRN4ne6fHY9OlaJ.html
07-11-2020||Mumbai||Two arrested for abducting Mumbai resident, throwing him in Kalwa creek||Mumbai Police’s crime branch arrested two people for abducting a Gorai resident from his building premises in an autorickshaw and then throwing him in Kalwa creek on October 3. The accused kidnapped the victim over an assault that occurred five years ago. The search for the victim, a political party worker, is underway.The arrested accused have been identified as Mahesh Kute, 29, and Dinesh Mehra, 46, both residents of Gorai. The accused and the victim, Manish Harshe, 49, live in the same area and knew each other, and there was incident five years ago wherein they had assaulted each other. It seems the accused wanted to take revenge and abducted him, said a police officer. According to police, Harshe’s wife in her complaint alleged that Harshe left home around 11am. As he did not return for a long time, she enquired with their neighbours and security guards and learnt that two people came in an autorickshaw and had an argument with Harshe outside the society. She further learnt that the duo forcefully made Harshe sit in the auto, said a police officer.Harshe’s wife then informed the Borivli police. After checking the building’s CCTV footage, the crime branch’s unit 11 started a parallel inquiry. Following technical evidence, the accused were found heading on Nashik highway on the day of the incident, said inspector Sunil Mane of unit 11.Several police teams were formed and both the accused were arrested from Ahmednagar district. During inquiry, they confessed that they had kidnapped Harshe and forced him to consume alcohol. They then assaulted him and threw him in Kalwa creek, added Mane.“The accused have been arrested under charges of kidnapping. Search for Harshe is going on,” added Mane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-arrested-for-abducting-mumbai-resident-throwing-him-in-kalwa-creek/story-UYlgrvUpKFv9JzzrxoNVNL.html
07-11-2020||Mumbai||Eknath Khadse, Urmila Matondkar among Maharashtra’s MLC nominees||The Maharashtra government on Friday sent its 12 recommendations for members of the state legislative Council (MLC) to governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari. “The Congress has recommended the names of Sachin Sawant, Muzaffar Hussain, Rajni Patil and Aniruddha Wankar; Nationalist Congress Party’s nominees are Eknath Khadse, Raju Shetti, Anand Shinde and Yashpal Bhinge; while the Sena has sent the names of Urmila Matondkar, Chandrakant Raghuvanshi, Vijay Karanjkar and Nitin Bangude Patil,” said a senior minister, requesting anonymity. Each of the three ruling parties — Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress — have taken four seats each. Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government leaders, however, are not sure whether Koshyari, who has been locked in a fight with the government on several instances, will clear the list and nominate the 12 candidates to the Council Twelve members to the upper house of the state legislature are nominated by the governor on the recommendation of the state government. These nominees are expected to be from different walks of life, although often ruling parties recommend their members or people associated with them. Most of the 12 legislators, who retired in June from the Upper house, were also politicians. The positions have been vacant since then as the state had not made any recommendations to the governor. Barring a few, most of the candidates recommended by the government are politicians. Khadse, who recently joined NCP from BJP, Muzaffar Hussain, Sachin Sawant, Rajni Patil, Yashpal Bhinge, Chandrakant Raghuvanshi, Vijay Karanjkar and Nitin Patil are politicians. Raju Shetti is a politician, but is also a popular farmers’ leader. Urmila Matondkar is a Bollywood actor, Anand Shinde and Aniruddha Wankar are Marathi singers. Three ministers from the MVA government — state transport minister Anil Parab from Shiv Sena, minority affairs minister Nawab Malik from NCP and medical education minister Amit Deshmukh from Congress — met the governor and submitted nominations in a sealed envelope to Koshyari on Friday evening. “We have submitted 12 names in a sealed envelope along with an official request from chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and proposal cleared by the state cabinet. We have followed the process before nominating names to the governor,” said Parab, after meeting the governor at Raj Bhavan. “The appointment has already been delayed due to the pandemic. As names have been submitted now, we are hoping the governor will fulfill his responsibility by clearing the recommendations after scrutiny,” Malik said. Bhinge and Wankar had contested the elections last year as candidates of Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi (VBA) led by Prakash Ambedkar. Bhinge had contested the general elections from Nanded against Ashok Chavan, currently PWD minister in the MVA government. Chavan lost the polls by 40,148 votes against Pratap Chikhlikar of the BJP and Bhinge got 26,020 votes. Wankar contested the Assembly polls from Chandrapur and got 15,403 votes. Independent candidate Kishor Jorgewar won the polls against sitting BJP MLA Nanaji Shamkule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/eknath-khadse-urmila-matondkar-among-maharashtra-s-mlc-nominees/story-MIJ7k6CulCuPgIooJdlBhO.html
07-11-2020||Delhi||Crackers banned: Now over to enforcement||Bursting and selling crackers this season could attract a fine of up to R1 lakh, Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai said on Friday, a day after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, in a bid to check the rising pollution levels, announced a complete ban on the sale and use of fireworks, including “green varieties”, in the capital till November 30.The ban comes into force Friday midnight.Rai said people caught selling or bursting crackers could be slapped with a fine up to R1 lakh under the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act (1981). “Prosecutions will be made under the Air Act, which has a provision to fines going as high as R1 lakh. The amount of fine will depend on the scale of the violation,” Rai said. The Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) on Friday issued a detailed set of directions all the district magistrates and Delhi police, asking them to enforce the ban strictly. “The ban would be implemented from Friday midnight. We have asked the enforcement agencies to submit a daily action taken report. We will be monitoring the situation closely,” said a senior DPCC official. Pollution caused by firecrackers is a huge problem every winter, aggravating the quality of air already affected by other factors such as stubble burning, local emission, falling wind speed, weather conditions, etc.The environment minister will convene a meeting with representatives from the environment department, DPCC, divisional commissioners and Delhi Police on Monday to chalk out a detailed action plan. The enforcement teams said they were prepared to enforce the government order. Devesh Srivastava, joint commissioner of police (southern range), said special teams had already been constituted at police station and district levels to implement the earlier rule of allowing only green firecrackers (less-polluting varieties). “We had special teams of special staff and district vigilance to deal with the problem, but now that we have heard of a complete ban, we’ll have to go even further,” Srivastava said. A meeting of top police officers is likely soon to chart out the course of action. The officer said since it will be a challenge to enforce the ban in the city’s bylanes, meetings will be arranged with resident welfare associations and market bodies in each area to ensure individuals do not burst firecrackers. “We are activating our eyes and ears scheme particularly for this purpose so that a check can be kept on individuals as well, not just the sellers,” Srivastava said. Police said they will focus on the 167 shops that were granted temporary licences to sell green firecrackers before the ban was announced, to ensure the stock procured by them is not sold illegally. “While we were already out in the field to prevent the sale and purchase of illegal firecrackers, now we’ll push out our special teams a week prior to Diwali when people are actually seen lighting firecrackers,” said Srivastava. The police are relying on neighbours to tip off about individuals flouting the rules. Experts agreed that implementation of a ban of such a large scale would require public participation and awareness campaigns. Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) said the Supreme Court had banned the sale of traditional firecrackers in 2017, but the stock is still being sold illegally and its proof can be heard around neighbourhoods. “Enforcement is not easy when you have to track every bylane and neighbourhood. Getting crackers across the borders is easy. Effective implementation of the ban will only happen if people participate,” Roychowdhury said. The police said that to prevent people buying crackers from neighbouring cities such as Ghaziabad and Noida, they will intensify random checks at border points. Haryana has also announced a complete ban on the sale of firecrackers.“We are waiting for any directions from courts or from the state government with regard to sales of firecrackers. Once we receive directions, they will be implemented. At local level, we have not issued any temporary firecracker licences so far in the wake of high pollution levels. Any issuance of licences will be considered only after we get a nod from pollution department officials,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate, Ghaziabad.The Delhi Police had last year arrested 261 people for selling or bursting illegal firecrackers on or ahead of Dilwali and registered a total of 433 first information reports against them. They had seized 9,758 kilos of illegal firecrackers. Most of these FIRs and arrests had happened on Diwali night. That night alone, the police had registered 371 FIRs, arrested 210 persons and seized 3,764 kilos of firecrackers. That night, 315 cases were registered against firecrackers users under IPC section of violating an order passed by a government servant and 56 under the Explosives Act against the sellers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/crackers-banned-now-over-to-enforcement/story-eLRQTUBWp3nkNNrdDdEicP.html
07-11-2020||Mumbai||Chemical test of firecrackers shows presence of toxic metals; unsafe for health says Mumbai-based NGO||A chemical analysis and heavy metal test for firecrackers on sale this Diwali, revealed the presence of hazardous metals or metal oxides, indicating they are unsafe for human health.City-based environment group Awaaz Foundation tested samples of 38 types of firecrackers in a private laboratory and compared their chemical composition. Results for 28 firecrackers were released on Friday, while results for the remaining 10 will be released later. The report was shared with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray on Friday highlighting the health impacts. Chemicals and metals are added to firecrackers for their light-producing qualities and emit pollutants when burst. All crackers were found to have chemicals listed in Schedule I ‘List of Hazardous and Toxic Chemicals’ of the Manufacture, Storage and Import of Hazardous Chemicals Rules, 1989, under the Environment Protection Act, 1986.Twelve of the 28 firecrackers had barium, a metal banned by the Supreme Court (SC) in 2018 when SC had also directed National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) to develop green crackers, which do not use barium.The test results also showed the presence of lead, phosphorus and chromium in some crackers, which have been identified as dangerous metals by the World Health Organisation.“Significant proportion of chemical content was found present in all tested cracker results. These chemicals also form oxides, some of which are extremely toxic to human health including sulphur trioxide, vanadium pentoxide, potassium oxides and copper oxides,” said Sumaira Abdulali, convener, Awaaz Foundation. She added that while procuring these crackers this year, no green crackers were available in the market. “On requesting green crackers, I got a few that burst with the colour green on combustion. On analysis, these crackers were also found to contain several hazardous chemicals including barium,” said Abdulali. “Firecrackers independently present health risks including an elevated risk of respiratory disease and they can compromise recovery of patients of other respiratory illnesses such as Covid-19,” she said.Scientists said crackers would increase air pollution, which had already shown a spike from the last week of October. “Metals take the form of suspended particulate matter after combustion and emissions from metal oxides are toxic making them extremely dangerous for groups sensitive to poor air quality,” said Dipankar Saha, former additional director, Central Pollution Control Board.The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) said they have been conducting chemical analysis of crackers annually but have not made any of its finding’s public since 2015. “The authenticity of such independent lab assessments need to be checked as the quantity of chemicals in each cracker needs to be specifically assessed,” said VM Motghare, joint director (air quality), MPCB adding, “This year we have not carried out our annual firecracker noise or chemical testing exercise as we are awaiting directions from the National Green Tribunal on an application related to this matter.”SD Mishra, controller of explosives, Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation said he wouldn’t be able to comment on the issue until he saw the report. Firecrackers tested and their chemical constituentsThe test results found metals such as lead, chromium, copper, phosphorus, sulphur, chlorine, aluminium, and metal oxides such as sulphur trioxide, phosphorus pentoxide, and vanadium pentoxide, all listed under schedule I Part II of a list of hazardous and toxic chemicals under the Manufacture, Storage and Import of Hazardous Chemicals Rules 1989, a notification passed by the union environment ministry under the Environment Protection Act, 1986.Types of firecrackers tested: Series crackers, skyrockets, bombs, chain crackers, flower pots, Catherine wheel from different firecracker brands on sale across Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/chemical-test-of-firecrackers-shows-presence-of-toxic-metals-unsafe-for-health-says-mumbai-based-ngo/story-wUyl8TvC8iHFE7Yl7YRi9L.html
07-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt forms panel to assess impact of bio-decomposer||The Delhi government on Friday set up a 15-member impact assessment committee to assess the effectiveness of ‘Pusa bio-decomposer’, developed by the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI) to turn stubble into manure without having to burn it. Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Friday said the panel will have five MLAs, and officials from IARI and agriculture department, who will assess the effectiveness of this solution in the rural pockets of the city. “The government has decided to set up an impact assessment committee to ascertain the effectiveness of the Pusa bio-decomposer in reducing stubble burning in Delhi,” Rai said a media briefing. The committee has been asked to submit an assessment report to the government within a week. The report will be presented before the Supreme Court after Diwali and urge it to direct other agrarian states to use this cost-effective solution so that Delhi can be saved from the annual problem of pollution on account of farm fires, Rai said. Citing data from central government’s System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) data, Rai said the share of stubble burning in Delhi’s pollution rose to 42% on Thursday, the maximum so far this season. “There is pollution due to local sources as well, but emissions from stubble burning and firecrackers make the situation worse in Delhi,” he said. The minister said that the government has received 2,300 complaints on the “Green Delhi” mobile app so far, of which 1,346 have been resolved. Most of the complaints are related to garbage dumping from north Delhi municipal corporation areas, and burning of biomass and plastic waste, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-forms-panel-to-assess-impact-of-bio-decomposer/story-AOEhvdrEbEFjaKBLTQBXxM.html
07-11-2020||Gurugram||DTCP asks Ambience Group to build retaining wall adjacent to Shri Ram School||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) in Gurugram issued a second notice to the Ambience Group on Friday to take corrective action by building a retaining wall adjacent to The Shri Ram School, whose structure has developed cracks over the last two years due to deep digging carried out by the developer for a commercial complex next door.The department gave 10 days to the Ambience Group to comply with the directions, or face action, DTCP officials aware of the matter said. The district town planner (DTP) had issued the first notice to the developer on September 9, directing it to construct retaining walls along the boundary of the school. Retaining walls are used to support soil laterally, so that it can be retained at different levels. They are often used in the construction of large basements.The problem dates back to 2018, when Ambience Group started deep digging in areas adjoining the northern boundary wall of the school, after which cracks started appearing on the walls of the school’s chemistry lab. Apprehending further damage and soil erosion, the school approached the developer, who carried out repair work and promised to take preventive measures as construction continued, the officials cited above said.The matter flared up the following year, when portions of the compound north of the school building started to cave in, leading to the institution being shut for a week. On July 22, 2019, The Shri Ram School wrote to the Gurugram deputy commissioner, who directed the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) to prepare a fact-finding report. In its report, submitted on July 23 last year, MCG noted that the basement construction work had caused soil erosion and cracks in the school building. MCG’s memo directed the DTP to issue stern directions to the developer, and ensure remedial measures were taken.This August, however, the school reported a cave-in due to soil erosion near a manhole in the sports field, and the reappearance of cracks on the walls of the building. On August 26, the school wrote to the deputy commissioner for the second time, and the DTCP was asked to intervene to take appropriate steps.“The safety of the students and the school is top priority for the department. We have issued a second notice to the developer on Friday and directed it to take corrective measures within 10 days. Action will be initiated as per the rules if corrective steps are not taken,” said RS Bhath, district down planner. Since 2018, the school has submitted two representations to the deputy commissioner, two to the DTP, and approached the environment and disaster management authorities. The school’s chairman, Arun Bharat Ram, has written to chief minister ML Khattar.While the school awaits remedial measures, it has cordoned off parts of the campus due to safety concerns. When HT visited the site on Thursday, cracks could be seen in some areas, including the chemistry lab.Besides the school authorities, parents of several students have also raised the alarm about the situation. While the school has not been holding physical classroom sessions due to the coronavirus disease pandemic, students in Classes 10 and 12 have been going for practical lessons.A delegation of parents that visited the school on Thursday said the lack of action by the developer was a cause for worry. “Due to the construction on the adjacent site, cracks have appeared in the school building. It’s a major safety issue that deserves urgent attention. The developer has not responded to the school’s requests with any remedy,” said Avantika Madan, executive member of the school’s Parent-Teacher Association (PTA).“Our children are losing out by not going into areas such as labs that are crucial for their education. We need this issue to be rectified since it concerns the safety of our children and has been pending resolution since a long time,” she added.Rachna Vohra, another parent, said that the playground and some buildings were not safe due to the damage. “Due to the massive digging, there has been excessive soil erosion. Severe damage could take place if there’s any natural calamity,” said Vohra, who is an urban planner. Another parent, Kaushal Sheth, who is an architect, said a retaining wall needed to be constructed.The chairman of the Ambience Group, Raj Singh Gehlot, contended that the safety and security of the school structure was not compromised by the construction. “The generator of the school suffered damage two years back, and I got it repaired. I assure the school and authorities that the safety of the school structure is not compromised by our work. If at all there are any issues, we will get it repaired on our own cost,” Gehlot said. When asked to comment on the construction of the retaining walls, Gehlot said that the school was free to build the wall on their land. “The school can build the wall on their own land. I will not give up on my ownership of the land,” said Gehlot.Gurugram deputy commissioner Amit Khatri, however, said that the administration had taken cognisance of the matter and the DTP would take appropriate action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/dtcp-asks-ambience-group-to-build-retaining-wall-adjacent-to-shri-ram-school/story-SXtQ7oxYSiYtPrhaRBxXKP.html
07-11-2020||Delhi||Cracker ban in Delhi: Traders ask for relief, say they stand to lose crores||Firecracker traders in Delhi say the complete ban on fire crackers, including the “less polluting green varieties”, will break the backbone of the industry and requested the government to reconsider the decision. A day after Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a complete ban on cracker sale and use from November 7 to November 30, the traders association said they may end up losing to tune of Rs 300 crore in Delhi alone and demanded some alternative to clear out the green cracker stock that has been procured. Rajeev Jain, president of Delhi Firecrackers Dealers’ Association, said Delhi Police had started the process of granting temporary licences for selling firecrackers in Delhi around two months ago and based on the these licences, traders started booking stock from manufacturers in NCR towns. These temporary licences are valid from two days before Diwali till two days after the festival, after which these traders cannot sell their stock. “Traders get stock according to the conditions of the licence. The entire sale happens in the Diwali season. The government has put a ban till November 30, but who will buy crackers after that? Moreover, temporary licences expire two days after Diwali. A trader who has put his life’s savings into the business has nowhere to go,” Jain said. “The government did not give us any warning before stealing the livelihoods of so many businessmen,” he said.Udit Ranjan, a cracker dealer from west Delhi’s Tilak Nagar, said the industry was finally recovering after over three years. After a Supreme Court ban on the sale of traditional varieties of fireworks, the green ones had started coming into markets last year but with very limited quantities and varieties. This year, despite the Covid-19 lockdown, availability of green crackers had started increasing. “Right when we thought that we could recover some of our losses, this ban was announced. Crackers are properly used only once a year, and throughout the year you have construction activities and vehicular pollution. During winters, you have smoke from stubble burning, but does the government have the courage to stop a farmer? Then why ruin the lives of cracker traders,” Ranjan said. Environment minister Gopal Rai on Friday said while the government understands that traders had procured licences and cracker stock, the decision to implement the ban was taken after the spike in the number of Covid-19 cases over the last one week, which was only being made worse by the rising pollution levels. “Between saving people’s lives and saving the economy, we decided that at this time, under the present conditions, it was more important to save lives. Covid-19 cases are on a rise and this step had to be taken,” he said.Traders explained since storing large quantities of firecrackers in Delhi is not allowed, after obtaining licences they make advance bookings with manufacturers in NCR towns and store crackers in warehouses across the borders. This is transferred to their shops according to requirement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cracker-ban-traders-ask-for-relief-say-they-stand-to-lose-crores/story-OHl97l0yDqjVckacBdkfQL.html
07-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt orders 22 hospitals to add over 1,100 Covid beds||With a greater number of Covid-19 patients getting admitted in hospitals by the day, the government has ordered eight of its hospitals and 14 private hospitals to increase the number of beds earmarked for treatment of the infection. This will add over 1,100 beds to the existing 15,800 reserved for Covid-19 treatment across hospitals in Delhi. Almost 75% of all intensive care unit beds — with or without ventilators — were occupied as on Friday evening, according to the Delhi government’s Delhi Corona App, while over 48% of Covid-19 beds were occupied. The move will add 500 beds in six Delhi government hospitals, of which 110 will be intensive care beds with machines for non-invasive ventilation, as per the order issued by special secretary (health) SM Ali. “Delhi government has decided to augment the availability of beds for Covid patients in these Delhi government hospitals in addition to the already existing ones, this will be paramount in order to successfully combat the third wave,” Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain tweeted on Friday. In a review meeting with the union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Thursday, Jain had requested that centre increase the number of ICU beds in AIIMS and other central government-run hospitals in the city. Rajiv Gandhi Super speciality hospital, which is already a 500-bed dedicated Covid treatment facility, will add 150 beds. Deen Dayal Upadhaya Hospital and Dr Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital, which were treating both Covid and non-Covid patients, will add 200 of the 500 beds. The rest will be in three hospitals — Bhagwan Mahavir, Acharya Bhikshu, and Sanjay Gandhi — which were non Covid-19 hospitals will add another 150 of the 500 beds, according to the order. These hospitals might have to stop or restrict some of the non-Covid-19 services in order to increase Covid-19 beds. “We already had 100 Covid-19 beds and will add another 100 now. However, to do so we will have to restrict our medicine clinics and cancel some elective surgeries. We usually run at 100% capacity and now we will have to empty out two to three wards for the additional beds,” said a senior doctor from Baba Saheb Ambedkar hospital, on condition of anonymity. Two of the existing Covid-19 hospitals --- Burari and Deep Chand Bandhu – have been directed to increase 20 ICU beds each. Apart from the Delhi government-run hospitals, an order has been issued to 14 private hospitals to earmark 50% of their total bed strength for Covid-19 care. This will add 685 beds to the total. “It has been decided to allocate 50% of total bed capacity in 14 hospitals for the treatment of Covid-19. The MSs (medical superintendents) of these hospitals are directed to admit Covid-19 patients as per the revised allocation of beds and update the data on Delhi Corona app with immediate effect,” read the order by Dr RN Das, medical superintendent of nursing homes in Delhi. The government had in September directed 33 big private hospitals in the city to reserve 80% of their ICU beds for the treatment of Covid-19. The order was scrapped by the high court and the Delhi government has now approached the Supreme Court on the matter. “We are reviewing the order, but on the face of it, there doesn’t seem to be anything wrong. As long as they do not reserve a high proportion of the ICU beds it should be okay. In its previous order, the government had asked 33 hospitals to reserve 80% of their ICU beds, essentially stopping these hospitals from providing critical and complex care for trauma, heart attack stroke, cancer, transplants etc. So we had to go to court. My only wish is that the government discuss with the private sector before issuing such orders,” said Girdhar Gyani, director general of Association of Healthcare Providers of India (APHI), which had filed the previous case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-orders-22-hospitals-to-add-over-1-100-covid-beds/story-uDRsNzr7ILPtVtWYYfPgKJ.html
07-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi air quality remains ‘severe’, stubble burning is main culprit||A day after entering the red zone for the first time this season, Delhi’s air quality continued to remain in the ‘severe’ category on Friday for the second consecutive day, despite a marginal improvement in the measurement index because of a slight increase in wind speed. Scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the rising number of stubble burning cases in the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana has been the primary factor behind the Capital’s foul air -- contributing to 21% of Delhi’s PM 2.5 levels on Friday.Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data recorded the overall air quality index (AQI) of Delhi on Friday at 406, in the ‘severe’ category. Even though the wind speed over Delhi improved to around 8-10kmph through the day, it was not enough to bring about much improvement from Thursday’s AQI recording of 450. This is the second consecutive day when the AQI in the national capital crossed the severe mark. According to CPCB data, last year, the air quality plunged into the ‘severe’ category on 24 occasions. In 2018, there were 20 such days and in 2017, there were nine days when the AQI levels remained in the red zone. VK Soni, head of IMD’s environment monitoring research centre, said there was a marginal improvement in the air quality because of higher wind speed in the day. However, the levels started dipping again after 4pm. He said stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana is negatively impacting Delhi’s air. “Yesterday fire counts only over Punjab was over 5,000, and even today the number has been around 4,000-5,000. Even though the wind speed picked up during the day, the improvement in air quality was not very significant only because of a high share of farm fires,” Soni said. The average wind speed on Friday was 8-12kmph, but blowing from the north-westerly direction, carrying plumes of smoke from the agrarian states of Punjab and Haryana, where the stubble burning activities is at its peak now. Scientists explained that a similar situation was seen in Delhi last week, on October 30, when an improvement in wind speed was supposed to have resulted in a reduction in pollution levels. But despite wind speed remaining above 12kmph through the weekend, its impact on the AQI was marginal because of a high stubble burning count. The Union ministry of earth sciences’ air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), recordings show that 3,225 farm fires were reported from Punjab and Haryana, contributing to 21% of Delhi’s PM 2.5 levels. IMD monitoring data shows that late Thursday night, the PM 2.5 levels (ultrafine particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) had started improving and had reached below the 300ug/m3 mark. This means that the risk of Delhi entering the ‘severe plus’ category on Saturday had reduced. According to the winter segment of the Supreme Court-approved Graded Response Action Plan (Grap), Delhi will enter the ‘severe plus’ or ‘emergency’ zone if the PM 2.5 levels constantly remains above the 300ug/m3 mark and the PM 10 levels (particulate matter with diameter less than 10 micrometres) remains above the 500ug/m3 mark for at least 48 hours. According to Grap, under the ‘severe plus’ category, the CPCB task force can direct state governments in Delhi and NCR to stop the entry of trucks, except those carrying essential commodities, into Delhi, halt construction activities and implement the odd-even road rationing policy. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said no significant improvement in the pollution level is likely during the weekend. “The wind will slow down through Friday night, which might lead to deterioration in the air quality early Saturday. The wind direction will also continue to be north-westerly, which will transport smoke from farm fires,” he said. IMD said that on Sunday, the wind might slow down, spelling trouble for Delhi. “We expect that from Monday, the wind direction will become easterly, but before that, the wind speed will slow down. However, everything will depend on the state of stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana now,” said Soni.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-air-quality-remains-severe-stubble-burning-is-main-culprit/story-kgeAGoLYIi12178alJ8RuM.html
07-11-2020||Delhi||In one year, this Delhi gang cheated 2,200 Americans of ₹8 crore||A group of men operating out of a fake call centre in West Delhi’s Rajouri Garden cheated hundreds of Americans by making them believe their computers needed urgent technical intervention for which they needed to cough up hundreds of dollars, Delhi Police said on Friday after arresting 17 members of the alleged gang. Between October 2019 and Thursday, this gang had targeted 2,268 Americans of a total of $10.81 Lakh (over R8 crore), Anyesh Roy, deputy commissioner of police (cyber crime unit), said. The unit was tipped off about the alleged crime a few days ago after which they did a technical analysis of the phone numbers used in the crime, the money trail and the location of the gang. When they raided the fake call centre on Thursday, one of the gang members was in the mid of fooling a US doctor, said Roy. “We briefed her about the scam and saved her money, but hundreds had been cheated,” Roy added. The officer said the alleged mastermind of the gang was 27-year-old Sahil Dilavari, who had been running the fake call centre for the last three years. Some of the others arrested were his associates while the rest were callers, but all of them were aware they were doing a fraud, said the officer. The modus operandi was to send a pop-up on the computers of Americans that showed their systems were compromised. The pop-up message was accompanied by helpline numbers that were falsely showed to be belonging to a software company which they could call to seek remedies, police said. “Whenever any of those potential victims called back to seek help, this gang would seek remote access to their computers. They would then tell the Americans that their computers were infested with malware and spywares that could compromise their banking credentials,” said Roy. The gang would allegedly seek hundreds of dollars as payment for rectifying problems that did not exist . “Sometimes, they even managed to sell them long-term subscriptions for keeping their computers safe, but in reality they didn’t offer any service in return,” said the DCP. Another alleged modus operandi of this gang was to put up online advertisements, pretending to be the technical team for a popular printer manufacturing company. “The advertisement would carry a fake toll-free number of the firm, a number that would eventually lead printer owners to this gang. Thereafter, the process of cheating them was the same,” the DCP said. The payments would be received in the accounts of shell companies based in America and Canada, the DCP said, adding the money would then be wired to the Indian accounts of the suspects. The police are probing how the gang managed to set up such an elaborate system to send those pop-ups on the computers of Americans and then set up shell companies there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-one-year-this-delhi-gang-cheated-2-200-americans-of-8-crore/story-4qqsXZS2jRxVRDQw3sC8gO.html
07-11-2020||Delhi||Sisodia writes to MCDs, asks them to clear teacher salaries at earliest||Following months of protests by teachers of municipal corporation-run schools, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Friday wrote to mayors of all three civic bodies of Delhi, asking them to immediately release the salaries keeping the Covid-19 situation and the festive season in mind.“The salaries to all MCD school teachers be paid immediately, and in any case before Diwali to enable their families have some meaningful festivities,” wrote the education minister.Sisodia’s letter comes a day after Delhi high court criticised the Centre, the Delhi government, and the MCDs for their failure to resolve dispute over disbursal of funds leading to pending salaries of current and former employees of the three civic bodies, particularly the North Delhi Municipal Corporation. The court had on Thursday said that unpaid workers had faced the “real pinch” and asked the civic bodies to make an attempt to release arrears as the festival of Diwali is round the corner.In his Friday letter, Sisodia said that in addition to paying MCD their due share of taxes, the Delhi government has also paid a large sum as loans and arrears to the Delhi Jal Board.“As for the amount owed by Delhi government to MCDs for the current financial year 2020-21, as per the Fifth Delhi Finance Commission calculations, the entire due amount of Rs 960 crore until December 31, 2020, under the salary component of education sector has been paid t in full — including Rs 442.50 crore North Delhi Municipal Corporation. So it is clear that no amount is due from Delhi government and any other figures that the mayors of MCD are demanding is fictional and an attempt to divert the attention of public from the deep financial mismanagement and corruption inside MCDs,” Sisodia wrote in his letter.He wrote that the Centre had “not paid its due amount to MCDs to the tune of Rs 12,000 crore.” The deputy CM said he was referring to the funds released by the Central government to all municipal corporations of the country. Sisodia asked the mayors to rise above “petty politics” and focus on the “corruption and financial mismanagement” in MCDs and demand “the unpaid amount of Rs 12,000 crore from the Central government.”Responding to the allegations of financial mismanagement, Nirmal Jain, mayor of East Delhi Municipal Corporation said, “The letter by the deputy CM seems to be an effort to mislead the public from the fact that the Delhi government has to pay dues to the east corporation. We have stated a number of times that the AAP government has to pay EDMC Rs 1200 crore in first two quarters of the financial year, but so far it had given only Rs 301 crore. With respect to allegations pertaining to non-payment of salaries of teachers, I want to clarify that teacher salaries till September 2020 has already been cleared and October salary will be disbursed in next two-three days.As far as allegations of not paying DJB dues are concerned, I want to say that figures are by DJB based on highest rate of slabs and this requires reconciliation.”Jai Prakash, mayor of North Delhi Municipal Corporation, too said the letter by Sisodia shows the frustration of the deputy chief minister. “They owe Rs 13,500 crore to the corporations, out of which Rs 6,550 crore has to be paid to North Delhi Municipal Corporation as per the 3rd,4th and 5th DFC recommendations . He must explain when they are releasing our due amount ,” he said.South corporation Anamika Mithilesh said that Delhi government was doing politics based on lies and false figures.“On one hand they are not giving dues of Rs 13000 to civic bodies on the other they are making false allegations. The government deliberately wants to cripple us by starving us of funds,” she said. Ramniwas Solanki, general secretary of Municipal Corporation Teachers Association (MCTA), said, “Around 9,000 teachers of north MCD have been paid only till July, that too the salary came in today. The remaining teachers have only been paid till June. We need our salaries till October to celebrate Diwali with our families during such a difficult period.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sisodia-writes-to-mcds-asks-them-to-clear-teacher-salaries-at-earliest/story-0OLnjmaab5EZLEXmlP2aqO.html
07-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: Govt grants sanction to prosecute Umar Khalid, others||The Delhi police special cell probing the alleged conspiracy behind the Delhi riots is likely to file a charge sheet against former JNU student leader Umar Khalid and other arrested persons within the next ten days, according to officials in the know.Delhi police officers, privy to the probe-related developments, confirmed they received the prosecution sanction from the state government last week, which grants permission to charge Khalid, JNU student Sharjeel Imam and an accused person named Faizan Khan under stringent sections of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). It is on the basis of this prosecution sanction that the court takes cognizance of the police’s charges, frames charges, and then starts trial. In some cases, such as those related to sedition and under sections of the UAPA, it is mandatory for police to get this sanction.On March 6, 2020 — a week after the riots — police filed a case to probe the alleged conspiracy behind the riots. Delhi police have claimed that the rioting was not spontaneous but was carefully planned. The case was filed under sections 13, 16, 17 and 18 of the UAPA. The ministry of home affairs gives sanction for the police to prosecute an accused under section 13, while for the other three sections, the sanction is given by the state government. “We had already got sanction from the Centre and were awaiting a similar sanction for the other three sections from the Delhi government. On October 28, we got the sanction. We will now file a supplementary charge sheet against the other accused persons,” said a senior police officer, who did not wish to be named. At least 53 persons died while 400 others were injured in the 2020 Delhi riots. The violence started when groups of people — one supporting the Citizenship Amendment Act and another opposing it — clashed near the Jafrabad metro station on the evening of February 23. It snowballed into large-scale Hindu-Muslim clashes in parts of north-east Delhi between February 23 and 27. Police had in September filed the first charge sheet in the case, in which they charged 15 persons under the aforementioned sections. Khalid had not been charged then because he was arrested on September 13, about a week before the charge sheet was filed. The supplementary charge sheet is significant because though police have arrested 21 persons for conspiracy, they have alleged that Khalid was the main person who orchestrated the riots and brought the different groups together. Khalid has in his court appearances, since his arrest, denied the charges and said that he was against the Citizenship Amendment Act and that he was not ashamed of that.HT contacted spokespersons of the Delhi police and the Delhi government but despite repeated calls and text messages, they did not respond till the time of going to press. Police have said that the riots were planned at the site of the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protest, where different student groups, local leaders, activists and other persons came together. The arrested persons have denied the police’s allegations and termed their arrest a witch-hunt against anti-government voices. In their earlier charge sheet, police had charged former councillors Ishrat Jahan and Tahir Hussain, activist Khalid Saifi, Safoora Zargar and Gufisha Fatima, students of Jamia Millia Islamia, Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, both JNU students and members of the women’s collective Pinjra Tod. Except Zargar, who was released because police did not oppose her bail on humanitarian grounds (Zargar was pregnant at the time of her arrest), all the other arrested persons are in jail.The Delhi government said: ”This is a purely procedural matter. The law department has given its legal opinion after due diligence to the home department of Delhi government. The elected government has no role to play in this. Delhi government has not stopped prosecution in any case in the last five years, including those pertaining to AAP MLAs and party leaders.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-riots-govt-grants-sanction-to-prosecute-umar-khalid-others/story-gOcXM8QU12dN5sTE65N5PN.html
07-11-2020||Pune||No leads in Pune businessman missing case||After 15 days since he was last seen on October 21, there have been no leads in finding businessman Gautam Pashankar. Both the local police and crime branch officials are on a lookout for Pashankar. Pashankar who is the chairman of the prominent Pashankar auto private ltd company and runs a string of businesses came to his office on Jangli Maharaj Road at 4pm on October 21. He handed over an envelope to his driver and directed him to hand it over to his family. Later, when the driver tried to call him on his mobile Pashankar was not reachable. His family members carried out a frantic search for him and when they failed to trace him, they lodged a missing report at Shivajinagar police station. Pashankar left a note saying some of his decisions related to the business have “caused trouble for his family members…. nobody should be held responsible…” The missing businessman was last spotted on Ganeshkhind road before he went missing. An analysis of the footage captured by CCTV cameras in the area is being carried out by police who are also investigating other leads in the case. His last known location is from inside the city. There was an ATM transaction where he wiped his phone clean by formatting it and withdrew Rs 5,000. DCP ( crime ) Bachchan Singh said, “Unit I of the Pune police is on the job.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/no-leads-in-pashankar-missing-case/story-ISz7xN4sXoIl2fcJKzULSN.html
07-11-2020||Pune||Pune district reports 642 fresh Covid cases, 17 deaths in 24 hours||The district reported 642 fresh Covid cases and 17 deaths in 24 hours as per the state health department. Of the 3.37 lakh cases reported till date from the district, over 3.07 lakh patients have been declared as recovered and discharged from home isolation or hospital treatment. The total death toll for Pune district as per the state health department is 7,040 and currently 22,717 are active cases. Pune city reported 241 new cases taking the total count to 173,692 and 13 deaths taking the death toll to 4,033 while PCMC reported 154 cases taking the final count to 85,318 and one death with 1,167 as death toll. Pune rural reported 247 new cases taking the final count to 78,614 and three deaths taking the death toll to 1,807, according to the state health department. The state health department reported that 11,060 patients were discharged on Saturday taking the final count to over 15.62 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 91.53%. Also, 5,027 new cases in the state were reported on Monday taking the total to over 16.98 lakh. In addition, 161 Covid deaths were reported in the state taking the death toll to 45,873. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.63%. Of 9,318,544 laboratory samples, 1,710,314 have been tested positive (18.35%) for Covid until Friday. Currently, 1,059,499 people are in home quarantine and 8,879 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-district-reports-642-fresh-covid-cases-17-deaths-in-24-hours/story-QmblyxL1e304zb3H01rfQJ.html
07-11-2020||Pune||Pune administration flags ‘superspreaders’ to contain effect of possible second wave||To tackle the possible second wave of Covid expected in January or February as seen in western countries, the administration has taken measures to minimise the effect of infection. The administration has identified “superspreaders”, residents who daily come in contact with a large number of people for commercial activities or government services and could spread the infection in case they turn positive. Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said, “We have started our preparations to fight the possible second wave and have prepared a ‘strategy paper’ that covers multiple aspects. There are studies that prove that people who come in contact with multiple people will play an important role during the ‘second wave’.” The “superspreaders” include small shopkeepers like grocery, vegetable vendors, hawkers and hotel workers; service providers namely newspaper vendors, milkmen, maids, gas cylinder suppliers, electricians, plumbers, laundry staff and cooks; truck, tempo and rickshaw drivers; labourers, painters, masons, head loaders, drivers and conductors in public transport, security guards in housing societies and essential service providers in government and semi-government establishments, including police personnel and guards. The paper states that these people must be surveyed and tested as a “community” which will be crucial in controlling the spread of the infection for which the administration must chalk a thorough plan. The World Health Organization (WHO) states that only if the positivity rate of an infection is below 5% then it could be said that the infection is under control. Currently, the positivity rate is around 9.94% which was around 24.60% in September which indicates that the spread is still not under control, says the study. The paper has been prepared after a detailed meeting by the doctors from BJ Medical College, City Covid-19 task force, representatives from National Institute of Virology (NIV) and state government and city administration officials. The paper states that after observing the number of Covid cases in western countries like Spain, England and Italy, once the number of cases reach about 500-1,000 per million population the situation remains the same for around 60-90 days and then the number of cases start rising. The same trend has been observed in case of swine flu too. In addition, the meteorological department has predicted a cold wave in northern India and also with the festive season, the second wave in the country is expected to be around January or February.Covid-19 appropriate behaviours No cracker Diwali: As heavy air pollution caused by firecrackers could lead to breathing troubles among people with respiratory ailments, it would be advisable if the government issues an order banning firecrackers this year.Compulsory use of mask, regularly washing hands, feet and face; social distancing, greetings as per Indian culture (Namaste) instead of a handshake, no spitting or smoking in public places, avoid unnecessary travel, no social boycott of Covid patients or their family members, do not spread rumours or wrong messages using social media platforms, get information only from credible sources, to avoid mental stress, continue talking to friends and relatives while following the above mentioned norms and seek expert advice if need be.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/admn-flags-superspreaders-to-contain-effect-of-possible-second-wave/story-0Efgu4zh08AsP6ufKLqykL.html
07-11-2020||Pune||First frog species from Maharashtra gets genetic identity after one century||City-based researchers have identified and re-described Minervarya syhadrensis, the first cricket frog described from Maharashtra in 1919 by Scottish zoologist Thomas Nelson Annandale in the pre-independent India. Over a period of one century, researchers were facing problem in the identification of this frog due to variations in its colour pattern and morphology matching with other frogs making its identification very difficult. The frog was confused with the other species Fejervarya limnocharis found in Indonesia. A team led by Dr Samadhan Phuge from Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) and Dr KP Dinesh from Zoological Survey of India (ZSI) Pune studied most of the cricket frogs found in northern Maharashtra and concluded that Minervarya syhadrensis is morphologically cryptic in nature. They studied morphology, gene sequences and acoustic characters to fix the identity of the cricket frog species Minervarya syhadrensis described from Pune one century ago and provided genetic proof for its wide distribution in India with different colour morphs. The authors have published the study in Zootaxa, an international premier journal for zoological systematics and taxonomy published from New Zealand. “In this study, the authors have considered wide range of samples across the Western Ghats and India to understand the phylogenetic relationships. The frog exhibits with different colour patterns and variable morphology in different parts of the Western Ghats and Indian peninsular. Earlier, since there was no genetic data for the species from its type locality Khandala, Pune, there were confusion with the identity and phylogenetic relationship of the species itself. The study highlights the importance of DNA barcode data for the historical species described from the country.” said Dr Dinesh, scientist at ZSI, Pune. Due to unavailability of genetic data, the same species was described with new name in 2005 from the central Western Ghats as the morphological characters were variable and inconsistent while comparing with the new species. But genetic studies suggested the species described in 2005 from the central Western Ghats is nothing but Minervarya syhadrensis described in 1919 from Pune. Researchers predict that this frog could be distributed throughout India and possibly have their range of distribution in the neighbouring countries too. “The other interesting finding of the study is that due to morphological similarities the males of Minervarya syhadrensis attempt to breed with the females of the other species (Minervarya agricola) available in the field during breeding season ending up in unviable inter-species hybrids,” said Dr Samadhan Phuge, researcher at Pune University. “The males of Minervarya syhadrensis generally amplect with the females of the other species (Minervarya agricola). Both the species of frogs call in chorus in the field during breeding season (with enormous noise), which creates difficulties in mate selection for both the species.” he said. This is one of the classical studies where researchers have addressed a century-old problem with DNA barcode data and have made a first report of possible inter-species hybrids between two genetically and distantly related species using acoustic data. The authors believe that the study will stimulate the researchers to investigate the identity and distribution of other classical species of the genus described from India, which lost their identity over the time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/first-frog-species-from-maharashtra-gets-genetic-identity-after-one-century/story-ilxl6owl0ZT4XKMZEVEFRO.html
07-11-2020||Pune||Man who drags cop on car bonnet to evade fine is MTech and unemployed: PCMC police||The car driver who was arrested for endangering the life of a constable who was trying to fine him for not wearing face mask is an M Tech from IIT, Powai and was unemployed since 2015, according to the police. The car driver Yuvaraj Kisan Hanuvale (45) was arrested under IPC 307 (attempt to murder) for endangering the life of constable Abasaheb Vijay Kumar Sawant attached to Chinchwad traffic branch. Investigating officer assistant inspector Raju Thubal said, “The accused has committed the offence as he was enraged. His family members told us that he was unstable due to job loss in 2015. His son serves in the army and they stay in a posh residential area.” The on-duty Sawant was dragged by Hanuvale on the bonnet of his car after the latter did not stop despite being signalled for not wearing mask. Some bikers and a vehicle later blocked the road, thus forcing the car driver to stop. Hanuvale was taken in for police interrogation. He was later arrested in the evening, according to the police.Hanuvale was produced at the PCMC court which remanded him into three days police custody. Investigators said that the accused showed signs of stress and tension during their preliminary course of investigation.Additional police commissioner Ramnath Pokale said, “The accused has been arrested under relevant sections. He committed the crime in a fit of anger and sped ahead with his vehicle endangering the life of the constable,” he said.Besides IPC 307, the police have invoked IPC 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), IPC 333 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) and Motor Vehicle Act 24(2) 177.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-who-drags-cop-on-car-bonnet-to-evade-fine-is-mtech-and-unemployed-pcmc-police/story-g2xkXCvohkHKhdsZA1lCKL.html
07-11-2020||Pune||BJP’s Keshav Gholve is new deputy mayor of PCMC||Keshav Gholve, Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) candidate, was elected unopposed as deputy mayor of Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), on Friday.The post was vacant after deputy mayor, Tushar Hinge had resigned from the post on October 14.Gholve who is the corporator from ward no 10 had filed papers for the post of deputy mayor on Monday (November 2).The election was held at the Yashwantrao Chavan hall under the supervision of Kunal Khemnar, additional commissioner of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC).Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) corporator Nikita Kadam who had also filed papers for the post of deputy mayor took her name back at the last moment to make inroads for Gholve.“The BJP has a majority in PCMC. Our senior leaders had requested the other candidate to take her name back and a discussion was also held with the leader of the opposition. They respected our request and I was elected unopposed,” said Gholve.After discussion with opposition leader Raju Misal, Namdev Dhake, PCMC house leader and Mahesh Landge, BJP MLA requested Kadam to take her name back.BJP did not want to conduct an election procedure as most of the officials are busy on Covid-19 duty.“My focus will be on regularisation of drinking water supply in areas which are facing problems and issues regarding the environment. We also want to develop a model which will create employment opportunities for the people,” said Gholve.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-s-keshav-gholve-is-new-deputy-mayor-of-pcmc/story-erHPHnhdZB5SgcU3dy75zK.html
07-11-2020||Pune||PMC launches “V-Collect” to collect unused items||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), with the help of Swach, has launched a “V- Collect” mobile van, to collect unused items from homes, including clothes, toys, books, and electronic items. These, in turn, will be re-distributed to the poor in the city. Swach is operating the V-Collect van and it will run in the city from November 5-13. Additional municipal commissioner Kunal Khemnar, solid waste management department’s Madhav Jagtap, additional commissioner Yashwant Dange and the Swach organisation’s Alok Gogate and Laxmi Narayan, launched the van on Friday.Swach issued a press statement that said, “V collect has been a regular and much-in-demand initiative of the PMC-Swach model through which citizens give away discarded, but reusable items. Diwali is one of the busiest times of the year for all those in waste management.”Call the helpline number 9765999500 or 7066032972 to know the V-Collect van’s route details and itinerary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-launches-v-collect-to-collect-unused-items/story-4WdxHfdTXNEaJC510Y8WEJ.html
07-11-2020||Pune||SPPU re-exam plagued with tech glitches||Students appearing for the re-examination of the Savitribai Phule Pune University’s (SPPU) final year exams continue to face technical glitches and other issues. The SPPU is conducting re-exams from November 5 to 7 for students who couldn’t appear for the regular exams due to various reasons. However, students continue to report issues even now in the online exams. “I am a student of the third year Bachelor of Science (Mathematics) from SP College, Pune. We gave an exam yesterday of Optimization Technique subject in which around 10 to 15 questions were incomplete or wrong. Due to this, many of us are in confusion about whether we will get full marks on it or we have to give re-exam for that subject so that we can score. I tried to contact the university’s helpline number many times regarding this issue but they didn’t pick my call.” said Aniket Nagarkar, a final year student. Another student, Kamlakar Shete said, “Yesterday on November 5 I had appeared for the paper of Numerical Method and Optimization subject but due to a family medical emergency, I gave the paper late at night around 9:30pm - 10:30pm slot. But when I completed the paper it did not get submitted and showed the ‘504 ERROR’. I don’t want to lose this academic year as the paper is not submitted, maybe I fail the subject.” From October 12, the SPPU started its final year exams for 3,300 subjects for which 2.5 lakh students were enrolled. Right from the first day, both online and offline students were facing a lot of issues while appearing for the exam. For the offline exams, 113 centres have been identified where physical exams were conducted in Pune, Nashik and Ahmednagar districts. These exams are of 50 marks with multiple-choice questions (MCQ) for the duration of one hour. While for all those students who couldn’t attend the exams in the first regular schedule due to any reasons, are now allowed to reappear for the exam from November 5 to 7. But this time the exams are conducted only in online mode. “We are working tirelessly to resolve the issues which students are facing while appearing for the ongoing re-exam. If any student faces difficulties or technical issues while giving the exam, they can contact the exam helpline number given by the university.” said Mahesh Kakade, director of the board of examination and evaluation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sppu-re-exam-plagued-with-tech-glitches/story-aDVIauQEkWd0ADvT78nZmN.html
07-11-2020||Pune||NCP, BJP leaders call for strict action in sex assault case that left victim blind||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) MP Amol Kolhe and opposition party leader, the BJP’s Pravin Darekar, on Friday, demanded strict action in the sexual assault case in Shirur taluka, Pune district. A 37-year-old woman resisted a sex assault but her attacker stabbed her in the eye in Navare, Shirur taluka on Wednesday night. The woman was out in an open field answering nature’s call. Kolhe, who is representing the constituency, demanded strict action. “At any cost, the attack should not be tolerated,” Kolhe said. Meanwhile, BJP leader Darekar visited Sassoon Hospital where the woman is admitted and later, visited the Pune rural police office demanding strict action. Darekar also pointed a barb at the ruling Maha Vikas Agadi (MVA) and said that those who were making noise about the Hathras case in Uttar Pradesh, are calm now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ncp-bjp-leaders-call-for-strict-action-in-sex-assault-case-that-left-victim-blind/story-cavyyTM5bPgYlOPfjSHOoM.html
07-11-2020||Pune||Javadekar says govt working to end stubble burning menace||The Central government is working to solve the problem of stubble burning and a project, on a pilot basis, has been launched to decompose stubble into manure. Prakash Javadekar, minister of Environment, forest and climate change, on Friday, inaugurated a plant erected by Praj technology, which produces compressed biogas from biomass. Javadekar inaugurated the plant virtually.Javadekar said, “Stubble burning is another cause of concern and I hope that technologies like these will help alleviate the problem. The Central government’s PUSA institute has demonstrated a decomposer technology which converts stubble into manure and is being experimented on, on a pilot basis in five states, including Delhi. It will help in dealing with crop residue and is cheap as well. There will be several ways, both in-situ and ex-situ, to fight against the problem of pollution emerging out of stubble burning.”Expressing concern over the pollution levels in the northern parts of the country, especially Delhi, the minister said that the government is working towards abatement of air pollution at the source level, be it industries or thermal power stations, vehicular pollution, construction and demolition waste or stubble burning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/javadekar-says-govt-working-to-end-stubble-burning-menace/story-qNe80dj77UDYiEDFl5verL.html
07-11-2020||Pune||Pune civic body prepares to resume general OPDs, maternity hospitals as Covid-19 cases continue to drop||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is now preparing to convert its hospitals back to the pre-Covid 19 status, as cases drop in the city. One such hospital is PMC’s Dalvi hospital in Shivajinagar.Dr Rekha Kokarde, in charge at Dalvi hospital, said, “We have only one patient undergoing treatment for the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 infection, a female aged 65, who is currently stable. She needs intermittent oxygen sometimes so we have not discharged her yet. She tested positive once during her last test and so we will do a re-test after eight days and then take a call on her discharge.”“The hospital was a maternity hospital earlier and so after the patient is discharged we will convert it back to the non-Covid-19 maternity hospital,” she said.Pune district reported 552 fresh Covid-19 cases and 12 Covid-related deaths on Thursday, as per data released by the state health department.As of Thursday the total case count in the district is 3,36,982 and the death to stands at 6,990.MLA Siddharth Shirole had visited the Dalvi hospital facility on Thursday and said, “The hospital will discharge its last Covid-19 patient in the coming few days and revert to a fully functional general hospital. I had an extensive meeting with the staff of the hospital to understand preparedness and their various requirements.”Dr Ashish Bharati, health chief, PMC, said, “We are now planning to convert all our hospitals to treat non-Covid patients and start OPD’s and general hospitals services now that the number of cases is coming down. Dalvi and Khedekar hospitals in Bopodi are some of the PMC hospitals which we will now function normally.”“We will reserve the jumbo facilities at Baner and the one at College of Engineering, Pune (COEP) ground and also Naidu hospital for Covid-19 patients as per the requirements,” he said.“All necessary guidelines will be followed and the hospitals will be sanitised,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-prepares-to-resume-general-opds-maternity-hospitals-as-covid-19-cases-continue-to-drop/story-mdwikRmI0LwGXgKq6rEdRK.html
07-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administration bans sale, use of firecrackers||The UT administration on Friday imposed an immediate ban on the sale and use of firecrackers in the city until further orders. The decision was taken in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.With this, no permits will be issued for the sale of firecrackers, though a draw of lots was held on Tuesday.UT adviser Manoj Parida, in his capacity as chairman, disaster executive committee, State Disaster Management Authority, issued orders to the effect, stating, “These directions are issued as a containment measure to prevent the risk of spread of Covid-19 due to polluted atmosphere created by bursting of firecrackers.”Any violation of the order will invite penal action under Sections 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, besides legal action under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code and other provisions as applicable.Meanwhile, the decision invited criticism from the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal (CBM). “We oppose the decision to ban firecrackers days before Diwali. Traders have already purchased their stock and will suffer huge losses. If the decision was needed to contain the spread of Covid-19, it should have come at least a month ago,” said Charanjiv Singh, chairman, CBM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-bans-sale-use-of-firecrackers/story-mVqwhBie1VSHib25r7YWJL.html
