08-11-2020||Noida||Gang running IPL betting ring busted in Greater Noida||Greater Noida: Four members of a gang were arrested on late Saturday night for running an illegal betting ring for the Indian Premier League (IPL) matches. The betting operation was being run online from a high-rise in Greater Noida, police said. The police recovered ₹2 lakh in cash and seven smartphones from the suspects. An SUV and a car, which the gang members used to collect money from their clients, were also seized, the police said. The suspects were identified as Fiyazuddin, the gang leader, and Firoz Malik, both natives of Delhi, Ashish from Ghaziabad and Ravi. The police said that Ravi, along with Fiyazuddin, was living in a rented house at a high-rise in Sector 121.“After receiving the information about the gang, police came into action,” said Varun Pathak, station house officer, Knowledge Park police station.Fiyazuddin was apprehended from Pari Chowk on Saturday night and questioned, after which the other three gang members were also arrested from their respective residences.“The two vehicles were bought with the money earned from the bets. The suspects said that during IPL season they earn over ₹20 lakh in a month,” said the SHO.Of the four men, only Ravi is a graduate and had joined the operation recently, the police said. The other three, who are in their forties, have been operating for the past few years, they said. The police officials said that call and bank account details of the suspects are being looked at. Action will be taken against any other people involved in the betting operation, they said. The suspects were booked under relevant sections of the Public Gambling Act and IT Act at Knowledge Park police station. They were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail, the police said.On November 1, Ecotech 3 police had nabbed five people for running a similar operation of IPL betting. The police had recovered 11 mobile phones, one laptop, one car, and 60 gram narcotic products from their possession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gang-running-ipl-betting-ring-busted-in-greater-noida/story-ajGqiYg6T082ZMnVIVFTbK.html
08-11-2020||Noida||Noida traffic police conduct study to fix three accident-prone spots||Noida: The Noida traffic police and transport department on Saturday conducted a study of three ‘black’ spots and noted some corrective measures for road safety. Officials visited the Mahamaya Flyway, Delhi-Noida-Direct (DND) Flyway and Rajnigandha Chowk (Sector 16) on Saturday and found vehicles speeding at these spots, which leads to accidents.Any stretch of about 500m, where either five crashes have taken place or ten fatalities took place in the past three years is considered a ‘black’ spot. Prashant Tiwari, assistant regional transport officer (ARTO-Enforcement) of Gautam Budh Nagar, said that the traffic police and transport department had identified 35 ‘black’ spots in February 2019. Some of these include the DND Flyway near Sector 15-A loop, Rajnigandha Chowk, Mahamaya Flyway, zero point of Noida-Greater Noida Expressway, zero point of Yamuna Expressway, Gijhore intersection, Sector 137, NSEZ, Yamaha Chowk in Greater Noida, Jewar Toll Plaza, etc.Ravindra Vashisht, traffic inspector Noida, said the traffic police on Saturday conducted a study of the DND Flyway loop. “We found that vehicles come from Delhi to Noida at high speed. There are three routes at the Flyway loop near Sector 15-A. The left lane leads to Film City road to Mayur Vihar; the middle lane leads to Rajnigandha Chowk and the right one leads to Rajnigandha underpass. Since the vehicles are in speed, the drivers sometimes confuse which lane to take and this leads to accidents. We have decided to place rumble stripes on the road to slow down speed and also place big signages for directions. We will also urge people to drive slower at the spot,” he said. At Rajnigandha Chowk, the police said they will recommend to the Noida Authority to develop a foot over-bridge (FOB). “We will also deploy traffic officials at the Chowk to manage traffic,” Vashisht said. On the Mahamaya Flyway, a FOB has been developed recently to facilitate pedestrians.“Earlier some luxury buses used to halt near Mahamaya Flyway which slowed down traffic. We have removed all such buses and made this a no-halt zone. We will continue this enforcement and traffic near Mahamaya Flyway will be smooth,” Vashisht said.According to data from the district transport department, between March 1 and September 15 this year, the Gautam Budh Nagar district recorded 162 deaths in 317 accidents. On Saturday, Noida traffic police and transport department conducted an enforcement drive and fined some vehicles which were found to be in violation of pollution norms. “We also seized three diesel vehicles which were older than ten years, as per National Green Tribunal guidelines,” Tiwari said. The traffic police conducted an awareness programme for children in Saint Hood Convent School, Dadri and Mihir Bhoj PG College in Dadri. Around 75 students vowed to follow traffic rules and also made signatures. The traffic police also conducted a chaupal with transporters in Tilapta, Greater Noida and sensitised them to follow traffic rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-traffic-police-conduct-study-to-fix-three-accident-prone-spots/story-sAyHGdCd8rop4aA5r02XMN.html
08-11-2020||City||Truck driver booked for injuring two in Panchkula||For rash driving and causing injuries to two persons, the Panchkula police have booked a truck driver.A case was registered on the complaint of Rahul Nirwani, a resident of Amravati Apartments in Baddi, Solan, who told the police that on November 6, he was on his way from Zirakpur to Baddi when his car tyre got busted near Majri chowk and he called his friend Amit, who came in his WagonR car for help.“As we were removing the spare from Amit’s car, a speeding container came and hit the WagonR and dragged it for some distance. Amit received severe injuries and was admitted to a private hospital. Later, the vehicle hit my Fortuner SUV and my wife was injured,” he said.Amit is still undergoing treatment in the emergency ward of the hospital. A case was registered under Sections 279 (rash driving), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/truck-driver-booked-for-injuring-two-in-panchkula/story-2ZeNGx1kOPDVo3hcdMUaWP.html
08-11-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad: Private hospitals report increase in bed occupancy ahead of festive season||Ghaziabad: Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases ahead of festive season, private hospitals in Ghaziabad are witnessing an increase in admissions, with some medical facilities saying that Covid-19 patients are also coming from Delhi. The Ghaziabad district at present has 13 private hospitals which have a total of 900 Covid beds. Of the 900 Covid beds, 142 are ICU beds, 49 with ventilator facility and 14 having facility of high flow nasal cannula, as per data from the district health department. Some of the private hospitals HT spoke to said that they have witnessed a spike in bed occupancy since last week. Notably, Delhi has been witnessing a spike in positive cases for the past more than one week, and recording over 6,000 cases since November 3. “Our occupancy till last week was about 65-70% and it has now gone up to about 90%. We are now getting patients from Delhi, Noida, Meerut and Bulandshahr. It is also expected that spike in Delhi and upcoming festival season will surely lead to increase in number of cases,” said Dr Sangeeta Garg, chief medical superintendent of Yashoda Super Speciality Hospital at Nehru Nagar. On Sunday, Ghaziabad reported 223 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 19,769. There has been an increase in Covid-19 cases in Ghaziabad since October 29 when the active cases were 829. However, the active cases have risen since and the state control report of November 8 indicated the total active cases in the district at 1,357. According to district health department officials, there were 800 beds in 12 private hospitals which had occupancy of 355 (about 44.37%) on October 31. One more private hospital, having 100 beds, was added for Covid treatment in the current month, the officials said, adding that the effective occupancy on November 7 was 490 of 800 (61.25%) beds in 12 private hospitals with no patient admitted to the newly added hospital. Dr Mahesh Chaudhary, director (operations), Navin Hospital at Vaishali, said, “We have almost full occupancy of Covid beds in our hospital. We have witnessed an increase in occupancy since last week. It is very likely that Covid patients will increase in winter season. We have also opened a new branch recently, will now be shifting additional patients to our new branch.” Considering any likely rise in cases in coming days during the festivals, the district officials said that they have prepared a provision of 1,100 L1 category beds and have directed for all ICU and ventilator beds to be operational. “At present, there is no shortage of beds in the district and we are prepared to meet any likely rise in number of patients. We also have sufficient stock of medicines to meet requirement for about 1,000 additional patients. Awareness and enforcement is taken up during the festival season, besides increased surveillance, contact tracing and testing,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. According to the health department data, in government Covid hospitals, the district has a total of 576 beds that include 37 ICU beds and 51 ventilator beds. On November 7, 69 patients were admitted to L2 category facilities while the L3 hospital had 28 Covid patients. Besides, on November 7, the number of active patients under home isolation stood at 544. Ever since the UP government allowed the home isolation facility in July, a total of 6,958 patients were permitted to go under the home isolation. Of the home isolated patients, 6,414 have already completed their home isolation period, shows the data. Of the total patients in home isolation, 531 patients were also referred to various government and private hospitals when they reported symptoms or any deterioration in health status. In the state, the home isolation facility is meant only for asymptomatic patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-private-hospitals-report-increase-in-bed-occupancy-ahead-of-festive-season/story-84OINctlZDP9fJGqyMMuUP.html
08-11-2020||Noida||Two injured while trying to escape police custody||Greater Noida: Two men who had been nabbed by Noida police were injured on Sunday morning allegedly while trying to escape from police custody during evidence gathering, said the police.The suspects, Zeeshan and Waseem, both in their early twenties, are from Ghaziabad. According to the police, they had been nabbed on Saturday night for their alleged involvement in meat smuggling. Police said that they were wanted in two cases from the intervening nights of October 29-30 and October 30-31 and were nabbed on Saturday night following tip offs.“Sunday morning we were taking them for evidence gathering. At the 130 metre road, they injured a sub-inspector in order to flee from the spot. However, the other police personnel chased them and the duo was injured while they were being recaptured,” said Pradeep Tripathi, station house officer, Surajpur police station.All three injured were taken to a nearby hospital for treatment after which the suspects were produced before a magistrate and later sent to Jail.Police officers said that they have recovered knives as well as tranquilliser injections based on the directions of the suspects.Police added that the suspects are allegedly part of a larger gang, of which at least four other members are absconding. Efforts are on to look for them, said the police.Police officials also said that the gang operates locally in the NCR.“They mostly target stray animals on roads. They would use injections to knock them out and then steal meat, leaving the carcass out in the streets and then they would sell the meat locally,” said the SHO.He said that the gang has allegedly been active for years. They have an extensive criminal history and have also gone to jail on previous occasions for similar offences, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/two-injured-while-trying-to-escape-police-custody/story-GLl9SM6iOXBEXX6xAzgxNO.html
08-11-2020||Noida||One killed, four hurt as driver loses balance to save stray dog on flyover||Ghaziabad: A 22-year-old man was killed while four others were injured when the driver of the vehicle they were travelling in allegedly lost control and hit the divider at a flyover near Kavi Nagar Sunday morning. The police said that the car was in speed but the driver lost balance in a bid to save a stray dog. The police identified the deceased as Deepak Srivastava while his friends were identified as Vivek Yadav, Kartik Kaushik, Atul Kumar and Ritesh Kumar, who are in the age-group 18-22 years. The police said that all five are residents of Vivekanand Nagar and Kartik took out his father’s Swift car to go to Kavi Nagar to buy milk. Police added that while leaving for the market he met his friends and offered them a ride. “Midway, they went to the flyover and their car hit the divider and lost balance. As a result, the car overturned several times and went to the opposite road of the flyover. The injured were rushed to a private hospital in Kavi Nagar,” said an officer from Kavi Nagar police station. The police said that they have not received any complaint from the family of the injured or the deceased and will further investigate if the car was at high speed over the flyover or not. “We have not received any complaint into the incident as yet. The deceased was injured after the incident but he could not survive. He died after 30-45 minutes of treatment at the hospital. The other four are stable and two of them were discharged from the hospital,” said Awaneesh Kumar, circle officer (CO - city 2). The police said that during initial questioning, the injured told them that the driver lost balance when he spotted a stray dog and tried to avoid a hit. “This is the sequence of events told to us by the injured persons. In case we get any complaint, we will investigate the incident more and will try to scan CCTV footage to find if the driver was over-speeding or not,” the CO added. Officers said the deceased worked at a private firm in Loha Mandi. They also said that one biker on the opposite side of the flyover had a narrow escape. The cops later towed the car to Kavi Nagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/one-killed-four-hurt-as-driver-loses-balance-to-save-stray-dog-on-flyover/story-k0iA5gifteWNEVu9wd8q9N.html
08-11-2020||City||Two Ambala villages lead the way against stubble burning||Two Ambala villages, Bara and Ugara, have not reported even a single incident of stubble burning this year as 95% paddy farmers from these areas are making money by selling straw. Under a project launched in October, bales of straw are piled up in Ugara’s panchayat land to be supplied to the Naraingarh Sugar Mill in Shahazadpur for power generation. Both villages situated adjacent to National Highway-44, have young and educated sarpanches who are working together to ensure the success of the project. An engineer and a postgraduateBara sarpanch Vikas Behgal is an engineer and his counterpart from Ugara, Harinder Kaur, has completed her postgraduation. “Farmers came to us every day to register their land for crop residue management and the task is undertaken within 48 hours. There are around 55 paddy farmers here holding 700 to 750 acres of land, of which around 685 acres have been registered. The others have adopted in-situ measures,” Behgal said. Bahadur Singh, a farmer holding 10 acres of land, said, “This extra income will help me make arrangements to grow wheat. Eight to 10 of my family members with nearly 40-acre land have also registered for the project.” The scheme is fetching farmers extra income of Rs 500 per acre with Rs 1,000 per acre from the state government for not burning the residue. Kaur said she decided to take up the initiative this year after a few villagers were booked last year for burning the straw. “Jaswinder, my husband, and Vikas are old friends and the project has been a success because of their efforts as well as that of the agriculture department,” Kaur said. Satnam Singh, 24, who looks after eight acres of his family’s ancestral land, had burnt stubble last year. This year, he stood with the sarpanch to make other farmers aware of the initiative. Health awareness“This year, I understood that nothing is more important than our health,” he added.Girish Nagpal, deputy director of agriculture, the brains behind the project, has been working on it since last year and ensuring its execution on ground. “I presented the model last season, and when Vikas and Jaswinder came to know about this, they started working on it enthusiastically. They spread the word in their respective villages and the result is before us,” he said. “The government will give an incentive of Rs 1,000 per acre at Rs 50 per quintal on ex situ measures on the condition that the residue is converted to bales. I expect farmers of both these villages to get Rs 90 lakh before Diwali,” Nagpal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-ambala-villages-lead-the-way-against-stubble-burning/story-CxvPVxUdhOaL1N9EnxnT0I.html
08-11-2020||Noida||In Ghaziabad, discount in house tax if solid waste segregated at source||Ghaziabad: The Ghaziabad municipal corporation has planned to incentivise residents and the corporation’s staff in order to better manage the source-segregation of solid waste generated daily in the city. Officials said that starting December, they will be rolling out an app-based solid waste collection system which will keep track of dry and wet waste handed over to the corporation’s door-to-door collection vehicles, and the points collected by households can be redeemed in the way of rebate in house-tax. At present, the city generates about 850-1,000 metric tonnes of solid waste and a majority of it is collected from residential areas with the help of about 200 door-to-door collection vehicles, which do so every day in the morning in 100 residential wards. However, residents have also complained that they cannot get alerts about the exact timing of the arrival of door-to-door collection vehicles and even if vehicles arrive, they tend to move along fast and residents sometimes are unable to handover the garbage. “Such problems were indicated by residents during the daily meeting which we hold in residential wards. To overcome all these issues, and more importantly the source segregation of daily solid waste, we are getting an app developed. With the help of this app, the staff of the collection vehicle will be able to keep track of households which handover segregated dry and wet waste. Further, for this work, we will also provide additional incentives to staff deployed in the vehicles,” said MS Tanwar, municipal commissioner. The civic agency has planned that they will provide incentives to the driver and the support-staff of the vehicle for each kilogram of segregated waste they collect from residential localities. The city at present has about 3.3 lakh households which pay house tax while it is officially estimated that the total number of households under the civic agency’s jurisdiction could be about five lakhs. “With the help of the app, the vehicle staff will record which households have handed over segregated waste. Further, the residents will also be able to download the app and they can set alerts which will let them know the specific timing when the vehicle will come to the locality. We will also define the exact route for the collection vehicles,” Tanwar added. “On a daily basis, the vehicle staff will make entries in the app and this will give certain points to households who handover segregated waste. When the residents pay house tax, they can seek to redeem the points collected through the app in the form of rebate in house tax,” he added. The officials have planned the rollout of the app-based system from December and have planned to fully implement it across the city in the next six months. They added that the segregated waste collected will be taken to different sites for processing or manufacturing purposes.For the purpose of start of the app-based system and rebate in house-tax, a proposal will be taken to the corporation’s board for required approvals and the modalities are getting prepared for the new system, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/in-ghaziabad-discount-in-house-tax-if-solid-waste-segregated-at-source/story-WxaFgjUiKqgbkmmka373RO.html
08-11-2020||Chandigarh||Demonetisation destroyed our economy: Himachal Congress chief||Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kuldeep Rathore on Sunday hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying that the economy of the country was destroyed four years ago after he arrogantly announced demonetisation.While addressing a press conference here, Rathore said, “In 2016, PM Modi had said that everything will be alright after 50 days and if economy of our country does not improve, he will be ready to accept any punishment ordered by the people of India,” he added.Rathore said more than 100 people lost their lives, the country faced huge difficulties, industries were badly affected and lakhs lost their jobs because of demonetisation.“If the Congress comes to power at the Centre and investigates this issue, it will come to fore that demonetisation is the biggest economic scam in the history of India,” he added.Rathore said the Reserve Bank of India had revealed that ₹3,421 crore were spent for printing new currency notes in 2015-16 while around ₹7,965 crore were spent in 2016-17. “This proves that demonetisation was a huge mistake and has damaged the economy,” he added.Accusing the PM of being a puppet of big corporate houses, he said, “The PM should let everyone know when will the economy and GDP improve and when will those defaulters who ran away from the country be brought back.”Meanwhile, he said the Congress will launch a huge movement in the state if chief minister Jai Ram Thakur continues to delay the reinstallation of foundation stone plaque bearing the name of Sonia Gandhi, at Atal Tunnel. Lashing out at the state government over hike in prices of daily use commodities, Rathore said the Congress will hold statewide protests in all districts on November 12 and submit a memorandum to the governor via deputy commissioners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/demonetisation-destroyed-our-economy-himachal-congress-chief/story-wMVa4rpfU4o4JbS4rjW5uO.html
08-11-2020||Mumbai||BJP trying to derail Metro project, says CM Uddhav Thackeray, hints at opening places of worship in Maharashtra after Diwali||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday launched an attack against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), over the Metro car-shed land issue, by saying that those who were claiming it as a salt pan were derailing a project meant for Mumbaiites. Thackeray, in a veiled attack on BJP during his state address, said that despite a campaign to defame Maharashtra, the state has attracted a proposed investment of over ₹50,000 crore.The chief minister, in his 33-minute address to the state through social media, said the state was seeing a downward slide in Covid-19 numbers. However, he cautioned that lax behaviour could lead to another wave in the state. Thackeray also appealed to people to have a firecrackers-free Diwali, saying pollution and smoke would add to the discomfort of people who suffer from lung ailments. Thackeray said that instead of imposing a ban on crackers, he wanted people to voluntarily refrain from bursting them. The chief minister also hinted that places of worship could be reopened by the end of November. Thackeray said that he was criticised for not opening temples and other places of worship, but those criticising would not share the blame for a spike in cases.The plot for the Metro car depot in Kanjurmarg has become the new flashpoint between the Centre and Maharashtra government. The Centre claimed that the plot where the Metro car shed has been proposed belongs to them and is a salt plan. Responding on the issue for the first time, Thackeray said, “Somebody stood up and said that this plot belongs to them and is a salt pan. We will respond to all those criticising us, but those who are saying this is a salt plan, do not understand that they are derailing the project meant for Mumbaiites.”He added that the state government does not work with its “eyes shut”.Thackeray, in a restrained, but forceful attack on ally-turned-foe, said, “During the past few months, while we were battling the coronavirus in Maharashtra, those who have a grudge against Maharashtra launched a campaign to defame the state. [They said] Maharashtra’s law and order has collapsed, there are fields of drugs, etc. But breaking all that, we signed memoranda of understandings (MoU) worth₹17,000 crore in June. Last week, we signed MoUs worth₹35,000 crore. Several companies, both Indian and foreign, are coming to invest in Maharashtra. I was criticised for not stepping out of the home, but sitting at home I have done this. Crores of investment are coming to Maharashtra, the wheels of the economy are getting momentum.”Thackeray said that Covid-19 cases in Mumbai, Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Pune, among others, are reducing. He credited the discipline and state government’s “My Family, My Responsibility” campaign to help bring the numbers down. “Several people were criticising us, saying that the situation is getting out of control. But our determination, self-confidence and discipline has brought the curve down,” he said.The CM said that the next 20 days, however, remain crucial where people will have to maintain social distancing, avoid crowding and wear masks to prevent another surge in Covid-19 cases in the state. “Even if the numbers are coming in control, but Diwali and the next 15 days after Diwali are the big test... European countries including have gone on lockdown again. Cases there had touched zero, but I would say it is not a wave, but a tsunami now… if we have to go into a lockdown again it will be very tough. I am seeing many people are not wearing masks, it will not be tolerated. Those who do not wear masks will be fined. An estimation said a corona positive patient without a mask could infect up to 400 people,” he said.Thackeray appealed to the people of Maharashtra to celebrate a firecracker-free Diwali, keeping in mind that smoke due to firecrackers could create health issues for people suffering from Covid-19.The issue to ban firecrackers was discussed in the state cabinet on Thursday, however, no decision to ban it was taken. State health minister Rajesh Tope said the government may take a decision about restricting the use of crackers later. Although a discussion over banning firecrackers like done by a few other states, the state cabinet on Thursday stopped short of the decision. Shiv Sena ministers reportedly suggested promoting environment-friendly crackers, instead of banning them completely. Thackeray, on Sunday, said that instead of imposing the ban on crackers, he wanted people to voluntarily restrain from the bursting them. “Elsewhere in the country, especially in Delhi, the numbers are going up. Why is it increasing? It is said it’s due to pollution. While celebrating Diwali, I would appeal you to not burst crackers. Should we not maintain self-discipline, like we have done all this while to fight Covid-19? we do not have any vaccine yet. If we know that pollution causes the cases to increase, can we avoid crackers? Should we ban it? We can, but I feel we can maintain self-discipline… there is so much smoke and pollution. What we have achieved so far [in controlling Covid-19] will wash away in four days of smoke. I request you not to light crackers in public places and avoid crackers.The CM also said that the state government would prepare a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) to reopen places of worship in the state. Several political parties and religious bodies have been appealing to the state government to reopen places of worship. However, the Thackeray government has been cautious owing to the age group [referring to senior citizens] that would predominantly frequent these places. Senior government officials said that places of worship could become sites of superspreaders.“After Diwali, we will prepare a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP). In all places of worship, most senior citizens, our parents, our grandparents go. Masks will be compulsory in places of worship. I am knowingly delaying reopening of places of worship. I am criticised over it, but if tomorrow there is a bigger spread, those criticising me will not take the responsibility,” Thackeray said.Meanwhile, BJP leader and leader of opposition in legislative council Pravin Darekar has termed the address by Thackeray a “damp squib’. “He has failed to address real issues faced by the people of Maharashtra and tried to garner sympathy out of his address. He did not say anything about the reservation to Marathas, the stalled admission of colleges, relief to flood-hit farmers, rise in the cases of atrocities against women. He boasted about industrial investments, but the memoranda of understanding signed with the companies do not realise in due course of time. Thackeray’s address was just a lip service to the people of Maharashtra,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bjp-trying-to-derail-metro-project-says-cm-uddhav-thackeray-hints-at-opening-places-of-worship-in-maharashtra-after-diwali/story-EOqFMN7oVzwS57KcDMCLIJ.html
08-11-2020||Noida||Noida: Air quality severe for fourth consecutive day||Noida: Even as cases of stubble burning dropped slightly over the past 24 hours, the air quality of Noida and Greater Noida worsened on Sunday, remaining under the “severe” category for the fourth day in row. Pollution monitoring agencies don’t see a respite for the next few days until the stubble burning drops drastically.According to the weather department, the air quality is likely to remain toxic till Diwali, as the weather conditions are likely to remain unsupportive to disperse the pollutants choking the city. “There was a little wind speed towards the morning hour that helped ventilate the air, however, the wind speed dropped to near three kmph that led to further worsening of the air. The situation is likely to remain so for a week at least,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, India Meteorological Department (IMD). Meanwhile, instances of stubble burning in neighbouring states, though slightly lesser, continued, with north-westerly and westerly winds bringing smoke to the city, taking pollution levels nine times above the safe limits. According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), there were approximately 3,780 instances of fire counted on Saturday, against 4,528 on Friday. “Surface winds have become calm, which were moderate so far, and forecasted to stay low in magnitude for the next two days. This is the major factor due to which no quick recovery is expected unless a drastic reduction in fire counts takes place. Air quality is forecasted to marginally deteriorate and stay at the “severe” to the higher end of a “very poor” category for the next two days. The Safar synergised stubble fire counts over Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and neighboring areas stood high at 3,780 Saturday,” said SAFAR statement on Sunday.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida, on a scale of 0 to 500, was 428 on Sunday against 426 a day earlier. The AQI of Greater Noida was 440 on Sunday against 428 on Saturday, while Ghaziabad was 456 against 436 a day earlier. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe.”Meanwhile, the average particulate matter (PM)2.5 volume for Noida was 266.90 microgrammes per cubic metres (µg/m3) against 346.5µg/m3 a day earlier. The PM10 for Noida was 549.89µg/m3 – nine times the safe limits, against 546.62µg/m3 a day earlier.The PM2.5 for Greater Noida was 376.56µg/m3 against 321.55 a day earlier and PM10 levels were 608.72µg/m3 against 536.37 a day earlier. The standard limits for PM2.5 is 40µg/m3 and for PM10 is 60µg/m3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-air-quality-severe-for-fourth-consecutive-day/story-Y4uh9nKmfHWPcObNmhL7wK.html
08-11-2020||Noida||Noida, Ghaziabad in for long pollution haul with lower temperature, wind speed this season||Ghaziabad: The pollution levels have been high in the two cities of Noida and Ghaziabad, with the air quality index (AQI) not falling below the “very poor” category since October 22, except on one day in Noida on November 2. The data of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) reveals that the period starting October 1 to November 6 this year has been relatively colder, with less wind speed, which has resulted in the two cities facing higher pollution levels.The experts of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that both the parameters of wind speed and direction, as well as temperature, play a vital role in determining dispersal of pollutants. The CPCB’s data, assessed by HT, indicates that a 24 hours average temperature at four different monitoring stations in Noida was in the range of 28.9 to 31.13 degrees Celsius during October 1 to November 6 last year, while the same was 28.2 to 29.77 degrees Celsius during the same period this year.Likewise, temperature during the same period at four monitoring stations in Ghaziabad was average of 30.12 to 31.64 degrees Celsius last year, while in the same period this year it was recorded in between 28.14 to 29.93 degrees Celsius. “Temperature also plays a vital role in dispersal of pollutants. If the mercury is high, it heats up the earth surface and moves the air upwards. Otherwise, the pollutants remain stagnant near the ground. October this year has been relatively cooler as we also recorded the lowest temperature of 58 years at Safdarjung in Delhi this October,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, Delhi. He added that apart from the mercury, the wind speed and also its direction also play vital roles in dispersal of pollutants. IMD officials on Friday had indicated that high pollution levels are likely to go till Diwali. “If the wind speed is below 5kmph then dispersal of pollutants becomes difficult. They disperse better in a wind speed range of 10-12kmph, while wind speed ranging 15-18kmph will clear more of the trapped pollutants. If the wind direction is north-westerly, they will bring in effects of stubble-burning from states like Punjab and Haryana, while easterlies will lower the effect as they come from eastern Uttar Pradesh,” he added.According to official statistics of the Consortium for Research on Agro-ecosystem Monitoring and Modelling from Space (Creams) Laboratory, the instances of stubble burning in Punjab, Haryana and UP, combined, have risen to 55,287 from October 1 to November 5 this year, as compared to 42,437 and 40,140 during the same period in 2019 and 2018, respectively.The CPCB data recorded at four monitoring stations of Noida from October 1 to November 6 last year indicates average wind speed was in the range of 2.88 to 5.07kmph, while it was recorded in lower range of 2.12 to 4.7kmph during the same period this year. For Ghaziabad, the average range during the same period last year was 4.28 to 6.9kmph, while during the same period this year the average range was 1.4 to 6.08 kmph at the four monitoring stations.“It is due to the combined effect of lower temperatures and relatively low wind speed that we have seen an early spike in pollution levels this year. The contribution of stubble-burning and local pollutants has also impacted,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UP Pollution Control Board (UPPCB). “Last year, Noida and Ghaziabad started to witness high pollution levels at least three days before Diwali (Diwali was on October 27 last year) and the two cities reached a peak on November 1 and then there was gradual decline. However, this year, we are witnessing a peak since October 22 and with present conditions, it seems that it is likely to continue up to Diwali and a couple of days after, due to any effect of bursting crackers,” he added. City-based environmentalist Akash Vashishtha said that a longer period of high pollution levels should attract strict enforcement. “The pollution levels have already started rising and it is likely that such conditions will prevail till Diwali and a couple of days thereafter,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-ghaziabad-in-for-long-pollution-haul-with-lower-temperature-wind-speed-this-season/story-kk4EaU3YOiP2ZCwr2m6EEJ.html
08-11-2020||City||Ludhiana: Man, kin duped of ₹22 lakh in investment fraud||Three persons have been booked for duping a man and his relatives of ₹22 lakh after coaxing them to invest in a scheme, which they promised would double their money.The accused have been identified as Suresh Mehra, the managing director of Blue Life Infra, his wife, Anita Mehra, who is the director of the company, and his brother, Rakesh Mehra, who serves as the additional director of the company.Complainant Brijinder Mishra of Gurdev Nagar, Mundian Kalan, said that the accused had lured him into the scheme a few months ago. Believing that it was a lucrative deal, he even got his relatives to invest in the scheme. Together, they all invested ₹40 lakh in the company. But later, the company neither gave them the interest nor the principal amount.After much pressure, the trio finally returned about ₹18 lakh but refused to return the rest. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Gurmeet Singh, who is investigating the case, said the victim had lodged a complaint on July 28. After conducting a thorough probe, police have now registered an FIR under Sections 420 (cheating) and 120 (concealing design to commit offence punishable with imprisonment) of the Indian Penal Code, the ASI said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-man-kin-duped-of-22-lakh-in-investment-fraud/story-2XtQI6f7sa2gsfVoQhMaqI.html
08-11-2020||Chandigarh||Unregistered guest houses in HP eating into hotel business||Unregistered villas, flats and apartments that are being pitched to tourists as affordable accommodation across the state have become a thorn in the side for legitimate hoteliers, homestays and bed and breakfasts across the state as they have been losing considerable business to these illegal ventures. These unregistered guest houses are being rented through online travel companies and through touts. Tourists, too, prefer to put up at these accommodations due to the cheap tariff. Most of these accommodations only charge ₹500 to ₹1,000 per room during the off season. Registered hoteliers cannot hope to compete with the prices as the illegal ventures do not pay tax and use domestic water and power connections. With business being encroached, occupancy in registered businesses is around 10% during weekdays and increases to 15%-20% during the weekends. A large number of illegal guest houses have mushroomed around the state capital. The tourism department says there are around 3,350 registered hotels and 1,656 registered homestays in the state. Tourism Industry Stakeholders Association president Mohinder Seth says , “Due to these unregistered accommodations, tourists are unwilling to pay even 50% tariff in the off season. This is a big blow for budget-class hotels, bread and breakfasts and home stays. It has become difficult to sustain hotels due to low- occupancy in hotels.”“The government does not get any tax from these unregistered accommodations, which causes losses to the government also,” he said. Hoteliers claim that it has become difficult for them to meet fixed expenditures such as staff salaries, electricity bills, water bills and garbage-collection fee. The industry is already reeling in the aftermath of the Covid crisis. Apart from a six-month waiver on fixed demand charges levied on hotels by Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board Limited no other financial help has been extended to the hotel industry.The government has also announced an interest subvention scheme for the hotel industry, under which working capital will be provided to hotels but this has proved to be an eye wash as none of the hotelier benefitted from the scheme due to stringent norms. Banks are reluctant to sanction loans to hoteliers under the scheme.Rebate in property tax and waiver of garbage fee for the period when the hotels were completely closed is still awaited. Travel agents out of jobTravel Chapter Anil Bhardwaj senior vice-president said travel agents were not getting any business. “Unless Volvo bus service and flights are not resumed and train connectivity from Bengal, Maharashtra ,Delhi and Gujarat is not streamlined. Travel agents cannot expect any business. Moreover, online travel companies are also eating into travel agents’ business.” “The government should restart Volvos and ask the railways to restore of all train routes up to Kalka and Chandigarh at the earliest to save the travel and tourism industry,” he said.Hoteliers and tourism stakeholders do not expect the tourism and hospitality sectors to normalise before the summer and are seeking financial aid from the government. They have demanded that the government announce a special package, which includes domestic tariff for water, garbage-collection fee, property tax, waiver of fixed demand charges on electricity bills for at least one year and unconditional and collateral-free financial assistance in the shape of working capital loan to all hotels through state cooperative banks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/unregistered-guest-houses-in-hp-eating-into-hotel-business/story-4sdDOfJIgblrWsJKKaOnvN.html
08-11-2020||City||Ludhiana’s AQI ‘very poor’, raises concerns over spike in Covid cases||At 316, the city’s air quality index (AQI) remained very poor on Sunday even as health experts expressed concern over the possibility of a spike in Covid cases due to this. Senior cardiologist Dr Bishav Mohan, who is also a member of the Covid-19 Task Force formed by the state government, said that pollution can cause several health issues ranging from blood pressure, heart ailments and lung problems, besides also increasing the chances of contracting Covid-19.“The logic is simple. Pollution may lead to coughing and sneezing, especially among Covid patients, and this can in turn lead to the spread of the virus. The problem is only heightened by the fact that the droplets remain suspended in air for longer periods in cold weather conditions,” said Prof Mohan. Stubble burning to be blamedHe added that stubble burning (which a major cause of dipping AQI levels) has caused a 15% increase in Covid cases across the country. Prof Mohan said that at least three studies have been published in the last six months, highlighting the ill-effects of stubble burning on human health.As per the data provided by the Punjab Pollution Control Board, Ludhiana saw as many as 3,150 stubble burning cases between September 21 and November 7. The figure stood at 995 and 1, 890 for the corresponding period in 2019 and 2018 respectively.Meanwhile, the concentration of particulate matter, PM 2.5, in air also remained worrying at 366 micrograms. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said that the concentration of dust can cause eye irritation and respiratory discomfort. “Those who have dust allergy or a compromised immune system should avoid going out,” he cautioned, adding that people should wash their hands and face regularly and cover their face while going out. “Our body has its own fighting mechanism. These dust particles have lesser toxicity than automobile exhaust and particulate matter produced by burning of crop residue,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-s-aqi-very-poor-raises-concerns-over-spike-in-covid-cases/story-Ye6lWKrdGjj3ljimRLHZ1N.html
08-11-2020||Chandigarh||Marriage ceremonies, schools accelerate virus spread in Himachal||With the government deciding to reopen schools and relax restrictions on social gatherings, there has been an alarming increase in Covid infections in Himachal even as a second wave is expected to sweep through the state with the onset of winter. A total 24,917 people have tested positive in the state while 365 have succumbed to the deadly virus. Last month, the state had increased the ceiling for social gatherings to 200 while schools were opened for regular classes on November 2 for Classes 9 to 12. In the last two weeks alone (since October 25), as many as 4,442 new infections have been reported in the state, with 2,750 cases reported in the first week of November. On November 7, the state witnessed the highest single-day spike of 573 infections since the hill-state reported the first case on March 20. The death toll also increased by 27.6% in these two weeks with 73 people succumbing, of which 53 people died in November. Mandi, Shimla, Kullu become hotspots Three districts — Mandi, Shimla and Kullu — have seen the highest infections over the last two weeks. Mandi district reported a staggering 923 new infections. The infection has also spread in schools. Mandi logged 187 infections on November 7, the highest single-day spike in any Himachal district since the outbreak, of the new infections at least 100 were school children. Shimla has logged 909 infections in the same time period. The surge is largely due to the social gatherings and marriages. Similarly, Kullu reported 567 fresh infections in this period. Kangra, which is population-wise the largest district has reported 488 fresh infections. Una and Sirmaur that were hotspots in the initial stage of the outbreak, have reported 134 and 124 cases, respectively. Social distancing goes for a toss at ceremonies The increase in Covid cases across the state can be primarily attributed to marriage ceremonies and social gatherings. Around 50 Covid cases were reported in four villages — Shathala, Mangsu, Veergarh and Bithal in Kotgarh sub-tehsil. “Wedding ceremonies are primary reasons for spike in cases in some villages of Kumarsain sub-division as people are not following the Covid protocol. The cultural practices, including holding hands while dancing, makes following social distancing norms difficult,” said Kumarsain divisional magistrate Gurpreet Singh Cheema. “The administration has ordered closure of government senior secondary schools in Veergarh for five days while Kotgarh bazaar was also closed for two days. Schools will be reopened on Monday after being thoroughly sanitised,” he said. Kumarsain block medical officer (BMO) Dr Dr Tara Chand said four persons had tested positive in Shamathla village on Saturday while around eight people had tested positive in the last week. 92 students test positive in Tibetan Children Village As many as 92 students and staff at Tibetan Children Village (TCV) School Suja, Jogindernagar, Mandi have tested positive, including 47 girls, 20 boys and 25 staff members. The cases were detected after the administration decided to test all those arriving from outside the state and carried out a special testing campaign. A spokesperson said, “The students that have tested positive had come to the state between October 25 to 31 from Arunachal Pradesh, Ladakh, Maharashtra and Nepal. “The cases were detected due to the state government’s pro-active approach. The district administration took stock of the facilities available in the school premises and isolated them. They are under observation of the health department and will be shifted to a Covid-Care Centre or hospital,” said secretary health Amitabh Awasthi. Covid tests have been increased in the state and around 6,000 tests are being conducted regularly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/marriage-ceremonies-schools-accelerate-virus-spread-in-himachal/story-y1lKPgx05nHM5DpWNjTasM.html
08-11-2020||Mumbai||Thane-based groups come together to send Diwali sweets to Army personnel||After a Dombivli-based man floated an idea to share Faral, a collection of snacks and sweets, with Army personnel, five different groups from the area came together and sent 8,008 packets to Army personnel serving in the borders. Kunal Sutavane, 35, owner of travel agency Vivisu Dehra, has a few relatives serving in the Army and India Air Force. He used to send sweets to a few Army personnel every year through them. He said, “We always celebrate Diwali by giving gifts to our dear ones. The armed forces are there on the border; therefore we can celebrate such festivals happily. Every year, I used to send some sweets but a in a very small scale. While discussing the idea with a member of Hindu Nav Varsh Swagat Samiti in Dahisar who used to send such sweet boxes to the border, we decided to make it big his year. Accordingly, we floated the idea on social media, following which two more groups (Bharat Vikas Parishad from Panvel and Sadguru’s Welfare and Educational Trust, Dadar) joined us. We have sent almost 8,008 boxes to seven different parts of the border so far.”Ashish Sakhalkar, 45, head of Hindu Nav Varsh Swagat Samiti, said, “It’s is our group’s tradition to send sweets during Diwali to Army personnel every year. We started this ritual after one of our friend’s son joined the Army. He is now in Ladakh regiment. This year, we wanted to double the amount of boxed than last year’s 2,000. After we discussed this with Kunal and two other groups, we thought we can actually do it in a bigger scale. We posted a message on social media sites about our plan and several people from villages to those living in other countries helped us financially. Because of all the support, we sent 8,008 sweet boxes along with 19,000 healthy nutritious laddoos, 2,500 bottles of SPF 50 sun screen lotion of 100 ml each, two boxes of sweet lime juice and 550 greeting cards.”Sutavane said, “Through our relatives serving on the border, we took permission from each of the seven regiments. Then we sent out our orders to sweet shop owners. Students from Divya Vidyalaya Residential School for Blind and Mentally Challenged Tribal Children in Jawhar made 1,000 boxes of sweets. Children from different areas of Dombivli, Dahisar and specially-abled children from Dadar made greeting cards for Army personnel.”The boxes were sent to Army personnel posted at Jammu, Leh Ladakh, Imphal-Manipur, Jorhat-Assam, Shillong-Meghalaya, Tawang-Arunachal Pradesh, and Udhampur borders.Sakhalkar added, “We received a call that senior Army officials appreciated the efforts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/thane-based-groups-come-together-to-send-diwali-sweets-to-army-personnel/story-2ltPolMrDlrrkrAtTri3wO.html
08-11-2020||City||On first anniversary of Kartarpur Corridor inauguration, devotees in Punjab want it reopened at the earliest||Opened amid much fanfare to meet a long-pending demand of the Sikh community in India, the Kartarpur Corridor is lying defunct on the first anniversary of its inauguration. The prolonged suspension of pilgrimage through this corridor that connects Dera Baba Nanak, a border town in Gurdaspur district of Punjab, to Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan’s Kartarpur, has marred the anniversary celebrations and left the devotees upset.The corridor was inaugurated by Prime Ministers of India and Pakistan on November 9 last year to provide Indian devotees visa-free access to the final resting place of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak, which is just four kilometers from the international border.It remained operational for only four months before governments of both countries closed it in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Even in those four months, several controversies cast shadow over it, and the turnout remained low. Only 59,000 people used the corridor, even as India asked Pakistan to allow 5,000 pilgrims daily and 10,000 on special days.Citing improvement in the pandemic situation, the Pakistan government first expressed its readiness to reopen the corridor on June 27. It then announced to reopen it on October 3, but the Indian government has remained undecided. As a result, the integrated check posts on both sides of the border are still wearing a deserted look.“The corridor on which crores of rupees were spent has unfortunately remained closed for the past eight months. If the Indian government could reopen all places of worship that are witnessing huge gatherings these days, why not open the corridor?” said Perneet Singh Bedi, president of the Dera Baba Nanak municipal council, adding that there is outrage among the Sikh community over the issue.“The Centre should reconsider its decision. The Punjab government has already raised a demand for reopening the corridor,” said cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who represents Dera Baba Nanak in the assembly. “There will be no issue in maintaining social distancing as the gurdwara complex is very large. Also, compliance of other norms will be ensured easily in view of arrangements made on both sides of the borders”. ‘Sikh community being discriminated with’BS Goraya, a former government official who worked on opening the corridor for over two decades, said: “This is discrimination with Sikh community. The Indian government is not ready to let pilgrims visit Kartarpur even as Pakistan has assured to take all precautions to protect them from Covid-19.” “Opening of the corridor was historic not only for the Sikh sangat but also for both the nations. When the Government of India has reopened all places of worship and also restarted international flight operations, there is no reason for it to keep the corridor closed,” said Gurpartap Singh Wadala, Akali legislator from Nakodar.Considering its current fate, next phases of the project are in limbo on both sides of the border, the major among them being construction of a bridge over the Ravi catchment area in Pakistan territory.Meanwhile, to mark the anniversary, Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee and Evacuee Trust Property Board are organising a function at Kartarpur, while on the Indian side, radical Sikh organisations, including Dal Khalsa and Akal Federation, are holding a function near the integrated check post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/on-first-anniversary-of-kartarpur-corridor-inauguration-devotees-in-punjab-want-it-reopened-at-the-earliest/story-634jU057nQxN1rck5ING4K.html
08-11-2020||Mumbai||Winter session of Maharashtra legislature may not be held in Nagpur||The winter session of the state legislature, slated to be held from December 7, is unlikely to be held in Nagpur this year amid the Covid-19 pandemic and the possibility of surge in Covid-19 cases after Diwali. The state government is expected to curtail the session to one week and hold it in Mumbai. The decision on the matter is expected to be taken in the business advisory committee (BAC) meeting to be held on Tuesday.After a review meeting in Nagpur this week, the state legislature administration has reportedly arrived at the conclusion in view of the risk in holding the session in Nagpur. Holding the session in Nagpur requires shifting and mobilising government staff including security agencies from all across the state. At least 5,000 people including legislators, political workers, and state staff are expected to attend the session if it is held in Nagpur.“The staff members, security personnel need to report to the Nagpur office of legislature at least two weeks prior to the commencement of the session. They will have to be kept in isolation at least for a few days. In addition, if 5,000 people attend the session, it will lead to the risk of spread of the virus. After visiting various offices that are involved in conducting the session earlier this week, we have come to the conclusion that it is very risky to conduct the winter session in Nagpur. We will submit our report, but the final call has to be taken by the state government during the BAC meeting on Tuesday,” said an official from the legislature.He said that 57 people were found positive during the state legislature’s monsoon session held on September 7 and 8. According to officials, the state too is not keen on holding the session in Nagpur. “The government had asked for the report on Parliament’s plan to hold its winter session. The parliament secretariat has informed us that they could cancel the winter session and directly hold the budget session in January-February. We are unlikely to cancel it as it could lead to criticism, but it can be curtailed to one week instead of the traditional duration of two weeks. It is likely to be held in Mumbai,” an official from Mantralaya said.Though the state legislature has been tapping the possibility of holding the session online, it has been facing technical difficulties. Another official said an online session needs a lot of manpower as every legislator will need to be assisted with a technical assistant at his/her residence and that there might be difficulties in giving opportunity to members to speak on any subject. Connectivity is another problem in holding the session online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/winter-session-of-maharashtra-legislature-may-not-be-held-in-nagpur/story-UIp4CEH5XNlIKosWiXnShO.html
08-11-2020||City||Rail blockade: Coal stocks drying up, power crisis deepens in Punjab||With the state corporation suffering a double whammy, power crisis in Punjab is set to deepen. Suspension of freight trains due to the farm agitation has hit coal supplies to power plants across the state. The power generation has nosedived at a time the demand has gone up due to the festive season (see box). Punjab State Power Corporation Limited, which otherwise sells power at this time of the year, is forced to buy it from the national grid, that too at 20% hiked prices. At present, only two government coal-based power plants are operating, that too at just 20% of installed capacity. Left with just two days of coal stock, they are generating around 350MW daily against the installed capacity of 1760MW. The private thermal plants are left with no coal stock and have been out of operation for a week.“There is a need for early restoration of coal supplies, as festival season is approaching, when demand is set to increase to around 5,500 MW daily. We have to purchase from the national grid on a short-term basis, which has become a costly affair, as prices have gone up 20% in a week,” said a senior PSPCL official.Due to the high demand in festival season, power prices in the national grid have gone up from ₹2.7 per unit to around ₹3.3 per unit. “We are suffering a double whammy, as this is usually the time we either sell power or bank it with other states. However, we are forced to purchase it due to the coal crisis,” PSPCL chairman-cum-managing director A Venu Parsad said. For the festival season, the corporation has tied up to buy 835 MW of power till November 30. “This will cost us from ₹3-3.5 per unit, depending upon the time of withdrawal from the national grid,” said Parsad, adding that PSPCL has already urged the government to resolve the issue of coal supplies at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rail-blockade-coal-stocks-drying-up-power-crisis-deepens-in-punjab/story-YiOzKM5huY04DaXIlJOEfO.html
08-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: NCB arrests wife of film producer Firoz Nadiadwala, 4 others in drugs case||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested five people including Shabana Saeed, wife of film producer Firoz Nadiadwala on Sunday. During search, NCB officers found 10 gram ganja or marijuana from her home in Juhu. Zonal director Sameer Wankhede, NCB, confirmed the arrest of Saeed. Nadiadwala did not respond to HT’s calls and messages.The other arrested accused are drug peddlers and suppliers. NCB has seized 727.1 gram marijuana, 74.1 gram charas, and 95.1 gram MD (commercial quantity) along with ₹358,610 cash from the peddlers and suppliers.Following a tip-off, NCB first arrested Andheri resident Wahid Abdul Kadir Shaikh alias Sultan Mirza. During interrogation, he revealed the name of Saeed whom he had supplied marijuana to. Shaikh has been in the drug supply chain from several years and is known as Sultan Mirza, said NCB officers.An NCB team then reached Saeed’s residence and conducted a search in the presence of two independent witnesses. Ten gram marijuana, which was procured from Shaikh, was recovered. The notice was issued under section 67 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. NCB arrested her after recording her statement.Apart from Saeed and Shaikh, NCB arrested three more drug suppliers and their questioning is underway, said NCB officers.“The operation is still going on; hence the names of the other three suppliers cannot be revealed at this stage. We have seized commercial quantities of drugs from their possession,” said Wankhede.Nadiadwala, too, has been summoned for questioning in the case. He has produced several Bollywood films including Welcome, Phir Hera Pheri, Aarakshan, Deewane Huye Pagal, Kartoosh and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-ncb-arrests-wife-of-film-producer-firoz-nadiadwala-4-others-in-drugs-case/story-2HC1gk8mlRTgfmZqFCw9RI.html
08-11-2020||Mumbai||Aspiring model held for stealing gold ornaments from relatives in Mumbai||Oshiwara police on Friday arrested a 26-year-old aspiring model for stealing gold ornaments from her relative’s house. The accused, who used to work as an advisor at an insurance firm, lost her job during the lockdown and was in need of money to continue her attempts to get modelling jobs, hence she resorted to stealing, said police officers. The arrested accused, Sheetal Nagraj Gholap, is a resident of Kranti Nagar in Jogeshwari (West), whereas the complainant, Sunita Agvane, lives in Ganesh Nagar, Jogeshwari (West). An officer from Oshiwara police station said, “Gholap aspires to become a model. As she was in need of money, a few days before Dussehra she visited Agvane’s house. She was aware that Agvane and her entire family were going out for personal work. They left the house together but Gholap had purposely left behind her phone at the flat. When they came down from the building, Gholap said she left her phone, took the keys and stole the ornaments from the flat.” “Agvane used the same technique again on Dussehra and stole some more ornaments. This time, the family noticed few ornaments were missing from their cupboard and visited Oshiwara police station to lodge a complaint. We registered a case against an unknown person under section 380 of the Indian Penal Code for theft and started investigation,” an officer said. A team formed under the supervision of senior inspector Dayanand Bangar and sub-inspector Tushar Sawant questioned everybody who had visited Agvane’s house and during questioning Gholap confessed to the crime. The police have recovered gold worth ₹2 lakh from a jewellery shop where she sold them. The accused was produced before metropolitan magistrate’s court on Saturday and has been released on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/aspiring-model-held-for-stealing-gold-ornaments-from-relatives-in-mumbai/story-cmGYiASbmgDiWWS2BXuA6H.html
08-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body’s desalination plant project: Why not focus on water conservation, ask experts||Even as the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is planning to revive its decade-old proposal to develop a desalination plant in the city to convert seawater into potable water, experts have said that the issue has brought back focus on the need for water conservation by way of harvesting and fixing leakages on Mumbai’s 6,000-km-long pipeline network. Ten days ago, Maharashtra environment minister Aaditya Thackeray had given his nod to BMC for preparing a feasibility report to revive the civic body’s plan for a desalination plant. The plan was first proposed in 2007 to provide an alternative water source to the city, owing to poor rainfall in the catchment areas of the dams that supply water to Mumbai. Later in 2016-17, the BMC had initiated the process to set up two desalination plants – one in south Mumbai and the other either at suburbs or any other location in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) – with a capacity to process 100 million litres per day (MLD) of seawater into potable water. However, the project was put on hold owing to high cost. Now the BMC has claimed that cost optimisation methods have been introduced for the project and the civic body estimates that a desalination plant for supplying 200 MLD of water can be constructed at an approximate cost of ₹1,800 crore. Currently, the city gets drinking water from the Bhatsa, Vaitarna, Middle Vaitarna, Modak Sagar, Tulsi, Tansa and Vehar lakes, which are located in Mumbai and the neighbouring Thane and Palghar districts. The civic body supplies 3,850 million litres of water per day (MLD), even as the city needs 4,200 MLD of water. The BMC has also proposed to construct the Gargai dam in Palghar district, which will supply around 440 MLD of water to the city. The civic body has anticipated the city’s water to surge to 5910 MLD by 2030. However, experts have stated that as water infrastructure projects such as building dams and introducing desalination plants are expensive means to avail water for the city, emphasis must be laid on water conservation. Commenting on BMC’s idea to revive the desalination plant project, Rakesh Kumar, director of CSIR-National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (CSIR-NEERI) last week told HT, “These are costlier options, and it brings back to the problem of how we handle our water resources and conservation.” Rainwater harvesting Around a decade ago, the civic body made it mandatory for residential and commercial buildings to install a rainwater harvesting system on their terraces. The BMC denies occupancy certificate (OC) to new projects if they did not implement the system. During its financial budget for 2020-2021, the BMC had also announced that the recycled water will be used for flushing and other non-potable building activities to reduce the load on supply by at least 1,350 MLD. It also made it mandatory for bulk users to install sewage water treatment plants (STPs) in its premises. However, the execution of the ambitious project on ground has not been encouraging and the ratio of rainwater lost continues to be substantial. According to BMC’s estimates, between June 2007 and December 2015, at least 5,000 new constructions were approved of which only 1,848 (36%) new buildings have implemented the rainwater harvesting system on their premises. Janak Daftari, a water conservationist who was associated with the BMC since the inception of the rainwater harvesting system project, said, “The implementation of rainwater harvesting system is poor. Typically, developers install an inadequately-designed tank to harvest water, merely for the sake of getting clearances from the BMC. Actually, it is ineffective for harvesting and provides little relief from water stress. Recycling waste water offers the most cost-effective solution for resolving water shortages in urban areas.” However, the BMC claims that annually only around 2,000 to 2,500 building proposals get passed, and that it is also the responsibility of citizens to conserve rainwater. Vinod Chithore, director of BMC’s engineering services, said, “We have made it mandatory for residential buildings to have rainwater harvesting plants on terraces and don’t give permissions to buildings without it. Now if the harvesting is not carried out, we cannot blame the administration alone. Annually more than 2,000 buildings get permissions, and it is also the moral responsibility of citizens to ensure that water is harvested.” Leakages and unaccounted supply Experts have also said that the city must tap on non-revenue water. Of the annual supply, around 20% of the water is lost owing to leakages and illegal water connections. The BMC has been working towards digitalising the water supply system of the city which is around 6,000 km long. “Annually around 28% of the total water supply is not accounted for owing to illegal water connections or wastage due to leakages. This is a major problem with our water supply system and a big failure on part of the BMC to regulate water theft or misuse. We might not need costly projects if we execute basic water conservation methods properly,” Sitaram Shelar, convenor of Pani Haq Samiti, an organisation that works towards universal access to water. “When it comes to water pipelines and unaccounted water, the department has been consistently working towards ensuring that the city’s water supply chain functions well. But we need to understand that in a city like Mumbai, maintenance of water supply is a challenging task. It is a continuous process in which if we fix one thing, something else may pop out. This process will go on,” said Chithore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-s-desalination-plant-project-why-not-focus-on-water-conservation-ask-experts/story-2Rts4Z19QmBYpHPDIbQkqL.html
08-11-2020||City||Won’t allow passenger trains to run, reiterate farmers protesting in Punjab||Thirty farm unions protesting against the three new agriculture laws reiterated on Sunday that they would not allow movement of passenger trains in Punjab, while accusing the central government of playing politics by not running freight trains even as the agitators have vacated railway tracks across all districts.Meanwhile, reiterating his assurance of smooth and safe movement of goods trains in the state, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Sunday said he had spoken to Union home minister Amit Shah for his intervention to ensure restoration of rail services and was hopeful of an early resolution of the issue.Jagjit Singh Dallewal, state president of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Sidhupur) — a key constituent of the joint forum of farmers, said only freight trains will be allowed to move in the state.“Farmers have been protesting for over a month, but the central government has not resolved our issues. We are dead against the movement of passenger trains. Protesters have vacated tracks and platforms, but we will not move out of the railway properties till our demands are met,” said Dallewal.Dallewal said Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh, an umbrella body of 110 farm organisations of the country, held a meeting in Delhi on Saturday, where it was decided to hold a massive demonstration on November 26 and 27.Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) president Balbir Singh Rajewal and Dallewal are part of the seven-member national panel formed to coordinate the Delhi agitation.Ploy to quell our movement: RajewalRajewal said stopping the freight train services was a ploy of the Union government to quell the farmers’ movement. He said the proposal to clear the tracks for freight trains was approved keeping in view the interests of the state, traders, industrialists and exporters.“We had left the tracks on October 21 too. For two days, the freight trains were operating. No incident of violence was reported and the traffic was not disrupted. But suddenly, the Railways slammed brakes on goods trains, which clearly shows the hidden agenda of the Centre,” he said.Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, which on Saturday vacated the Amritsar-Delhi railway tracks and moved their dharna outside the Jandiala railway station, said Centre was trying to ruin Punjab’s economy. “The intention of the central government is to create financial crisis in the state for its political benefit. Our farmers are also facing a shortage of fertilisers,” committee’s senior vice-president Sawinder Singh Chutala said. Ruldu Singh of Punjab Kisan Union said they have received no invitation of talks from any government agency.“A joint meeting has been called in Chandigarh on November 18, where the future course of agitation will be decided. Till then, agitations will continue near railway stations in different districts,” he said.Meanwhile, additional divisional railway manager, Ferozepur, Balbir Singh said there has been no decision on resuming trains in Punjab.DSGMC offers full support to Delhi event For the farmers’ national-level demonstration planned at the Ramlila Ground in Delhi on November 26-27, the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) has assured full support. “DSGMC president Manjinder Singh Sirsa informed me that he would give all support, including food and lodging, to the farmers while they are in Delhi for the two-day protest,” Jagmohan Singh Patiala of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Dakounda) said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/won-t-allow-passenger-trains-to-run-reiterate-farmers-protesting-in-punjab/story-U6breAHUcYLbpzENbe1tTL.html
08-11-2020||Chandigarh||Amid farm protests, Punjab CM talks to Shah for restarting goods trains||Reiterating his assurance of smooth and safe movement of goods trains in the state, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Sunday said he had spoken to Union home minister Amit Shah for his intervention to ensure restoration of rail services and was hopeful of an early resolution of the issue. This comes at a time 30 farm unions protesting against the three new agriculture laws reiterated on Sunday that they would not allow movement of passenger trains in Punjab, while accusing the central government of playing politics by not running freight trains even as the agitators have vacated railway tracks across all districts.The chief minister spoke to Shah on Saturday to discuss the situation and assured him that there were no law and order concerns to prevent resumption of the services for facilitating supply of essential commodities in Punjab and neighbouring states, including Himachal Pradesh, Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir.He pointed out that security concerns could, however, be serious for the nation if essential supplies did not reach the armed forces in Ladakh and the Valley before snowfall due to the Railways’ decision not to ply goods trains. Countering the misinformation being spread on this count, Amarinder said all tracks had been cleared by farmers for movement of freight trains, pointing that the farmers had not disturbed peace in any part of the state. Restating his earlier assurance to Union railways minister Piyush Goyal, the CM told Shah he had directed Punjab Police to extend all support to the Railway Protection Force in providing security on the tracks as well as the platforms to enable smooth movement of freight trains.The state government said the CM was closely engaged with the farmer organisations to persuade them to lift blockade completely so as to allow passenger trains to commute as well. Punjab rural development and panchayats minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and cooperation minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who are part of a state committee holding discussions with the farmers, also asked the Centre to show a good gesture by resuming freight trains so that economic activity in the state, which has been held up for almost 45 days, could restart.“I do not know why the Centre is arm-twisting Punjab government and Punjabi farmers,” said Bajwa.The comments come two days after the railway board pointed out that the Punjab government had been unable to remove all blockades on the rail network with as many as 22 sites to be cleared. Board chairman VK Yadav had said both freight and passenger trains will be started in one go. Allow movement of passenger trains too: Bir DevinderFormer deputy speaker and Shiromani Akali Dal (Panthic) leader Bir Devinder Singh on Sunday said the agitating farm unions should seriously deliberate upon the issue of allowing hassle-free movement of passenger trains in Punjab, as they have agreed to the movement of goods trains.With passenger trains coming to a halt, the general public is facing difficulties while the transporters’ lobby is the biggest beneficiary, he said. “The railway minister and farmer unions must see the logic in this public demand and allow smooth operations of all trains in Punjab, notwithstanding the continuation of the agitation for farmers’ most legitimate demands,” he said.He also requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to not support business interest of the corporate houses and come to the rescue of farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amid-farm-protests-punjab-cm-talks-to-shah-for-restarting-goods-trains/story-WbN0cLR4u39mJSJT3TqumI.html
08-11-2020||Mumbai||Can’t hold online hearings with outdated computers: MAT informs Bombay HC||The Maharashtra administrative tribunal (MAT) at its principal seat in Mumbai and benches at Nagpur and Aurangabad could not conduct hearings through video conferencing (VC) during the Covid-19 lockdown due to outdated computers and lack of technical manpower, MAT registrar Suresh Joshi has informed the Bombay high court (HC).In a report submitted to HC, Joshi has said that most of the computers being used at MAT are very old – purchased between 2007 and 2014. Besides, the tribunals lack the technical manpower to conduct video conferences, he said, adding that at least two technical persons are required for the tribunal at Mumbai and one each at its benches. Therefore, since June, the tribunal has been conducting physical hearings, the report states.Working twice a week during the Covid-19 pandemic, MAT benches have heard a total o 1,220 cases filed during this period, along with several other urgent matters, and have disposed of 599 cases, the report adds.Joshi filed the report pursuant to an October 28 order passed by the division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, on a petition filed by advocate Yogesh Morbale, a resident of Ichalkaranji in Kolhapur district.In his petition filed through advocate Vinod Sangvikar on October 6, Morbale complained that he had been stuck at his native place because of the pandemic, and thousands of lawyers like him and litigants were deprived of access to MAT because of lack of online filing and hearing by the tribunal.He had, therefore, sought directions to the MAT to conduct hearings through video conferencing on a daily basis and to update its website to support an e-court system and make it user friendly.As regards the MAT website, Joshi said in his report that the tribunal had started its website in July 2013. It was designed by Mahaonline Limited and only had certain basic features. He added that the space provided for the website on the state government’s server is insufficient and therefore, whenever data is required to be uploaded on it, the tribunal has to approach the director, information technology.The MAT registrar’s report adds that the tribunal has a chairman, three vice-chairmen and five members. However, of the three member posts, one each at Mumbai, Nagpur and Aurangabad are vacant, and two of the three vice-chairmen are due to retire on November 17, 2020, and January 22, 2021.Thus, no bench will be available at Aurangabad from November 17, 2020, and government employees from the Marathwada region will have to move either to Mumbai or to Nagpur in case of urgency. For hearing regular matters from Marathwada region, MAT will have to make arrangements for circuit benches, the report adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/can-t-hold-online-hearings-with-outdated-computers-mat-informs-bombay-hc/story-WF0bpSzlKx3qIyrjPSLfnI.html
08-11-2020||Mumbai||Green Diwali: Women from Maharashtra’s border village make seed crackers, sweets||This Diwali, light up your house in a different way. Instead of fireworks, bring home a seed cracker that would burst into a plant.Concerned about noise, air and light pollution from firecrackers affecting birds and animals, a group has developed a unique concept – BeejParva or seed crackers - to celebrate an eco-friendly festival this year.Women from 40 families, part of the Gram Art Project (GAP), a collective of farmers, painters, social workers, and writers from Paradsinga village in Chhindwara district, on the border of Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra, have made exact replicas of firecrackers (available in markets – see image) using recyclable material embedded with seed balls. Rather than bursting them, these uniquely designed crackers, which have seven different variations can be sowed in a pot, watered, and nourished into an edible plant. “There is an urgent need to address the impacts of our actions on voiceless species like birds and animals that suffer miserably due to the use of firecrackers during festivals like Diwali every year. Thus, we came up with this idea that not only benefits them but the overall environment while ensuring the concept also upholds the symbol of this festival,” said Shweta Bhattad, visual artist and member, GAP.The variations of plant species and types of crackers include the micro-green ladi (series of crackers that have seven types of seeds in them - red amaranthus, amaranth, fenugreek, common purslane, mustard, green amaranthus, and spinach). “This cracker has seven pairs of micro-green seeds for each day of the week. One simply needs to separate each pair, sow them in different pots and water regularly, and can be consumed within a month,” said Nutan Dwivedi, another member.Other seed crackers include the phoenix chakkar (using onion seeds), hemp bomb (roselle seeds), golden shower (amaranthus seeds), laxmi bomb (bauhinia racemosa seeds), coriander tikli (coriander seeds), and cucumber rocket (cucumber and green sorrel seeds). The growth of the plant has been designed similar to the emitting trajectory of a cracker. For example, the anar firecracker (flower pot) forms a shower of colours when lit. Similarly, the golden shower (amaranthus) forms the same pattern when nourished into a plant.“A normal series of crackers (ladi) lasts hardly seven seconds even after having more than a dozen crackers in it creating both noise and air pollution. On the contrary, if you nurture the hatcher ladi, the plant will last for more than seven generations. Instead of creating pollution and disrupting the ecosystem, it will rejuvenate it,” said Roshni Narnawre, member of the group.The group has been working with environmentalist and IT professional Arundhati Mhatre in Mumbai to share the concept among nature lovers in the city. “The concept took me by surprise when I learnt that all the crackers were handmade, and so much thought had gone behind this. Such projects need to be replicated in different regions while also nurturing the livelihood of communities working on them. In this case, the use of art to create something so meaningful in an attempt to conserve nature is the need of the hour,” said Mhatre adding that apart from the ladi, which is priced at ₹50 apiece, all other seed crackers are priced at ₹40.Bhattad added that GAP generally has 100 families from across 10 villages involved in seed band projects. “However, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, we had to restrict our work to the closest villages. For BeejParva, we had ladies from 40 families from two villages,” she said.Seed-sweets an alternative to expensive sweets this DiwaliNot just crackers but the group of women from GAP have also made seed-sweets are an alternative to expensive sweets available in the market during Diwali. These seed-sweets are seed balls made from waste paper and are biodegradable. “They can be consumed once nurtured after sowing and watering. They are alternatives to sweets during festivals with main ingredients as sugar and palm oil. We intended to highlight the burden of overworked sugarcane farmers across the country while habitat degradation to recover palm oil from monoculture plantations,” said Dwivedi. The four variations of the seed-sweets include palm-oil free laddu with tomato and radish seeds, what-less cookies with brinjal and common purslane seeds, sugar-free barfi with okra and amaranthus seeds, and sovereign cham-cham with chilli and carrot seeds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/green-diwali-women-from-maharashtra-s-border-village-make-seed-crackers-sweets/story-gGwPqEWceHFPnhX3vdIXeL.html
08-11-2020||Gurugram||GCER murder: Cops visit crime spot where woman was shot||Two police teams consisting of 15 police personnel on Sunday visited the crime spot where 26-year-old Pooja Sharma was shot in the head by three masked men during a suspected robbery attempt near Golf Course Extension Road on October 26. The victim died the next day while undergoing treatment at a private hospital, said the police. Despite six days having passed, the police are yet to make any headway in the case though they have questioned more than 200 suspects and history-sheeters. They have also scanned nearly 200 CCTV cameras of different locations, conducted technical surveillance and worked on dumped mobile data.Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that the special investigation team visited the crime spot on Sunday and questioned a few people and staff members of three liquor shops. “There are liquor shops close by and there are possibilities that the suspects might have stopped there to buy liquor. We have recovered a vital clue and are verifying the registration number of the suspect’s bike from three of the liquor shops,” he said. The liquor shops are operational until midnight, so the teams have questioned more than 20 staff members from the shops to know if they happened to have seen any of the suspects or whether their faces were captured in the shop while buying liquor. Sangwan said the motive of the murder is likely to be a failed robbery but they are looking at all possible angles, including old enmity. “The victim, Pooja Sharma, and her fiance, Sagar Manchanda, had left the Sector 31 market at around 8pm and they were shot at 11pm. As such, there is a slim chance of anybody following them. The location of the suspects as per CCTV camera is on the Golf Course Extension Road stretch and they were seen taking rounds,” he said. Manchanda told the police that the suspects tried to open the car door multiple times and when they failed, they shot at both of them. Manchanda escaped unhurt while Sharma was hit in her head. They got scared as they were suddenly intercepted in their way and did not get a chance to flee from the spot. Sharma, who was driving the car, tried to speed away but got shot. Sharma worked with an IT company in Sector 48 in medical claims and insurance department, while Manchanda is a software engineer from IIT-Roorkee. They were about to get married this year but due to lockdown their wedding was postponed, said the police. Sharma suffered one bullet injury in the head, which resulted in her death, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gcer-murder-cops-visit-crime-spot-where-woman-was-shot/story-Chr95IOinXZy5L7i4GyWRJ.html
08-11-2020||City||Cops bust gang involved in 19 daytime burglaries; one held||The city police on Saturday night arrested one member of a gang for its alleged involvement in at least 19 daytime burglaries in six residential areas across the city over the last six months, said the police. The gang used to target only locked houses in areas such as sectors 5, 14, 53, 54, 56, 57, Sushant Lok-1 and Palam Vihar, said Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime). “The gang members had a common mode of operation. They used to target locked houses and ring the doorbell at least thrice. If no one answered within 10 minutes, they used to break the lock and ransack the house,” he said. The police said more than 50 theft cases were reported in the month of October alone from across the city. Sangwan said after the lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19 was announced, many families had left the city between March and April and returned after a gap of three months. He said they received calls from these areas, informing the police that their houses were targeted and cash and valuables were missing. In many cases, the burglars had even taken away television sets and groceries. The suspect has been identified as Suresh Singh alias Sonu of Chawla in Delhi. As per the police, he has revealed the names of three of his close aides, although the police are yet to arrest them. The gang members became operational six years ago and, since then, have been allegedly involved in more than 100 cases of burglary across the city. The police are working to identify more cases the gang members might have been involved in. They recovered CCTV footage from different areas and formed teams to look for the suspects. The footage gave the police leads on the location where the suspects were seen scouting repeatedly. The police said Singh is a history-sheeter who served time in Bhondsi, Tihar, Faridabad and Uttar Pradesh jails over the last six years. He along with his gang members would usually steal items such as cash, jewellery and laptops, which are usually easier to carry in bags. However, due to lockdown, they picked up whatever they could find, sometimes even things from the kitchen, said the police, adding that they would spend ample time in a house or apartment without any fear. “During questioning, he revealed they carried out burglaries in locked houses as they were aware people had left for their home towns and would not return anytime soon,” Sangwan said. The police said FIRs against them have been registered under sections 380 (theft in dwelling house), 454 (house trespass) and 457 (house trespass in night) of the Indian Penal Code(IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cops-bust-gang-involved-in-19-daytime-burglaries-one-held/story-K5riknU048Ee23q5LuepLP.html
08-11-2020||Gurugram||Faridabad Police saves three men from kidnappers; two held||Faridabad Police on Saturday arrested two history-sheeters after a two-hour-long car chase, while trying to save three men whom the suspects had kidnapped. Two of the associates of the suspects, who were also inside the car, managed to escape arrest, said the police. According to the police, they received a call from an advocate at the police control room, informing that four men have kidnapped two traders from the sabji mandi area in Dabua. He shared the car’s registration number and told the police that the kidnappers have headed towards the forest area. The police said that they later found out that the kidnappers had also arrested a third person from Faridabad, who was also present inside the car. Anil Yadav, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that they immediately formed teams and sent crime investigation agency of Sector 48 in three directions. “The crime units took out the details of the car owner and set the number on surveillance. The mobile location was traced to village Bhakri in Faridabad, which is close to the forest area on Faridabad-Gurugram Road,” he said. One of the crime units located the car of the kidnappers, a Maruti Swift, and tried to intercept it. However, when the car did not stop, the police rammed their vehicle into the car and forced it to stop. The police said they rescued three men, two of whom are traders dealing in paneer (cottage cheese) and have shops in the sabji mandi. They used to deal in cash regularly and are in their early twenties, said the police, adding that the other victim, was a manager at a crusher zone. Although the victims knew the kidnappers separately, they, however, did not know one another, said the police. Yadav said the two of suspects who were arrested have been identified as Karan and Lokesh of Faridabad. The police have recovered three countrymade pistols, eight live cartridges, one iron rod and a swift car from their possession. Two of their associates, Kuldeep and Sehdev, had fled the spot before police could arrest them. A case under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 148 (Rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly), 364A (kidnapping for ransom), 506 (criminal intimidation), 342 (wrongful confinement), 365 (kidnapping), 379 B (snatching) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections 25-54 of Arms Act was filed at Dabua police station During investigation, it was revealed that on Saturday, at around 1.30am, when one of the victims, Sunny Kumar, who works in a crusher zone as a manager, was busy with his work, the suspects asked him to board their car and took him from towards the forest area near Pali village. Two of them took him at gunpoint and three of them thrashed him and threatened him for life, said the police. ACP Yadav said that they took Kumar to the forest area and tied him with a rope to a tree and stuffed cloth in his mouth. Later, they left him alone in forest area and asked him to think about how he can arrange money for his release. The two other victims narrated their ordeal to the police. One of the two victims, Pradeep Kumar, was repairing his motorbike on Saturday morning around 11am when the four suspects came and forced him into the Swift car. When his friend Hariom objected, they also kidnapped him at gunpoint and took both of them to the same place where the suspects had kept the other victim. They assaulted with him sticks and iron rods and asked them to arrange ₹50,000 for release. Kumar said the suspects assaulted them and threatened them not to make noise. He said they were shocked to see another man tied with a rope. The suspects then asked all three to board the car. As they were being taken to another location, the police spotted the car and rescued them. The rescue operation went on for almost two hours, said the police. Three of the victims were admitted to a private hospital for treatment as they had suffered physical injuries from the assault. Yadav said these suspects are all history-sheeters and have been jailed several times for kidnapping, attempt to murder, theft and forgery cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/faridabad-police-saves-three-men-from-kidnappers-two-held/story-Qa4jreTmnvpHOIW8HNYM1N.html
08-11-2020||Gurugram||Fire department prepares for Diwali||Despite the Haryana government allowing a two-hour window period for the sale and burning of firecrackers, the Gurugram fire department said it will continue to be on high alert this Diwali like all other previous years. On Sunday evening, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had allowed the bursting and sale of firecrackers for two hours on the day of Diwali. The fire department said it has cancelled all leaves of firemen till November 16 and directed them to work on a 12-hour shift instead of the usual eight-hour shift to ensure the maximum presence of staff for any possible fire mishaps.“Leaves of all 200 firemen have been cancelled till next Monday. In addition, nearly 200 firemen will be working on Diwali in two batches of 12-hour shifts. The staff usually works in three eight-hour shifts. However, realising that the chances of fire incidents are the highest on Diwali, we wanted the maximum manpower available. Hence the staff have been directed to work for an additional four hours,” said Satyawan Samriwal, assistant divisional fire officer (ADFO).At least 20 fire incidents were reported across the city on October 27, Diwali last year. However, no injuries were reported.In 2018, 28 incidents of fire were reported, which resulted in at least six people suffering burn injuries on Diwali, November 7. In 2017, 13 incidents of fire were reported on Diwali, October 19, although no injuries where reported. “Although there is only a two-hour window for bursting of firecrackers this year, there remains a possibility that people may have purchased firecrackers in bulk beforehand or have stock from previous years. They may even have purchased them illegally. In addition, fires from diyas (lamps) is also a common occurrence during Diwali. Hence, we are undertaking all possible measures as usual,” said Samriwal.On Friday, the Haryana government had banned the sale of all firecrackers in the state, citing high levels of air pollution and the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Later, on Saturday, the government had allowed use of firecrackers for two hours In both 2019 and 2018, sale and bursting of only green firecrackers were allowed in Gurugram.Samriwal further said that all 25 fire tenders and seven fire bikes would be strategically placed across the city on Diwali to ensure that the response time in the event of a fire is minimal.“In areas such as Sadar Bazaar, where the streets are narrow, the time taken for fire tenders to reach the spot is usually higher. Hence, we will position at least two fire bikes there along with two more fire tenders to ensure that the response time is kept to a minimum. We are working on finalising more such areas across the city, where tenders and fire bikes need to be strategically located,” said Samriwal.Samriwal further said that he, along with fire department officials, visited warehouses in Chandu Budhera, Farrukhnagar, and Sultanpur Road on Sunday to check if sale or purchase of firecrackers were being conducted illegally. However, the fire department did not find any such violations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/fire-department-prepares-for-diwali/story-K3g5gqwMLGD6TCEsGcdotM.html
08-11-2020||Gurugram||City air still ‘severe’; no improvement till next week||The air quality in the city remained in the “severe” category for the second consecutive day on Sunday with a reading of 434 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) air quality index (AQI) bulletin. Saturday’s reading is only a few points below the previous day’s AQI reading of 439, also in the “severe” category. An AQI reading between 401 and 500 is categorised as “severe” and can cause distress and respiratory complications, especially for children and senior citizens, as per air quality experts. The average daily concentration of particulate matter (PM) 2.5 — the city’s most prominent pollutant — on Sunday was 436.95µg/m³, as per the HSPCB’s official air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan. Officials and experts attributed the spike in pollution to poor dispersion of pollutants and farm fires. According to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the air quality is likely to remain in the “severe” to “very poor” categories on Monday. Air quality is expected to persist in the same category on Tuesday as well. As per the warning system, a high count of farm fires was adversely affecting the air quality in Delhi-NCR. Further, average wind speed less than 10 kmph was not favourable for the dispersion of pollutants. Calm winds with speed up to 5-8kmph are expected to prevail on Monday. Experts said that due to the prevalence of slow wind speed, a significant improvement in air quality was not on the cards. Navdeep Dahiya, a Rohtak-based meteorologist, said that due to the prevalence of calm winds along with other factors, pollutants couldn’t be dispersed. “The wind speed didn’t pick up significantly due to which there was no significant impact on the AQI. High-speed winds are needed for the dispersal of pollutants due to the layer of fog that has enveloped,” said Dahiya. He said that continuing stubble burning, along with temperature inversion, was also contributing to the high pollution levels.Dahiya said that no significant improvement in air quality was expected until Diwali. “There is stability in the atmosphere. There is no immediate western disturbance or weather system that might help in the improvement,” he said. On Sunday, the city recorded a minimum temperature of 13 degrees Celsius, three degrees below the normal. The maximum temperature on Sunday was recorded at 27.5 degrees Celsius, two degrees below Saturday’s 29.9 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature is expected to hover around 13 degrees Celsius on Monday while the maximum temperature is expected to be around 29 degrees Celsius. Clear skies are expected to prevail this week with fog and mist in the morning hours, as per the IMD’s weekly forecast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/city-air-still-severe-no-improvement-till-next-week/story-mP11WCt35HfSjE61ZYb5TI.html
08-11-2020||Gurugram||HC orders stay on all HSVP auctions||In a major setback to the monetization efforts of Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), the Punjab and Haryana high court has ordered a stay on sale and e-auction of property sites, after an applicant approached the court and submitted that applications of several allottees were pending, while the authority was selling plots regularly. A bench of Punjab and Haryana high court, hearing a petition on November 3, directed the HSVP not to take up auction of any site, until they dispose of all the applications that have been pending for years, for allotment of plots at alternate sites due to issues with original allotment. The court, in its directions, observed that the order was passed to ensure that the officials of HSVP do not dispose of all the available sites and thereafter, give an excuse to the petitioner herein and other similarly placed persons, that all the sites are already allotted and therefore, there is no site available for allotment in their favour. Vivek Kalia, estate officer, Gurugram confirmed the development and said that they have put on hold all auctions that were planned. “The high court has put a hold on auctions till further orders,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/hc-orders-stay-on-all-hsvp-auctions/story-iFzA7IYq8fFoIc3iwVyGUM.html
08-11-2020||Gurugram||Admissions for vacant UG seats reopened till November 13||The state higher education department has once again opened the centralised admission portal for fresh registrations in undergraduate courses, to fill up vacant seats across colleges. In a directive shared with principals of government colleges and universities on Saturday, the department of higher education said that the centralised admission portal for new registrations and editing of forms will stay open till November 13. Besides new admissions, students will also be able to update their course subject choices. The directive, issued by Hemant Verma, deputy director (coordination), higher education department, said that admission of students against vacant seats will take place without any late fee. In case of colleges having vacant seats other than reserved seats, the seats may be converted into open category for admission. Admission against vacant seats will take place from Monday till November 14 through physical counselling. Further, colleges have been directed to refund the admission fee of students who might have cancelled admissions. Alka Gulati, nodal officer for admissions at Dronacharya Government College, said that the admission portal had been opened again to accept admission forms for vacant seats. “Many colleges have vacant seats that need to be accounted for. In our college, some seats remain vacant across different courses. Colleges had also been receiving requests from those who missed the process earlier. Students who couldn’t apply earlier can do so now,” said Gulati. Dr Satyamanyu Yadav, principal of Government College in Sector 9, said that the window had been reopened again since many students had not been able to apply earlier, due to pending exams and results in their colleges. “The new registration will take place online followed by physical counselling for students who wish to get admission. The process should get over by November 14 after which classes can be resumed,” said Yadav. He said that with all formalities expected to get over by mid-November, colleges would start for regular sessions from November 16. Online classes are already taking place in colleges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/admissions-for-vacant-ug-seats-reopened-till-november-13/story-sOtMjK8KHQ6VwZHqj0ZTqO.html
08-11-2020||Gurugram||H-Rera creates mediation forum for faster resolution of real estate disputes||The Haryana-Real Estate Regulatory Authority (H-Rera), Gurugram, has established a mediation forum for the amicable resolution of disputes between real estate developers and homebuyers. The authority said that alternate dispute resolution (ADR) mechanisms like arbitration, mediation, and conciliation are much more private, economical and time-saving than litigation. As such, the regulatory authority felt the need to promote such mechanisms in the real estate sector, which has seen a huge pendency of cases due to homebuyers approaching the authority for grievance redressal. An official spokesperson of H-Rera said that over the years, the authority has brought to the forefront a multitude of cases relating to homebuyer’s dissatisfaction in dealing with real estate developers and service providers.“H-Rera, Gurugram, has therefore decided to adopt mediation as an ADR mechanism for dispute resolution in real estate matters and has set up a fully dedicated mediation centre/forum for the same”, the spokesperson said, adding that the mediation forum will provide the parties with an option to have a settlement outside the formal proceedings of authority.The authority has constituted a panel of mediators, equipped with the requisite skills to mediate in real estate disputes. There shall be two types of cases that shall fall under the ambit of mediation forum: Firstly applications made for mediation at pre-filing of formal complaint stage that shall be taken up by grievance redressal cell and the chief public relations officer of H-Rera, Gurugram, Dr. Deepa Malik on an individual basis. The second type of cases are the complaints referred by the authority to the district and session judge and adjudicating officer of H-Rera, S.C. Goel (retd), relating to the provisions of Section 89 of CPC. The spokesperson said that in case the authority is convinced that a particular complaint case can be resolved through mediation then such references can be made by the authority even without the consent of the parties. The cases to be heard by adjudicating officer shall be taken up bulk, which means that 15 to 20 cases per day shall be received, he said, adding that such complaints which are already pending before the authority may be referred to the panel of mediators headed by the adjudicating officer at any stage and at any time during the proceedings of the court. To start with, 310 complaints against one developer that are pending before the authority have been referred for mediation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/h-rera-creates-mediation-forum-for-faster-resolution-of-real-estate-disputes/story-YG2ugp6HUGRYsUFi1B3WAM.html
08-11-2020||Gurugram||Residents oppose smart meters||Around 700 residents, representing residents’ welfare associations from across the city, convened in Bajghera on Sunday morning in protest of the installation of smart meters. The group, under the aegis of Jan Adhikar Sanghathan, decided to launch a public movement against the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam’s (DHBVN) move to install smart meters.Residents, mostly from Palam Vihar, New Palam Vihar, Bajghera, Sai Kunj and adjoining colonies, alleged that the smart meters are inaccurate and that they are getting inflated bills. Members of the group said they will submit memorandums and hold protests, failing which they would refuse to pay the bills if the smart meters are not removed.Bir Singh ‘Beeru Sarpanch’, who heads the recently formed Jan Adhikar Sanghathan, said, “Smart meters or any other tax is imposed in Gurugram because people are vulnerable and not united, but we will oppose this move. We will submit memorandums, hold protests and finally refuse to pay the bills if the government doesn’t listen to us.”Rakesh Rana, president of Sai Kunj RWA, said that they have repeatedly raised the issue with authorities, but to no avail. “These smart meters run fast and produce inflated bills, which have hurt the common man badly,” said Rana.Residents also demanded that the government waive off three months of electricity charges, for the lockdown period, on the lines of subsidies issued to power companies.Col (retd) Ved Prakash, a resident of New Palam Vihar, said that he has got a bill of Rs 64,000 this October, in comparison to a bill of Rs 5,000 for the same period last year. “These meters will destroy the lives of common man,” he said.Kuldip Dahiya, a resident of Palam Vihar, said he has received a bill of Rs 83,000 for a period of two months. “I am not alone. Many are suffering due to smart meters and we will oppose this move of the government strongly,” he said.Singh alleged that the elected representatives of Gurugram always stood with the government and do not take up issues being faced by people. “We will fight ourselves,” he said, adding that a memorandum will be given to the deputy commissioner on Tuesday in this matter.The DHBVN, however, maintained that smart meters are accurate and sensitive, and had been tested rigorously. “These meters are tested and are very accurate. There is no chance of fast reading but if consumers still feel that there is some issue, then they can submit a representation and these can be tested,” said Kulvinder Singh, assistant engineer, Smart Grid project.The DHBVN till date has installed one lakh smart meters across the city under this project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/residents-oppose-smart-meters/story-SRp4M4kWJLyPCt84sQBvQM.html
08-11-2020||City||Yet another peak in daily Covid infections||The district on Sunday reported 964 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), marking the highest single-day spike in cases since the outbreak began in March. The record high comes just two days after the district recorded 704 new cases on November 6, which was then the highest spike reported in Gurugram. From 30,527 reported infections a week ago, the total tally of Covid-19 cases in Gurugram is now inching towards the 35,000 mark, with 34,742 infections reported at present.Over the last week, 4,215 new infections were reported, which was significantly higher than the 2,566 infections reported the week prior. Also, this is the highest weekly aggregate in over at least the past six weeks.Health department data also shows that the test positivity rate (TPR) over the past week has consistently been trending upward, from 10.7% on October 26 to 21% on November 1, and to 24% on November 8. There has also been an increase, over the past week, in the actual number of daily tests, with the district having tested 4,008 people on Sunday.Official and experts both expressed caution over the steady increase in positivity rate. “There is definitely some cause for concern, because when the TPR goes up consistently, it indicates that the transmission of the virus among the general population has been accelerating. This was to be expected, since we are moving into the winter season, and lower temperatures enable quicker transmission of infectious respiratory diseases. And since we are also heading into the festive season, public movement has also increased,” said Dr Rajesh Kumar, epidemiologist and former head of the department of community medicine at PGIMER, Chandigarh.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, said, “Falling temperatures, increasing social engagements and a laxity in social distancing are responsible for the spike in new cases. People are not complying with basic hand and mask hygiene guidelines. We are also continuing to see this trend of whole families testing positive, which we started observing in September, because multiple members of a single household are venturing out freely. I strongly advise that people should curb going outdoors unless absolutely necessary.”The district at present has 5,183 active cases of Covid-19, up from 3,707 cases a week ago. This is also the highest number of active cases since the beginning of the outbreak. Of these, 309 are presently hospitalised (up from 214 a week ago), while 4,865 patients are under home isolation (up from 3,486 patients a week ago). Another nine patients (up from seven a week ago) are under observation at district Covid care centres.The daily growth rate of cases, from being a little over 1% in early October, currently stands at 2.8% (from about 1.7% a week ago). The growth rate has also been trending upward for the past two weeks, health department data shows. This has resulted in a shrinking of the doubling rate of cases, which stands at 55 days (as opposed to 65 days a week ago).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/yet-another-peak-in-daily-covid-infections/story-8GDhqMyxhByeSw3JHwDAcP.html
08-11-2020||Gurugram||Over 60% of ICU beds occupied, but officials prepared to meet any spike||With cases of Covid-19 steadily rising in the district, 60% of all Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds in the district are currently occupied, as per data available with the district health department, up from about 40% a month ago. On the other hand, the data also shows that only 30% of general beds with oxygen facilities are occupied, which officials attribute to most active cases being asymptomatic or mild in nature, with patients opting for home isolation. Occupancy of ventilator beds also remains low, with only a third of them currently in use.Officials in the district administration and health department said they are keeping a close watch on the occupancy rates, in case infrastructure needs to be ramped up. However, they also emphasised that there is presently no reason to fear a shortage of beds in the near future, with about 40% of all hospitals beds reserved for Covid-19, up from about 35% in September.Vivek Kalia, estate officer, HSVP, and nodal authority for hospital bed management, said, “A large number for high occupancy rates of ICU beds is a spillover of patients from Delhi, UP and other states as well. In anticipation of a winter surge, an additional 5% of total beds was reserved for Covid about a month ago.”Of the 670 Covid-19 patients currently admitted to Gurugam hospitals, only 300 are city residents, while 144 are residents of Delhi. Of the latter, 72 are currently undergoing treatment at Medanta in Sector 38. Official data provided by the nodal officer for hospital bed management also shows 44 patients from Uttar Pradesh and another 49 from “other states” are undergoing treatment in city hospitals.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, said that spillovers from Delhi and other neighbouring regions had been anticipated. “There is no cause for alarm because so far, we are able to absorb this spillover. Majority of active cases are asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic, and are able to get by in home isolation. In certain hospitals, availability of beds is an issue, but there are plenty of beds available in other private and government facilities. There are no restrictions on admitting patients coming from elsewhere,” Yadav said.There is a total of 1,975 beds in the city reserved for Covid-19 treatment (up from 1,740 beds in late September), across 42 dedicated Covid-19 hospitals and healthcare centres. These include 1,715 general beds with oxygen facility and another 260 ICU beds (which include 122 ventilator beds). While 594 general beds are presently occupied, 160 ICU beds are currently in use (including 45 patients on ventilator support). Officials added that ventilator bed occupancy, in absolute numbers, has remained stable over the last two months.“There are at least 328 ventilators available across the district’s Covid-19 hospitals. We can always allocate more for Covid-19 treatment if need be. The capacity can be created,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO), Gurugram, adding that the health department’s goal is to hospitalise less than 10% of the active cases.At present, only 5% of the cases originating in Gurugram are hospitalised. According to a state government order, a maximum of 60% of beds can be reserved in private hospitals. “Any shortfall can be met,” Yadav added.A spokesperson with a major private hospital in the city, who did not wish to be identified, said that a significant majority of patients from Delhi are elderly persons with comorbidities like diabetes, hypertension and past cardiac events. “They typically opt for one of three major multi-speciality hospitals in Gurugram which offer treatment for Covid-19, but are also equipped to deal with any complications arising from these specific comorbidities. Many happen to be residents of south and west Delhi, since Gurugram is easily accessible from there. Many asymptomatic patients in Delhi are also availing of home isolation care, and telemedicine services from Gururgam hospitals,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/over-60-of-icu-beds-occupied-but-officials-prepared-to-meet-any-spike/story-8Ma9jKvdQgq7mYwMebX3OP.html
08-11-2020||Gurugram||Inflated electricity bills add to woes of Gurugram residents||Residents across the city are complaining of inflated electricity bills this year, with many having received more than double the amount they had paid for the corresponding period last year.Consumers allege that the problem has intensified since the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) started issuing bills based on average consumption, following the installation of smart meters. They alleged that the slow dispute resolution system of the power corporation has left them in the lurch.Naren Kaimal, a resident of The Palms condominium in South City-1, said he has received a bill for Rs 38,000, based on average consumption, for a four-month period from July to October. “The reading was taken after 122 days and the bill has been computed at the rate of the highest slab. What if my consumption was less than 800 units in two months? The method of averaging the bills is wrong and if the utility has installed smart meters, then it should be able to extract data on the last day of every month,” said Kaimal, who has made the payment to avoid action.What has irked consumers like Kaimal, even more, is that the DHBVN’s complaint centre closes the complaint without giving consumers a chance to state their side of the case.Shakti Singh, the president of Housing Board Colony in Sector 57, which is a colony for below poverty line (BPL) category, said that to get a resolution of their complaints, residents have to take a photo of the electric meter, meet the lineman for verification and then meet the junior engineer, who is mostly unavailable. “Once the faulty bills get verified, then we have to wait in a queue for days to get the problem resolved,” said Singh.Residents started living in this colony from November 2019 and the problem of inflated electricity bills has caused problems since then. “A resident got a bill of Rs 94,000 and he has been running pillar to post to get this rectified. Officials never turn up to take the reading and the bills are based on assumption alone,” said Singh.Sachin Yadav, executive engineer, DHBVN said that the issues of wrong billing should not arise as smart meters automatically take the reading. “If the consumers have a problem, then they should submit a representation and we will get the meter tested. If the problems are genuine, then these would be resolved,” he said.When asked about the matter, Haryana power minister Ranjit Singh Chautala said that the issue has come to his notice and it would be resolved on priority. “Necessary directions to resolve these problems will be issued to the officials concerned. The matters pertaining to consumers must be taken very seriously by the utility,” said Chautala.While the residents of a majority of colonies complain of inflated bills, residents of Sector 55 are worried because they are being issued bills on a pro-rata basis, as electricity meter readings are not being taken monthly. “Since December last year, we are getting bills on a pro-rata basis of small amounts, whereas the consumption is higher. The majority of the sector residents are apprehensive that the DHBVN will wake up from its slumber suddenly and issue bills based on average, calculated in the highest slab, amounting to lakhs of rupees. How will we pay such a bill at that time in five days or a week?” said Sidharth Gupta, who stays in Sector 55, and has been paying around Rs 8,000 to Rs 9,000 per month for electricity use.Residents of Sushant Lok, Sector 14, Palam Vihar and several other areas raised similar concerns. HS Nanda, former president, Sector 14 RWA, said that after activation of smart meters two months earlier, half of the sector residents had received inflated bills in September. “I don’t know whether the meters are faulty or calculation is wrong, but charges have doubled compared to last year or a few months earlier. We have raised the matter with authorities concerned,” said Nanda.Residents of Palam Vihar also said that they will be meeting the DHBVN chief engineer to apprise him of their problems. “The power utility should realise that people don’t have unlimited money. Billing should take place on the basis of usage and if electricity meters are smart, then monthly consumption should be charged and not averaged over months,” said Pawan Bhojwani, a resident of Block A.Bhim Singh Yadav, the president of Palam Vihar RWA Block A, said that around 10 homeowners, whom he personally knows, are receiving inflated bills. “We will raise the matter with authorities,” he said.Earlier in July also, HT had reported about complaints raised by residents regarding inflated bills, calculation on average basis and delay in issuance of bills. Residents of Sushant Lok, sectors 46, 47, 56 and 57, and South City-1 had raised similar concerns.Officials of the DHBVN maintained that smart meters are accurate and tested at different labs for accuracy. They also said that the issue of bills being calculated on average could be due to the Covid-19 pandemic disrupting regular meter readings. “The smart meters are accurate and these are tested. We have installed around 1 lakh (100,000) such meters and it is unlikely that there could be any lacunae in reading made by them. Even then if the consumers have specific complaints, they can write to DHBVN and these can be tested in a laboratory,” said Kulvinder Singh, assistant engineer, Smart Grid project, Gurugram.Singh also said that there was a perception among residents that the smart meters clock units at a faster pace. “There is no doubt these meters are sensitive and calculate actual usage,” he said.Vineeta Singh, chief engineer, Smart Grid project, said that the issue of faulty billing was outside their domain. “We are working on installing the Smart Grid system in the city and around 30% has been completed,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/inflated-electricity-bills-add-to-woes-of-gurugram-residents/story-mDJKUTNusyATeQOS5VGYsK.html
08-11-2020||Chandigarh||Zirakpur policemen helped gangsters get fake passports||Two Zirakpur policemen who were arrested in a fake passport racket over the past week reportedly forged travel documents for five gangsters, including Raju, alias, Raju Basodi from Haryana, and more than 40 others with criminal links, investigations have revealed.What was initially thought to be a minor operation is now turning out to be a major criminal scam, say police officials interrogating head constable Sukhwant Singh and constable Rajinder Singh, both posted at Zirakpur and assigned passport verification duties.They were dismissed from service after their arrests through the last week.“The scam appears to be huge as they (the policemen) even made the passports of five gangsters and we have already arrested one in this regard. All 41 passports were made of persons with a criminal background,” said Satinder Singh, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Mohali. False name on passport“We have arrested one dreaded gangster of Haryana, Raju Basodi, whose passport was registered under the false name of Gurveer Singh. One passport was made for Ludhiana gangster Gopi Lamber and another for Ashish Kumar (under the name of Sandeep Singh of Kapurthala), who is facing a case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act,” said Manjit Singh, deputy superintendent of police (DSP), Mohali, on Sunday.Investigations were continuing to check how payments were made to the passport office and likelihood of passport officials being involved in the racket, the DSP added.Mastermind took Rs 30,000 for a passportAlso nabbed in the racket is Raman Kumar, a resident of Dera Bassi and the mastermind behind the operation. He used to charge Rs 30,000 for forging documents for the passports and pay Rs 15,000 to the policemen in question, investigators said. Using addresses of locked or abandoned flats, he forged documents, including Aadhaar cards, voter cards and other certificates for both Rajinder and Sukhwant.The fact that he used to be a property dealer before switching to passport services with an office in Ambala helped Raman, police officials said. Rajinder was the first to be arrested on November 3 for forging documents to make the passport of one Sarabjeet Singh, against whom several cases were already registered. This was followed by arrests of Sukhwant and Raman.Passports to be cancelledPolice will be writing to the passport office for cancellation of all fake passports and cases registered against people holding the documents.A case has already been registered against the two policemen and Raman Kumar under Sections 420, 421, 466, 467, 468, 471, 167 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code, Section 12 of the Passport Act and 7, 8, 13 (2) 88 the Prevention of Corruption Act at the Zirakpur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/zirakpur-policemen-helped-gangsters-get-fake-passports/story-6FzQc4qFPwlIbcjhBGlxZI.html
08-11-2020||Chandigarh||After a ‘complete ban’ Haryana govt allows bursting of crackers for two hours on Diwali||Two days after announcing a “complete ban” on the sale of firecrackers, the Haryana government on Sunday allowed bursting them for two hours on Diwali. This decision has been taken in view of the rising levels of pollution while adhering to the guidelines issued by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to decrease air pollution, according to a government release. The state government on Friday had said it has decided to put a “complete ban” on the sale of crackers in the state to check the coronavirus spread due to pollution caused by the bursting of crackers. Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday in Fatehabad said people will be permitted to burst firecrackers for only two hours on Diwali.Also Read | Air quality in 7 Haryana cities remains ‘severe’ It has been observed that there has been a spike in coronavirus infections due to air pollution, he said. In order to reduce pollution and prevent the spread of the infection, restrictions have been imposed on the sale and bursting of crackers, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/after-a-complete-ban-haryana-govt-allows-bursting-of-crackers-for-two-hours-on-diwali/story-mPtydSmBMKewnSkaLpIC0J.html
08-11-2020||City||Cable operator stabbed 17 times with sickle by friend in Nalla Sopara||A 50-year-old cable operator was stabbed to death by his friend at a banana orchard in Nallasopara on Saturday night during a heated argument while the two were consuming alcohol. On Saturday, the victim Sachin Naik and the accused Dilip Naik, 45, were drinking at the farm around 8.30 pm when a heated argument ensued. Dilip picked up a sickle lying nearby and stabbed Naik 17 times, puncturing his heart. This led to his death,” said Sanjay Kumar, deputy commissioner of police, Mira-Bhayander Vasai-Virar police commissionerate.When locals heard the victim’s shouts and came to Naik’s rescue, Dilip threatened to attack them with the sickle and continued to stab the victim, said Kumar. The accused then fled from the spot.“We have sent the body for post-mortem to a government hospital, and the report is awaited. We have registered a case of murder under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and have arrested Dilip. He has been remanded in police custody till November 13,” Kumar added.Police suspect the fight ensued over some personal enmity or business rivalry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cable-operator-stabbed-17-times-with-sickle-by-friend-in-nalla-sopara/story-eXrZoegxxKHbYdzKPrzylI.html
08-11-2020||Mumbai||Foreign national in Delhi arrested for duping Mumbai woman of ₹7.61 lakh||Sakinaka police on Friday arrested a Nigerian national from New Delhi for duping a 35-year-old woman from Mumbai to the tune of ₹7.61 lakh. The woman, who works in a private company, was asked to deposit the money to receive gifts worth lakhs which the accused had sent to her but were in Delhi airport customs’ custody in March. The arrested accused identified as Fulgence Kuoadia alias Christopher Wilmer, 33, is a resident of Puchnpur, Delhi. “Wilmer befriended her on Facebook and introduced himself as a businessman from England. He talked to her for two to three months and told her that he would send her gifts,” the police complaint read. Within a few days, the complainant received a call from a person who introduced himself as a customs officer from Delhi airport. He asked her to pay duty charges to get her parcel released. The accused by then convinced the woman to deposit over ₹7.61 lakh to various bank accounts.According to police, when the calls for payment did not stop, the woman realised that she had been cheated and approached Sakinaka police station to file a complaint. Following her complaint, police registered a case under sections 420 (cheating), and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections 66(C), 66 (D) of the Information Technology (IT) Act. “During the investigation, we came to know that the accused used three different numbers, six SIM cards, seven mobile phones and nine bank accounts so that their trap looked real,” said an officer from Sakinaka police station. “We tracked Kuoadi to Delhi after analysing the mobile numbers used for the scam. We dispatched a team to Delhi and on Friday evening we arrested him,” said the officer. Deputy commissioner of police Maheshwar Reddy supervised the team of senior inspector Kishor Sawant, assistant inspector Liladhar Patil and tracked the accused to Delhi. “We are investigating the case in detail and are looking for his accomplices. We have also asked people to come forward if they have been targeted by such people and to share information on those instances,” the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/foreign-national-in-delhi-arrested-for-duping-mumbai-woman-of-7-61-lakh/story-QCiq7VOp3Z4OBr1bytyENL.html
08-11-2020||Mumbai||At 35.8°Celsius, Sunday was hottest day of season in Mumbai so far||The city recorded its hottest day so far this season on Sunday. However, relief is expected later this week (Tuesday-Wednesday) as temperatures are expected to drop, the weather bureau said.The day temperature on Sunday shot up to 35.8 degrees Celsius, 2.4 degree Celsius above normal, at the Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai. The Colaba weather observatory, representative of south Mumbai, recorded the day temperature at 34.2 degrees Celsius, less than a degree Celsius above normal.The minimum temperature in both the suburbs and south Mumbai was a degree Celsius above normal at 23 and 25.4 degrees Celsius respectively.The weather bureau said the sea breeze set in late leading to hotter conditions on Sunday. “The city is witnessing easterly to northeasterly winds which are cooler during early hours of the day. However, due to clear skies allowing more heat intensity combined with the delayed setting in of sea breeze (westerly winds) on Sunday afternoon, a rise in temperature was observed,” said an official from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) adding, “The minimum and maximum temperature is expected to drop from Tuesday-Wednesday onwards due to cooler winds from the north.”The weather bureau has predicted a clear sky for Monday with the day and night temperatures expected at 35 and 22 degrees Celsius respectively.The air quality index (AQI) was 190 (moderate) for PM2.5-pollutant on Sunday and is predicted to be 180 (moderate) on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/at-35-8-celsius-sunday-was-hottest-day-of-season-in-mumbai-so-far/story-yJlNzCE4kakVlphRIyIoyI.html
08-11-2020||City||NMMC to seek MCZMA, Maharashtra forest department permissions to clean holding ponds in Navi Mumbai||Navi MumbaiNavi Mumbai municipal commissioner Abhijit Bangar inspected the holding ponds in the city on Sunday to explore ways to maintain their cleanliness. Holding ponds are vital for the city as they prevent it from being flooded in the monsoon. The commissioner has asked Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) officials to prepare proposals to the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) and the mangroves cell of the forest department, for requisite permissions with regards to silt removal and mangrove maintenance.Bangar, along with city engineer Surendra Patil, inspected the holding ponds at Sector 12 in CBD Belapur and the Sector 8 in Vashi.While developing the city, City and Industrial Development Corporation (Cidco) had constructed 11 holding ponds node wise, based on Dutch technology. , As the city is located below sea level, during high tide in the Vashi creek, water naturally flows into the holding ponds, preventing waterlogging in the nodes. They also help collect water from the nodes, that is then pumped backed into the creek.The civic body has been unable to take up the cleaning of these ponds due to growth of mangroves in the area. A host of public interest litigations (PILs) have been filed in the Bombay high court (HC) on the issue. HC has ordered a freeze on the destruction of mangroves in the state. Recently, HC has issued a notice to NMMC on the cleaning of the ponds, following a PIL filed by former corporator Dr Jayaji Nath. “NMMC needs to take serious and quick action in the matter. The situation is getting dangerous in the city. It can no longer shed its responsibility citing court orders,” said Nath.Lack of cleaning of the ponds over the years has led to accumulation of silt, reducing their water-holding capacity. During heavy rains coupled with high tide, there have been instances of some areas of the city getting flooded, with holding ponds overflowing.“I studied the issue in detail and have asked my officials to immediately prepare a proposal to remove the silt from the holding ponds to increase their water-holding capacity,” said Bangar.“I have also asked for a proposal to be prepared seeking solutions to the mangrove growth in the ponds from the MCZMA and the mangroves cell of the forest department,” the civic chief added.“During high tide, when it rains, additional water is pumped into the holding ponds. The pump house structures in CBD Belapur and Vashi are over 30 years old. I have asked for a tender process to be initiated for new state-of-the-art pump houses at both locations,” Bangar said.The NMMC chief has also asked for a proposal to be prepared for an express feeder so that no power failure issues are faced during pumping of additional water in monsoon. “Strict instructions have also been given to ensure that there is no encroachment at the pump house area,” he added.Social worker Nitin Kandhari said that the ponds are in desperate need of maintenance. “There has been no cleaning undertaken of the ponds, which receives silt and other waste from the creek, despite years having passed since they were handed over to NMMC by Cidco. This has resulted in natural growth of mangroves in the ponds,” he said. “However, since the issue of cleaning the mangroves is sub-judice in the HC, the matter has been stuck for years.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nmmc-to-seek-mczma-maharashtra-forest-department-permissions-to-clean-holding-ponds-in-navi-mumbai/story-cIKKV72Zmzwft5bvNia9qJ.html
08-11-2020||Chandigarh||Naib tehsildar, others, illegally changed ownership of 100 acres at Mohali village||A naib tehsildar in Zirakpur and other revenue officials illegally changed ownership of 100 acres out of 1,295 acres of village land, naming people who were not even residents of Seonk village in Mohali’s Majri block, interrogations have revealedThey then obtained general power of attorneys (GPAs) from these persons and sold the land at higher rates. The revelations come five days after the accused were arrested by the Vigilance Bureau (VB) on November 2 for illegally taking over shamlat land (belonging to the panchayat) at the village.VB had arrested Varinderpal Singh Dhoot, the then naib tehsildar of the Majri block, and other revenue officials, including kanungo Raghbir Singh, patwari Iqbal Singh and nambardar Gurnam Singh for fraudulently changing the ownership titles.The case dates back to 2017, when Dhoot was posted as the naib tehsildar in Majri. He allegedly in connivance with subordinate revenue officials and private individuals fraudulently sold off the 100 acres, leading to losses in crores to the government exchequer.People renamed as the owners were not even residents of the village, a senior VB official said, adding that they have not been traced as yet.Investigations were continuing on how the money from sale of land had been spent and resultant losses to the exchequer. “We are also looking into details of the properties and other financial transactions of the accused,” the official said. On Sunday, three deputy superintendents of police visited Seonk and recorded the statements of the original land owners as in some cases money was taken from them for the land, but possession not delivered.Probe also revealed that while the ownership of 1,295 acres of shamlat land was being fraudulently transferred, boundaries of approximately 100 acres were altered, depriving 24 beneficiaries of their shares, officials said.According to the FIR, the accused persons took undisclosed sums from people to get their names registered in the land records. In a statement to the VB, the block development and panchayat officer stated that according to the land records, the land in question from 1946 till 2000 was in the shamlat and not agricultural category and had no ownership.At present all the accused are in police custody and will be produced in the court on November 10. An FIR under Sections 409, 420, 465, 467, 471 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code and the Prevention of Corruption Act has been registered in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/naib-tehsildar-others-illegally-changed-ownership-of-100-acres-at-mohali-village/story-g0LdcOiGL8XCRDTbZyY0GJ.html
08-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn refuses to budge, firecracker ban to stay||Notwithstanding appeals by traders, the UT administration is unlikely to give a three-hour relaxation for sale and bursting of firecrackers on Diwali.“I am not in favour of the three-hour relaxation being demanded. The lives and health of senior citizens and patients are far more important than revelry of children,” said UT adviser Manoj Parida.The administration on November 6 had enforced an immediate ban on the sale and use of firecrackers under the Disaster Management Act until further notice. This had prompted traders’ associations to seek a three-hour relaxation on Diwali. They have also planned to approach the Punjab and Haryana high court.The Chandigarh Beopar Mandal on Sunday wrote a letter in this regard to UT administrator VP Singh Badnore.“The ban, enforced just a week before Diwali, will severely hit the traders, who have already purchased the stock. Worse, it came after the draw of lots to issue 96 permits for the sale of firecrackers in 14 locations,” said Charanjiv Singh, chairman, Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, adding that if at all, the administration should have taken a call to this effect at least a month before Diwali. “Authorities should review this decision and give a three-hour exemption, else it will ruin small traders and also dampen the festive spirit,” Singh said.Backing the traders, Aam Aadmi Party’s Chandigarh convener Prem Garg said, “Punjab has not banned the sale and use of firecrackers and Haryana has also given a two-hour relaxation. The Chandigarh administration should follow suit and allow firecrackers between 8pm and 10pm on Diwali. Let the show go on and allow the public to burn firecrackers only in a symbolic way to avoid pollution.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-refuses-to-budge-firecracker-ban-to-stay/story-mNbohEbA47Rg3ccPXaFQZN.html
08-11-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC House meeting: BJP councillors discuss agenda||A meeting of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) councillors was held on Sunday to discuss the agenda presented by Ludhiana mayor Balakar Singh Sandhu in connection with the meeting of the municipal corporation’s General House on Tuesday.President of the district unit of the BJP, Pushpinder Singhal, slammed the mayor for holding a meeting in the courtyards of his official residence near Rose Garden, especially amid the pandemic.He said that meeting was just eyewash as troubling issues such as 24x7 water supply projects and hike in sewerage and water bills cannot be discussed in just two hours.He said that the mayor should fix the functioning of the civic body instead of running away from his responsibilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-mc-house-meeting-bjp-councillors-discuss-agenda/story-SjqM48a5eBioS7a1n8IFcI.html
08-11-2020||Chandigarh||Industrialists in Ludhiana seek resumption of freight services||While railway authorities and farmers’ unions are locked in a bitter tug-of-war over movement of trains in the state, worried industrial associations have sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s intervention to end the deadlock so that business can be brought back on track.Badish Jindal, president of the All India Industries and Trade Forum, said: “It is shameful that the Union railway ministry has laid down the condition that freight trains will be allowed to ply only when farmers allow movement of passenger trains. It is a clear indication that the Centre is trying to pressurise farmers and the state government through the railways.” Jindal said thousands of containers are stranded at ports, goods have been dumped in warehouses and more than 80% exports have been cancelled. Similarly, three-lakh tonnes of scrap being exported into Punjab is also lying at ports.“Ludhiana is known for its hosiery industry. But, due to trains not plying and the anti-farmer and anti-industry policies of the Union government, most export orders have been cancelled. Due to coal crisis, power cuts have started affecting the functioning of industries. If the situation does not change soon, thousands of factories will be forced to shut down and millions will lose their jobs,” he added.“On the call of the industries and state government, farmers have given a clear and written statement that freight trains will not be stopped in the state. The Punjab government has also given written assurance of safety to the railway ministry. All Lok Sabha members from Punjab have also complained to the department and ministry concerned,” he added. The farm bills is a matter between farmers, the state and central government and industries have no relation with this subject, stressed Jindal.CICU demands bus serviceOn the other hand, president of the Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertaking (CICU), Upkar Singh Ahuja, suggested that the government should start a bus service for ferrying migrant labourers from their hometowns to industrial areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/industrialists-in-ludhiana-seek-resumption-of-freight-services/story-sAu0VqGYUDmX4sCgij9o1M.html
08-11-2020||City||Robbers that targeted people at night nabbed in Mohali||The Balongi police have arrested five men, who robbed commuters of cash and mobile phones at knifepoint at isolated locations in the night.The accused have been identified as Nikhil Kumar, Manoj Kumar, Sandeep Kumar, Rahul Kumar and Chandan Paswan, all residents of Kharar. Police have recovered three knives, a mobile phone, a motorcycle and an auto-rickshaw from them.The arrests came following a November 5 incident where the gang had robbed a group of friends of their mobile phones after beating them up, said deputy superintendent of police Rupinderdeep Kaur Sohi.“The victims, Ravi, Ajay, Neeraj and Bhagwant, residents of Ambedkar Colony, Balongi, were returning home after work when the gang members beat them up and snatched their mobile phones. They have confessed to this crime,” the DSP added.All accused were produced in a Kharar court from where they were sent to four-day police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/robbers-that-targeted-people-at-night-nabbed-in-mohali/story-sczvIs6qbX3LijeyXMRuxK.html
08-11-2020||City||Punjab Smart Connect Scheme: Over 14,148 Class 12 students in Ludhiana yet to receive smartphones||As many as 14,148 Class 12 students studying in government schools in the district are yet to receive smartphones under the Punjab Smart Connect Scheme announced by the chief minister on August 12.Captain Amarinder Singh had launched a statewide Rs 92 crore Punjab Smart Connect Scheme that aimed at providing more than 1.73 lakh smartphones to Class 12 students by November. The scheme was launched to bridge the digital gap so that all students could attend online classes amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Reasoning the delay, deputy state project director, Manoj Kumar, said, “I can’t share the schedule right now, but smartphones will be provided to the students very soon. Over 50,000 phones have already been distributed to students in the first batch and the remaining will be provided very soon.” The district received 2,529 mobile phones which had been distributed to students of 23 government senior secondary schools. There are a total of 188 government senior secondary schools in the district and the authorities received 100 phones in August which were given to 10 students of selected schools. Another 13 government schools received the smartphones in September which were handed over to the students.School heads have stated that students who do not have smartphones are facing difficulty in attending online classes. Requesting anonymity, a principal said, “We have a strength of 60 students in Class 12 and they are yet to receive the smartphones. As they are unable to attend online classes, they have to ask their classmates and friends about the topics covered in classes.”Government school teachers conducting online classes have said that over 20% of students are not attending classes regularly and facing difficulty as they do not have smartphones. Insufficient data package is another hurdle for them.Harpreet Kaur, a Class 12 student said, “I do not have a personal mobile phone. Due to the pandemic, my parents are not allowing me to attend school and teachers have already covered the syllabus and now tests are being conducted on a weekly basis. Due to the lack of a smartphone, I’m facing a problem to keep up with the syllabus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-smart-connect-scheme-over-14-148-class-12-students-in-ludhiana-yet-to-receive-smartphones/story-4kLLtua7yrlXOFIHFANQ6M.html
08-11-2020||City||Ludhiana: Man, aides pose as cops to rob commuters, held||A man and his two accomplices were arrested for posing as a police officer and robbing commuters of money, mobile phones, two-wheelers. Sadar Jagraon police have recovered four mobile phones, a motorcycle, a scooter, Rs 3,000 in cash, sharp-edged weapons, and fake police ID card from their possession.The accused have been identified as Charan Singh of Jainiyan Mohalla of Raikot and his accomplices Harvinder Singh alias Kalu of Kothey Khajura village and Hardeep Singh of Nawan Dalla village.Ludhiana (rural) senior superintendent of police (SSP) Charanjit Singh Sohal said that the Sadar Jagraon police have arrested the accused from Gagra village on Sunday following a tip-off.Charan Singh would target commuters in the name of checking and take their money and valuables. During questioning, the accused revealed that they are drug addicts and executed crime to meet their needs. The SSP added that the accused have executed snatchings in Mullanpur and Jagraon.A case under Sections 379-B, 379, 473, 419, 411 and 34 of the IPC has been lodged against the accused at Sadar police station of Jagraon.During the investigation, the police found that the accused had installed fake number plates on motorcycles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-man-aides-pose-as-cops-to-rob-commuters-held/story-AQXDBldUgtF7UE2in5MBKL.html
08-11-2020||City||Farmers force closure of Reliance stores in Ludhiana mall||Up in arms against the new central farm laws, farmers’ protest on Sunday led to the forced closure of six Reliance stores in a mall at Ludhiana-Ferozepur road near the octroi post. Protesters in the state have been targeting corporate houses in the past, accusing them of making inroads for the agriculture sector in connivance with the Union government.Farmers said they will continue protesting until the farm laws are revoked by the government. They said they won’t allow Reliance and Adani stores in other malls and markets to open from Monday.District president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU, Ekta) Ugrahan, Gurpreet Singh Noorpur said that at least 200 members of the association reached the mall and staged a peaceful protest. They held a meeting with the management of the mall and store owners and requested them to close down.Noorpur said that they have asked mall officials to give them in writing that they would not allow Reliance and Adani outlets in the mall to open till they continue protesting.General secretary of BKU Saudagar Singh Ghudani said that from Monday they will close down outlets of Reliance and Adani in other malls and markets as well.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, west) Gurpreet Singh said that even though farmer unions are protesting peacefully, a heavy police force was deputed at the mall to avoid any untoward incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-force-closure-of-reliance-stores-in-ludhiana-mall/story-6tHZUF1DU3C2sHpSmCAysI.html
08-11-2020||Chandigarh||109 new Covid cases in Chandigarh, two senior citizens dead||The city reported 109 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, crossing the 100 mark for the second time since Friday.On Friday, 133 cases had surfaced in Chandigarh, after nearly a month, followed by another 98 on Saturday.Sunday also recorded two Covid-19 deaths – both senior citizens, taking the toll to 234. Of the total 15,134 cases in the city now, 876 are still active, while 14,024 have been cured. Another 816 samples were collected from suspected patients in the past 24 hours.The latest fatalities include an 82-year-old man from Sector 49. He had diabetes and also suffered a heart attack. The other casualty was a 73-year-old woman from Sector 22. She was also diagnosed with severe acute respiratory illness, hypertension and chronic kidney disease.One death, 75 new cases in MohaliMohali’s death toll due to coronavirus rose to 246 with another fatality on Sunday. Also, 75 fresh cases were reported, bringing the case tally to 12,897. Among these, 53 were from Mohali (urban), eight from Lalru, seven from Dera Bassi, four from Dhakoli, two from Kurali and one from Kharar. As many as 61 patients recovered from the virus on Sunday, bringing down the number of active patients to 696, while total recoveries increased to 11,955. 66 test positive in PanchkulaPanchkula confirmed 66 new Covid cases, taking the total infections to 7,509. Majority of the new cases (53) were reported from Panchkula (urban) and the remaining from Pinjore, Nada Sahib, Morni, Mansa Devi Complex, Marranwala, Kot, Kalka, Hangola and Barwala.The district currently has 360 active cases with 7,032 patients already having recovered and 117 succumbing to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/109-new-covid-cases-in-chandigarh-two-senior-citizens-dead/story-8IP2X7m55D7tTC3trpWwvJ.html
08-11-2020||Lucknow||Fake tender scam accused nabbed at Jaipur airport while trying to flee country||Sunil Gurjar alias Monty Gurjar, a key accused in the animal husbandry department fake tender scam, was arrested by UP special task force from Jaipur airport on Saturday night, said STF’s officiating superintendent of police (SP) Vishal Vikram Singh.The SP said Sunil was arrested when he was trying to board a Dubai-bound flight to escape from India. He said Sunil had purchased a Rs 8 crore flat at Marina Beach, Dubai where he planned to stay after leaving the country. Singh said a look-out notice had been issued against Sunil, son of former MLA Ram Narain Gurjar from Nasirabad in Ajmer of Rajasthan, and added that Sunil’s name had also surfaced in the infamous Bhanwari Devi murder case of September 2011. Besides, a few other cases of fraud had been registered against him in the past, Singh added. Singh said Sunil carried a reward of Rs 50,000 on his arrest since June this year. He added that Sunil was wanted by the UP police as the key accused in connection with an alleged fraud of Rs 9.72 crore involving an Indore businessman.The alleged fraud was exposed by UP STF after the arrest of four people, including the main accused Ashish Rai, and senior journalist Anil Rai on June 14. Later, six more people were arrested. Sunil is the 11th accused to be arrested in the case, Singh said. Also Read: PM Narendra Modi to initiate projects worth Rs 614cr in VaranasiOn June 13, Indore businessman Manjeet Singh Bhatia had lodged an FIR with the Hazratganj police station in Lucknow against 12 persons and some other unidentified people, accusing them of duping him of Rs 9.72 crore by floating a fake tender in the name of the Uttar Pradesh animal husbandry department between March 2017 and 2018. Also Read: Sand mafia mows down UP cop, hunt on to nab the accused The fraudsters had allegedly earlier duped another businessman from Ahmedabad who they promised a contract for salt purchase in UP. Two IPS officers of deputy inspector general rank -- Arvind Sen and Dinesh Chandra Dubey -- are presently under suspension since September 9 for their alleged links with the fraudsters.Arvind Sen is also being investigated in the case since the Indore businessman had alleged that Sen had called him to his office at Vibhuti Khand, Lucknow when he was posted as SP CB-CID in 2019 and threatened him with dire consequences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/fake-tender-scam-accused-nabbed-at-jaipur-airport-while-trying-to-flee-country/story-kg2CXFeF8JQu44YFXU7aIJ.html
08-11-2020||City||Extortion racket targeting pvt bus operators in Mohali busted, two held||Police have arrested two men and booked three others for extorting money from private operators plying buses from Jagatpura in Mohali to Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. A .32-bore revolver, six live cartridges, Rs 10,000 in cash and a Hyundai i20 car have been recovered from the accused, identified as Mandeep Singh of Jagatpura village and Harpreet Singh of Kandala village, Sohana district. “The accused extorted Rs 10,000 per week from private bus operators and threatened to kill them if they didn’t pay up. They were produced in court and sent to two-day police remand,” said Harvinder Singh Virk, superintendent of police (SP), City.He said efforts were on to arrest their three accomplices, who along with the arrested duo had been booked under Sections 323, 384, 148, 149, 506, 364-A and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code at the Phase-11 police station.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Satinder Singh appealed to residents to conduct their business without any fear and notify the police if they were being harassed in any manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/extortion-racket-targeting-pvt-bus-operators-in-mohali-busted-two-held/story-O9a8m8rZkE0V3JDCwWErQJ.html
08-11-2020||Chandigarh||Helmetless Chandigarh man killed as bike skids in attempt to catch green signal||A 23-year-old man was killed and his two friends injured after their motorcycle skidded on the road in the attempt to catch the green signal near the Hallomajra light point on Saturday night.Police said the deceased, Vikesh, of Raipur Khurd village, was triple-riding the motorcycle with Ravinder Singh of Sector 17, Panchkula, and Neeraj, also of Raipur Khurd village. None of them was wearing a helmet.According to police, the motorcycle belonged to Neeraj, who had recently bought it, and the three friends were out to test ride it. While Neeraj had a learner’s licence, Vikesh was not carrying his driving licence.The latter’s father, Sunil Kumar, said Vikesh worked the night shift at a godown for an online retail company in Zirakpur. On Saturday night, he had left for work when he met his two friends.During the test ride, as the trio reached the Hallomajra light point, Vikesh sped up not to miss the green light and the motorcycle slipped.The injured were rushed to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, where Vikesh was declared dead.Neeraj broke his arm, while Ravinder sustained minor injuries. Police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedures at the Sector 31 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/helmetless-chandigarh-man-killed-as-bike-skids-in-attempt-to-catch-green-signal/story-EUR9H1lxiaQ7OvgzsQEOqI.html
08-11-2020||Chandigarh||Air quality in 7 Haryana cities remains ‘severe’||The air quality in seven cities of Haryana remained ‘severe’ while the AQI in nine cities was ‘very poor’ on Sunday, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).The air quality index (AQI) in three cities was recorded ‘poor’.According to the CPCB, the air quality in Gurugram, Faridabad, Dharuhera, Fatehabad, Jind, Kaithal and Panipat was ‘severe’ with AQI levels going past 400. AQI between 0 to 50 is considered good, 51 to 100 satisfactory, and 101 to 200 moderate. However, AQI between 201 to 300 is classified poor, 301 to 400 very poor and it crosses over to the severe zone at 401. The nine cities with ‘very poor’ AQI were Bahadurgarh, Ballabgarh, Hisar, Karnal, Kurukshetra, Manesar, Rohtak, Sonepat and Yamunanagar. Ambala, Bhiwani and Palwal recorded ‘poor’ AQI while the air quality of Panchkula was ‘moderate’. Sell, burst firecrackers for only two hours on Diwali: CM Two days after announcing a complete ban on the sale of firecrackers in the state, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday said the state government has now decided to “permit people to sell and burst firecrackers for only two hours on Diwali”.“The decision has been taken in view of the rising levels of pollution and adhering to the guidelines issued by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) regarding it,” an official spokesperson said, quoting Khattar, who was interacting with reporters in Daulatapur village of Fatehabad on Sunday. “The chief minister has said people can only burst crackers for two hours on Diwali in the state,” he said. Earlier on Friday, Khattar had announced a complete ban on the sale of firecrackers in the state to prevent air pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/air-quality-in-7-haryana-cities-remains-severe/story-4o1IIQuYNotdlCFtyNBNGO.html
08-11-2020||City||Contractor booked for causing death by negligence in Ludhiana||A labour contractor was booked on Saturday for causing death by negligence after a 27-year-old employee died while working at a construction site. The accused has been identified as Ankit Pathak. The victim has been identified as Rohit Kumar, a resident of Kohara. The FIR was lodged based on the statement of Sunita Sonkar, the victim’s wife. As per the complaint, the victim was working at a construction site on November 4 when Pathak told him to climb a ladder without following necessary safety measures. Then, he fell off and suffered a head injury. He was rushed to Christian Medical College and Hospital, where he succumbed on Saturday. Assistant sub-inspector Randhir Singh, who is investigating the case, said that a case has been registered under Section 304-A (causing death by negligence) of Indian Penal Code and a hunt is on for the arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/contractor-booked-for-causing-death-by-negligence-in-ludhiana/story-MiTAW7nRaXF23CoOczSAhL.html
08-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi government to share experience at Race to Zero Dialogues||The Delhi government has received invitation from non-profit body Climate Group to share its experience at the ‘Race to Zero Dialogues: Launching the global race to zero emission mobility’, according to an official statement.Vice chairperson of Dialogue and Development Commission, Delhi, Jasmine Shah will virtually represent the Delhi government at the event on November 11.He will participate in the session ‘Governments leading the way’ to share experiences on how governments can effectively lead the transition to zero emission vehicles.Delhi is among the four global cities chosen to share experiences in the session, the statement said.Read also: 3% increase in Covid-19 infections in Delhi due to air pollution; masks, air purifiers may not be enough: IMAIt’s a privilege for the Delhi government to be invited at the prestigious Race to Zero Dialogues to share its experiences and vision on transition to zero emission vehicles, Shah said.It is because of the “bold and ambitious vision” of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on pollution and specifically electric vehicles, that Delhi’s policy is being “hailed” as an example globally, he said.“We hope to collaborate, learn and inspire cities and regions across India and globally to adopt equally ambitious policies to reduce air pollution and take action on climate change.” Delhi’s leadership on climate action through its electric vehicle policy has been featured in a global guide ‘Regions Take Action: The Benefits of Major Climate Policies’ published by the Climate Group, added the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-government-to-share-experience-at-race-to-zero-dialogues/story-qJhYsHa6GVwB3hwpzK6I5M.html
08-11-2020||Chandigarh||Disease prevention in livestock is key: Ludhiana vet varsity experts||Veterinary experts from Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) have expressed concern over the lax attitude of livestock farmers on newly-born calves suffering from diseases.Parkash Singh Brar, director of extension education, GADVASU, said that calving season is on and most farmers don’t take proper care of newly-born calves, especially transitional animals. Therefore, two webinars on these topics were conducted for the benefit of dairy farmers this week. Vishal Mahajan, veterinary pathologist from Animal Disease Research Centre, spoke on important infectious diseases and vaccination schedule. Diseases like Hemorrhagic Septicemia (HS) can be fatal and affect both buffalo and cows, he said. He also highlighted the differences between the symptoms of HS and nitrate poisoning. Foot-and Mouth disease (FMD) is also a highly contagious virus disease that affects cloven-hoofed animals, Mahajan added.Other diseases like Johne’s disease and Brucellosis were also discussed. He emphasised on the need for biosecurity at farm sand timely vaccination. Animals should be healthy at the time of vaccination and there should atleast be a 21-day gap between two vaccinations, Mahajan said. He also cautioned farmers regarding hygiene protocols, particularly about used syringes. RS Grewal, senior nutritionist, Department of Animal Nutrition, discussed the importance of transitional period of animals, which is around three weeks before and after the calving, and nutrient requirements associated with it.He told farmers that the requirement of energy, protein, fat and calcium increases four,two,five and four times respectively during this critical period. Animals produce more milk, but due to lack of nutrients, they lose weight which is detrimental in its conception in the following lactations, he said. He discussed modified feeding strategies by incorporating calcium propionate propylene glycol in the ration.Grewal also emphasised on the importance of certain feed supplements, particularly niacin, biotin and choline chloride which increase the metabolism of the animal and help maintain production and health of the newly lactating animal.  Parkash Singh Brar, director of extension education, said: “An effective and efficient disease prevention and control strategy is of paramount importance to improve the quality and quantity of livestock production. Although livestock vaccination is considered an emerging innovation of socio-economic importance in dairy industry; the rate of adoption and diffusion of vaccination technology is very low at field levels.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/disease-prevention-in-livestock-is-key-ludhiana-vet-varsity-experts/story-yx7tMYczMLL95c9tcLalWN.html
08-11-2020||Kolkata||BJP, TMC extend helping hand to tribal family after Amit Shah visit||Days after Union Home Minister Amit Shah visited a tribal man’s residence for lunch in West Bengal’s Bankura district, both BJP and TMC leaders seemed to be making a beeline to the family’s modest household, promising financial and medical aid for his ailing daughter. BJP MP from Bankura Dr Subhas Sarkar visited Bibhishan Hansda’s household at Chaturdihi village earlier in the day, along with some of his party men, and said he would bear all treatment expenses of his teenaged daughter, who is suffering from a rare diabetic disorder.Sarkar also said the girl might be flown to AIIMS in Delhi, if need be.“She is suffering from diabetes insipidus, which starts early in life and needs continuous treatment. I will do everything possible to help her, as suggested by our home minister,” he stated.Read also: Day after Amit Shah’s visit to Bengal, TMC, BJP taunt each otherLocal TMC leaders had met Hansda on Saturday and promised all facilities to the class 12 girl, two days after Shah’s much-hyped visit to the household.“Amit Shah came, had lunch but did not offer any financial package or help to the family. The BJP will always provide lip service to the poor tribals,” Shyamal Santra, Bankura TMC chief, had said.He also advised the girl to take up a course in nursing later in life.Bankura, dominated by tribal and backward communities, is one of the several districts, where the BJP made deep inroads in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.It bagged both the parliamentary seats in Bankura.A district CPI(M) leader said the BJP and the TMC seem to have suddenly woken up to the plight of the family, with an eye on the tribal vote bank, ahead of 2021 assembly polls.The CPI(M) leader also said that he “would be happy if any of those promises are actually fulfilled”.BJP state general secretary Sayantan Basu had said on Saturday that the ruling party would reach out to more such families, only if Shah visits them.“It seems more such visits by the home minister is required to tribal, backward and poor households. The local Trinamool leadership stands exposed before the tribals in the Jangalmahal area, who have identified the BJP as their true friend,” he said.The TMC leaders, however, levelled counter allegations, claiming that the BJP is “indulging in cheap vote bank politics” by arranging such visits.Jangalmahal area, once a Maoist stronghold, comprises parts of Jhargram, Paschim Medinipur, Bankura and Purulia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bjp-tmc-extend-helping-hand-to-tribal-family-after-amit-shah-visit/story-oWgsQ9ekp6vFpZkKCAPl3M.html
08-11-2020||City||21-yr-old booked for raping aunt on the pretext of marriage||Police have booked a 21-year-old man for allegedly raping his aunt on the pretext of marriage.The complainant, 30, a resident of Prem Vihar of Tibba Road, said that the accused is her husband’s nephew and used to visit their house frequently. Overtime, she developed a friendship with him and eventually got into a relationship.When her husband found out about the affair, their relations soured and the couple started living separately. The accused, meanwhile, promised to marry the woman and established physical relations with her. But later, he backed out. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Varinderpal Singh, the investigating officer, said a case under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused. A hunt is on for the arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/21-yr-old-booked-for-raping-aunt-on-the-pretext-of-marriage/story-2F4CoIjo49Gt3gW4NupQKJ.html
08-11-2020||Mumbai||Bengaluru-bound Ethiopian aircraft with ‘hydraulic leakage’ makes emergency landing in Mumbai||The emergency landing of a freighter flight of Ethiopian Airlines after it developed a technical snag was successful, a spokesperson of the Mumbai International Airport Limited (MIAL) said. Three fire engines, one rescue van and other vehicles were deployed near the Mumbai airport runway after the Bengaluru-bound freighter flight ET690 had to make an emergency landing, the spokesperson added.Precautionary measures were taken after a request made to the Mumbai Fire Department from the Mumbai airport. An emergency was declared for freighter flight ET690 from Riyadh to Bengaluru and the aircraft was diverted to Mumbai due to a hydraulic leakage, the MIAL spokesperson said.More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bengaluru-bound-ethiopian-aircraft-with-hydraulic-leakage-makes-emergency-landing-in-mumbai/story-w4hIVavcwmi4YhkDYBMjdK.html
08-11-2020||Jaipur||Jaipur Municipal Corporation mayor elections: It’s a fight between Congress and BJP||The elections to choose mayors in Jaipur, the capital of Rajasthan, has come to an interesting turn. The candidates for Jaipur Municipal Corporation Heritage and Jaipur Municipal Corporation Greater are now clear from both the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Congress has fielded Munesh Gurjjar to stand against the BJP’s two-time councillor Kusum Yadav for JMC Heritage. For JMC Greater, the BJP has chosen Soumya Gurjar, the wife of former chairperson of Karauli Rajaram Gurjar. Her candidacy has also caused displeasure in the party.Rajaram Gurjar has more than 13 criminal cases filed against him and not only that, Soumya Gurjar was in the news for clicking a selfie with a rape victim as a member of the state women’s commission. She was criticised for the incident which led to her to resign from the post. Brother-in-law of BJP Senior MLA and former Vice President Bhairon Singh Shekhawat, Narpat Singh Rajvi was upset with the decision and the leaders of the organization. He feels the decisions in the organization are now taken at will sans any discussion. The controversial BJP figure will be contesting against Congress nominated the first-time councillor Divya Singh.The mayoral elections in Jaipur are scheduled to be held on Tuesday. The voting will begin from 10am and will last till 2pm after which counting will start and result will be declared. The day after mayoral elections i.e. November 11, elections for deputy mayor will be held. Nomination papers for deputy mayor will be filed from 10 am to 11 am and the documents will be checked at 11:30 am. If the nomination papers for deputy mayor elections turn out correct and without errors then voting will begin from 2:30 pm and continue till 5 pm. The votes will be counted soon after results will be declared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/jaipur-municipal-corporation-mayor-elections-it-s-a-fight-between-congress-and-bjp/story-E2RuTLRvdFxdakjIgV71NJ.html
08-11-2020||City||UP govt ‘misleading’ people on unemployment numbers: Akhilesh||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday accused the Uttar Pradesh government of presenting wrong figures to mislead people on the issue of employment.“There is unemployment and the youth are facing immense problems but the chief minister is presenting wrong figures to mislead the people,” he said in a statement. The former chief minister said all the schemes like MNREGS, Matikala along with others which the government was claiming to be creating job opportunities were in “deep trouble”. He claimed those associated with these schemes were facing problems in meeting their daily needs.“The government’s own vocational career service portal shows there has been a fall of 60 per cent in jobs in October 2020 as compared to September,” Akhilesh said. He alleged that during the rule of the BJP government in the state new jobs have not been created, and the existing factories closed down and employees were retrenched during the lockdown.“People are running around for jobs. The crowds of labourers seen every day in the mornings seeking jobs expose the reality of government claims,” he said, further claiming that the BJP government was harming the interests of all sections of society.The BJP will have to pay for the allegedly rising unemployment in the 2022 assembly elections, Akhilesh added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-govt-misleading-people-on-unemployment-numbers-akhilesh/story-W9Snvzqj0daJGXRI0UyPnI.html
08-11-2020||Mumbai||Uddhav Thackeray lauds people after dip in Covid-19 cases, stresses on vigilant festival celebrations||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday praised the people of the state after the recent decline in the number of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), saying the infections have fallen due to the “discipline and determination of people.”Thackeray, at the same time, warned that not wearing masks in public will attract fine and noted that “if one Covid-19 infected person doesn’t wear a mask, he can infect 400 people.” With 3,959 new Covid-19 cases and 150 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, total cases in Maharashtra stand at 1,714,273 with 99,151 active cases. The state’s death toll is at 45,155 so far.Following recent announcements by some states in the country to ban firecrackers ahead and on the festival of Diwali, Thackeray said that while no such contingency has been imposed in Maharashtra, people must not burst them in public places and practice restraint. “We can ban firecrackers but we can avoid bursting firecrackers through self-discipline,” he said while speaking to reporters. “Whatever we have achieved (in controlling Covid-19) will go away in four days due to pollution through crackers,” he added and also pointed out that Covid-19 cases have gone up in the national capital of Delhi due to pollution.Thackeray also urged the people of Mumbai to remain vigilant. He stressed that the 15 days that follow Diwali are most crucial in the state’s efforts against the coronavirus pandemic.Plans and guidelines to reopen temples and places of worship would be drafted after Diwali, Thackeray also said. In his response to criticisms over not reopening temples, he said that the people criticising him will not share responsibilities “if something happens.” He also added that it is his responsibility to tread cautiously regarding the issue. “I’m criticised for not stepping out of the house. But I’m at home and bringing investments to bring Maharashtra back on progress path,” he added.Talks to resume local train services are currently in progress, the chief minister said. He also acknowledged that railways minister Piyush Goyal has been cooperating with him regarding the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/uddhav-thackeray-lauds-people-after-dip-in-covid-19-cases-stresses-on-vigilant-festival-celebrations/story-yvTjI6l5LqsS54MBBl09TO.html
08-11-2020||City||2015 sacrilege cases: Centre wrote to state on transfer of probe to it in June 2019, Punjab tells HC||Chandigarh The Punjab government has told the Punjab and Haryana high court that in June 2019, the Centre had communicated to it about transferring the probe into 2015 sacrilege cases to the state police from the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). “.. as a matter of fact, a communication was addressed by the under secretary to the government of India, department of personnel and training, ministry of personnel, public grievances and pensions, on 28.06.2019, to chief secretary, government of Punjab, informing him that the matter was being taken up by the said ministry with the CBI itself, to transfer all evidence gathered by it to the Punjab Police, upon transfer of investigation to it (Punjab Police),” Punjab’s counsel, Harin P Rawal, told the bench of justice Amol Rattan Singh. He added this communication was marked to the CBI director as well. CBI counsel, on the other hand feigned ignorance about the communication and told court that he would check and apprise court on the adjourned date. The submissions were made during resumed hearing of pleas from Sukhjinder Singh, and Shakti Singh, two Dera Sacha Sauda followers, who had questioned how two agencies are probing the same FIRs in parallel. Two persons were killed in the violence reported after incidents of sacrilege in 2015. Three FIRs on incidents of sacrilege were recommended for a CBI probe in 2015, by then SAD government. Of these, the Captain Amarinder Singh government passed a resolution to withdraw two FIRs in August 2018. In the same resolution, it also withdrew two more FIRs related to violence, entrusted to the CBI, barely four days after the move. However, the CBI filed a closure report in July 2019 before a CBI court in Mohali; in December 2019, it reopened the probe in these FIRs, by then Punjab Police had started its probe. The parallel probes are underway by CBI and Punjab police into these FIRs as the CBI maintains that with there being no de-notification issued by the Centre, these FIRs are still to be probed by it. The court observed that in its opinion, as the Supreme Court has dismissed the CBI’s plea challenging high court order by which it had refused to interfere with the Punjab government decision to take back all sacrilege cases from the CBI, the high court ought to proceed further. However, the CBI told the court that a review petition has been filed by the agency against the January 25 order of the apex court; this plea is yet to be taken up. The court also observed that the counsel for the parties would address, also, as to how investigations by two agencies in the same FIR, can continue simultaneously, when case is taken up on November 19. Rawal also told the court that Sukhjinder had filed a transfer petition in apex court seeking transfer of the trial itself outside Punjab, and response from the state has been issued. However, the bench observed that since there is no ‘stay order’ it would continue with hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2015-sacrilege-cases-centre-wrote-to-state-on-transfer-of-probe-to-it-in-june-2019-punjab-tells-hc/story-4WXW9kxKLUPzs2QD8Ypl0K.html
08-11-2020||Lucknow||Sand mafia mows down UP cop, hunt on to nab the accused||A constable of UP police was allegedly crushed to death by those involved in illegal mining in Kheragarh area of Agra district early on Sunday, police said.  ”A constable Sonu Chaudhary, 25, was deployed at Saiyyan police station. Police got information about the movement of those involved in illegal mining of sand coming from Rajasthan and a police team subsequently began checking Kheragarh and Saiyyan road but could not find any of them,” said Rohan Pramod Botre, SP (city), Agra, who is officiating as SSP Agra since the incumbent is down with Covid-19.  ”The police, while returning from the search, found half-a-dozen tractors laden with mined sand. Constable Sonu Chaudhary got off the police vehicle and waved to one of the tractor drivers to stop. However, the tractor driver did not stop and crushed Chaudhary to death,” the SP city added. After committing the crime, the tractor driver fled the scene while firing in the air and leaving his vehicle behind.  ”We have registered a case of murder under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code against the unidentified accused and his aides and a search is on to trace and arrest them,” the officer said. The constable, who hailed from Jattari in Aligarh district, had joined the police force in 2018, said Botre, and added that the family of the deceased had been informed of the incident.Botre added that the sand mafia from Dholpur transports illegally mined sand from Chambal to Bharatpur and to some other parts of Uttar Pradesh. On a tip off, barricading was done by Saiyan and Kheragarh police station to nab them. Botre said an injured Chaudhary was rushed to a hospital in Agra, where doctors declared him dead. After the incident, the UP and Rajasthan police teams raided some parts of Dholpur districts to arrest the culprits involved. Also Read: Illegal construction thrives around upcoming Jewar airportEarlier, in September, the mafia tried to mow down the SHO of Rupwas police station, when he tried to stop the tractor trolleys carrying illegal sand. The unidentified miscreants had also opened fire on the SHO. Similarly, 27 loaded trucks carrying stones from illegal mines from Banshi Pahadpur under police station Rudawal were seized during a joint operation of police, forest and revenue department and administration on September 7. On September 3, the sand mafia attacked cops that were following them and opened fire on police at Uncha Nagla on Agra-Jaipur national highway-21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/sand-mafia-mows-down-up-cop-rams-through-police-barricade/story-4CcnZImZwbbq4kCnlYQ7WO.html
08-11-2020||Mumbai||9k Mumbai residents undergo free Covid test at BMC centres in 5 days||Around 9,000 Mumbaikars availed free coronavirus disease (Covid-19) tests at 244 locations set up by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in the past five days. The test results revealed that 375 people tested Covid-19 positive. BMC officials said that these facilities, which are conducting rapid antigen detection (RAD) tests, are receiving a good response from the public. The BMC has increased its daily Covid-19 test capacity to around 16,000. On November 1, the BMC had announced the start of 244 Covid-19 test centres across 24 wards in Mumbai. Any individual who develops symptoms of SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease, or has come in contact with a Covid-19 patient can undergo tests at these centres free of cost. Covid-19 symptoms include a fever, cough and cold, fever, difficulty in breathing and pneumonia. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, (AMC), who is in charge of health department in the BMC, said: “We have got a good response from the public. Each ward has a minimum of seven such centres. We will create more awareness about these facilities in a bid to help the public undergo Covid-19 tests free of cost.”The civic body has been conducting between 8,000 and 15,000 Covid-19 tests daily since September, of which up to 40% are RAD tests. The BMC has set a target of conducting 24,000 Covid-19 tests daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/9k-mumbai-residents-undergo-free-covid-test-at-bmc-centres-in-5-days/story-kAckgJaqBrxzegd8TYqUjJ.html
08-11-2020||Delhi||‘Worst wave of Covid-19 so far’: Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Sunday said the national capital has hit the peak of the third wave of Covid-19 and the number of cases suggests it has been the worst so far.The government has increased the number of beds for Covid-19 patients in hospitals in Delhi, but there is no plan to rope in hotels and banquet halls, the minister said.“The third wave of Covid-19 is at its peak in Delhi. The number of cases suggests it is the worst wave so far. But the cases will come down soon,” Jain said.The minister attributed the increase in the number of cases to aggressive testing and contact-tracing.He, however, said laxity on the part of the people has been a major reason behind the spike in new cases.“Some people think nothing will happen to them if they don’t wear a mask. They are wrong. Mask is the only medicine for Covid-19 till a vaccine is developed,” Jain added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/worst-wave-of-covid-19-so-far-delhi-health-minister-satyendar-jain/story-SxRCXmq78XrXGVKnIC8b1J.html
08-11-2020||Delhi||In Delhi, air still in severe category for 4th straight day||The air quality index (AQI) in the national capital on Sunday morning remained in the severe category for the fourth consecutive day, despite a marginal improvement.The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data showed that the AQI was 405 at 7 am on Sunday. An AQI between 401 and 500 is considered to be severe, which causes distress and respiratory complications, especially for children and senior citizens. On Thursday, Friday and Saturday, Delhi’s average 24-hour AQI stood at 450, 406 and 427, respectively. Scientists have predicted that the relief from bad air is unlikely till Tuesday (November 10). Over 4,500 farm fires that are raging in neighbouring Haryana and Punjab contributed to around 32% of ultrafine particulate matter (PM 2.5), which could not be dispersed, in Delhi’s air despite slightly better wind speed on Saturday, as compared to Friday. VK Soni, the head of India Meteorological Department (IMD) environment monitoring research centre, said that during the day the average wind speed was around 12 kilometres per hour (kmph), which was higher than that on Friday. However, its impact was not seen on the AQI because of an increase in stubble burning cases in Haryana and Punjab. He said that the north-westerly winds are bringing a heavy load of pollutants from these farm fires to the national capital. “For the last three days we have been observing that the number of farm fires spotted over Punjab alone is over 4,000. Usually, these fires go up on Sundays at this time of the year. Though the wind speed picked up during the day, the improvement in air quality was not all that significant only because of an uptick in farm fire cases,” Soni said. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that in parts of central Delhi the wind speed fluctuated between six and eight kmph on Saturday, but the corresponding figure was up to 16 kmph in outer parts of the national capital. “The wind is blowing from the north-western direction, which is bringing a large share of smoke from Haryana and Punjab,” he said.Srivastava said that there is a forecast of the wind direction changing to easterlies from Tuesday, but before that it will reduce drastically, possibly pushing the city’s air quality further into the “severe” zone. “During the transitional stage of a change in wind direction, the speed reduces drastically. The wind may become calm from Sunday evening. This will only lead to a further worsening of air quality,” he warned. IMD had predicted a foggy Sunday morning in the national capital. The maximum and minimum temperature is expected to be around 30 degrees and 11 degrees Celsius (C), respectively. On Saturday, Delhi’s minimum temperature, recorded at the Safdarjung observatory, was 11.8 degrees C – two degrees below normal. The maximum temperature was 30 degrees C – one degree above normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/in-delhi-air-still-in-severe-category-for-4th-straight-day/story-aJdV04OSsdAMj9kEFlesoI.html
08-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Fire in residential building in GK, 7 trapped on top floor rescued||A fire broke out in the basement of a four-storey residential building in south Delhi’s posh Greater Kailash- 1 late Saturday night. Firefighters reached the spot and rescued trapped residents from the top floor of the building.Atul Garg, director of Delhi Fire Services, said that at least seven residents were stranded on the top floor of the building as smoke rose from the basement and engulfed the entire structure.It wasn’t immediately clear how many residents were there in the building even as Garg said that a few on the lower floors had already managed to escape by the time the firefighters reached.“Since there was just one staircase in the building, the other residents had no escape route,” said Garg.The firefighters had to reach the trapped residents by using hydraulic lifts and by scaling the adjacent building.The call about the blaze was received around 11.15 pm on Saturday from a residential house located near the ICICI Bank branch in the neighbourhood.“We had to use seven fire tenders to contain the situation,” said Garg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-fire-in-residential-building-in-gk-7-trapped-on-top-floor-rescued/story-AmGzQpD1IiCgBYgEM7kquJ.html
08-11-2020||Education||NGO ties up with school in Dehradun to revive traditional puppetry with innovative teaching||Amid the Covid19 pandemic that has forced schools to adopt online teaching, an NGO is trying to leverage the new normal by introducing traditional puppetry in the teaching process to present the children with an innovative way of learning and revive the centuries old traditional art form. The NGO named Humans for Humanity, led by a 26-year-old social worker from Dehradun, Anurag Chauhan has associated with a school and is in talks with other schools in Dehradun to provide online lessons through puppetry The lessons of the syllabus would be narrated by the traditional puppeteers through puppetry and videos of which would then be used by the school for its students. Chauhan who has been providing help to the needy people during the lockdown, said he decided to revive the art of puppetry while helping puppeteers in Delhi’s Anand Parvat area where they have been living in a ‘sorry condition.’“During the lockdown, I used to visit their area where they are staying after being displaced from their Kathputli Colony a few years ago. While helping them with ration and food, I witnessed the condemnable state in which they were living. It was then I thought to help them,” said Chauhan.Chauhan said that as the art of puppetry is on the verge of dying, the puppeteers were already finding it very difficult to earn a livelihood, and ‘then the lockdown made it worse.’“I then decided to find a solution which would not only revive the art but also provide them a livelihood. Hence the idea of associating with the schools came to my mind,” he said.Chauhan said he had initially spoken to a school in Dehradun and roped in three-four puppeteer families. “Under the project, we spoke to a Dehradun based school-- Summer Valley School and asked them to give us the PDF files of the stories in Hindi subject. We then narrated the stories to the puppeteers we are working with, who adapted them into their puppetry art. Our members recorded the puppetry in Delhi and then sent the videos to the school in Dehradun,” said Chauhan.He said the school would show the videos to their students in online classes. “The school welcomed the idea very much as it’s an innovative and interesting way of teaching the students. Also the management thought that it would also help the dying art to revive,” said Chauhan.He said, “Initially, we have reached only one school, but will associate with other schools of Dehradun in the coming days.”The puppeteers are also happy with the project as they feel that it would help saving the dying art and provide them a livelihood. Bhagwan Das, a 70-year-old puppeteer living in Anand Parvat who claims to have performed in many countries, said, “We are very grateful that Chauhan has spared a thought for us and is doing something to revive this art.”“I have performed in about 60 countries around the world. Despite that, today my family and I are living in a place like refugees. Amid that, when Chauhan came to us with his project, we are very thankful to him to think about our livelihood,” said Das. He said that he hopes that the project will “save the 500-year-old art form from dying”.His wife, Sharbati Das, who too is a puppeteer and helps him in his performances said, “I came to the puppeteers colony in Kathputli at the age of five. Since then I have been associated with this art.”“Today it really hurts when we see that not only the puppeteers are being neglected but our art too which is a part of the Indian culture. I sincerely hope, Chauhan’s effort won’t go in vain and would revive this art,” said Sharbati.Abhaya Wasu, director of Summer Valley School in Dehradun, which is the first school to associate in the project, said, “When Chauhan came to us with the project about 15 days ago, we found it very interesting and agreed to work with the puppeteers.”Wasu said, “So far we have provided stories from Hindi subject of classes 1-8 to Chauhan and his team for puppetry narration. We will soon include the stories in English subject also.”She said that the school will also gradually provide the stories from English subject of senior classes. “We are also planning to invite the puppeteers to school once it opens for the students. We are grateful to be associated in this project as it is helping the art to be revived and also providing a livelihood to the puppeteers who are a significant part of Indian culture,” said Wasu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/ngo-ties-up-with-school-in-dehradun-to-revive-traditional-puppetry-with-innovative-teaching/story-Sljf4rDkT1soXdN3MnGwtJ.html
08-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra schools to reopen for classes 9 to 12 week after Diwali||Maharashtra education minister Varsha Gaikwad on Saturday said that schools will reopen for students studying in classes 9 to 12 during a video conference held by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.The chief minister asked authorities to exercise maximum caution as a second-wave of the coronavirus can be seen gripping parts of Europe and the US.He asked school administrations across the state to restart schools for the students keeping in mind all safety protocols.“We need to be extra cautious after Diwali. Quarantine centres in schools cannot be shut. The local administration can take decisions regarding alternative places for classrooms. Sanitization of schools, coronavirus tests for teachers and other precautions are a must,” he said, according to PTI.Thermal checking on entry and RT-PCR tests have been made mandatory for students and teachers respectively.State education minister Varsha Gaikwad said that teachers will undergo mandatory RT-PCR coronavirus tests between November 17 and 22. “Schools will reopen on November 23, and students will undergo thermal checking at entry,” she said.Keeping in view the coronavirus preventative measures, she said that one student will be seated at every desk. Classes also shall be held on alternate days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-schools-to-reopen-for-classes-9-to-12-week-after-diwali/story-4qF8BljsKNP1GBGsE8VgHM.html
08-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai engineer who operated drug racket amid ‘financial stress due to lockdown’ held with imported marijuana worth ₹1.62 crore||The anti-narcotic cell (ANC) of Mumbai Police’s crime branch has busted a major drug racket and arrested its alleged mastermind – a 25-year-old software engineer from Bandra – on Thursday evening. The accused – identified as Yash G Kalani – allegedly told the police that he operated the racket owing to “financial stress during lockdown”. Based on a tip-off, Kalani was arrested near National Library Road in Bandra (West) by Bandra ANC unit head inspector Anil Wadhawane and his team on Thursday evening with 1kg of imported high-quality marijuana. His aide, 32-year-old Guru Jaiswal, who works as an autorickshaw driver, was also arrested with the same amount of drug. Based on Kalani’s interrogation, the team visited his rented house in Bandra and seized around 7kg of marijuana. “We have seized a total of 9kg of high-quality weed worth ₹1.62 crore from the two accused,” said deputy commissioner of police (ANC) Datta Nalawade. According to ANC, the contraband was smuggled to India from the United States (US) for supply across the country. ANC said Kalani has an engineering degree from an institute in Sydney, Australia, and was running a software systems’ firm. Before the lockdown, he used to order marijuana for consumption from a supplier in the US through dark web and get the drug shipped to Mumbai, said the police. He would make the payment to the supplier through e-wallet, said Wadhawane. During the lockdown, he was reeling under financial stress and in August decided to supply the drugs to earn money for which he took the help of the supplier from US, Wadhawane added. “He would order a sizeable amount of drugs from the supplier in the US. Once the shipment reached Mumbai, he would supply them to his clients in the city through auto drivers such as Jaiswal and pay them a commission. He would also send the drugs to New Delhi, Chennai, Bengaluru and Pune through mail and courier,” said Wadhwane. In India, the drug is sold between ₹1,500 and ₹3,500 per gram. “Kalani was earning a profit worth around ₹1 lakh each day,” said Wadhavane. He was storing the contraband in a rented bungalow in Bandra. According to Nalawade, Kalani would communicate to his clients through Wickr App. “The anonymity-providing app not only has end-to-end encryption, but it also has self-data deleting feature in which the user can set a fixed time after which the chats, photos and videos get deleted automatically, leaving no trace of evidence,” said Nalawade. Kalani’s contacts and phone call details are being scanned to trace the links of his other associates, the police said. Kalani and Jaiswal have been booked under the relevant sections of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. A local court has remanded them in police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-engineer-who-operated-drug-racket-amid-financial-stress-due-to-lockdown-held-with-imported-marijuana-worth-1-62-crore/story-cOOsTIvLPyX5ITBD88r7ZP.html
08-11-2020||Mumbai||Former Ranji player, 2 others arrested for IPL betting in Mumbai||Versova police arrested former Ranji player Robin Morris for allegedly running a betting racket on Indian Premier League (IPL) cricket matches. Two other accused, Dhirendra Kulkarni and Rohit Babu Bhimanna, are also arrested in the case. The police said they received information about a betting racket operating at Morris’s flat at Yari Road, Andheri (West), based on which they conducted a raid. The trio were allegedly found accepting bets for the match between Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) and Sunrisers Hyderabad (SRH). The police seized several mobile phones, two tablet gadgets, and cash worth Rs9,000 from the flat. The trio were booked under sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 465 (punishment for forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged), and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections 4 and 5 (A) of the Gambling Act. On Saturday, the metropolitan magistrate court in Andheri remanded them in police custody till Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/former-ranji-player-2-others-arrested-for-ipl-betting-in-mumbai/story-2PocbQA7SJh9kTENjAHPcI.html
08-11-2020||City||Reopen schools only after proper planning: Parents, teachers in Maharashtra tell government||As the state government has given its final nod to reopen schools after the Diwali break, schools and parents are now concerned about the safety of students and teachers.Parents said that while schools need to be reopened, the process needs to be well-planned.“Ensuring social distancing is a big challenge, especially in schools which have a large number of students. Also, when students use the washroom, adequate precautions need to be taken to sanitise the facility well,” said Arundhati Chavan, president of the PTA United Forum.Prashant Redij, spokesperson of the Mumbai Principals’ Association, said that the government can ensure phased reopening of schools across the state. “Schools in districts with no or very few Covid-19 cases can start reopening first and other schools at other places can follow. Similarly, enough provisions need to be made to ensure sanitisation of schools and preparing them well in advance,” he added.Parents of several private schools are sceptical of sending their children to school until a vaccine is found. “We cannot risk their lives by sending them to school as the pandemic is not over yet. Students can continue learning online for the current academic year,” said Anu Sinha, a parent from Thane.In June, the education department submitted standard operating procedures (SOPs) on online learning, which also consisted of plans on physical reopening of schools. However, the Centre directed state’s to not permit schools to reopen until October. Now with Diwali break approaching, the state government plans to reopen schools only by the end of November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/reopen-schools-only-after-proper-planning-parents-teachers-in-maharashtra-tell-government/story-ASvQ5NzVEywMDuraNek89H.html
08-11-2020||City||Mumbai Metro-3 car shed: Aarey was chosen to commercially exploit forest land, says Congress||The Maharashtra Congress has alleged that the previous state government led by Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Devendra Fadnavis had deliberately chosen Aarey for the construction of the Metro-3 car shed so that the forest land could be commercially exploited.The current Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government had recently shifted the car shed project to Kanjurmarg.According to state Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant, though only 20 hectares (ha) were needed for the project, the then government set aside 62ha land at Aarey. “The rest of the 42-ha land was to be commercially exploited,” said Sawant. He also accused the previous government of falsehood. “The then government had falsely claimed that the Kanjurmarg plot would have cost the state ₹5,000 crore. The private litigant [who petitioned the court against the project at Aarey] had himself claimed that no cost will incur for the land [at Kanjurmarg],” said Sawant.Rubbishing the claims, the BJP called the allegations a “diversionary tactic”. “The decision will only increase the costs as well as delay the whole project. From the past 10 months, the Metro project is stuck owing to the inefficiency of the MVA government and they are creating roadblocks. It is the citizens who will be affected by this move,” said BJP legislator Ram Kadam.Since November 2014, the project at Aarey had created uproar after a proposal to build a car shed for the Colaba-Bandra-Seepz Metro line was proposed by the government. The state’s decision to axe 2,298 trees for the project had witnessed widespread protests. After coming to power, the MVA government last year decided that no trees would be felled any further for the project and later decided to shift the car shed to Kanjurmarg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-metro-3-car-shed-aarey-was-chosen-to-commercially-exploit-forest-land-says-congress/story-KbnDDIWEqyVbKSMI80p3ZP.html
08-11-2020||Mumbai||TRP case: Will not summon Hansa employees more than twice a week, Mumbai Police crime branch tells Bombay high court||In a minor reprieve for Hansa Research Group Pvt Ltd, complainants in the alleged television rating points (TRP) manipulation scam, the Mumbai Police’s crime branch on Saturday assured the Bombay high court (HC) that officials of the firm will not be summoned more than twice a week and that they will not be made to wait beyond a reasonable period. Senior advocate Devdatta Kamat made the statement on behalf of the crime branch, which is probing the TRP scam. The statement came after senior advocate CS Vaidyanathan, who represented the company, pointed out that despite being complainants, right from October 6, several officials of the firm were being summoned to the crime branch almost every day and made to wait for eight to nine hours. Hansa Group, engaged by Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), for operating and monitoring meters installed in about 16,031 households across India to help assess TRP, has moved HC, seeking transfer of the case to some independent agency, such as the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). In its petition, Hansa Group has alleged that many of its officers, including complainant Nitin Deokar, deputy general manager, Hansa Research Group, were harassed and pressured by the crime branch for securing a false statement that the Hansa report shown on a TV news channel was fake. It added that although channel showed the document as “Hansa Report”, the company was not in a position either to confirm or deny the same, as none of its officers had seen the document. It has sought a direction to transfer the case for probe to CBI, claiming that no fair play is being reflected from the conduct of crime branch officers. Kamat responded by stating that the crime branch has got material against the company and he will substantiate it when the matter is taken up for further hearing. On October 6, Kandivli police registered an offence against one of the firm’s ex-employees on the basis of a complaint lodged by Deokar after BARC noticed a sudden spike in viewership of certain channels over a period of time till June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/trp-case-will-not-summon-hansa-employees-more-than-twice-a-week-mumbai-police-crime-branch-tells-bombay-high-court/story-qrrb2wMOiNlKJqSIRUdbGO.html
08-11-2020||City||At 19.7 degrees Celsius, suburban Mumbai records season’s coolest day||The minimum temperature on Saturday dropped below the 20 degree Celsius-mark. The Santacruz weather observatory – representative of the suburbs and Mumbai – recorded the minimum temperature at 19.7 degrees Celsius, which is the lowest for this season. However, there was a wide gap between the minimum temperature in the suburbs and in south Mumbai. The Colaba weather station – representative of south Mumbai – recorded 24 degrees Celsius, which was at the normal mark. The weather bureau said that the minimum temperature was expected to hover in the range of 19 and 21 degrees Celsius over the next week owing to the current wind pattern. “For the first time this season, Mumbai has recorded the minimum temperature below 20 degrees Celsius. The cool winds from easterly and north-easterly directions are leading to this change. This is also reducing the moisture in the city’s air, typical of the weather pattern during this time of the year,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general (western region), India Meteorological Department. Kandivli was the coolest at 18.9 degrees Celsius, followed by Malad at 19.6 degrees Celsius, while Panvel was the coolest in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region at 14.8 degrees Celsius, according to the IMD’s automatic weather stations. The maximum temperature, however, surged to 35.4 degrees Celsius, almost 2 degrees Celsius above normal, in the suburbs. This is the highest maximum temperature recorded in Mumbai suburbs for this season so far. South Mumbai recorded 34.2 degrees Celsius, a degree Celsius above normal. This means that the gap between the maximum and minimum temperature widened on Saturday to 15.7 degrees Celsius. HT had reported earlier this week that if temperature variability was high it could lead to health ailments such as the seasonal flu, lead to a spike in swine flu cases, and could also create confusion among doctors and patients as the seasonal flu had similar symptoms as Covid-19. Meanwhile, owing to a rise in the wind speed over the past 48 hours, the air quality index (AQI) has remained in the moderate category, as per the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). The AQI, which was at 221 (poor) earlier in the week, was at 149 (moderate) on Saturday. Pollution levels are likely to decline further as an AQI of 132 (moderate) has been predicted for Sunday. SAFAR categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor and above 400 as severe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/at-19-7-degrees-celsius-suburban-mumbai-records-season-s-coolest-day/story-U6EhsH7WkWUYZhu2IoFO4K.html
08-11-2020||Delhi||Diwali 2020: Sarojini Nagar potters wait for shoppers to go #VocalForLocal||Come Diwali and the potters’ lane near the popular south Delhi Sarojini Nagar market, turns into a riot of colours and clay. But, the pandemic has dulled most of these colours as brightly painted diyas (earthen lamps), clay idols, and lanterns adorn the makeshift shops on the road side, in the long wait of buyers. Amid Covid-19, ahead of Diwali, the potters are clinging to the hope that the call for #VocalForLocal will bring them some festive cheer, and selling their wares at much lower prices. The bylane, popularly referred to as the Matka Market of Sarojini, has about 16-17 makeshift shops that sell a range of earthenware all round the year. From pots to vases and diyas to idols, one can find a huge variety. “Pehle ke mukable 50% sale reh gayi hai sirf. Ab toh bas jo banaya hai, woh stock bik jaaye, wohi bohot hai,” says Rekha, who has been manning the 50-year-old shop at this place. She has six boys employed with her, and says that they are looking at their biggest loss in the longest time. She adds, “Lagta hai 1.5-2 lakh ka nuksaan hoga is saal!” For Ram Krishna, a potter who makes and paints diyas in this market, says though he has been in the trade for over 40 years, this might be one of his worst Diwali. “We are making diyas and pots for the entire Diwali season, but pehle jaise log din raat yahan aate the, is saal 10% bhi nahi aa rahe hain,” he says, as he goes back to dip the diyas in bright red hues. The lane certainly bears a barren look barring a few people who have been halting their cars in front of the shops and haggle for a dozen diyas or a clay idol. Lack of sales has left the potters with no choice but to reduce the prices, to make ends meet. “Since manufacturing near the market is banned, we bring these earthenware from Lucknow, Kolkata, Gorakhpur, and Rajasthan. We spend weeks decorating these pots and diyas and sell them during Diwali. But this year, we seem to be staring at a dull festival since people are not coming to us to purchase handmade diyas, but ordering online instead,” explains Roopvati, whose family has been running a shop in the market for three generations. Her husband, Rajkumar, adds, “Hum wholesale price se bhi kum pe bech rahe hain is waqt. We open the shop at 4am hoping people will come early in the morning to ditch the market rush in evening hours, and stay open till late, but still hardly make any sales.”Rohan, a third generation potter, opines that the pandemic has encouraged people to buy earthenware online, or from their local markets rather than coming here. But, with the PM’s clarion call of #VocalForLocal, he hopes the situation might improve as Diwali nears. He says, “Usually by this time, people who sell just festive wares come in and display their products in this lane, including rangoli sellers, but even they haven’t come here yet due to the pandemic. But we are trying to not lose hope. If the footfall increases in the coming days, we all can look forward to having a Diwali, else it will be like any other day.” Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/diwali-2020-sarojini-nagar-potters-wait-for-shoppers-to-go-vocalforlocal/story-dapsCqZBnZjQMbTZWilxOK.html
08-11-2020||Mumbai||Arnab Goswami arrest: Revision application hearing in Alibag sessions court adjourned till Monday||The Alibag sessions court on Saturday adjourned the hearing into the revision application filed by Alibag police seeking custodial interrogation of Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and two others to November 9. Goswami, Feroz Shaikh and Nitesh Sarda, who have been remanded to judicial custody till November 18 by the magistrate court, were arrested on Wednesday in connection with the 2018 suicide of interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother. The prosecution has challenged the magistrate court’s order and filed a revision application asking for police custody of Goswami, Shaikh and Sarda for further investigating the case. Special public prosecutor Pradeep Gharat, in the sessions court on Saturday, read out contents of the suicide note written by Naik and said “the deceased had clearly mentioned names of all three accused in the note”. “Nitesh Sarda did not pay Rs55 lakh, Goswami Rs83 lakh and Shaikh had not paid Rs4 crore. Kindly collect money from them and hold them responsible for my death,” Gharat read out from the suicide note, adding that it was verified by handwriting experts that the note had been written by Naik. “The investigating officer has full rights to arrest the accused without warrant and for further investigation in the case. Judicial custody given by the magistrate court is illegal and inappropriate. The summary report filed by the previous investigating officer Suresh Warade was illegal which has been accepted by the court,” said Gharat in court. “Police should get custody of the accused. If the court wants information then custody should be granted. There are 18 reasons pointed out which need to be investigated… Apart from that some articles and electronic devices also need to be recovered from the accused for investigation.” However, Goswami’s lawyer Gaurav Parkar sought adjournment for arguments, saying he wasn’t allowed to meet his client. “I had made an application to the jail superintendent to visit Goswami to take his signature on vakalatnama and his instructions in today’s matter. But the jail superintendent did not allow me to meet him. In view of this, I filed an application seeking adjournment on the ground of lack of instructions,” said Parkar. “The same issue is also being heard before the division bench of the high court. The court was kind enough to allow adjournment till November 9.” SD Patil, defence lawyer of Sarda, too, said, “We have filed an application to adjourn the matter and it has been granted by the court.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/arnab-goswami-arrest-revision-application-hearing-in-alibag-sessions-court-adjourned-till-monday/story-oMqUB5PYat9KuUJ2I0AN5K.html
08-11-2020||Mumbai||Bombay high court reserves order on interim bail plea of Arnab Goswami, two others||The Bombay high Court on Saturday reserved its order on the interim bail plea of Republic TV’s editor Arnab Goswami, who was arrested by Alibag police in connection with a 2018 abetment to suicide case. The division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice MS Karnik said it would try to pronounce the order as early as possible. Goswami has been in judicial custody since Wednesday. The bench also allowed Goswami and two others arrested in the case, Firoz Shaikh and Nitish Sarda, to approach the sessions Court at Alibag for regular bail and asked that the court deal with this within four days. All three are in judicial custody till November 18. On Wednesday, the Republic TV editor moved high court questioning his arrest and sought immediate relief. His legal team argued that his arrest and detention were illegal, as the case, closed in April 2019 by filing an A-summary report, was being re-investigated without a necessary court order. They also argued that the police officer could not have reopened the case without first obtaining necessary order from the judicial magistrate concerned. Sheikh and Sarda, too, moved HC challenging their arrests. The Maharashtra government on Saturday responded to the pleas, submitting that unlike B and C-summary reports, A-summary reports aren’t closure reports, and therefore, no permission from the magistrate is required to undertake further investigation in the case.Senior advocate Amit Desai, who represented the government, said A-summary indicates that the allegations made in the complaint are true, but no one can be prosecuted for want of adequate evidence. B-summary means the allegations are found to be false, whereas C-summary indicates that no offence is disclosed. Thus, Desai claimed, an A-summary report reflects an incomplete investigation and cannot be construed a closure report. Desai also pointed out that there was efficacious alternative remedy available to the accused, filing a regular bail application; filing habeas corpus petition was no substitute for bail application, and cannot be granted by way of interim relief when the petition itself was not maintainable, he added.The bench found merit in the submission. Judges said granting bail as interim relief in a writ petition will send a wrong message and also set a wrong precedent. “The current danger is that this court will be flooded with petitions seeking bail as interim relief,” said the bench. Goswami’s counsel, senior advocates Harish Salve and Aabad Ponda, insisted the high court can grant bail in a writ petition and urged the bench to forthwith release the Republic TV editor on bail, claiming his arrest itself was illegal. The court on Saturday also issued notices to the state government and the accused in the case on a petition filed by Adnya Naik, daughter of the deceased architect and interior designer Anvay Naik, challenging the April 2019 magisterial order closing the criminal case. Anvay Naik, 53, died by suicide at his residence at Kaavir village in Alibag tehsil on May 5, 2018. His mother, Kumud, too, was found dead at their home. His wife Akshata lodged a complaint with police alleging that her husband and mother-in-law were forced to take the drastic step as they were under tremendous mental stress because of non-payment of dues collectively amounting to ₹5.40 crore by Goswami and the two others, something that was also mentioned in a suicide note.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-high-court-reserves-order-on-interim-bail-plea-of-arnab-goswami-two-others/story-cEfzr3kwpPKFnfBJzwkqxJ.html
08-11-2020||Election:||Bihar Assembly Election 2020: Exit polls give edge to RJD-led alliance||The Opposition Grand Alliance (GA) could edge out the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in a closely contested election in Bihar, a clutch of exit polls predicted after voting ended on Saturday, flagging anti-incumbency and jobs as issues that shaped the outcome. Five of eight major exit polls backed the GA – comprising the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Congress and three Left parties – to outpace the NDA and cross the majority mark of 122 in the 243-member assembly.  Two polls forecast a thumping majority for the GA and only one said that the NDA – composed of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Janata Dal (United), Hindustani Awam Morcha-Secular and Vikassheel Insaan Party – may cross the halfway mark. The polls also indicated that the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), which walked out of the NDA in the state and put up candidates largely against the JD(U), could perform poorly but hurt the ruling alliance’s vote share in several seats. In all, the election was largely seen as a two-horse fight with smaller parties and independents squeezed out. The Bihar assembly polls, spread over three phases in what was the first mass election since the Covid-19 pandemic hit the country, was fought on questions of employment, governance and handling of the infection that has claimed 1,100 lives in the impoverished state. Chief minister Nitish Kumar was seeking his fourth consecutive term, squaring off against RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav, whose promise of one million government jobs galvanised young people and drove huge crowds to his 200-plus rallies. Results are out on Tuesday. To be sure, exit polls are not completely accurate and have frequently got it wrong in earlier elections, especially in states with diverse populations, castes and communities as Bihar. In 2015, a plurality of exit polls predicted the BJP will win the state but the results saw the Opposition GA – of which the JD(U) was a part before severing ties in 2017 – win a decisive majority. But if these exit poll numbers hold, it could mean a significant surprise because as recently as the 2019 general elections, the NDA won 39 of the 40 Lok Sabha seats – which translated to a tally of 220-plus assembly constituencies. The numbers, if they are correct, will also signify a personal triumph for Yadav, who led his party in the absence of his father and former chief minister Lalu Prasad, who missed an assembly election campaign for the first time in four decades. If the exit poll forecast matches the actual result, it could also see a lot of post-results political developments, especially if the GA falls marginally short of a majority. In 2015, the GA won 178 of the 243 seats – 80 for the RJD, 71 for the JD(U) and 27 for the Congress. The BJP won 53 seats. In 2017, JD(U) exited the GA and joined hands with the BJP with Kumar continuing as CM. After the exit polls, the BJP took heart in the narrow margins predicted by several pollsters. “What is surprising is that if the exit polls are any indication, change does not come in small numbers. This perhaps indicates an undercurrent that may reverse the story of the exit polls,” said party spokesperson Tom Vadakkan. Another senior party functionary said exit polls have a track record of going wrong. It’s ally JD(U) said that there was no doubt about the success of NDA. “Just wait for a few more days and all the expectations of GA leaders would come crashing,” said spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad.RJD national spokesperson Manoj Jha exuded confidence that the GA will win a majority. Congress said the GA will emerge a clear winner. “Bihar is on the verge of change. It has voted for change, for jobs, for better price of crops, for industries and businesses and for a new government and youth power,” party’s chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said. Five polls predicted a slim victory for the Opposition.Times Now-CVoter gave NDA 116 and GA 120. ABP-CVoter gave NDA between 104 and 128 seats and GA between 108 and 131. Republic TV-JanKiBaat gave NDA between 91 and 117 seats, and GA between 118 and 138. TV9-Bharatvarsh gave NDA between 110 and 120 seats, and GA between 115 and 125. NewsX-DVresearch gave NDA between 110 and 117 seats, and GA between 108 and 123. Two polls gave a sweeping majority to the Opposition.News18-Today’s Chanakya gave NDA between 44 and 66 seats, and GA between 169 and 191. India Today-AxisMyIndia gave NDA between 69 and 81 seats, and GA between 139 and 161 seats. Only one poll gave the decisive edge to the NDA.Dainik Bhaskar gave NDA 120-127 seats and GA 71-81 seats. In at least two exit polls, the BJP was projected to be the bigger partner in the NDA – a big reversal of roles in the state where the JD(U) was traditionally the senior partner in the alliance. The exit polls forecast three broad trends. One, the election may have been defined by rising anti-incumbency sentiment against Kumar, who was seen struggling to deal with the migrant crisis, rising local aspirations and demand for jobs. Two, Yadav’s promise of one million government jobs in a state with poor industrialisation was predicted to have struck a chord and the 31-year-old leader may net support from young people, in addition to the RJD’s traditional caste coalition. Three, LJP and smaller formations such as the Grand Democratic Secular Front (GDSP), comprising All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM), Upendra Kushwaha’s Rashtriya Lok Samata Party, and Mayawati’s Bahujan Samaj Party, may not have made a dent in terms of seats but damaged the major alliances in some pockets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-assembly-election-2020-exit-polls-give-edge-to-rjd-led-alliance/story-S9rxggUtW6MMAb3MYip4SJ.html
08-11-2020||City||Ludhiana: 3 more succumb to Covid, 74 test positive||Covid infections in the district continued on the upward trajectory with 74 new cases being reported in the last 24 hours. The district also recorded three more deaths, taking the toll to 847.So far, 20,731 patients have tested positive in district while the number of active cases currently stands at 547. Ludhiana’s recovery rate is 93.26%, health officials said. The three who succumbed to the infection in the last 24 hours include a 57-year-old woman from Muradpura, an 80-year-old man from Ghumar Mandi and a 50-year-old man from Dugri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-3-more-succumb-to-covid-74-test-positive/story-wmJoyv7ZTIQm9hrTRSBtbJ.html
08-11-2020||City||J&K sees 5 deaths, 532 new Covid cases||Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday recorded five fatalities and 532 fresh coronavirus infections, taking the tally of positive cases to 98,337 and the death toll to 1,528.Officials said 324 people tested positive in Kashmir and 208 in Jammu. One person succumbed to the disease in Jammu and four in Kashmir. A total of 1,013 people have died due to the disease in Kashmir and 515 in Jammu.The recovery rate has been improving for the past more than a month. The overall recoveries have reached 91,225 as 688 more people have been cured. The recovery rate has increased to 92.7% and the active cases have reduced to 5,584.The total number of tests conducted in the UT have crossed 24.61 lakh.The first week of November so far has witnessed an average 507 daily infections against an average of 632 daily cases in October and 1,245 cases in September. An average 10 deaths a day were reported in October against 16 in September. In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 132 more people tested positive, followed by Baramulla and Kupwara at 44 each. In Jammu division, the highest number of cases was recorded in Jammu district at 96, followed by 38 in Udhampur.Till date, 6.66 lakh people have been enlisted for observation – 15,430 in home quarantine, 5,584 in isolation, and 43,265 under home surveillance. Besides, 6.0 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-sees-5-deaths-532-new-covid-cases/story-MC5vU3m8fiP6LixsIqNvbN.html
08-11-2020||City||Ludhiana hosiery unit owner robbed of ₹70,000 at gunpoint||A hosiery unit owner lost ₹70,000 to armed miscreants on Saturday afternoon when he was returning after withdrawing the cash from a bank. The incident took place on Rahon road.The victim, Deepak Kumar, 24, of Kailash Nagar, said that he had withdrawn ₹90,000, out of which he had kept ₹20,000 in the under-seat storage of his scooter while the rest was kept in his pockets. He was to pay ₹20,000 to his relative, who was waiting for him near Basti Jodhewal Chowk.When he reached Rahon road, three men on a bike, intercepted him and snatched the money in his pockets at gunpoint. The men also took his mobile phone and scooter’s key but threw it on the road while fleeing. After the men left, the victim drove back home and narrated the incident to his family members and lodged a police complaint. Tibba station house officer sub-inspector Daljit Singh said that the police are investigating the matter.Earlier on Friday, two bike-borne men had snatched ₹80,000 from a Uttar Pradesh-based trader near the old vegetable market Chowk. The miscreants had also injured him with sharp-edged weapons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-hosiery-unit-owner-robbed-of-70-000-at-gunpoint/story-ShIV86tH5L4P7ZQaxiItOJ.html
08-11-2020||City||Himachal logs 6 deaths, 573 fresh virus infections||Himachal Pradesh on Saturday recorded three deaths record 573 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the state’s tally of positive cases to 24,812 and the death toll mounted to 365. This is the steepest single-day spike in the state since the outbreak. Six patients succumbed to the contagion, two each in Solan and Lahaul-Spiti and one each in Una and Shimla. Of the new cases, 187 were reported in Mandi, 69 in Shimla, 56 in Kangra, 51 in Kullu, 50 in Bilaspur, 46 in Chamba, 35 in Hamirpur, 32 in Solan, 17 in Lahaul-Spiti, 13 in Sirmaur, nine in Una and eight in Kinnaur. 104 school students found infected Mandi district has recorded the biggest single-day spike of virus cases. Among the 187 people who tested positive in the district, 104 were school students. These include 101 students of a Joginderngar-based Tibetan school and three of a government school. All the infected students are said to from other states. 209 recoveries The overall recoveries have reached 20,225 as 209 more people have been cured. The recovery rate is 81%. The state has conducted 4,26,084 tests till date. With 3,802 cases, Solan remains the worst-hit district and is followed by Mandi with 3,629 infections. Kangra has 3,362, Shimla 3,105, Sirmaur 2,348, Kullu 1,837, Una 1,641, Bilaspur 1,455, Hamirpur 1,390, Chamba 1,296, Kinnaur 496 and Lahaul-Spiti 451.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-logs-6-deaths-573-fresh-virus-infections/story-Wf86XT2dFLzm57JS0Y9TSP.html
08-11-2020||Mumbai||Active Covid-19 infections in Maharashtra drop under 100,000 for the 1st time since July 11||Maharashtra on Saturday recorded 3,959 Covid-19 infections, pushing the case count to 1,714,273. For the first time since July 11, the tally of active cases in the state fell under 100,000. The number of active cases stood at 99,151.The trend of fewer daily cases over the past few weeks has led to a constant decline in active infections. In the past 51 days, the state experienced a drop of more than 200,000 active cases. On September 17, its active cases tally was 3,01,752, the highest till date. However, there has been a decline since then and on September 30, the tally fell to 259,033 and on October 31, it further came down to 123,585, revealed official figures. Fewer active cases indicate that the epidemic is in control. Public health expert Sanjay Pattiwar said that cases have been reducing, but the state will have to be cautious and ensure that cases will not increase by November-end. “Decline in cases is a fact, but we have to wait till November-end as festivals are going on and winter has arrived. Plus, most lockdown restrictions have been lifted. We have to increase testing and contact tracing and if cases don’t rise till November-end then we can say that the state has successfully controlled the pandemic,” Pattiwar said.Although the Covid-19 curve in the state has been on the descending limb, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in a meeting on Saturday asked local authorities to be prepared for a second wave. He said that the next 15 days post Diwali would be crucial as there is a concern over a rise in cases owing to winter and ongoing festivals. He also directed testing potential super-spreaders, who have a lot of interaction with various groups of people, such as milkmen, maids, vegetable vendors and people working in public transport. “We can see that the infection rate and death rate are coming down, however, we cannot remain inattentive. We have to be prepared for a second wave like it is going on in European countries,” the chief minister said in a review meeting of divisional commissioners and district collectors to look at measures to be taken to prevent a potential second wave.“I have said this in March that it is a world war and we have been fighting it and are close to win it without “arms”. We are relaxing restrictions in a graded manner. We have taken all precautions to prevent spread of seasonal diseases during summer and monsoon, but winter has arrived, which is likely to bring other respiratory diseases such as pneumonia, asthma, flu and heart diseases, apart from rise in Covid-19,” Thackeray said. The chief minister also asked local authorities not to discontinue or dismantle temporary Covid treatment facilities such as field hospitals as of now. He said, “Do not remove field hospitals or Covid Care Centers developed for Covid-19 treatment. In fact, remove any lacunae, if any, as we have got some time. We also need to keep a track of people with comorbidities. This will help in avoiding big trouble even if a second wave hits the state.”Mumbai reported its lowest daily Covid-19 surge in almost six months on Saturday when 576 new cases were reported, followed by 23 deaths. Before this, the lowest surge was 426 cases on May 12 and 587 cases on August 25. The daily positivity rate, too, on Saturday was under 6%. Since almost ten days, the daily positivity rate is below 10%. As of Saturday, Mumbai had 263,049 Covid-19 cases, with 10,422 deaths. The city’s mortality rate is 3.96% and the recovery rate is 89.48% as 2,35,3850 patients have recovered till now. Mumbai has 16,528 active cases. Meanwhile, the state toll breached the 45,000 mark as 150 casualties were reported, taking it to 45,115. Of them, 70 were reported in the past 48 hours, 47 from last week and the rest 33 were from the period before that, health officials said.Along with a trend of fewer Covid-19 cases, the state has recorded a drop in Covid-19 deaths. But its case fatality rate (CFR) is not coming down. It has maintained second position after Punjab in the country with 2.63%. The CFR of Punjab was 3.15% (with 4,295 deaths) till Friday, according to information shared by the state medical education department.In another meeting with senior officials of BMC, the chief minister directed them to take strict action against those not wearing masks. “We need to be more careful now. Take strict against those found not wearing mask. The initiative started against these offenders should be implemented aggressively. Apart from this, there should be a focus on creating public awareness to make people understand why masks are necessary,” he said.Convince people that if the pollution level doesn’t come down, the danger of coronavirus will be persist, he added. The state government has already urged people not to use firecrackers this Diwali to ensure pollution level will not rise as it may lead to respiratory issues.(With inputs from Mehul Thakkar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/active-covid-19-infections-in-maharashtra-drop-under-100-000-for-the-1st-time-since-july-11/story-65PPHaMbKszRfEjORnakwJ.html
08-11-2020||City||Illegal hoardings: Ludhiana MC plans to impose ₹50,000 penalty||With complaints against illegal hoardings mounting, the municipal corporation (MC) has decided to slap a penalty of up to ₹50,000 on their printers and publishers for every hoarding. A penalty of ₹ 5,000 per day will also be imposed on MC superintendents for failure to remove hoardings in their jurisdiction within 24 hours. A resolution regarding the same will be tabled in the general House meeting. Vehicles used to ferry the will be impounded and a fine of ₹50,000 will be slapped on on those install hoardings on vehicles. Officials said that the local bodies department had earlier notified that penalties ranging from ₹ 500 to ₹50,000 can be imposed. Religious hoardings will be permitted 10 ahead of an event and will cost ₹2,000 per board or hoarding. If any other advertisement is put in place of religious hoardings, a penalty of ₹50,000 will be imposed. So far, the MC has failed to take strict action against violators, due to which a large number of hoardings, deface the city, including areas near MC offices. Residents and the outdoor advertisement contractor have been lobbying for strict action against violators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/illegal-hoardings-ludhiana-mc-plans-to-impose-50-000-penalty/story-GnQU7iJYDOTNhl4dRVM2CJ.html
08-11-2020||Chandigarh||Amid infighting in Himachal BJP, Jai Ram meets Nadda in Delhi||With the Himachal BJP reeling from factionalism, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur met national party chief Jagat Prakash Nadda in New Delhi on Saturday.Thakur had also held a closed-door meeting with state party chief Suresh Kashyap on Friday evening at Peterhoff Hotel. The leaders are said to have discussed the issues plaguing the party and the upcoming elections to panchayati raj institutions. Kashyap also discussed in detail factionalism in the party, particularly in the Jawalamukhi segment ,where senior party legislator Ramesh Dhawala is up in arms against the party’s decision to dissolve the block unit. Kashyap had dissolved the unit after fresh infighting erupted among Dhawala supporters and the party’s organisational secretary Pawan Rana.Dhawala has repeatedly accused Rana of interfering in the Jawalamukhi segment. Dhawala had termed the party’s action as arbitrary. He has sought intervention of national BJP chief Jagat Prakash Nadda to redress his grievances. “After the Bihar elections, Nadda should devote two to three days to asses the situation in Himachal and Jawalamukhi, in particular,” said Dhawala, who also spoke to former chief minister Shanta Kumar. There is growing disquiet in the party over infighting in Jawalamukhi, as it believes that it will tarnish the party’s image. The party can hardly sideline Dhawala who Dhawala was instrumental in formation of the BJP- Himachal Vikas Congress (HVP) alliance government in 1998. Dhawala, then an independent candidate, had enabled the BJP to topple the Virbhadra Singh-led Congress government. Dhawala enjoys considerable support among the dominant OBCs (other backward classes). Braced for panchayat pollsNadda assessed the political situation along with the government and party’s preparation for the upcoming elections to civic bodies and Panchayati Raj Institutions. The elections, which are due next month, are being seen as a precursor to the 2022 assembly elections. The outcome of the elections will be reflective of the policies and programmes of the Jai Ram-led government, which will complete three years in office in December.The Congress has also fortified its cadres and is attacking the government over misrule, poor governance and questionable fiscal management. Congress leaders during their rallies and speeches have been condemning Jai Ram’s anti-people stance. The BJP is banking on the party’s three-year rule and the achievements of the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led Centre.The BJP has directed its workers to educate voters about the benefits of different centrally-sponsored schemes. The BJP will also attempt to derive political mileage from the newly carved out municipal corporations in Mandi, Palampur and Solan. Mandi is also the home town of the chief minister while Palampur is the home town of former chief minister Shanta Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amid-infighting-in-himachal-bjp-jai-ram-meets-nadda-in-delhi/story-YIy1KqXdpGs2Jb5Ahi9jGN.html
08-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra allows schools to reopen for classes 9 to 12 from November 23||The Maharashtra government on Saturday decided to resume physical classroom sessions for Classes 9 to 12 students from November 23, after a gap of nine months since they shut owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. However, there will be no daily classes as schools have been directed to open every alternate day and that too only for four hours. In addition, it will not be mandatory for schools to resume physical classes and not even for students to attend in case they are started, officials said. Students need not come to school and can continue with online classes if their parents do not want to send them. The decision was taken in a meeting chaired by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to discuss the proposal of the school education department to resume physical classes and review the standard operating procedures (SOP) prepared by them.The state government has also made RT-PCR tests mandatory for all teachers before starting schools from November 23. Also, thermal screenings will be conducted before allowing students to enter schools, said school education minister Varsha Gaikwad.“RT-PCR tests of all teachers will be conducted by local authorities between November 17 and 22 and only teachers, who will test negative, will be allowed to conduct classes. Thermal screening of all students will be done before they are allowed to enter school and only one student will be allowed to sit on one bench to maintain social distancing,” the school education minister said.“Classes can be conducted only on an alternate day and they cannot be for more than four hours. Only select subjects such as Maths, Science, where teachers’ help is required, will be taken up for studies and classes for the remaining subjects will be continued online,” she said. Senior officials said that a consent form has been made mandatory, which has to be filled by parents. “Physical classes are not compulsory for schools and not even for students as online classes for all subjects will continue,” said a senior official from the school education department.“Besides, there will be no tiffin breaks as students will not be allowed to carry tiffin. They will have to eat at home and come. Water bottles can be carried by an individual student as there will be no common water filling spots, Gaikwad said. Thackeray said, “A possibility of a second wave cannot be ignored, thus the next few days after Diwali will be very crucial. The schools that were converted into quarantine centres cannot be closed down even now. The local administration will have to decide if an alternative site can be made available to schools.”He said that sanitisation of classrooms, screening of staff, students and even parents have to be made. Thackeray asked parents not to send students for physical classes if the student or someone else in the family is unwell due to Covid-19.The Central government allowed partial reopening of schools for higher standards from September 21, but the state had decided to consider reopening them post Diwali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-allows-school-to-reopen-for-classes-9-to-12-from-november-23/story-U0WK81UIGAw6IOOBm8ICHJ.html
08-11-2020||Chandigarh||Parties under Gupkar alliance to contest jointly in upcoming district development council polls||The seven political parties that are part of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) have unanimously decided to unitedly contest the upcoming district development council (DDC) elections in the Union Territory, it was announced on Saturday evening. This would be first such electoral exercise post August 5, 2019, where the National Conference and Peoples Democratic Party — the two mainstream political parties, will be contesting jointly. The alliance’s spokesperson Sajad Ghani Lone said,“We have unanimously decided that we will fight these elections unitedly, despite the abruptness of timing. All of a sudden, they (government) sprung a surprise and are going to finish the task within a month. But this space is too sacred to be left to invaders. This is the most sacred space in democracy and we will not allow it to be marauded. We are all going to fight together,” said Lone, who was flanked by NC leader and PAGD chairperson Farooq Abdullah and PDP chief and the alliance’s vice-chairperson Mehbooba Mufti. NC vice president Omar Abdullah and CPI(M) leader M Y Tarigami, were also present at the briefing.Lone said that PAGD had come to Jammu for the first time and had met many delegations from civil society: “We are extremely happy that we found same sentiment here vis-à-vis abrogation of Article 370 and 35-A. We met delegations of Sikhs, Kashmiri Pandits, Gadi and Sippis, Gujjars and Bakerswals, transporters, SCs, OBCs , farmers and different political parties. We can tell you that all of them are facing grave problems. What we found common in our thinking and their thinking was that they are also appalled, unhappy and hurt by the August 5 decision,” said Lone. He said PAGD said it will continue the outreach process. However, Farooq and Mehbooba did not respond to queries on women rights, Valmikis and West Pakistan Refugees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/parties-under-gupkar-alliance-to-contest-jointly-in-upcoming-district-development-council-polls/story-Ain6Ak1WGULO7QYoFirmSL.html
08-11-2020||City||Ludhiana MC to deliberate on development of Focal Point area||With industrialists flagging the poor state of roads and sewer systems in the Focal Point area, the municipal corporation (MC) general House will also deliberate over giving Punjab Infrastructure Development Board (PIDB) the mandate to develop focal point areas on public-private partnership (PPP) basis.The House will also take a call on allowing Tata to install LED street lights at around 15,000 missing points. Residents and councillors alike have been bemoaning non-functional street lights, making it a hot-button issue.One of the officials, requesting anonymity, said the MC does not have the funds required to develop Focal Point, due to which a proposal made by a private company earlier in the day, was being mooted.Earlier, Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC) had constructed major roads in Focal Point area as the fund-starved MC had failed to do so.Resolutions on agenda Allocating 2 acres of additional land to the modern slaughter house project to develop it as an export-oriented unit.Adopting of Punjab Slum Dwellers (Proprietary Rights) Act, 2020Approving a 650-crore project for rejuvenating buddha nullah.Project procurement strategy for development of Ludhiana and Amritsar under Punjab Municipal Service improvement project.Adoption of Punjab Management And Transfer of Municipal Properties BillFilling 99 posts of assistant engineers, draftsmen, and assistant town planner on outsourcing basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-to-deliberate-on-development-of-focal-point-area/story-oanlaspH3RuduJtuIOndbP.html
08-11-2020||Pune||Maratha reservation: Agitators defy curfew in Pandharpur, reach Pune to submit memorandum||Defying curfew order, protestors demanding immediate action on Maratha reservation took out a long march from the temple town of Pandharpur to Pune on Saturday. In Pune, the agitating Maratha Kranti Morcha workers met Maharashtra’s chief secretary Sanjay Kumar, who accepted the memorandum from protesting delegation. Mahesh Dongare, convenor of Maratha Kranti Morcha said, “We came to Pune from Pandharpur as the administration requested us to go to Pune where chief secretary will receive our memorandum. Therefore, we came here and handed over the memorandum to Sanjay Kumar. He has promised us to hand it over to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.” Among the demands, Maratha activists have put forth are admission to Maratha students, effective argument from the state in Supreme Court. At Pandharpur, the district administration had imposed curfew with all the entry and exit points of the city sealed to prevent protestors entering in the temple town. The Maratha organisations had earlier announced to take out a long march from Pandharpur to Mantralaya in Mumbai though they had to change the plan following discussion with police officials. Agitators fighting for Maratha reservation began their long march from Pandharpur on Saturday. A large number of agitators gathered outside the famous temple of Lord Vitthal in the afternoon despite heavy police bandobast and started the march to Mumbai||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/maratha-reservation-agitators-defy-curfew-in-pandharpur-reach-pune-to-submit-memorandum/story-iJtK0t2M6hAt3DmKLmEtpJ.html
08-11-2020||Pune||Major fire burns down chemical factory in Bhosari MIDC||Panic gripped Gawalimatha area of Bhosari MIDC after a major fire broke out inside the compound of a chemical factory on Saturday afternoon around 12.30pm. As many as fourteen fire tenders were rushed to spot to douse the flames. However, there was no loss to human life during the incident. It took well over three hours for the fire brigade officials to bring the fire under control. According to fire officials, the fire, however, caused huge losses as major storage inside was burnt ashes. Huge smoke flames billowing upwards were seen in the neighbourhood. PCMC fire brigade chief Kiran Gawade said that the fire incident took place due to a short circuit in the company named Usha Chemical where zinc oxide was stored in huge quantity. “The chemical is highly combustible and led to the blaze. Almost all our fire tenders were pressed into action to control the fire. A woman worker was in the godown who saw the incident happening and immediately escaped from the spot,” he said. The fire took place in the area known as Jijamata Industrial estate fire officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/major-fire-burns-down-chemical-factory-in-bhosari-midc/story-CJ9cVQZGRCFxaQ39KmsISO.html
08-11-2020||Pune||66 arrested in 18 raids in two days||The Pune crime branch has launched a complete crackdown on illegal activities in the city during the past 48- hours where it carried out as many as 18 raids, arrested over 68 persons in different offences and Gutkha worth Rs 14 lakh.The crime branch under the guidance of DCP ( Crime ) carried out raids by different police stations and swift action was taken against the criminals. As many as 11 cases were lodged in Faraskhana, Dattawadi, Hadapsar, Warje Malwadi, Yerawada, Bund Garden and Sahakarnagar police station areas where 38 accused were arrested under anti-gambling act and a cash of Rs 48775 was seized.Similarly, seven cases were registered wherein seven accused were arrested during raids against illicit liquor dens. A total of 465 litres of illicit liquor and 120 litres of illegal toddy were seized by the crime branch sleuths.The crime branch officials also checked as many as 97 hotel establishments and lodged twelve cases against those found violating the norms. Two persons were arrested in Swargate and 300 grams of Ganja totally estimated to be worth Rs 25,000 was recovered from their possession. Similarly, 11 persons were arrested during the anti Gutkha drive in different police station areas of the city. As many as 10 persons were arrested for planning a major dacoity in Swargate and Bund Garden police station areas.The police have recovered red chili powder, choppers and other sharp weapons from the dacoits. The crime branch officials also lodged a case against an externed criminal in VishrantwadiDCP (Crime ) Bachchan Singh said, “The crime branch crackdown will continue regularly against illegal activities and strict action will be taken against all types of crimes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/66-arrested-in-18-raids-in-two-days/story-EO34J0twWDNOpn4bWdG7BP.html
08-11-2020||Pune||150 kg marijuana worth Rs 28 lakh seized in Bhigwan||The Bhigwan police in a major raid recovered marijuana estimated to be worth Rs 24 lakh during a raid carried out at an area on Pune-Solapur highway near Bhigwan. The local crime branch swooped down on the marijuana transporter and arrested him red-handed with the contraband estimated to be over 150 kg and costing around Rs 28 lakh in the market from his possession. The accused has been identified as Sachin Kumar Miragane, ( 32), who is a resident of Barshi in Solapur district. LCB officials said that they had received a tip-off that a transporter was carrying a huge amount of illegal marijuana in his four-wheeler. Following the tip-off, a trap was laid and the accused was nabbed by sleuths. The main accused is suspected to a be part of a larger statewide network of marijuana suppliers who operate with the assistance of village-level operatives. Local crime branch chief Padmakar Ghanwat said that a case under relevant sections of the IPC has been lodged against the accused and investigation was underway to find out if more accused persons were involved in the case. The police were probing the destination and the persons to whom the contraband was scheduled to be delivered he said. A case has been registered against Miragane under relevant sections of the narcotics drugs and psychotropic substances act at Bhigwan police station. Earlier in June, a farm of cannabis was found by the local crime branch who then had seized drugs estimated to be worth Rs 21 lakh during the raid on the farm. The local crime branch had arrested Dattu Shankar Shinde, 47, a resident of Shinde vasti area of Girim in Daund taluka who was suspected to be the farmer of the narcotic plant which is illegal and banned in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/150-kg-marijuana-worth-rs-28-lakh-seized-in-bhigwan/story-GlYD9maCkNLLgl6poM5qmL.html
08-11-2020||Pune||Mayor appeals for no fireworks this Diwali||Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol has appealed to residents to avoid firecrackers in view of the possible second wave of Covid. Mohol said, “The central government team that visited Pune has stated of a possible second surge of Covid cases in December and January. As bursting of firecrackers cause respiratory-related problem, it also generate aerosols which may transmit Covid virus more rapidly. Some states have already taken a decision to ban firecrackers during Diwali. Hence, citizens on their own need to take necessary care and avoid firecrackers this seson.” The mayor said that as the Mumbai municipal corporation has taken some decisions regarding firecrackers, the Pune counterpart has sought the details and could issue guidelines likewise. “I request traders and kids who burst crackers during the festival, mainly on Laxmi Puja, to keep it at a minimum level as it will badly affect those with respiratory issues,” he said. A civic official on condition of anonymity said, “With many restrictions already in place due to the Covid situation, we have only made a public appeal to avoid use of crackers instead of banning it. As it is, there is no mechanism to check citizens using firecrackers during the festival.” Meanwhile, the civic administration has already put in place many checks and guidelines for crackers sellers to put up roadside stalls in an effort to bring down supply numbers. NCP demands ban on cracker sale Nationalist Congress Party’s (NCP) spokesperson Ankush Kakade has demanded the state ban on sale of firecrackers in view of the Covid situation. Kakade has written to deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar to take the decision as carried out by Delhi and other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/mayor-appeals-for-no-fireworks-this-diwali/story-gCchBWEzNOk8iZ2pmFA5zN.html
08-11-2020||Pune||State’s call for no-cracker Diwali a big blow for stall owners||Those selling firecrackers, a business that thrives during the festival of lights, are prepared for tough times. Having set up shops across the city, they are looking at a dip in sale by 50 per cent. The statement by state health minister Rajesh Tope asking people to celebrate Diwali without firecrackers has left the cracker sellers in a fix as they have already being issued non-objection certificate (NOC) by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to put up stalls. “The Covid situation has already hit our business. Now that the PMC has allotted us space to set up shops after following the given guidelines and formalites, the state government officials are asking people to celebrate Diwali without firecrackers. I am looking at a 50 per cent less sale this year,” said Sanjay Dilip Dakhave, who has put up his stall near Mutha riverbed. As of Saturday, 26 cracker sale shops have been put near the Mutha riverbed with 13 open and the rest yet to start sale. “Unlike previous years when we used to keep extra bags full of crackers to meet the rising demand, we have bought only limited stock this time,” said Rakesh Shah of Swamini Seznal firecrackers shop. All the shop owners are following the standard operating procedure like every year. “PMC has not issued any other guidelines till now,” Shah said. “We are not selling any cracker that creates sound pollution as we are following the pollution guidelines,” added Dakhave. Praffula Maheshwari, one of the firecracker shop owners, said, “Only crackers do not create noise and air pollution. Cigarette smoking pollutes air round the year.” Sitaram Khade, member, Pune firecracker traders association, said that the state government should not take any decision at the eleventh hour, like in the ban on sale of firecrackers or burning crackers by public. “Now when stalls have come up, the government has urged people to celebrate Diwali without crackers. It will badly affect the business of sellers,” Khade said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/state-s-call-for-no-cracker-diwali-a-big-blow-for-stall-owners/story-mLzByVlNe8prenqJ4yhT1K.html
08-11-2020||Pune||Ahead of Diwali, Pune breathes ‘satisfactory’ air: Safar||A week before Diwali with the winter almost set in, the air quality index (AQI) for Pune was reported as “satisfactory” as the Indian Institute Of Tropical Meteorology’s (IITM) System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) forecasts that the city’s air will slip to moderate. The city on Saturday recorded 13.3 degrees Celsius as the minimum temperature with the average air quality index level-pollutant measuring indicator for Pune at 11am was 95 μg/m3 (concentration of air pollutant [eg. ozone] in micrograms [one-millionth of a gram] per cubic metre air). It soared a bit and reached 98μg/m3 by 5pm, remaining under the ‘satisfactory’ level. The AQI, which is classified into six categories, including good + satisfactory, moderately polluted, poor, very poor, and severe, transforms complex air quality data of various pollutants into a single number (index value). The real-time pollution data by Safar showed the average PM10 (atmospheric particulate matter that have a diameter of less than 10 micrometres) in Pune was 95 μg/m3 and PM2.5 (atmospheric particulate matter that have a diameter of less than 2.5 micrometres) – 60 μg/m3. Within city, Shivajinagar, Lohegaon and Hadapsar reported deterioration of air quality with PM10 being 156 μg/m3, 121 μg/m3 respectively at 5pm, according to Safar. According to Safar, AQI in the 0-50 range is considered “good”; 51-100 is “satisfactory”; 101-200 is “moderate”; 201-300 is “poor”; 301-400 is “very poor”; anything above 400 is “severe”. Dr Gufran Beig, project director, Safar, “Due to sudden temperature drop, the air quality deteriorates as polluted particles are trapped.” He said that the forecast for the city for next three days is that the air quality will witness a drop from “satisfactory” to “moderate”, with the AQI PM10 at 115 μg/m3 and PM 2.5 at 72 μg/m3. “The ambient air quality monitored in the city is satisfactory and is due to the effect of the cold wave which is leading to increasing of pollutants in the city. But as compared to Delhi, Pune is still better,” said Pratap Jagtap, regional officer, Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) that monitors the air quality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ahead-of-diwali-pune-breathes-satisfactory-air-safar/story-4e4pWVqB28iau1PgPhG08K.html
08-11-2020||Chandigarh||Panthers Party expels founder Bhim Singh for taking part in PAGD meet||The Jammu and Kashmir National Panthers Party on Saturday expelled its founder Professor Bhim Singh for taking part in the PAGD meeting at the Bhatindi residence of former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Farooq Abdullah. Party chairman and former minister Harsh Dev Singh said, “He has grown old and at times makes unwise statements and decisions. Hence, he has been removed from all posts of the party.” “He went there in a personal capacity,” he said, adding that the party had asked Bhim not to attend the meeting. “We are against the PAGD’s anti-national agenda and cannot sympathise with those promoting it,” he said. Harsh also made it clear that Panthers Party has nothing to do with PAGD and its anti-national agenda. Earlier, Bhim thanked Farooq for inviting him over for a cup of tea at the PAGD meeting to and seek his stand in resolving the crisis in J&K. Bhim told the senior Kashmiri leadership that he stood for restoration of statehood without delay, with all fundamental rights provided in the Indian Constitution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panthers-party-expels-founder-bhim-singh-for-taking-part-in-pagd-meet/story-udxobfJWFLA0WUZFqYdciI.html
08-11-2020||City||After amnesty, PMC deploys another tool to generate revenue||PUNE In a novel move to generate revenue through property tax collection, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has roped in health staff who visit houses as part of Covid prevention campaign. Many citizens have already taken the benefit of the amnesty scheme announced by PMC in order to generate revenue during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. PMC standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said that more staff have been deployed to collect property tax dues. Congress leader Aba Bagul had requested the Pune municipal commissioner that as health staff are visiting each household for Covid-19 related purposes, if they also distribute the PMC property tax forms to residents then the civic administration will get also information. Bagul said, “PMC has printed the property assessment forms and distributed it to all the 15 ward offices. Now health staff would distribute these forms to citizens.” According to Bagul, many citizens who want to pay tax are unable to do so as they are unable to assess their properties. “Many citizens have also changed the use of their property. Some properties have turned commercial but tax is paid under the residential slab. Filling the forms will help PMC get the requisite details and taxes to be paid,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-amnesty-pmc-deploys-another-tool-to-generate-revenue/story-6pwQeOLfCJQcz9dsIUyQfK.html
08-11-2020||Pune||PCMC plans to charge Rs2,000 for pet cremation||Pet lovers in Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) may now have to pay to carry out the last rites of their four-legged friends. The civic body has put a proposal to charge Rs 2,000 to cremate pets like cat and dog. The rising labour cost needed to cremate stray dogs has led PCMC to charge for cremation of pets. Pet owners out of PCMC limits may have to pay Rs 3,000 per pet. The electric incinerator for pet animals set up by PCMC at Nehrunagar’s Chirantan Pet Cemetery in 2013 was free for residents. “Labour and maintenance charges have increased as even strays are cremated here,” said Arun Maruti Dagade, veterinary officer and assistant superintendent (zoo). The Chirantan Pet Cemetery was built in 2007 and the incinerator of Rs 38 lakh can handle maximum weight of 80 kg at one time. As per the PCMC pet cremation data, from December 2016 to March 2020 a total of 1, 309 cats and dogs have been cremated. Maharashtra Natural Gas Limited provides CNG to the incinerator. “The proposal is expected to be passed in PCMC after the election code of conduct is lifted which is in place due to election for the graduate constituency,” said Dagade. Amol Patil, a businessman who has two pet dog, said, “I think charging cremation for pets is fine. I hope the cremation process is done properly.” Gunjan Jangid, IT professional, said, “When human are cremated free of cost then why PCMC is planning to charge for pets.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pcmc-plans-to-charge-rs2-000-for-pet-cremation/story-YsAdRBEc10obXISzaHeAbM.html
08-11-2020||Pune||Mixed signals as APMC ushers in VRS scheme despite state’s opposition to farmers’ bill||Despite the opposition by the Maha Vikas Aghadi government to the new agricultural reforms proposed by the Centre, the agriculture marketing board has decided to launch a Voluntarily Retirement Scheme (VRS) for the Agriculture Produce Market committee’s (APMC) employees.As per the new farm bill introduced by Central government, farmers have been more empowered over the APMC.According to the new bill, farmers don’t have to sell their produce at APMC markets. Farmers have the opportunity to sell the produce anywhere and anyone can purchase the produce from farmers directly.APMC marketing director Satish Soni issued the circular on November 5th. The circular stated, “As the revenue of APMC is going down due to new reforms, the VRS scheme would be executed at APMC. Employees and officers can take VRS under this scheme. The workers union itself demanded to introduce such a scheme. As per the request from the employees union, the marketing director is allowing APMC to execute VRS schemes at their level. For recruitment, APMC will now require permission from the marketing director.”The Marketing director has issued the circular and said that a maximum of 25 per cent employees can take VRS under this scheme which would get executed until March 2022.One of the top officials from the marketing board said on anonymity, “Before the Central government Maharashtra allowed some crops and fruits to sell outside the APMC since 2016. The Centre had brought new reforms in the last parliament session. All these would affect APMC and their revenues would definitely come down. On this background though, the politicians are opposing these reforms, it would be better to bring down the number of employees at APMC. It would help to keep APMCs in a better financial state.”Congress is carrying out tractor rallies all over Maharashtra to oppose the farmers’ bill but on the other hand the VRS scheme is getting executed at APMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/mixed-signals-as-apmc-ushers-in-vrs-scheme-despite-state-s-opposition-to-farmers-bill/story-KToEfwZPdK8vsdr1tuYdYN.html
08-11-2020||City||Pune district reports 447 fresh Covid-19 cases, 38 deaths in 24 hours||PUNE The district reported 447 fresh Covid-19 cases and 38 deaths on Saturday as per the state health department. Of the 3.38 lakh cases reported till date from the district, over 3.08 lakh patients have been declared as recovered from the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 infection and discharged from home isolation or hospital treatment.The total death toll for Pune district as per the state health department is 7,078 and currently, 22,274 are active cases.Pune city reported 173 new cases taking the total count to 173,865 and 29 deaths taking the death toll to 4,062. The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 99 cases taking the final count to 85,417 and two deaths taking the death toll to 1,169.Pune rural reported 175 new cases taking the final count to 78,789 and seven deaths taking the death toll to 1,814, according to the state health department.The state health department reported that 6,748 patients were discharged on Saturday taking the final count to over 15.69 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 91.53%. Also, 3,959 new cases in the state were reported on Saturday taking the total to over 17.14 lakh.In addition, 150 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state taking the death toll to 46,032. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.63%. Of 93,78,531 laboratory samples, 17,14,273 have been tested positive (18.28%) for Covid-19 until November 7. Currently, 10,71,163 people are in home quarantine and 9,799 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-district-reports-447-fresh-covid-19-cases-38-deaths-in-24-hours/story-2PEgyEL9Qi5uOObbeqt5cN.html
08-11-2020||Pune||Armed Forces must be ready to combat hybrid threats: IAF chief||Indian Air Force (IAF) Air Chief Marshal Rakesh Kumar Singh Bhadauria said today’s battlespace is complex and multi-dimensional involving security situation that is unpredictable. To deal with such situation, armed forces have to be ready to combat hybrid threats emanating from multiple fronts.The Air Force chief was speaking after reviewing the passing out parade for 217 cadets of 139th course at National Defence Academy (NDA) in Pune on Saturday. The conduct of parade at Khetarpal Parade Ground, NDA, was suitably modified so as to ensure Covid-19 related precautions and thus the parents could not be invited for the ceremony.A total of 540 cadets participated in the parade of which 302 cadets were from the 139th course. This included 222 Army cadets, 45 Naval cadets and 35 Air Force cadets including 17 cadets from Friendly Foreign Countries (Sri Lanka, Afghanistan, Vietnam, Maldives, Bhutan, Tanzania, Turkmenistan, Tajikistan and Myanmar).The cadets will proceed for eight weeks of term break and thereafter join their respective Pre-Commissioning Training Academies. Cadets of the junior courses will report back to the NDA on 04 Jan 2021.Bhadauria also welcomed the creation of the post of Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) and Department of Military Affairs (DMA), while terming it as the beginning of a historic phase of higher defence reforms in India.“The battlespace is becoming highly complex and multi-dimensional with unpredictable security scenario and high operational tempo. In the battle-space, operational response and demand will be an integrated synergistic approach to all operations,” said Bhadauria.“Our armed forces have to be prepared for hybrid threats emanating from multiple fronts. This mandates very high levels of knowledge, dedication, commitment and sacrifice and leadership at all levels at all times. This is what each service and the nation would expect from you,” he added.While addressing the cadets, IAF chief said the bonds of friendship that cadets have forged here, with course-mates, with squadron-mates, need to continue throughout life. “As you go into your service career and should translate always into better synergy at every stage of your career,” he said.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/armed-forces-must-be-ready-to-combat-hybrid-threats-iaf-chief/story-w802nUmLQh8aNurIv6RsAK.html
08-11-2020||City||Second wave on mind, admin asks hospitals to keeps tabs on patients with ILI and SARI symptoms||PUNE Anticipating a possible second wave, the district administration has now asked the government and private hospitals to notify the authorities about patients coming to them with influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) like symptoms.The administration is anticipating a second wave somewhere between January and February.Dr Ashish Bharati, health chief, PMC, said, “The private hospitals have been asked to send us information about patients who come to them complaining about any flu-like symptoms. If there are more such patients coming from one particular area then we will increase testing and contact tracing accordingly so that the spread is controlled at the primary level.”Earlier the administration has targeted local chemists to give this information and the civic-run flu clinics were addressing such patients but this time, the authorities have focused on just collecting the information but also analysing the data to find if any trend exists.The district administration in its meeting with the hospitals and local authorities informed that if theyget the ‘early warning signs’ for the flu-like symptoms then they can control the spread of the infection for which the flu clinics set up by the civic body or the rural administration will play the key role.The administration has also informed that under the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) all the primary health centres, sub-district hospitals, rural hospitals and select private hospitals must send weekly reports of such patients to the concerned authorities with details including the area from where the patient has come to understand if there is any ‘trend’ in the spread of the infection.The testing, containment zone plans and contact tracing strategy can be decided according to such trends, said officials...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/second-wave-on-mind-admin-asks-hospitals-to-keeps-tabs-on-patients-with-ili-and-sari-symptoms/story-AOHHiFarmw41JLhdTalnUM.html
08-11-2020||Pune||Covid-19 safety norms continued to be ignored at market in Hadapsar-Mundhwa ward||In spite of Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC’s) repeated appeals to comply with the Covid-19 safety norms, people continued to throng the Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru Market vegetable market in the Hadapsar-Mundhwa ward without following protocols.According to the PMC’s ward-wise data, Hadapsar-Mundhwa ward has reported as many as 16,171 Covid-19 cases as of November 4, which makes it the most affected ward. The doubling rate of the ward is 315.15 days and the ward has been reporting the maximum number of cases in 24 hours for over a month.Many people including vendors and buyers come for grocery shopping are seen ignoring the hygiene norms put in place by the administration.Yogesh Sasane, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) corporator from the area, said, “Despite repeated attempts, the vendors refuse to wear masks. It is a problem. PMC is also conducting multiple drives and penalising the vendors, but to no effect.”The ward office, on Friday, has collected a fine of Rs 15,200 from 85 people for not wearing masks. The civic body also conducted a community rapid antigen testing for all the vendors, about 700 people, in which not even a single vendor had tested positive.Somnath Bankar, assistant municipal commissioner of the ward, said, “We have conducted drives to penalise vendors if found not wearing face masks. We have also deployed our officials at that market to ensure that the vendors follow the norms.”The market is often visited by thousands on a daily basis with people purchasing vegetables and fish. The market is also visited by traders from the nearby farms and Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) who sell their produce to the vendors. Vendors are often seen not wearing masks and coughing and sneezing. The market is located just 100 metres away from the Hadapsar-Mundhwa ward office which is responsible for implementing the norms.The district administration in its strategy paper has described vegetable vendors and market places as ‘super spreaders’ who would play a crucial role in controlling the possible ‘second wave’ of Covid-19 with people ignoring social distancing and even wearing masks in public places and administration may find it a challenge to control the number of cases in this ward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-safety-norms-continued-to-be-ignored-at-market-in-hadapsar-mundhwa-ward/story-QcomWpHZubARB3K5VEifsO.html
08-11-2020||Chandigarh||Valmiki community, West Pakistan Refugees oppose Gupkar alliance||Valmiki communities and West Pakistan Refugees (WPRs) criticised the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) for seeking restoration of the ‘highly discriminatory Articles 370 and 35-A’ on Saturday. Valmiki community leader Gharu Bhatti said, “They never met us before. Today, too, they did not sought a meeting with us. They met different delegations from civil society but we were not invited.” “If Article 370 is restored. What will be our fate? Will we again be relegated to second-class citizens? The PAGD leaders don’t value us. They ruined Kashmir and want to do the same in Jammu,” said Bhatti. He said, “We were the biggest victims of the highly-discriminatory Articles (370 and 35-A). If these article are restored again, will we again be given brooms and continue to work as safai karamcharis. We were brought here in 1957 from Gurdaspur and Amritsar on the assurance of the then Prime Minister of J&K Bakshi Ghulam Mohammed that we will be given permanent resident status and other privileges. But for 62 years we worked as sweepers irrespective of our educational qualifications. We were not entitled to apply for any other government jobs,” said Bhatti. He also demanded that arrest warrants be issued against the leaders for ‘seditious remarks pertaining to the Tricolour and China. West Pakistan Refugees Action Committee chairperson Labha Ram Gandhi said they too were opposed to the PAGD. “I appeal to the people of Jammu to boycott them. They will ruin Jammu as well. If India has become one nation then what’s wrong in it,” he said. If industries come to Jammu, there will be more jobs for the youth, said Gandhi. Gandhi represents 1.25 lakh West Pak refugees, belonging to scheduled castes and backward classes. Before August 5, 2019 West Pak refugees were not considered residents of the erstwhile state and were not entitled to jobs and admission to professional courses. They had fled Pakistan from Sialkot during Partition and settled in Jammu, Samba and Kathua districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/valmiki-community-west-pakistan-refugees-oppose-gupkar-alliance/story-oMS8LtHhqsY3LfR1E6jxRL.html
08-11-2020||Chandigarh||HT Chandigarh Our Take: Let’s celebrate a happy but safe Diwali||The festival of lights, Diwali, is just around the corner, heralding the advent of the winter months and the final months of a gloomy year or annus horribilis, as Queen Elizabeth once famously put it, in which a Covid-19 wreaked havoc on the planet, forcing nations to declare lockdowns, keeping people confined indoors for months, destroying economies and lives.What is worrying is that despite a brief respite, the Covid-19 tally crossed the 15,000 mark to reach 15,025 in Chandigarh on Saturday, breaching the 100 mark on Friday after the span of one month. The home ministry’s “unlock” directions have resulted in opening of most services, including restaurants, workplaces – even schools for higher classes earlier this week. So, with the festive and wedding season combined, the rise in Covid numbers comes as no surprise.In a season where the air quality has also deteriorated because of the drop in temperatures and stubble burning, the UT administration’s decision to ban firecrackers seems to be a move in the right direction. However, with the ban coming just a few days before Diwali could mean huge losses for dealers who have already bought their stock of firecrackers for the season.At a time when the economy is in the doldrums and the fear of Covid-19 is intensifying again with a second surge very likely, how can Diwali be celebrated in the best way possible?Should crowds be thronging markets for festival shopping? Should firecrackers be burst? If not, what happens to the stock already purchased by dealers? Stubble burning is still continuing, because of which the Air Quality Index on November 3 and 4 crossed 200 (poor category).These are critical, unprecedented times. People need to feel positive and celebrate life to keep looking forward to better times, but the Covid threat persists, requiring abundant caution. This is the time to stop, reflect and take a decision that’s for everyone’s benefit – not for just one person or two.Question of the Week: Festival dilemma: What’s the best way to celebrate the festive season?With Covid cases surging and AQI getting worse, how do you plan to celebrate Diwali? Send your responses to chandigarh@hindustantimes.com with your photograph by November 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ht-chandigarh-our-take-let-s-celebrate-a-happy-but-safe-diwali/story-erPNIn8RSBLh5YPV50BwcL.html
08-11-2020||Mumbai||Only 4 out of 20 smart projects in Kalyan-Dombivli completed; rest gaining momentum, says civic body||Four years after its inception, only four out of the 20 projects listed by the Smart Kalyan Dombivli Corporation Limited (SKDCL) are completed, as per the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation’s (KDMC) record. The project faced several technical issues till early this year. The KDMC, though, has claimed that the projects have gained momentum since February.Three out of the four completed projects are solid waste management that includes automated solid waste management, 10 metric ton bio-methanation plant at Umbarde and garbage bins at household level for segregation. The fourth project is installing LED street lights across the city.The major projects that are meant to decongest the city’s station areas, improve parking facilities, waterfront development, lake-beautification and smart transport are still pending.The commissioner, Vijay Suryavanshi, who is the chief executive officer of SKDCL, said, “The work under smart city was slow initially due to technical issues. The consultants were changed twice. Since February this year, the work has received a push. We have managed to hold three meetings of the city level advisory forum.”Suryavanshi added that the tender for beautification of Kala Talao lake has been finalised. The work order for the most important project of Kalyan station, SATIS, will also be given soon.The projects under the smart city mission were introduced by the KDMC in 2016. In the last four years, the civic body has managed to initiate the work for city park project in Gauripada, Kalyan (W), traffic signals and CCTV at major junctions in Kalyan Dombivli and a control command centre for CCTV at the headquarters of KDMC.The civic body had proposed the projects worth ₹1,445Cr. Presently, the civic body has acquired ₹194Cr funds from the state and central government.After almost 18 years, traffic signals are being installed at five out of the 20 major junctions in the city under the project.Yogesh Dalvi, 47, social activist from Kalyan, said, “Even though the traffic signals are installed on a trial basis, there is no proper management. In some places, the signals installed are not visible from a long distance due to the advertisement boards. The installed signals are also defunct at times. There is a need for improvement in the signal management system.”Residents of Kalyan-Dombivli claim that there is no clear picture on the status of most projects.“I think the project under the smart city that we have been waiting for is the Kalyan and Dombivli station area development. Even today, we face a lot of trouble taking the station due to congestion. Traffic signals are a must but unless there is a wider road, what is the point in putting up the signals if there is congestion,” said Saurabh Joshi, 37, a resident of Paar naka, Kalyan (W).Experts claim that the idea of a smart city was itself not clear and it was flawed. They claim that the projects planned in the cities are not implemented effectively because the authorities fail to look into the basic amenities at first.Mayuresh Bhadsavle, an urban policy maker from Thane, said,“ In Kalyan-Dombivli, the station area development, which was one of the aspired projects, did not get a push as the stakeholders like transport authority, auto rickshaw unions or the railway failed to come to a common conclusion. Also, the proposal prepared by the civic bodies for the projects are data centric without taking into consideration the ground infrastructure. The traffic signals project does not make much difference as roads are narrow and there is no relief from congestion.“Two major issues pertaining to the smart city mission are that it did not take into account the environmental needs and the support of local communities. For the water front development project, people from Koli communities were not taken into confidence. This affects the implementation at all levels.”Bhadsavle also claimed that in KDMC, the commissioner has changed every one or two years, impacting the smart city projects.Suryavanshi said, “The work of road concretisation and widening is already under progress. We are trying to give a push to all major projects that will help decongest the city one by one.”PROJECTS COMPLETEDAutomated solid waste management: ₹1.43CrLED street light pilot project: ₹0.62Cr10 MT bio-methanation plant at Umbarde: ₹1.88CrGarbage bins at household level for segregation: ₹1.35CrPENDING PROJECTSCity Park: The phase 1 work of the project located at Gauripada, Kalyan (W) is 14 per cent completed by spending ₹7.54Cr. The total cost of the project is ₹114Cr. It includes construction of a swimming pool, health club, auditorium, tennis court, restaurants, cafe and other facilities.Control Command Room, Traffic signals and CCTV: This project is ready and will be opened soon. The room is set up at the KDMC headquarters near Shivaji chowk in Kalyan (W). It will help in monitoring the traffic signals and CCTVs and other projects under the Smart city mission. The work of installation of the traffic signals is under progress. Signals have been installed at five major junctions out of the 20 on a trial basis. The total cost of this project is ₹149Cr. A total of ₹20.67 has been spent on these projects with the completion of 25 per cent of the work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/only-4-out-of-20-smart-projects-in-kalyan-dombivli-completed-rest-gaining-momentum-says-civic-body/story-Yo6Xv9uAK6WANydfLOkqlI.html
08-11-2020||Mumbai||NGO opposes Ulhasnagar traders’ idea of using Gol Maidan for parking||While the Ulhasnagar traders have sought parking space for four wheelers at the Gol Maidan, the Hirali Foundation from the suburb has opposed the notion. The Foundation has suggested that instead of damaging the open space at Gol Maidan, wedding lawns in the city be used for parking.The Ulhasnagar traders association had approached the Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC) commissioner to allot the ground for parking four wheelers during Diwali. Sarita Khanchandani, founder of Hirali Foundation, said, “We are not against parking facilities in the city. Parking facility is a must to decongest the city. However, Gol Maidan is usually occupied for cultural events. If parking is permitted, the, children will be deprived of open space.”The foundation had lodged several complaints with the civic body against the misuse of Gol Maidan. Sprawled over two acres, Gol Maidan in Ulhasnagar has been popular with children and senior citizens. It has now turned into a venue for public and political gatherings, events and fairs. Children hardly have space to play there. Although there is a volleyball court, it has not been maintained properly. Only 20 per cent of the ground is used by the children and the rest is let out for public and political gatherings.“All the marriage lawns in the city are now lying vacant. the civic body can approach their owners and ask them to take up parking facility for vehicles in the city. This is a better option than just overusing the playground,” said Khanchandani.The Ulhasnagar traders association had cited the need for a parking lot as vehicles parked on the roads cause major congestion in the city during Diwali, and also cited Gol Maidan as an option.An officer from UMC not wishing to be named said, “The civic chief has not yet taken any decision on allotting the ground for parking. If there is an opposition to it, then we will consider all the points and only then take a decision.”The fight against the violations at Gol Maidan began in December 2016 after a spiritual event was organised on the ground. Residents complained about noise pollution during the event. Hirali Foundation, an NGO fighting against noise pollution, filed a contempt petition against the Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC) in the Bombay high court.The Foundation wants the ground only for children. The Gol Maidan, earlier, had no fencing and was open to children throughout the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ngo-opposes-ulhasnagar-traders-idea-of-using-gol-maidan-for-parking/story-mhT5aWFsVg6N2AFvYA6BhP.html
08-11-2020||Mumbai||Anti Narcotics Cell arrests duo for selling methamphetamine worth ₹4.7L in Navi Mumbai||The Anti Narcotics Cell (ANC) of the Navi Mumbai crime branch recently arrested a fish seller and a hotel manager possessing ₹4.7 lakh worth of methamphetamine. The accused men were selling the drugs in Koparkhairane when they were arrested last week.The ANC officials said they received information about a possible drug deal in Sector 19, Koparkhairane. The officials vetted it and laid a trap near Jai Santoshi Maa playground on October 26.The accused duo, identified as Virendra Pujari, 43, and Mithun Pujari, 31, were nabbed and searched on suspicion.“Our information was verified after the two men were spotted near the footpath, where they arrived on a motorbike. We seized 94 grams of methamphetamine from their possession,” said Ravindra Budhwant, senior inspector at the ANC.Virendra works as a fish seller while his accomplice, Mithun, was working at a hotel as a manager. Both are residents of Koparkhairane. Virendra, too, had started working at a hotel, but during the lockdown in March, the men had no jobs as hotels were shuttered.The duo claimed that they started peddling drugs during the lockdown but police suspect that Virendra had been in the business for longer. Mithun has joined the trade recently, said an officer, privy to the investigations.Police said the men would purchase drugs from Mumbra in Thane and then sell it in Navi Mumbai. The ANC is on the lookout for their supplier who is yet to be arrested.Police found ₹2.62 lakh worth 52 grams of drugs on Virendra and Mithun was carrying the remaining drugs of ₹2.1 lakh in a small packet of 42 grams.The duo has been booked under various sections of Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. During the raid, police also seized the men’s phones and the motorbike on which they arrived. The accused are currently remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/anti-narcotics-cell-arrests-duo-for-selling-methamphetamine-worth-4-7l-in-navi-mumbai/story-solHFSqSipZjaz8yM9PG9J.html
08-11-2020||Mumbai||Man in Ulhasnagar commits suicide after argument with son||A 56-year-old man committed suicide after an argument with his son on Friday. The son did not put up his regular food stall in Ulhasnagar on Friday, which angered the father before taking the extreme step. The deceased was a resident of Khemni village of Ulhasnagar Camp No. 3, staying along with his son, daughter-in-law and grandchildren.On the morning of November 6, his son didn’t go to operate the food stall which used to be initially operated by the deceased a few years ago. His son was allegedly irregular at the stall, which angered the deceased. Kalyan Taluka police officials, said, “ The deceased, after his argument, left home and later his body was found in the river under the Rayta Bridge. We are investigating whether he met someone before doing his act.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-in-ulhasnagar-commits-suicide-after-argument-with-son/story-QyPOPHfk1ICHCFBYn4ZJxM.html
08-11-2020||Noida||Man shoots self while taking selfie in Greater Noida; cops detain victim’s friend||A 22-year-old man allegedly shot himself in the chest while taking a selfie in Greater Noida west on Saturday afternoon. The victim — identified as Saurabh Mavi, a resident of Dhrampura village — was rushed to a private hospital where he was declared brought dead. Police have detained Mavi’s friend Nakul Sharma, who was travelling with him in a car at the time of the incident. Ankur Aggarwal, additional DCP (Noida central), said that the incident came to light around 3pm when Mavi’s friend Sharma, who is in early 20s, called up the police control room to inform about the incident. Sharma and Mavi were friends and have known each other for some years, investigators said. Sharma told police that Mavi had reached his sweet shop in the afternoon and later planned to visit a mutual friend, Sachin, in Sector Pi-3 in Greater Noida “Sharma has told us that he and Mavi left the shop in his Maruti Vitara Brezza for Pi-3. On the way Mavi suddenly took out a gun and started posing for a selfie,” police said in a press statement. Police said that when the duo reached somewhere near Ace City roundabout in Greater Noida west, Sharma accidentally pulled the trigger of the gun, firing once. The bullet pierced Mavi’s chest and he was wounded. Sharma immediately rushed Mavi to Sharda hospital. Ajit Kumar, Sharda Hospital PRO, said that the victim had received critical injuries and he was declared brought dead. “The victim died due to critical injuries and blood loss. The hospital has informed the police about the matter,” he said. Police have sent the body for a post-mortem and a medical report is awaited. Bisrakh police have detained Sharma and are questioning him regarding the case. A forensics team is also collecting evidence from the weapon and the finger prints of Mavi to check if he was involved in the incident. Aggarwal said that the victim’s family is yet to file a complaint in this regard. Police said that it appears the gun used in the crime is a licenced revolver. Police are investigating the source of weapon and why the victim was carrying the weapon at the time of the incident. Local residents expressed shock over the incident. Nisha Rai, a resident of Noida Sector 77, said that there is need to create mental health awareness. “People are facing anxiety and mental issues. There is need to discuss these issues with family members and counsel youth to avoid unwanted incidents,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/man-shoots-self-while-taking-selfie-in-greater-noida-cops-detain-victim-s-friend/story-iNPQ7HAYEPMb7qlMwlYDkM.html
08-11-2020||Noida||Woman, 4-year-old son fall to death from 17th floor apartment in Greater Noida west||Greater Noida: A 28-year-old woman and her four-year-old son fell to death from their 17th floor apartment in Greater Noida West on Saturday morning, the police said. The woman’s husband had gone to his hometown in Sambhal when the incident took place. The woman was a homemaker while her husband runs transport business. Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said that the police received information from society residents at 9am. “A police team reached and found the woman and the child critically wounded. They were rushed to a private hospital where doctors declared them brought dead,” he said. The police cordoned off the area and a forensic team soon reached to gather evidence. The police team visited the victims’ home and found the sister of the woman’s husband. “The husband’s sister had some burn injury marks on her face. It appears the two women had quarrelled over some issue before the incident,” he said.The woman’s sister-in-law is a student in a private college and lives in a hostel. She was visiting her brother’s house in Greater Noida West. She has been admitted in a private hospital for her burn injuries.Chander said that the victim’s husband is on the way back. “We will question him to see what led to this incident. We are investigating the matter from all angles,” he said.Munish Chauhan, station house officer, Bisrakh police station, said that the victim woman was from Ghaziabad. “The victim’s father has filed a complaint against her in-laws for harassment. We are investigating the matter,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/woman-4-year-old-son-fall-to-death-from-17th-floor-apartment-in-greater-noida-west/story-80CxW7wXw9LLZAVTks932K.html
08-11-2020||Noida||Amazon employee booked in Noida for fraud worth ₹7.75 lakh||Noida: An employee of e-commerce giant Amazon was booked on Saturday over alleged fraud on the pretext of refund of products. The Noida Sector 58 police have registered a case on the basis of a complaint by Amazon, and have launched an investigation into the matter.According to the police, the suspect, Rajat Sharma, is a resident of Uttam Nagar in Delhi.The complaint was filed by the company’s authorised representative, Tushar Bagga. In the complaint he alleged that Sharma has been working with the company at its Noida Sector 62 office as a customer service associate. “He abused his authority and approved illegal refunds of fake customers,” he alleged in the FIR.Bagga alleged that Sharma used to book expensive products such as mobile phones and other digital products using fake IDs, and then facilitated refunds without following company guidelines. “Sharma worked in the customer care department. His works involved addressing complaints and facilitating refunds. There is a process of refund where customers file a complaint and return the products, and then their money is refunded. The refund and concessions are issued when the customers contact the company. In some cases, the suspect himself approved concession/refunds without an application from the customer,” Bagga alleged.Most of the accounts which had placed such orders and requests for refunds had allegedly been on the same IP address. The company noticed foul play and launched an internal investigation into the matter and allegedly found that one product was booked and a refund request was made on the name of Sharma’s sister. These products were allegedly booked from September 2019 to January 2020 and then sought illegal refunds. Sharma has allegedly defrauded the company products worth ₹7.75 lakh, Bagga said in the FIR. When contacted, Sharma said that the allegations against him were not true. “I am still an employee of the company,” he said before disconnecting the call. Athar Khan, senior sub-inspector of Sector 58, the case was registered under sections 66-D and 420 (cheating) of IPC. “We will seek help from cyber cell to investigate the matter and take appropriate action,” he said.When contacted, an Amazon India spokesperson said: “As India’s most trusted online marketplace we take incidents of fraud seriously. A case has been reported, and the local police are investigating. We will co-operate and support the investigations as and when called for.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/amazon-employee-booked-in-noida-for-fraud-worth-7-75-lakh/story-m129HFFpJ9O59MtS0OeAzI.html
08-11-2020||Chandigarh||Witerati: Chithi chithi gang gang||Donald Trump has done for democracy what a petulant and pouty progeny who isn’t served a second helping of Death by Chocolate Donut or who’s denied another trip to Disneyland does – staged tantrums, left right and centre.What the Trump tantrum narrative has earned him is a place not only in poll history but also in histrionics.It’s not easy to outmatch the histrionics, oops hiss-trionics, of the Great Indian Neta Rolled Into Abhineta, when it comes to ‘chappal catapulting’ parliamentary politics.The chappal politics of the Indian neta is wil(l)y-nilly wont to be gravity defying, but what the Trump tantrums did smacked of even more “gravity” – it was gravitas defying.Tantrum-y Trump put Indian parliamentarians to shame by staging what none of our desi prime ministerial or presidential candidates have perhaps enacted – Drama of Denial Mode that made for Theatre of the Absurd. Trump’s public staging of the dramatics of denial mode bore (un)poetic resemblance to the melodrama of a sulking six year old shredding to smithereens a school report card that declares him flunked.Tweeple on turf closer home tasted not only the Battle of the Ballot, but also another battle – Donald-ism VS Decibel-ism.Tamasha TV’s saner channel cousins punctuated breaking news bulletins with tell-all taglines – “News Without Noise” or “No Noise, Only News”. That compounded Couch Potatoes’ confusion – did these taglines resonate the sound and fury emanating from Trump or did the camouflaged catchphrase-ism allude to the lull in the lungs of Loudmouths like jailed Arnab Goswami, the subtext smacking of another war – channel war?The curious case of “For Whom the Ballot T(r)olls”.When Harris met SulkyWell, it’s not for us to do a dissection or dissertation of Donald-esque denial mode. What concerns us more is misadventures closer home – what kept our Lollita, Lamba ji & Co busy during the epic Battle of the Ballot.Remember, the Trump-Biden theatrics coincided with another battle – Qualifiers for #IPL2020 final.So the scenario scripts thus: Lollita is all agog not so much about Trump making history or histrionics, but the making of Harris. She’s busy telephonically twattling and also twiddling on her touchscreen, texting Tamil friends for enlightenment on vernacular vocabulary – struggling to master the pronunciation of Thulasendrapuram, Kamala Harris’ village.Lamba ji’s eyeballs are engaged in a nail-biting finish of the Battle of the Berth, and he’s in no mood to lend his ears, Biden or unbidden. Lamba ji’s lungs lustily root for Mumbai Indians, “Kamaal hai ... Kamaal!”Lollita too is lost in a nail-biting finish, but her vocal cords chortle cheeringly for an American-Indian, “Kamala ... Kamala!”The next moment, bowler Jasprit breaks a record, propelling MI ahead in the Battle of the Berth. Lamba ji erupts into elation, “Bumrah … Bumrah!”Lollita too breaks into jollifications, but at the breaking of an American glass ceiling, “Bhangra, bhangra!”Amid the cricket cheering, Lamba ji remembers the letter from his head office which arrived that morning. “Honey, can you pass me the chithhi?”Lollita is in no mood for distractions, she’s engrossed in deconstructions – of Kamala’s viral vocabulary. Lamba ji returns rebuffed to IPL action, like a surly schoolboy who keeps raising his hand but the teacher turns a blind eye.Showing off her smattering of newly imbibed Tamil, Lollita speed dials her TamBrahm girlie gang to go gaga, “Chithis... Chithis!”The curious case of “Chithis Creak”.chetnakeer@yahoo.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/witerati-chithi-chithi-gang-gang/story-4CCiXLtbDg7UKo4gJKHNzI.html
08-11-2020||Noida||Noida police to issue ‘green’ fire cracker licence for three days||Noida: The Noida police will issue licences to fire cracker vendors to sell green crackers for three days in Greater Noida, officials said. The police department will accept applications from interested vendors till November 8. It will also issue a helpline number for people to seek help in case of injuries due to fire cracker bursting.Suhas LY, Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate, said that a state government order and The Explosive Substances Act mandates the commissionerate to look after these issues.The Noida police on Saturday issued a press statement inviting applications for fire cracker licenses from vendors. Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said that temporary licences will be issued to some vendors. “We are inviting applications from interested vendors from November 4-8. We received five applications till Friday. We will evaluate them and issue licences through lottery draw. The licences will be for green fire crackers only,” he said. The licence will be issued from November 11 to 13. All vendors will have to sell the fire crackers in stalls allocated at the Knowledge Park playground. Officials said that they will set up a helpline at Sharda University for treatment of people with burn injuries, if any.The Delhi government, on the other hand, on Thursday had imposed a blanket ban on firecrackers, including those branded ‘green’, between November 7 and 30, with the city reeling under the impact of hazardous air quality. Singh said he has not received any communication from Delhi government over the issue.Ajit Kumar, Sharda Hospital PRO, said the hospital has a burn unit and an ICU. “We have collaborated with the Noida police to treat burn injuries. We will soon issue a helpline number where people can contact and get help,” he said. The helpline will be active from November 10 to 15.On Saturday, Noida and Greater Noida recorded an air quality index (AQI) 426 and 428, respectively, both in “severe” category, as per data by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). Alok Singh, a resident of Sector Alpha 1 in Greater Noida, said that fire crackers should be banned as the air quality is not good these days. “People should act responsibly. Diwali is a festival of lights. This is not a good time to burst fire crackers which will only worsen the air quality,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-police-to-issue-green-fire-cracker-licence-for-three-days/story-WNyl6okkZnRitthlWHSPTP.html
08-11-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad plans to make 34 major markets ‘vehicle-free zone’ till Diwali||Ghaziabad: The The Ghaziabad administration has planned to make 34 major markets in the city “vehicle-free zones” up to Diwali, in order to check over-crowding and to reduce traffic, besides reducing vehicle emissions. District officials have also issued an advisory in which residents living in the vicinity of 500 metres of markets have been requested to walk to the markets instead of taking their vehicles along.The Ghaziabad city has 34 major markets across Indirapuram, Vaishali, Sahibabad, Bajaria, Gandhi Nagar, Nehru Nagar, Mohan Nagar, Shastri Nagar, Turab Nagar, Vasundhara, Kaushambi, Raj Nagar District Centre, Kavi Nagar, Rajendra Nagar, Shyam Park, Raj Nagar Extension, Navyug Market and Ambedkar Road, apart from and those in Delta Colonies of Ramprastha, Brij Vihar, Surya Nagar and Chander Nagar.“I have directed officers to find open parking spaces for visitors where they can park their vehicles near markets and walk the rest of the way for shopping. If there are several markets in the vicinity, one major parking lot nearby is to be identified. The plan is likely to be implemented from Tuesday next week up to Diwali. If this plan yields good results, it will be continued for a couple of days after Diwali festival as well,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. “The idea is to reduce congestion which will also help us control mixing of people in markets, otherwise it may have an adverse impact in terms of spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease,” he added.The administration has directed officials to find out big parking areas near markets. The Ghaziabad city has been facing high pollution levels. “The idea for vehicle-free zones in markets is a welcome move as traders also face issues as vehicles move inside markets and create chaos. Also, during the times of the pandemic, over-crowding must be reduced at all cost. However, appropriate parking spaces should be made available to visitors where they can park vehicles safely,” said Rajneesh Bansal, chairperson of Turab Nagar Vyapar Mandal.Traders also said that once the plan comes into effect, it should be supplemented strictly to maintain order in markets and enforcement against people not wearing masks should also be implemented strictly. “The traders will surely help out the administration in carrying out the vehicle-free market plan. Further, we request the admin to streamline small vendors who occupy roads, which lead to chaos. Some separate space should be marked for them as well. In major markets, the administration should also define a line beyond which no trader or vendor should be allowed to keep goods or stock,” said Pradeep Gupta, convener of Vyapari Ekta Samiti – Indirapuram in Ghaziabad. At present, Ghaziabad city has a large vehicle-free zone at Raj Nagar District Centre which was recently inaugurated by the development authority and a nearby parking lot is provided for visitors. “We are planning for implementation of vehicle-free markets. This will help reduce congestion which will also reduce emissions and their effect on air quality,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of the UP pollution control board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-plans-to-make-34-major-markets-vehicle-free-zone-till-diwali/story-skyq03j4BjcIj31cK5LdMK.html
08-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body identifies 1 lakh frontline workers who will get vaccine first||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has identified 1 lakh frontline workers working as Covid-19 warriors in government and private hospitals who will be given the Covid-19 vaccine first after the trial runs are completed and the vaccine is available in the market.BMC officials said they have compiled data on 1 lakh frontline workers who are going to be priority for vaccine distribution followed by senior citizens. Till now, more than 2,500 frontline workers of BMC have been contracted Covid-19 and more than 150 have lost their lives.Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner of BMC, said, “We have identified a total of 1 lakh frontline workers in the city who will be given vaccine on priority once the vaccine is available. These 1 lakh frontline workers involve workers from both private and government institutions.”Kakani added, “After frontline workers, the vaccine will be administered on senior citizens. The Central and state governments will also issue guidelines on further distribution. However, the school of thought is such that frontline workers and senior citizens are going to be priority.”According to BMC, the vaccine distribution strategy will be amended from time to time based on the guidelines received from the Central and state governments.The Central government has, two month ago, already formed an expert committee comprising representatives from all relevant ministries and institutions to oversee all aspects of Covid-19 vaccine plan — from identification of the vaccine, to buying, to financing the purchase, to distribution and administration.The identification process undertaken by BMC is part of the civic body’s vaccine distribution strategy. HT had, on October 4, reported that BMC will draw up a plan for vaccine distribution starting November.In terms of vaccine trials, BMC has kicked off trials of the Covid-19 vaccine developed by Oxford University a month ago. The trial is being undertaken at the civic-run KEM Hospital.India is banking on four types of vaccines for which trials are being conducted or will be started in the coming days. The four types of vaccine include the BCG vaccine, the vaccine by Oxford University, Russia’s Sputnik V, and India’s Covaxin by Bharat-Biotech.The Serum Institute of India, which is conducting trials for the vaccine by Oxford University, had two days ago said that the vaccine can be made available starting January 2021, if it is found to be successful.Meanwhile, on the status of antibodies, BMC said it doesn’t plan to conduct any fresh sero surveillance study which is undertaken to ascertain whether an individual has developed Covid-19 antibodies.A BMC official said, “It is natural that with more time, more people have started developing antibodies, and this could be one of the reasons why the number of cases has been going down in the city.”Meanwhile, the city’s daily case positivity rate is below 10% since the past five days, and active cases are also going down. As of Friday, the city had 262,473 Covid-19 cases and 10,399 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-identifies-1-lakh-frontline-workers-who-will-get-vaccine-first/story-8IIwFlEuKuXMa99NkAcWGN.html
08-11-2020||Noida||Noida, Ghaziabad see no scope of improvement as air quality remain severe for third day||Noida: The air quality of the National Capital Region (NCR) worsened on Saturday as pollution levels refused to budge from the “sever” category in Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad for the third day.According to analysts, weather conditions will remain unfavourable for ventilation of marginal dispersion of pollutants till November 11. On Saturday, wind speed in Noida and adjoining areas dropped to 4-5 kmph, which is not enough for dispersion of the smog cover in the city. Meanwhile, north-westerly winds – coming from Punjab and Haryana where myriad instances of stubble burning have been reported – are bringing in more smoke to the region.“Wind speed did pick up in some parts of NCR, however, in Noida and adjoining areas, it was calm at 4-5 kmph, due to which dispersal of pollutants was not much. Weather conditions will remain so till November 9, after which wind direction will change from westerly to easterly. Now, when the direction changes, the speed drops for a few days, due to which on November 10 and 11 pollution levels may increase further,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, India Meteorological Department (IMD).Meanwhile, instances of stubble burning in neighbouring states have increased. According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), a private weather forecasting agency, there were a total of 4,528 instances of fires on Friday in at least four northern states, against 3,225 on Thursday.According to the agency, Thursday’s figure was the all-time seasonal high, and with the addition of more than 1,000 on Friday, such instances are peaking.“The air quality has declined, despite moderate day time dispersion conditions, owing to sustained and unusually high fire emissions. Surface winds became calm today (Saturday) morning and pollutants are accumulating near the surface. Safar synergised that stubble fire counts over Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and neighbouring areas increased and stood at 4,528 on Friday, the highest of this season,” said a Safar statement.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida, on a scale of 0 to 500, dropped to 426 on Saturday against 406 a day earlier, while Greater Noida was 428 against 421 on Friday. Ghaziabad was 436 on Saturday against 433 a day earlier.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe.”Meanwhile, the average PM2.5 for Noida was 346.5 microgrammes per cubic metres (µg/m3), which is eight times the safe limit, against 270.67µg/m3 a day earlier. The PM10 for Noida was 546.62µg/m3– nine times the safe limits – against 478.077µg/m3 a day earlier.The PM2.5 and PM10 for Greater Noida was 321.55µg/m3 (276.25µg/m3 on Thursday) and 536.37µg/m3 (520.17µg/m3 on Thursday), respectively. The standard limits for PM2.5 is 40µg/m3 and for PM10 is 60µg/m3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-ghaziabad-see-no-scope-of-improvement-as-air-quality-remain-severe-for-third-day/story-8oxrVLsZIvqNFNUyBHa2OL.html
08-11-2020||Gurugram||Cops seal shops selling firecrackers||A day after chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar announced a statewide ban on the sale and bursting of firecrackers to prevent air pollution, the Gurugram Police on Saturday carried out a sealing drive of shops selling crackers. A police official said videography of shops selling crackers was done on Saturday morning and traders were directed to stop selling crackers till November 30 as per the directive of the government.The city has 11 major cracker dealers and six stockists also called magazine holders, located mostly in Qaddipur and Ghadoli villages, on the outskirts of the city.Gurugram Police said that the traders were asked to stop the sale of crackers on Saturday morning itself after the ban was announced by the chief minister on Friday. “Videography of shops was carried out in the morning and traders were asked to resume sale only after November 30, when the ban is supposed to be revoked,” said inspector Sanjay Kumar, SHO, Sector 10, whose area has a number of such shops.The district administration is yet to issue a formal direction in this regard but the traders, who ceased operations due to police action on Saturday morning, said that their business will be greatly affected due to the ban.The traders said roughly 12 to15 crore of sales happens during Diwali. The ban will greatly affect the business. They said that every year, governments announce a ban on crackers without consulting them and give them no time to prepare.Anil Nagpal, a trader based in Qadipur, said that around 2,500 to 3,000 people are engaged in this business in this city and their income would be badly hit. “Who will buy crackers after November 30. Most of the sale of crackers happen before Diwali. Further, we are selling only green crackers, which cause very less pollution and are more expensive than normal crackers. The government should have at least given us a couple of days so that we could have prepared for this situation,” said Nagpal.The traders said that a delegation also met the district authorities in this regard but they were told that the ban was being imposed on account of the Covid-19 pandemic.Pawan Kumar Jhamb, another cracker dealer, said that the government should listen to their plight and allow for a limited sale of green crackers. “A lot of traders have taken stock on credit and this ban will ensure that they won’t be able to make payments throughout the year as 80% of the revenue is generated during Diwali,” he said.On Friday, the public relations department of the Haryana government posted a tweet stating that with a view to preventing the risk of spread of Covid-19 due to the polluted atmosphere created by the bursting of crackers, the Haryana government has decided to put a complete ban on the sale of crackers in the state.Despite repeated attempts, Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, and Prashant Panwar, additional deputy commissioner, did not respond to requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cops-seal-shops-selling-firecrackers/story-iFcmfWAutxrC8UsOAxTCGJ.html
08-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: No mashal march outside Matoshree, Maratha Kranti Morcha’s protest contained in a ground||Maratha Kranti Morcha’s attempt to organise the mashal march outside Matoshree, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s residence in Bandra, did not materialise as the police did not allow protesters to hold the march.Rally organisers instead had to stage their protest in the ground opposite the collector’s office at Bandra. Their attempts to storm out of the ground were resisted by the police. After five hours, state transport minister Anil Parab met the protesters and assured that Thackeray will meet them next week.The protesters demanded that the government take steps to give relief to the Maratha community in view of the Supreme Court stay on Maratha reservation.One of the coordinators, Abhijit Ghag, said Matoshree was chosen as the venue as it was the destination where many problems related to Maharashtrians were solved. “For decades, whenever any Maharashtrian faced any problem, Balasaheb Thackeray (Shiv Sena founder and Uddhav Thackeray’s father) would solve them at Matoshree. We now expect his son, who heads the state, to take proactive steps,” said Ghag. He said that the state government has the power to ensure a way out of this crisis.On September 9, the Supreme Court (SC) stayed the implementation of the law granting reservation to Marathas and referred the matter to a larger constitutional bench. The Apex court had said that the state government had not shown any extraordinary situation which warrants the reservation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-no-mashal-march-outside-matoshree-maratha-kranti-morcha-s-protest-contained-in-a-ground/story-Qa8A32WiI61MNVqqQKObHP.html
08-11-2020||Gurugram||City’s air quality enters severe category for the second time this week||Air quality in the city entered the “severe” category on Saturday for the second time this season with a reading of 439 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) air quality index (AQI) bulletin. Saturday’s reading is up from the previous day’s AQI reading of 392 in the “very poor” category. Earlier, on Thursday, the air quality had entered the “severe” category. Officials and experts attributed the spike in pollution to low wind speed, falling temperature and stubble burning. According to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the air quality is likely to remain in the upper end of the “very poor” category on Sunday. Air quality is expected to remain in the “severe” to “very poor” categories on Monday as well. The average daily concentration of particulate matter (PM) 2.5, the city’s most prominent pollutant, on Saturday was 436.95µg/m³, as per the HSPCB’s official air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan. “Low speed winds are a major reason behind the increase in pollution. Due to calmer wind speed, the dispersion of pollutants is not taking place adequately. In the morning hours, particularly between 4am and 7am, there is a peak in the level of pollutants due to thermal inversion. The mixing height is also coming down; it is roughly 40% less than what it used to be earlier. As a result, accumulation of pollutants is higher,” said Sachin Panwar, a city-based air quality scientist. The mixing height is the vertical height at which suspended particles mix with the air. Due to a dip in temperatures, the air rising from the surface cannot reach a particular height for dispersal. Panwar said that while some relief could be expected on Sunday and Monday, more peaks could be expected next week between November 10-12. Kuldeep Srivastava, a scientist at Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) and the head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, also reiterated that pollution had increased due to poor dispersal of pollutants. “The pollutants have accumulated since dispersal is poor due to low wind speed. We can expect some improvement if wind speed picks up,” said Srivastava. On Saturday, the city recorded a minimum temperature of 13 degrees Celsius, three degrees below the normal. The maximum temperature was recorded at 29.9 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature is expected to hover around 13 degrees Celsius on Sunday while the maximum temperature is expected to be around 30 degrees Celsius. Clear skies are expected to prevail this week, as per the IMD’s weekly forecast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/city-s-air-quality-enters-severe-category-for-the-second-time-this-week/story-cGUToSR4199IxFtYJRwB0J.html
08-11-2020||Chandigarh||Random Forays: Mother Nature is the greatest teacher||Of all the learnings that a human being can garner in a lifetime, the most enlightening ones come from Mother Nature. A walk in a forest will alone teach more to a young student than hours spent in a classroom. The youngster would then be forced to wonder, even if he is Instagramming intermittently at the same time, as to how the various species of fauna and flora take birth, grow and prosper.Those who do not wonder at the beauty and expanse of nature and the vast array of forms that life takes on are not really living to the fullest extent. Even an insect like an ant or a ladybird can teach us a lot about perseverance and dedication to our goals, if one is receptive enough to learn from them. To not be mystified at the fact that a tree sheds all its leaves and looks completely denuded, yet soon blossoms with flowers and is found to be utterly luxuriant and green weeks later, is to take nature for granted.Of course zoology has all the answers as to why and how an ugly looking pupa turns into a beautiful and exotic butterfly. And of course botany tells us how a mango tree manages to find itself laden with many dozens of the delicious fruit every year.Yet, to marvel and wonder at the cosmic creator, to compel ourselves to not take nature’s magic for granted is to really live. To the receptive soul, the Almighty’s ingenuity seems inexhaustible in a jungle. To think of it, one can even further be confounded by the shapes, sizes and varieties of human beings who dot our planet. There is no similarity between the looks and stature of a Jason Holder from the West Indies and a Prithvi Shaw from India. Yet both have the ability to play cricket at the highest level with brains and skills that are ultimately similar.The essence of the message of nature is that we must wonder at the miracles we see around us every day and yet tend to overlook. The sun manages to provide us with boundless heat, light and energy day in and day out, but we seldom acknowledge even its existence in our minds. We are too caught up in worrying about share markets and election results and the like, after all.One of the greatest innovations in education could be to take city-based children camping more often, to the great outdoors and make them feel wide eyed with amazement at the stars. Those children whose parents actually spent hours under the natural umbrella of the night sky and told them stories have been truly blessed. There is no greater experience for a child than to be in the lap of nature, listening to a fascinating story or reading a wondrous story.Sally Walker puts it beautifully in this rhyme. “Just feel the magic in the air and the power in the breeze, Feel the energy of the plants, the bushes and the trees, Let yourself be surrounded by nature at its best, Calm yourself, focus, and let magic do the rest!”A walk in surroundings which are not artificially created by mankind would surely rejuvenate a child or a grown up who has spent days on end staring at a screen. Just the whiff of the cool air and the sound of birds chirping would act as a balm for the body, mind and soul.Even those who have pets at home are truly fortunate, for they have pure energy vibrating in their surroundings. One look at our resident Beagle, Joey, and his wagging tail, makes my mind feel more refreshed than anything else in the world. To exist in the state of being besotted with the intricacies of materialistic pursuits, without pausing to think about what brought us here and where we are ultimately headed, is to live life with a closed mind. Life teaches us many things, and one of them has to be to fall in love with nature, if we already haven’t.Alex Trebec has the last word: “If you cannot be in awe of Mother Nature, there’s something wrong with you!”vivek.atray@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/random-forays-mother-nature-is-the-greatest-teacher/story-YKkno9FzvyOhuzLwvMF9UK.html
08-11-2020||Delhi||AQI severe for third consecutive day, it may get worse, warns scientists||Delhi’s air quality remained in the severe zone for the third consecutive day on Saturday, with over 4,500 farm fires in Punjab and Haryana contributing to over 32% of ultrafine particulate matter (PM2.5) which could not be dispersed despite slightly better wind speed compared to Friday, scientists said, warning that a relief was unlikely at least till Tuesday. The average air quality index of Delhi was 427 on Saturday, marginally higher than Friday’s 406 but less than Thursday (450). VK Soni, head of India Meteorological Department (IMD) environment monitoring research centre said that during the day the average wind speed was around 12kmph, which was higher than the wind speed recorded on Friday. Its impact, however, was not seen on the AQI because of the high stubble burning cases in Punjab and Haryana. He said that the north-westerly winds are bringing heavy load of pollutants from these fires to Delhi. “For the last three days we have been observing that the number of fires spotted over Punjab alone is more than 4,000, and that it tends to increase on Sundays. Even though the wind speed picked up during the day, the improvement in air quality was not very significant only because of higher share of farm fires,” Soni said. According to the union ministry of earth sciences’ air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), 4,528 fires were spotted over Punjab and Haryana, on Saturday. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that in parts of central Delhi the wind speed fluctuated between 6-8kmph, but around outer Delhi the wind speed picked up to 16kmph. “In the Palam observatory, the wind speed was nearly 16kmph, but if you look at the winds recorded in the Safdarjung observatory, it was only around 6-8kmph. This could be the reason behind the high pollution in the heart of the city. The wind that we are receiving now is from the north-western direction, which is bringing a large share of smoke from Punjab and Haryana,” said Srivastava. Srivastava said that there is a forecast of the wind direction changing to easterlies from Tuesday, but before that wind speed will reduce drastically, possibly pushing the city’s air quality further into the ‘severe’ zone. “When the wind direction changes, in the transitional stage the wind speeds reduce drastically and from Sunday evening the wind may become calm. This will only spell more trouble for Delhi,” Srivastava warned. Saturday was the third consecutive day when the AQI in the national capital crossed the severe mark. CPCB data shows that last year, there were 24 days when the air quality plunged into the ‘severe’ category. In 2018, there were 20 such days and in 2017, there were nine days when the AQI levels remained in the red zone. Senior CPCB officials said that even though the city’s AQI levels has remained in the ‘severe’ zone for three days now, late Thursday night the PM 2.5 levels (ultrafine particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) had dipped below the 300ug/m3 mark. For the city to slip into the ‘severe plus’ category, PM 2.5 levels have to consistently remain above the 300ug/m3 mark and PM 10 levels (particulate matter with diameter less than 10 micrometers) have to be above the 500ug/m3 mark for 48 hours. Under such a situation, the CPCB’s taskforce would declare an air emergency and direct all enforcement agencies in Delhi-NCR to bring about measures such as restriction of trucks into the city, stopping construction activities and directing the government to announce the odd-even vehicle rationing scheme under the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aqi-severe-for-third-consecutive-day-it-may-get-worse-warns-scientists/story-EMAPumzfK4EkTlntRHAU1H.html
08-11-2020||Delhi||Over 6,900 new Covid cases in Delhi, active cases cross 40K mark||With Delhi reporting nearly 7,000 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Saturday, the number of active cases or those with current infections crossed the 40,000 mark for the first time in the city as the “third wave” of the pandemic infection rages. A day after the number of new cases in Delhi breached the 7,000-mark for the time, the capital reported 6,953 cases of the infection on Saturday, as per the Delhi government’s daily Covid bulletin. Also, according to the bulletin, there were 40,258 people living with the infection in the city as on Friday night with the experts warning further spike in cases due to more violation of Covid norms in the ongoing festive season.On Saturday, Delhi reported 79 deaths due to the infection, the highest since July 4 when 81 deaths – some that had happened before – were added to the city’s toll.The total number of fatalities stood at 6912.As per data shared by the union health ministry, Delhi topped the list of 10 states that contributed 77% of the new Covid-19 cases. The Delhi high court had earlier this week said Delhi was on its way to become the “corona capital of the country.” “The number of cases is likely to continue to go up during the festive season as people tend to have gatherings. The problem is that people tend to get relaxed with their relatives around and do not follow safety measures. People eat together with their masks off at a distance less than 6 feet. Nowadays, even outdoors masks have become chin accessories. Add to that the increase in the levels of pollution, which is also known to increase the severity and transmission of the infection,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head of the department of microbiology at All India Institute of Medical Sciences. Following Delhi’s second surge in cases of the viral infection in September, the number of active cases was on a decline to just over 20,000 recorded on October 12. Since then, the active cases have almost doubled. The government is concerned about the active cases as these are the people who either need to be constantly monitored at home or need to be hospitalised. With over 19.5% of the patients with current infections needing hospitalisation, the health bulletin showed that 7,858 people were admitted across city hospitals as on Friday night. Despite having over 16,000 beds earmarked for the treatment of the viral infection in government as well as private hospitals, the intensive care unit beds are filling up fast. Over 80% of all the ICU beds reserved for Covid-19 treatment were occupied as on Saturday night, according to data shared by hospitals on Delhi Corona app. The government ordered eight of its hospitals and 14 private ones to earmark 1,185 more beds for the treatment of Covid-19 on Friday. Of these, at least 110 beds in the government hospitals will have non-invasive ventilation or high flow nasal oxygen support. The national capital is currently reeling under the “third wave” of the Covid-19 infection, but cases should begin to come down soon, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Saturday.Interacting with reporters, he also said that the Delhi government has filed a special leave petition (SLP) in the Supreme Court after the high court did not allow reserving 80 per cent ICU beds for Covid-19 patients at several private hospitalsJain said, “Yesterday, we issued an order to add 1,185 beds for Covid patients in both Delhi government hospitals and many private hospitals.Five hundred beds are to be augmented at city government-run Covid facilities, including 110 ICU beds.”Dr Sandeep Budhiraja, group medical director, Max healthcare, said, “The hospital occupancy has undoubtedly shot up and is likely to go up further. There is an increasing burden on critical care and hospitals are stretched thin. As per government’s data there are several beds vacant in government hospitals, these could be upgraded to provide critical care as most of the Covid-19 patients coming to hospitals need it. Those with mild symptoms prefer to remain in home isolation.” The number of deaths have gone up along with the increasing number of cases in the city. On average, just over 57 deaths were reported each day over the last seven days as compared to almost 41 deaths the week before. However, with huge number of cases being reported, the case fatality ratio (CFR) – proportion of deaths among total positive cases – has reduced to 1.6%. This is still higher than the national average of 1.4%. “And, if the number of hospitalisations keep going up and there is a shortage of beds, the mortality is likely to go up as people in need of critical care might not get it on time,” said Dr Budhiraja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-6-900-new-covid-cases-in-delhi-active-cases-cross-40k-mark/story-65TWlPlvygIV0CVF3nOiuM.html
08-11-2020||Delhi||Police crackdown on cracker sale, 459kg of banned 459kg recovered after multiple raids||The Delhi Police on Saturday said they had suspended all the licences given to shopkeepers in Delhi for selling green and PESO-certified firecrackers this Diwali . The decision comes a day after the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) issued a notification for “complete ban” on bursting and sale of all kinds of crackers in Delhi till November 30. Senior police officers said that all police personnel on duty across the city have already been directed to enforce the directives and carry out “massive crackdowns” on people involved in the illegal sale and use of crackers. As a result, the city police so far have already seized nearly 459 kilograms of banned crackers and arrested three shopkeepers from west, south-west and outer Delhi areas, between Friday and Saturday, for storing and selling firecrackers.“We (Delhi Police) have suspended all the licences issued for selling firecrackers in Delhi following the DPCC’s notification that has completely banned the sale and use of all crackers till November 30. All licence holders are being informed about the decision through concerned police districts and police stations,” said joint commissioner of police (licencing unit) Suvashis Choudhary.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday had announced a complete ban on firecrackers, including the less pollution green variants, in Delhi from November 7 to November 30. He had said that the decision was taken after assessing the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the city, which was being made worse by the rising pollution levels.DPCC member secretary had written to the Delhi Police on Friday asking them to enforce the ban from Saturday, and submit a daily action taken report to the state pollution control body. A meeting to chalk out the SoPs of the ban will be chaired by environment minister Gopal Rai on Monday.As per police data, a total of 167 licences for selling green crackers were issued till November 2. All of them stand suspended after the DPCC issued the “complete ban” notification on Friday (November 6) which kicked in from Saturday. Officials said that apart from notifying shopkeepers, who obtained licences from 15 police districts, and the licencing unit for firecrackers sale about the ban, the police are also seeking the records of storage of crackers in shops and godowns. The shopkeepers are also being informed that any mismatch in the existing storage quantity may attract legal action. “Since both sale and use of firecrackers have been banned in the city, we have categorically asked the shopkeepers dealing in such items to ensure that there is no disparity in their existing list of stored crackers. If anyone is returning the crackers to the concerned dealer, distributor, or manufacturer, the proper documentation of the same should be done and furnished before the concerned police station. Their records will be checked periodically,” said deputy commissioner of police (north) Anto Alphonse. A total of 19 licences were issued to shopkeepers in north police district, with most of the shops in Sadar Bazar area. On Saturday, special teams carried out surprise checks in various markets and residential colonies in north Delhi to enforce the ban and inform the public about the same. Similar arrangements were made in other police district of the city as well, the officials said. On Saturday morning, the Dabri police station team seized more than 34 kilograms of banned crackers from a shop where they had been illegally accumulated . The shopkeeper, Rakesh Bansal, was arrested under section 9B of the Explosive Act, said deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena. “Two policemen on patrolling duty received information regarding storage of banned crackers in a shop at Main Rajapuri Road. A raid was conducted and 34.600 kg of such crackers seized. The shopkeeper failed to produce any licence or documents for the crackers. We have arrested Bansal,” added Meena. On Friday, nearly 415 kilograms of crackers were seized from a shop in west Delhi’s Raghubir Nagar. The shopkeeper, Sanjay Kumar, also a supplier of crackers and previously involved in four such cases, was arrested by Khayala police station. The crackers were stored in 19 cartons. In a similar operation, a total of 9.2 kilograms of banned crackers were seized from Vishnu Datt in outer Delhi’s Nehru Enclave in Alipur. Datt was arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/police-crackdown-on-cracker-sale-459kg-of-banned-fireworks-recovered-after-multiple-raids/story-gG8wxCi3AYghj9d98PrstJ.html
08-11-2020||Chandigarh||Caddy-turned-pro Akshay Sharma wins post-lockdown inaugural PGTI tourney||Akshay Sharma, 30, a caddy-turned-professional golfer, on Saturday won the Tata Steel PGTI Players Championship 2020 presented by Panchkula Golf Club, and along with it a cheque for ₹4.84 lakh.Since turning professional in 2010, the Chandigarh golfer’s ultimate target was to earn enough money so that he could move his family of six from a one-room rented accommodation to their own house. His target worked as a motivation, but at times it also put pressure on him. Last month, he relieved this pressure by buying a six-room house for his family. And this was very much evident when he took to the greens after over seven months, with resumption of the domestic professional circuit that started simultaneously in Panchkula and Chandigarh on November 4. Sharma’s superlative performance saw him equalising the PGTI (Professional Golf Tour of India) four-round record of 24-under, set by multiple Asian tour winner Anirban Lahiri and highest ranked Indian golfer in the world Rashid Khan. On all four days, Sharma played under-par (64,66,67,67) and maintained the top position on the leader’s board till lifting the title. Another Chandigarh golfer Karandeep Kochhar finished second with a tally of 19-under-269. He got a cheque for ₹3.34 lakh. ‘Win will set the tone for remaining season’“Professional golfers, especially caddy-turned pros, are totally dependent on the tournaments to earn their livelihood. So, I was eagerly waiting for the professional circuit to resume post lockdown. I am really happy that I won the inaugural tournament,” said Sharma. “The win in the first event will set the tone for the remaining four events of the season. My next target is to perform well in the second tournament presented by my home course Chandigarh Golf Club, starting from November 9,” he said.Sharma’s association with the sport started as a caddy at an age of 13. Two years later, he started playing, and at 20, he turned professional. Last month, he bought a two-storey house for his family at Nayagaon near Chandigarh. “The day I turned pro, my ultimate target was to have my own house. It took me almost 10 years to realise my dream. Now, the next in line is marriage and a car. I also have to save money to play on the Asian Tour. If I do well there, then I can aim for a bigger car too, otherwise I have to be content with a smaller one,” said Sharma. ‘My life revolves around 18-hole golf course’“My life revolves around the 18-hole golf course. First, it was the job of the caddie to earn pocket money and contribute to my family’s meagre income, and now I play golf to provide a decent lifestyle to my family,” said Sharma.After two years of caddying, he bought two secondhand clubs (7 Iron and Sandwich) for ₹500 each. As he was not eligible to use the course, he honed golfing skills on a ground at Saketri, after his caddy work. “For almost two years I saved money and bought my first set. It was second-hand and cost me ₹8,000. Today I am a little bit comfortable and have got an equipment sponsor. But I can never forget what members of the Chandigarh Golf Course have done for me,” said Sharma. SPS Matharoo, who is the captain of the course, helped him financially, so that he could travel and participate in tournaments. “I am also thankful to my caddy Montu Kumar (from Delhi), who is my partner from struggling days. He had travelled with me by train and stayed in the cheapest lodges. But since 2017, I am able to afford travelling by air and staying in decent hotels,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/caddy-turned-pro-akshay-sharma-wins-post-lockdown-inaugural-pgti-tourney-equals-india-s-four-round-record-of-under-24-par/story-qtcp31XMu7jAWiz1xmlNZI.html
08-11-2020||City||Ambala teen stabbed to death for staring, attacker held||A 17-year-old boy bled to death and his uncle was injured after a man stabbed them for staring at him in Panjokhara area on Friday night.The accused, identified as Angrej, 24, a resident of Tundli village, Ambala, was arrested on Saturday evening.The victim, Aakash, was out to buy groceries with his uncle, Ajay, 32, and cousin Kartik at a Panjokhara market when the attack took place.Ajay, a native of Karnal and currently living in Janetpur village, Ambala, told the police, “At the market, Angrej confronted Aakash for staring at him and started beating him up. When I intervened, Angrej pulled out a knife from his pocket and repeatedly stabbed Aakash in the chest. In the melee, he stabbed me thrice in the chest too.”As locals gathered, Angrej fled the spot with the knife, leaving his motorcycle behind. Ajay’s son rushed his father and cousin to the Primary Health Centre in Panjokhara, where doctors declared Aakash dead. Ajay was referred to the Ambala civil hospital and later shifted to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh.“The accused was arrested following a tip-off from Kallerheri Chowk on Saturday evening. He was about to leave Ambala when we managed to nab him,” said sub-inspector Mohan Lal, station in-charge, Panjokhara police station.Angrej has been booked under Sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder) and 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) of the Indian Penal Code.“He keeps a knife with him due to his quarrelsome demeanour. He was booked in an assault case at the same police station last year as well. We will present him before a court on Sunday and seek police remand to recover the knife,” the sub-inspector said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ambala-teen-stabbed-to-death-for-staring-attacker-held/story-EyfYsJs8N2LaBeXtDSr1OM.html
