11-11-2020||City||Sacked over remarks on former Maharashtra CM Ashok Chavan, claims Navi Mumbai mathadi leader||The Mathadis (headloaders) stalled work at the wholesale APMC market in Vashi on Wednesday morning following the sacking of their leader Narendra Patil by the state government from the cabinet rank post of chairman of Annasaheb Patil Arthik Vikas Mahamandal. However, the operations resumed after three hours of protests. Patil claimed that he had been sacked over his comments on former chief minister Ashok Chavan who he blamed for not taking up the Maratha community cause effectively. Chavan on the other hand claimed that the Opposition is merely playing politics in the name of reservation. The onion potato, grains and spices market were affected as the mathadis protested in the market premises. They raised slogans against the state government and in favour of reinstatement of Patil. Kailash Shinde, a mathadi leader, said, “We condemn the decision of the state government which is politically motivated. The mandal was started by late Balasaheb Thackeray and then revived by former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. Patil had toured all over the state and was targeting 1 lakh entrepreneurs from the Maratha community that has long been suffering. ” Narendra Patil who held a press conference in Mumbai on the dismissal of the board of the Mandal, that is named after his late father and much revered Mathadi leader Annsaheb Patil, denied that he had asked for the markets to be shut. The mathadis later resumed work. Patil said, “Despite relentlessly working for the Mandal since my appointment by the last government, I have been sacked without any intimation. I expected at least some appreciation from the government, I will meet chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and CM Devendra Fadnavis and thank them for the opportunity.” Patil claimed that the decision to sack him was politically motivated due to his comments on former chief minister Ashok Chavan, who heads the cabinet sub-committee on Maratha reservation. He added, “My father who gave up his life for the community and I have been working for the upliftment of the Maratha community. The previous government ensured reservation for us but now Chavan has failed, I had asked for Chavan to be replaced by minister Eknath Shinde to head the committee as Shinde is well versed with the issue and will do a better job. That did not go down well. I have never been after power and was not targeting Chavan for any personal reasons. For me the interest of my community is paramount.” When contacted Ashok Chavan, he dismissed the allegations of failing on the reservation issue stating, “The same team of lawyers who had taken up the case successfully in the high court during the previous government’s tenure took up the matter in the Supreme Court. Besides we have been coordinating on the issue with various concerned organisations and held several meetings with them.”Chavan said that they are doing all that can be done and in fact, more than the previous government, to ensure justice to the Maratha community. He remarked, “Those making allegations are only interested in playing politics on the reservation issue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sacked-over-remarks-on-former-maharashtra-cm-ashok-chavan-claims-navi-mumbai-mathadi-leader/story-iFp5eTzsPrVTklYkY7drbO.html
11-11-2020||Noida||Process for land acquisition for second phase of Jewar airport begins||The Yamuna Expressway industrial development authority (Yeida) on Tuesday sought permission from the state government to begin acquiring land for the second phase of the Jewar international airport. The airport is expected to come up over 5,000 acres with construction slated to begin by the middle of next year. Under phase-1, 1,334 hectares was already handed over to the construction company, Switzerland-based Zurich International AG, which was awarded the project last month. In phase-2, the government will acquire 1,365 hectares, 1,318 hectares in phase-3 and 735 hectares in phase-4.“We have written a letter to the state government requesting for permission to start the land creation for the second phase of the Noida international greenfield airport project,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer (CEO), Yeida.Under phase-1, the company will lay down two runways, commercial space, halls and other supporting facilties for the passengers so that the operations can be started by 2023-’24. In phase-2 passenger capacity will be increased and an additional runway will be constructed. By the end of phase-4, it is expected to have six runways and more facilities, include commercial centers, hotels and offices.“We are likely to get the permission for second airport land acquisition and very soon maybe in the month of November. Once we have the permission the administration will start the land acquisition with the support of farmers,” said Singh.The Uttar Pradesh government has already sanctioned ₹3,000 crore budget for the airport land acquisition for the second phase said officials.Officials from the Noida international airport limited (NIAL), also involved in the project, said the airport will be the biggest in India when it will be developed to its full capacity.The Uttar Pradesh government is also preparing for the inauguration of the first phase of the project. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to inaugurate the project in February next year of all goes well, said officials of UP government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/process-for-land-acquisition-for-second-phase-of-jewar-airport-begins/story-6vis5bgJtGR8ieSeJOgKCL.html
11-11-2020||Mumbai||Don’t step out, celebrate Diwali from homes: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday once again appealed to citizens to celebrate Diwali in a low-key manner, so as to avoid a potential second wave of Covid-19 infections.Maharashtra, keeping in line with it declining trend in cases, reported 4,907 new infections and 125 deaths on Wednesday, taking the tally to 1,731,833 and toll to 45,560. Active cases in the state stand at 88,070.Reminding citizens about the potential second wave of infections, on the lines of the ones being witnessed in Europe, Thackeray called for citizens to celebrate the festival without venturing out of their homes. “I am celebrating Diwali sitting at home and exchanging greetings online. It is important to keep ourselves and our families safe until the vaccine is available and reaches us. It is only because of the restraint adopted by the people during the festivals of all religions in the past eight months, we could keep the virus at bay. It is possible even in future if we adopt Covid-19-appropriate behaviour,” he said.Thackeray said that in European countries where the pandemic was in its second and third wave, authorities were facing a shortage of doctors, medical staff and even equipment. Also read: How Maharashtra’s jails stayed free of Covid-19“If we become complacent, a surge could be witnessed in the state. We are planning to open schools and colleges after Diwali, but to enable it, following the protocol strictly is more important,” he said.While the state has been recording daily cases at an average of 4,857 in the first 11 days of October, Mumbai’s average number of daily cases remained at 841 this month. Mumbai on Wednesday recorded 1,069 new Covid-19 cases, up from the figures of the past two days — 535 on Tuesday and 599 on Monday. Mumbai also recorded 22 deaths owing to Covid-19 on Wednesday. The total number of cases in the city has now gone up to 266,748 and the toll has risen to 10,506.There are 15,825 active cases in Mumbai, with a recovery rate of 90%. The average growth rate of Covid-19 cases is 0.29% with a doubling rate of 243 days. Mumbai has conducted 1,648,347 Covid-19 tests so far.Following Mumbai, Pune retained its second position in terms of cases and deaths, with 573 new cases (229 in rural parts, 218 in city and 126 in Pimpri-Chichwad) and 16 deaths. Nashik clocked 441 cases and five deaths, while Nagpur logged 237 cases and seven deaths. Satara reported 201 cases and nine deaths. The state’s case fatality rate (CFR) stands at 2.63%. Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) added 1,832 cases and 41 deaths in the last 24 hours.Anticipating a second wave, state authorities have been directed to gear up the augmentation of health infrastructure. “Except school-colleges and religious places, there will be no more activities opened up. Though the state government has asked railways to keep their plan ready for operations of local trains for general public, we are not pushing to begin them immediately. We will allow students to travel in trains after Diwali, but the decision to open for all in non-peak hours will depend on cases 10 days after Diwali,” said an official from Mantralaya.Meanwhile, the state conducted 53,427 tests in 24 hours at a positivity rate of 7.64%. The state’s recovery rate stands at 92.23%, after 9,164 more patients recovered on Wednesday, taking the tally of recovered patients to 1,597,255. State has 941,118 patients under home quarantine and 6,551 people institutionally quarantined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/don-t-step-out-celebrate-diwali-from-homes-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray/story-nhZm7PMgz1nk17MUn43GOI.html
11-11-2020||Noida||Electrician beaten up outside residential society in Greater Noida||Greater Noida: A 25-year-old electrician was allegedly beaten up by three suspects outside a residential society in Sector Chi V on Tuesday night. The victim, Raj Kumar, a resident of Chuharpur village, alleged that the suspects also tried to abduct him in their car. “I was taking tea at a stall outside the society when three persons in a Maruti Baleno car reached the spot. The suspects held me without a provocation and beat me. They also tried to abduct me in their car,” he said. Kumar raised an alarm and local people gathered at the spot. The suspects then got into the car and fled the spot. Local people informed police and a team from Sector Beta 2 police station reached the spot and rushed the victim to a private hospital. Kumar said that he works as an electrician in Nimbus Express Park View I in Greater Noida. According to the police, some people also captured the incident on their mobile phones. However, since it was dark, the suspects’ photos could not be captured clearly, they said. Sujeet Upadhyaya, SHO, Sector Beta 2 police station, said that it was a case of beating and not abduction. “It appears the suspects had beat him up over personal enmity. This was not a case of abduction. We have registered a case against three persons under Section 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of IPC. We are scanning footage of CCTV camera to arrest the suspects,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/electrician-beaten-up-outside-residential-society-in-greater-noida/story-cAW0uGMHt3rs9XhNF53NiO.html
11-11-2020||Noida||Noida: Teen stabbed during robbery bid in shared vehicle||Noida: A 16-year-old boy was injured on Tuesday evening after he was stabbed by unidentified persons in a robbery bid near the Mahamaya flyover.The victim was identified as Priyanshu Singh, a resident of Delhi’s Badarpur area. He is a class 11 student at a private school and had come to Noida’s Atta market for some errands, said police.“The boy was in Noida for some work and was leaving in the evening to go to Kalindi Kunj. He took a shared auto-rickshaw near sector 37 to go to Delhi,” said Ankita Sharma, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), zone 1.Police officials said that three people were already present in the vehicle which the victim assumed to be other passengers. When the auto reached near Mahamaya flyover, the driver turned towards the road leading to Amity University instead of the one going to Kalindi Kunj.“That is when the boy realised that something was wrong. He asked the driver to drop him there itself, but the driver didn’t stop. Meanwhile, the men tried to rob him but the boy resisted,” said the ACP.When the suspects realised that his shouts might attract other people, one of them stabbed him with a knife in his neck. Police officials said that the men were unsuccessful in taking anything from him and they left him bleeding while they fled with the vehicle.The boy was later able to call his family and the police helpline after which a team was rushed to the spot and he was taken for treatment to a nearby hospital. “ His injury was serious and he was referred to a higher centre in Delhi where he is doing well now,” said the police official.Based on the complaint of the boy’s father, a case of attempt to murder (section 307 of Indian Penal Code) has been registered at the sector 39 police station against unidentified suspects.The police officials said that they are scanning CCTV cameras in the area to trace the vehicle and identify the suspects after which due legal action will be taken against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-teen-stabbed-during-robbery-bid-in-shared-vehicle/story-Wv7UX8hzGrzm1h5nrLnU3N.html
11-11-2020||Noida||Delhi FRRO to cover Noida, Ghaziabad OCI card services||The ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Wednesday announced that the Foreigners Regional Registration Office (FRRO) in Delhi will cover matters relating to services with respect to Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) cardholders residing in Gautam Buddh Nagar and Ghaziabad districts. OCI allows people of Indian origin to live and work in India and avail certain benefits at par with non-resident Indians and resident Indians. According to rules, those who wished to apply for OCI benefits, including permission for research work, and change in particulars, would be required to approach their respective FRRO for their applications to be processed.“So far, Gautam Buddh Nagar and Ghaziabad districts of Uttar Pradesh were under the jurisdiction of FRRO, Lucknow for the purpose of receiving and processing of applications for various services in respect of OCI card holders. This was causing inconvenience to OCI card holders residing in these districts,” read an MHA press statement. It said that the two districts will now be brought under FRRO, Delhi. “These measures are expected to greatly facilitate foreign nationals residing in the National Capital Region (NCR) for availing visa and OCI related services” The FRRO, Delhi already services the states of Haryana, Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand, apart from the Capital itself.In response to persistent demands for “dual citizenship”, the central government had launched the OCI cardholder scheme in 2006 to register Persons of Indian Origin (PIOs), provided they satisfied certain conditions as laid out in the MHA website. The OCI cardholder, however, does not have certain rights, such as political rights or equal opportunity in matters of public employment. The MHA press statement said that during the last few years, the central government had taken a number of measures to facilitate the stay in India of foreign travellers. “The central government has introduced various measures recently such as launching of an e-FRRO module throughout the country bringing various visa related services being granted to foreigners within India on the online platform, permitting foreigners on any category of visa to avail indoor and outdoor medical treatment up to 180 days without conversion of their visa to medical visa,” it read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/delhi-frro-to-cover-noida-ghaziabad-oci-card-services/story-2XNt8JDFkziwPnHRSCFMLP.html
11-11-2020||Noida||Mask violations: Police enforcement lacks sting in Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: Even as the markets and public places are abuzz with activity during the festive season, the number of fines issued by the district police against people not wearing face masks has dipped to its lowest level in the past two months. The situation seems to be moving out of hands as residents are openly flouting the Covid-19 protocols amid the rising number of cases. This is despite repeated directions by state government to the western UP districts for taking all measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19, especially in the wake of a surge in cases in Delhi. However, officials of the district police said that they will intensify the drive. On Wednesday, Ghaziabad recorded 136 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 20,071 in the district, according to the state control room records. The district now has 1,223 active cases.As regards the enforcement against mask violations, the official records, sourced through the district administration, revealed that the police penalised 60,680 people for not wearing face masks during the period from May 1 to November 6. The police penalised 2,131 people in May, 17,917 in June, 20,936 in July and 11,410 in August. However, the drive went haywire in the past two months -- September and October -- when the police issued 5,779 and 2,353 challans, respectively, against persons not wearing face masks. Also, in the first six days of November, the number of such challans stood at just 154, shows the data. When contacted, Kalanidhi Naithani, senior superintendent of police, said, “We will soon intensify the drive against persons not wearing face masks.” Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate, said, “We have started with a drive in different police station areas where teams will check and penalise people if they are found not wearing face masks. We will intensify the enforcement activities.” Traders said that they have decided not to attend customers who come without wearing masks. “During the times of festival season, we have about 25,000-30,000 people coming daily to the market. About 50% of them come without masks and roam around without anyone questioning them. On our part, we have decided not to attend customers who come without wearing masks. We have kept surgical masks at our shops and give them to our customers free of cost if they visit without a mask,” said Rajneesh Bansal, chairperson of Turab Nagar Vyapar Mandal. Experts said that face mask, social distancing and hand-washing are the only means to prevent the Covid-19 spread till the time a vaccine becomes available. “This is the time when people need to take the highest level of precaution as repeatedly advised by the government. Otherwise, the winter season is most conducive for respiratory infections and any Covid infection will aggravate health conditions. According to my estimate, about 50% people do not use masks in markets and public places, and the number could be higher,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad. “It is so because of lack of awareness and enforcement. Strict enforcement is needed as there is overcrowding in markets and people are flouting norms openly,” Agarwal added. The Ghaziabad district has an estimated population of about 44 lakh. On Tuesday, Alok Kumar, UP principal secretary (health) yet again reiterated that wearing of face masks, adhering to social distancing and frequent hand-washing is must to keep Covid-19 infection at bay. “There has been surge in Covid-19 cases in Delhi and some of our western UP districts are also affected. So, it is vital that people take all precautions and wear face masks and adhere to social distancing,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/mask-violations-police-enforcement-lacks-sting-in-ghaziabad/story-3591uVuwaRepJ1dXGNegIM.html
11-11-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad’s Covid-19 tally crosses 20,000, Noida nearing the mark||Ghaziabad: With 136 new Covid-19 cases, the Ghaziabad district crossed the 20,000 mark on Wednesday. Neighbouring Gautam Budh Nagar is also nearing 20,000 cases, as per the records of the state control room. As per the control room figures, the total tally of Ghaziabad reached 20,071 which includes 18,763 patients discharged, along with 85 deaths and 1,223 active cases. GB Nagar, on the other hand, has now 19,614 total cases, with 71 deaths and 1,115 active cases while 18,428 patients have been discharged. Ghaziabad is among the top four districts in the state which have the highest number of cases. In the first 10 days of November, Ghaziabad had 1,359 fresh cases while GB recorded 1,737 new cases. The figure of 20,000 cases in Ghaziabad arrived in a span of 251 days with first case in the district reported on March 5. The first 10,000 cases were recorded in 189 days while the next 10,000 took about 62 days to arrive. With a surge in cases in Delhi, there have been concerns that the tally of new cases in NCR districts of UP may rise while Diwali is round the corner. “To check any rise of new cases, we are conducting focussed testing which is taken up for different groups and have also increased our contact tracing which is about 25 contacts per patient. Further, surveillance activity has been ramped up to keep tab on new cases,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer of Ghaziabad. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey was not available for his comments.According to the state figures, Ghaziabad is among the top three districts in the state having highest number of active cases. The other two districts are Lucknow (3,054) and Meerut (1,784). Ghaziabad also figures among the top four districts in the state, along with Lucknow, Kanpur City and Prayagraj, which have total cases more than 20,000. According to the records of the Ghaziabad district health department, the overall positivity rate in the district is about 4.22% with 474,067 samples collected till November 10. The total sampling also includes 275,963 tests conducted with the help of rapid antigen kits. Meanwhile, GB Nagar district is also nearing the 20,000 mark. However, district officials said that there is no major spike in cases considering the festival season and recent spike in cases in Delhi. “We are conducting more tests. It is in the range of about 3,500-4,000 tests per day. The rise of cases in Delhi could be due to multiple factors. But we cannot say that our district has sudden spike in cases. Earlier, there were about 200 average daily cases and now we have about 150 average daily cases,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate of GB Nagar. “To keep cases in check, we are testing more of symptomatic persons and have also ramped up our contact tracing which is about 20-25 contacts per patients. We keep asking residents to mandatorily wear face masks and maintain social distancing,” he added. However, the officials in both the districts have raised concerns that wearing of face masks by people is a major issue which needs strict enforcement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-20-000-noida-nearing-the-mark/story-UWVZahEwwUjaiY5lrjsmpK.html
11-11-2020||Noida||Noida: Woman found dead under mysterious circumstances in Sector 44||Noida: A 22-year-old woman was found dead at her Sector 44 home on Wednesday afternoon under mysterious circumstances, said police.The woman was identified as Babita Devi, a native of West Bengal who lived in Chhalera village with her husband Gopal, one-year-old daughter, and in-laws. According to police, they were informed of the matter at around 11.30am by the woman’s brother who lived nearby.“The husband found her on the floor and alerted the people around,” said Ankita Sharma, assistant commissioner of police, zone 1.She said the body was sent for an autopsy.“We will wait for the autopsy report to clarify the cause of death. But she had some ligature marks on her neck suggesting that she may have been strangled,” said the ACP. “A probe in the matter is underway. We don’t know whether there was foul play or not. We are exploring all angles and due action will be taken.”Police said that the family had not mentioned any dispute. The husband was questioned but claimed to have no idea about what happened to the woman, said police.Police said that they will register a case as soon as the family files a complaint or if the autopsy report warranted an investigation.In another case, an unidentified woman died during treatment at the district hospital on Tuesday night. Police said that she had been taken there by a man who had found her injured. “She appears to be in her forties and said she was from Jharkhand though before it could be verified, she passed away. We are working on identifying her,” said RK Singh, station house officer, sector 20 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-woman-found-dead-under-mysterious-circumstances-in-sector-44/story-ebJHETEWd1fp0Ffg3rCfsI.html
11-11-2020||Noida||Greater Noida: Police book man, family for ‘killing and cremating’ wife||The Greater Noida Police on Wednesday booked six persons, including the husband and in-laws of a woman who was allegedly killed and cremated in Dankaur. Chandni, 23, of Bulandshahr, had married Jitendra, a resident of Junedpur in Dankaur in January 2017 and had two sons.On Wednesday, Chandni’s family claimed that they were told that she had been killed and cremated. Police could not confirm the allegation, but have booked the six -- Jitendra, his siblings and their parents -- under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), including section 304-B (dowry death). Police said the suspects were absconding with the children.Chandni’s brother Nitin Kumar filed the complaint at the Dankaur police station. Kumar said his family had spent nearly ₹10 lakh on the marriage. “Since then, Chandni’s in-laws started demanding ₹2 lakh dowry to start a business,” Kumar said. He alleged that Jitendra, his father Maharaj Singh, mother Sanno, brothers Ravi and Lala and sister Usha had been harassing the victim. “On October 8, 2020, they had beaten up my sister. We reached Dankaur and brought her back. She stayed with us for a month. On November 8, Jitendra arrived and promised that he will not harass Chandni anymore,” Kumar said in the complaint. But two nights later, Kumar said, Chandni called him and said that her in-laws were harassing and assaulting her again over dowry. “She pleaded with us to rescue her. On Wednesday morning, we tried contacting Jitendra but the call was not received. We asked our relatives in the neighbourhood to check their house. They reported back saying that the family had killed Chandni and cremated her,” he said. Vishal Pandey, additional DCP Greater Noida, said that a police team visited the site where the woman was allegedly cremated. “The police have found some evidence which suggested that a body was cremated there. The forensic team has collected evidence and are processing it for confirmation,” he said.Chandni’s family and a number of others later gathered at Dankaur police station and protested the murder. Anil Kumar Pandey, SHO Dankaur police station, said based on complaint a case has been registered against six persons under Section 498-A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty), Section 304-B (dowry death), Section 120-B (criminal conspiracy), Section 201 (causing disappearance of evidence), and Section 3 and 4 of Dowry Prohibition Act 1961. “A police team found the suspects absconding,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/greater-noida-police-book-man-family-for-killing-and-cremating-wife/story-ybUbc8A6ZaDlYUEQhkUxgL.html
11-11-2020||Chandigarh||Badnore inaugurates Chandigarh MC’s second petrol pump||UT administrator VP Singh Badnore on Wednesday virtually inaugurated the second petrol pump of the municipal corporation in the Industrial Area, Phase 2. Speaking on the occasion, the administrator said that Chandigarh is one of the major cities of the country which can boast of per capita income that will give a boost to the sales of the new outlets in the city. He emphasized the need to ensure 100% quality and quantity and best of the service offerings for the customers visiting the outlet. He also advised the mayor to work upon a proper plan for the utilisation of the funds/revenue generated from these new outlets for the welfare of the MCC staff. MC commissioner KK Yadav said that the fully automated retail outlet had been designed with state-of-the-art facilities, where customers shall receive e-receipts after the purchase of fuel. “Provisions have also been made for providing green fuels like CNG/EV charging that shall be launched in due course of time,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/badnore-inaugurates-chandigarh-mc-s-second-petrol-pump/story-YAtPYFD39LkrgBCWK4Fw0M.html
11-11-2020||Noida||Corporation starts bio-remediation at Arthala drain as pilot project, will give relief to river Hindon||The Ghaziabad municipal corporation has started a pilot project to improve the quality of the waste water discharge from the Arthala drain into the Hindon river. There are 10 major drains in Ghaziabad that discharge their untreated contents into the Hindon river, thereby polluting it. These drains carry both domestic and commercial waste. Since the last many years, these discharges have resulted in the increase of biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) and chemical oxygen demand (COD). “The pilot-project involves pouring an organic solution into the drain that will help in reducing odour and improve quality. We are likely to get the first results of the experiment in five days,” said Brijesh Kumar Singh, general manager (water works) from the corporation. “The process has been initiated on directions of national green tribunal (NGT) and tenders for other drains will also be floated soon.”“Both BOD and COD are basically impurities in water. If the dissolved oxygen (DO) levels are high, the BOD and COD will reduce. Bio-remediation involves releasing microorganisms which destroy impurities. But, a constant monitoring of results should be reviewed on periodic basis to gauge improvement,” said Dr Chandravir Singh, an environmentalist and a retired scientist from Haryana pollution board. In its status report filed before the NGT on August 27, the corporation has stated that survey was done for 10 drains which fall into river Hindon. These were identified as Karhera drain, Hindon Vihar drain, Kaila Bhatta drain, Arthala drain, Sarvodaya Nagar drain, Rahul Vihar drain, Indirapuran drain, Dasna drain and Nandgram drain near Petrol Pump besides the one near City Forest’s main gate. The corporation has also engaged National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) to prepare detailed project report for the 10 drains. “The condition of the river is in bad state as it has almost negligible amount of dissolved oxygen which could help in propagation of aquatic life. Major pollution sources are the drains which are flowing untreated into the river. Once the corporation has started the process, they must continue it and monitor results,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist. According to the official records of the UP pollution control board, the river stretch from Saharanpur to Ghaziabad has presence of 31 drains of which two are partially tapped while rest 29 are untapped. The records mention that river Hindon gets total discharge of 674.03 MLD which includes 595.64 MLD from sewage discharge (with 224 MLD treated and 371.64 untreated) while the rest of about 78.39 is treated industrial discharge. To gauge the state of river Hindon, the official records of the UP pollution control board states that the three stretches of river Hindon falling in Ghaziabad at Karhera, Mohan Nagar overbridge and Chhijarsi has dissolved oxygen levels in range of 0.62 to 2.4 mg/litre, 0.48 to 1.87 mg/litre and 0.0 to 1.7 mg/litre, respectively, during the period January to September this year. According to officials, DO levels about 5 mg/litres or above are suitable for propagation of aquatic life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/corporation-starts-bio-remediation-at-arthala-drain-as-pilot-project-will-give-relief-to-river-hindon/story-K3m0U7nXfkTKzvKoxr46HN.html
11-11-2020||Noida||Noida: Anti-smog gun installed at Sector 6 to reduce air pollution||Noida: The Noida authority has installed anti-smog gun in Sector 6 Udyog Marg, one of the key roads in the city, to mitigate air pollution.The authority is likely to install more anti-smog guns at traffic intersections to reduce air pollution caused out of vehicular emission and traffic congestion, officials said. To begin with, the authority has installed an anti-smog gun at a small park in Sector 6, along Udyog Marg that remains congestion-ridden during peak hours. The road connects Delhi-Noida Link Road with Sector 11/Jhundpura. The authority’s main administrative building is also located along this road.“The anti-smog gun will help settle dust particles which fly due to vehicles on roads. We have planned to install more anti-smog guns at main roads. We have directed all circle officers to install anti-smog guns in their respective circles,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer of Noida authority.The gun at Sector 6 will remain functional during peak hours. It cannot remain operational continuously for the whole day as it requires regular water supply, the officials said.The authority has already installed 30 anti-smog guns at big construction sites across the city.“At least 10 more anti-smog guns will be installed at key roads in the next three to four days. Our priority is to make sure that adequate measures are taken to mitigate air pollution,” said Maheshwari.The authority has also directed private contractors and developers to make sure that the anti-smog guns are installed at big construction sites.“We have directed that if a construction site is above 20,000 square metres in area, then it is mandatory to install anti-smog gun to reduce air pollution. We will shut down the site and impose penalty if the big site is operational without an anti-smog gun,” said Avinash Tripathi, officer on special duty, Noida authority.The authority has imposed Rs 71,500 penalty against four entities for flouting rules and causing pollution, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-anti-smog-gun-installed-at-sector-6-to-reduce-air-pollution/story-Ortl1xBQeRmBy5ZkOaVLgI.html
11-11-2020||Mumbai||Expedite rehab of slums near Mithi river and on Mumbai airport land: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday directed officials to expedite the rehabilitation of slum-dwellers around the Mithi riverfront on the Mumbai airport land. The meeting held at CM’s official residence Varsha, was attended by the officials from the housing department, slum rehabilitation authority (SRA) and urban development. Thackeray directed the officials to finish the process of rehabilitating the slum dwellers who are ineligible for rehabilitation, as per the 1995 Slum Regularisation Rules, under the 2011 rule of the state government. A speedier rehabilitation of the slum-dwellers will give a boost to the long-delayed expansion plan of the Mumbai airport.Slum-dwellers at Kranti Nagar and Sandesh Nagar in Kurla on the Mithi riverfront should be rehabilitated on priority, CM Thackeray said, according to a statement from the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO). “Those slum-dwellers, who are ineligible for rehabilitation as per the 1995 rules, must be made eligible under the 2011 rules. The rehabilitation of the slum-dwellers must be completed in a time-bound manner,” Thackeray said.In December 2017, the state government had cleared an amendment in the Maharashtra Slum Areas Act, 1971, to enable the government to provide houses to ‘ineligible’ slum-dwellers residing in hutments built until January 1, 2011. However, they will have to pay the construction cost before getting possession.The expansion of the Mumbai airport, which was proposed in 2006, has been stuck owing to opposition from hutment dwellers, who occupy 276 acres of airport land. Shiv Sena legislators from Mumbai had raised the issue of freeing up the airport land, among other issues, with Thackeray during their meeting last week. The CM added that there are 17,200 tenements available in Kurla, which must be utilised for rehabilitation, after its repair, as some of the buildings are in an uninhabitable condition. He added that besides squatters on the airport land, slum-dwellers around Mithi river must be rehabilitated on priority by constructing tenements in other areas.Redevelopment of BBD chawls The much-delayed redevelopment of BDD chawls was also discussed in a separate meeting chaired by Thackeray on Wednesday as Larsen and Toubro reportedly decided to withdraw from the Naigaum project. The firm had bagged the contracts to redevelop Naigaum and Worli BDD chawls. A private contractor also made a presentation in the meeting, however, no decision was taken. The state government had planned to redevelop all the four clusters of BDD chawls — Naigaon, NM Joshi, Worli and Sewri. Tata Group had bagged the NM Joshi project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/expedite-rehab-of-slums-near-mithi-river-and-on-mumbai-airport-land-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray/story-2puXL782hv1IH85WLkNk7K.html
11-11-2020||Mumbai||How Maharashtra’s jails stayed free of Covid-19||From facing flak for its initial handling of the Covid-19 situation to coming up with a proactive approach which kept the cases and fatalities low, the state prisons department has put up a strong fight against the coronavirus disease, feel experts, considering how social distancing in overcrowded jails doubled the challenge.As of Wednesday, there were 60 active cases among the 28,590 inmates in 43 prisons across the state. Six inmates have died of Covid so far. Around 534 staff members working at the jails tested positive, of whom 511 recovered, while seven succumbed. Decongesting premisesSunil Ramanand, additional director general (prisons), admitted there was panic among prisoners in the initial days of the outbreak, but later the prison administration managed to prevent the spread. The 43 jails in the state had population of 36,000 prisoners. As part of the decongestion drive, many prisoners facing non-serious crimes were allowed to go home on court’s order. Those out on bail were asked not to return to jail. Those released on emergency parole could stay out till the time government revoked the Epidemic Act and Disaster Management Act and lifted the lockdown completely. Consequently, the number of inmates in the state prisons came down to 28,590. A prison officer from Pune headquarters said strict lockdown was imposed in every prison after the first case was reported in a prison in the state was reported in Byculla jail on May 31, then Satara prisons and then the outbreak in Arthur Road prison in June. The staff and officials posted at all prisons were not allowed to go out for a month. “Even the jail staff who lived in nearby quarters were not allowed to step out, fearing he/she may bring the contagion in the prison. The staff was on rotation every month,” the officer said. New prisoners are not allowed to directly enter the jails. They had to first compulsorily spend a 14-day quarantine stay outside at temporary prisons, after which they were lodged in the main prison, only after undergoing testing. “The state prisons department as of today has over 42 temporary prisons,” the officer said. Testing timesTesting was another key tool in this battle. The prison authority has so far conducted 26,740 tests across 43 central, districts and other jails. In these, 2,392 prisoners tested positive. Of them, 2,332 prisoners have recovered. “Overcrowded prisons were identified and testing was intensified. Maximum tests were carried out in Yerwada-Pune prison (3,197), followed by Taloja (2,919), Kalyan (1,603) and Thane (1,520),” said the officer.Among other measures were giving homeopathic immunity boosting medicine such as Camphora to prisoners, encouraging prisoners to perform yoga and exercise, and enhancing the nutritional value of the food served, he said. The six Covid fatalities were reported in prisons in Taloja in Navi Mumbai, Yerawada in Pune, Amravati and Dhule. The last Covid death of a prisoner was reported on August 10 in Vashimb, a jail official said. “Till date, six prisoners have lost their lives. In three months, there was no fatality,” said Ramanand. Another jail officer said, “Now, we are prepared to deal with a second wave, if need arises.” Raja Bagga, senior researcher, Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative, said, “The role of high-powered committee constituted under the directions of the SC in trying to reduce overcrowding and Ministry of Home Affairs’ detailed guidelines issued in May 2020 have been important and timely to address the pandemic in prisons.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/how-maharashtra-s-jails-stayed-free-of-covid-19/story-bFqlWFA3OhX5RjgU31jZIN.html
11-11-2020||Mumbai||Bihar election: Maharashtra’s Shiv Sena, NCP score less votes than Nota||The two regional parties from Maharashtra — the Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) — drew a blank in the Bihar elections, results for which were declared on Tuesday. While the Sena had fielded 22 candidates, the NCP contested 108 seats. Both the parties could not win a single seat and got below 1% votes, which is even less than the None of the Above (Nota) option. According to the Election Commission of India (ECI), the Sena polled 0.05% of the eligible votes, while Nota fetched 1.68% votes. All Sena candidates lost their deposit, a senior party functionary said. The Sena does not have a foothold outside Maharashtra, but has been contesting the Assembly and general elections in states, including Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan etc, to increase its footprint. So far, it has not been successful. The party gave tickets to local level functionaries and social activists with some presence in the constituency. Sena leaders said it contested polls on the development plank. The Uddhav Thackeray-led party initially planned to contest around 50 seats in the election. Later, around 30 candidates filed nomination forms, only 22 candidates made it into the fray after scrutiny, the functionary said. Similarly, the NCP got just 0.23% votes and did not manage to win even one seat, according to the ECI website. “We wanted to contest the polls as partners of the grand alliance comprising Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Congress and others and were also ready to accept RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav as chief ministerial candidate. But the grand alliance wasn’t ready to leave even two seats for us, hence we opted to contest on our own,” said a senior NCP leader, privy to the development. “We were not ready to go solo in the polls and not prepared as well. Not a single rally was held by NCP chief Sharad Pawar for the Bihar polls. Some of our candidates got 4,000 to 5,000 votes and some could not pull even 500 votes too,” he said. In 2015 too, the party solely contested 40 seats, but failed to get one seat. The NCP has two MLAs in Kerala and one MLA in Gujarat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bihar-election-shiv-sena-ncp-score-less-than-nota/story-jT5cRUNB8tReDdL7h7qjwL.html
11-11-2020||Noida||Noida: Pollution board imposes fine on builders, asks authorities to manage garbage||The Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) on Wednesday said it will begin penalising irregular construction. “There are around 25 big construction site in Noida, this also includes some civil constructions like underpass at sector 71. We also conducted a dust audit of 19 construction sites and checked for adequate emission control measures like anti-smog guns and water sprinkling. Three builders were found flouting norms and we recommended a fine of ₹5 lakh each,” said Praveen Kumar, regional officer, UPPCB, Noida. Meanwhile, UPPCB Greater Noida too penalised builders. “We had recommended to the Greater Noida authority, and the Uttar Pradesh State Industrial Development authority (UPSIDA) to take adequate measures to ensure garbage or waste are not set afire in the open,” said Archna Dwivedi, RO, UPPCB, Greater Noida. A builder at sector-1 was penalised ₹5 lakh and another in Surajpur area was slapped with ₹30,000. A fine of ₹5,000 was imposed against a motorcycle repair shop in Greater Noida for burning waste. Meanwhile, in two separate letters to UPSIDA and Greater Noida Development Authority, the pollution board said, “As you are aware that the currently the air quality of the region is hovering around sever and severe+, under which as per the order of national green tribunal the UPSIDA sites were found in violation of the environment norms. Upon inspection several piles of burnt and unburnt garbage and solid waste were found at Site-B that could lead to burning and emission thereby deteriorating the air quality. Kindly ensure swift action to manage the soild waste in your area.”The UPSIDA, Greater Noida had been accused of flaunting the environment norms and open burning earlier as well. “We will be hiring an agency to manage the solid waste soon. There had been instances of garbage set afire at our site however it was soon controlled with the help of fire tenders. It’s also difficult to identify the people who often set garbage on fire, but we are vigilant to avoid such cases in future,” said Anil Kuma Sharma, regional manager, UPSIDA, Greater Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-pollution-board-imposes-fine-on-builders-asks-authorities-to-manage-garbage/story-4odREJs3hN2fvoHEWLPiXI.html
11-11-2020||Noida||Winds pull Noida and Ghaziabad out of ‘severe’ air quality||Favourable winds pulled Noida, Ghaziabad and Greater Noida out of the “severe” pollution category on Wednesday, improving the air, yet still under the “very poor” category, which is the cleanest since November 2. The three cities had been breathing extremely toxic air for over a week, with its first “severe” level being recorded on on November 5. What helped matters was the reduction in smoke from stubble burning from neighbouring Punjab and Haryana regions as the wind direction changed from north-westerly to easterly. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), further improvement is likely in the next two days as the easterly winds will continue providing sufficient ventilation. A minimum wind speed of 10kmph is required to reduce pollutants in the atmosphere of the national capital region (NCR).“The easterly winds of 10-12 kmph continued for almost the entire day on Wednesday leading to significant improvement. Since the direction of intrusion of the fire was not from Punjab and Haryana where the major fires were seen, the level of pollutants also dropped. The winds are expected to continue at the same speed for next two days, so we can anticipate a further more improvement in the region,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. He added that the westerly and north-westerly winds may return for some time on November 13, but is likely to shift to easterly from November 14, leading to further improvement. “The change to westerly for some time on November 12 will not lead to significant deterioration,” added Srivastava. According to System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), while the stubble fire have reduced from over 4,528 on November 6 to approx. 2,422 on Wednesday there share of PM2.5 also dropped significantly in the region from over 30 per cent a day earlier to 3 per cent on Wednesday.. “The change in transport level wind direction has led to a significant decrease in the fire-related intrusion in spite of high fire counts. The PM2.5 ageing and relatively not so calm surface winds helped to flush out,” said SAFAR statement on Wednesday. According to the central pollution control board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida, on a scale of 0 to 500, was 309 or ‘very-poor’ against 455 or ‘severe’ a day earlier. The AQI of Greater Noida was 340 against 436 a day earlier. The AQI of Ghaziabad was 360 against 444 a day earlier. The average PM2.5 levels for Noida for past 24-hours was recorded to be 170 microgrammes per cubic metres (μg/m³), against 547.99μg/m³ a day earlier. For Greater Noida, the PM2.5 was 180.54μg/m³ against 536.87 μg/m³ a day earlier. The average PM10 levels for Noida was 418.49 μg/m³ against 619.51μg/m³ a day earlier. For Greater Noida, the PM10 levels were 388.74 μg/m³ against 661.49 μg/m³ a day earlier. According to the CPCB, the standard limit for PM10 is 100 micrograms per cubic metre (μg/m³) while the limit for PM2.5 is 60μg/m³, which are in any case much higher than the World Health Organization (WHO) limits of 20 μg/m³ and 10μg/m³, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/winds-pull-noida-and-ghaziabad-out-of-severe-air-quality/story-KFFe5woTQLtkqD8JaTnYMN.html
11-11-2020||Mumbai||Permit local train travel for teachers: Maharashtra government to railways||The state government has requested the railways to allow teachers and school staff to travel by local trains. The move comes days after the Maharashtra education department made 50% attendance mandatory for teachers and non-teaching staff in schools. Last week, the government’s disaster management department wrote to the Central Railway (CR) and Western Railway (WR), asking them to allow teachers to travel by trains. “In accordance with the department’s move of implementing 50% attendance for teachers, it is requested that they be allowed to ply by trains,” the letter stated. State education minister Varsha Gaikwad said, “We have proposed the railways to allow train travel for school staff and are hoping to get an approval soon.”Officials from the railways said that the proposal will be sent to the railway board for approval, and a decision will be taken accordingly. If approved, teachers will benefit from being allowed to travel by local trains. “Most teachers travel very long distances from their homes to school. Travelling by buses or private vehicles is time-consuming and costly. The government should allow train travel soon,” said a teacher of a suburban school. As per standard operating procedures (SOPs) released on October 30, teachers from all schools in Maharashtra can be asked to be physically present for work related to online learning or other academic purposes. Schools have been asked to ensure that they sanitise their premises and undertake temperature checks. Teachers have been asked to follow safety guidelines like wearing masks and following physical distancing. Similarly, schools need to follow the policy of “staying home if unwell” for teachers who are not feeling well, especially those who have comorbidities or are above the age of 50 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/permit-local-train-travel-for-teachers-maharashtra-government-to-railways/story-79OD95Vu0zWVnvrd7f40CO.html
11-11-2020||Mumbai||Mega blocks on four days to launch girder of Patripool bridge in Kalyan near Mumbai||The Central Railway (CR) on Wednesday approved mega blocks for a total of 14 hours to launch the 700-metric tonne main girder of Patripool bridge in Kalyan.Mega blocks have been approved for four hours each day on November 21 and 22, and for three hours each on November 28 and 29.The permission for mega blocks was given in a meeting between CR and Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) officials. In a bid to ensure that the launching of the 76-metre-long girder is done with safety precautions, local and railway police will be deployed at the site during mega blocks.“The railway has given the nod for mega blocks with dedicated time slots to launch the girder,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, CR.The work of the new two-lane Patripool bridge is being undertaken by MSRDC after the 104-year Patripool bridge was dismantled in November 2018.Several deadlines were announced for the completion of the bridge, but none of them were met. Commuters, residents and activists have been complaining about the delay in building the new bridge as they had to face major traffic jams on the existing bridge.The work of the new Patripool bridge received a boost in May this year as MSRDC planned to use the lockdown period to complete the project.“The permission for the mega block has been given. Launching the main girder will give a significant boost towards the completion of the bridge,” said an MSRDC official who did not wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mega-blocks-on-four-days-to-launch-girder-of-patripool-bridge-in-kalyan-near-mumbai/story-16iAcbEMI8HYQ2ZZD4ooeP.html
11-11-2020||Delhi||‘Red light on, Gaadi off’ campaign in Delhi extended till Nov 30||Delhi government on Wednesday extended the ‘Red light on, Gaadi off’ campaign till November 30 as the city struggles to breathe due to rising air pollution. Announcing the extension of the campaign, Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Wednesday said the AAP government has decided to continue ‘Red light on, Gaadi off’ campaign to control vehicular pollution.“The campaign was to continue till November 15. However, the Delhi government has decided to extend it till November 30 considering the pollution situation. It will be called ‘Phase 2’ of the campaign,” Rai said.Delhi has been witnessing a spell of severe air as it reels under stubble burning being reported from its neighbouring states such as Punjab, Haryana and a few parts of Uttar Pradesh. With Diwali festival just around the corner, Delhi government on November 5 had banned the sale and use of firecrackers in the city till November 30 as a measure to combat air pollution.Appealing to the opposition party members against making provocative statements on firecracker ban, Rai said, “We need everyone’s support in implementing the ban. If you cannot support the cause, please don’t make any provocative statements. Pollution doesn’t differentiate between people. The situation is critical due to the Covid-19 pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/red-light-on-gaadi-off-campaign-in-delhi-extended-till-nov-30/story-LTtiUfElLFKawZbEcoVK7J.html
11-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administration to be consulted before PU reopens||Punjab University authorities will consult the UT administration on reopening the institute after the University Grants Commission (UGC) issued guidelines last week for colleges and universities across the nation to restart classes.No decision could be taken on the matter at a recent meeting of a PU panel, which will meet again, though modalities of a phased reopening were discussed.A member of the panel said: “The university will consult the local administration before taking any decision.”At the moment only administrative functions are being carried out at PU, which shut down following the Covid-19 pandemic.The UGC guidelines say institutes outside containment zones can reopened sequentially after consultations with . state/UT governments.The PU panel in its meeting had suggested that a research supervisor could be allowed to call up 50% research scholars at a time. It was also recommended that final year students be allowed to visit departments in December for practical work.In October, researchers enrolled for more than three years were allowed to visit laboratories and departments.What the UGC guidelines sayAccording to the UGC guidelines, universities and colleges have to make adequate arrangements for the safety of students, faculty and staff. Colleges have been asked to go in for a phased opening of campuses with social distancing, masks and other Covid safety protocols in place.Students and staff living in containment zones will not be allowed to attend classes and others advised not to visit such zones.Decision on collegesA decision will also be taken soon on reopening colleges, it has been learnt. The modalities of the move were discussed in a meeting with heads of colleges on Wednesday, which was headed by education secretary Sarpreet Singh Gill.A senior official of the education department who attended the meeting said, “The decision will be taken after the approval of the competent authority.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ut-admn-to-be-consulted-before-pu-reopens/story-6fcTcx92NIBWdonUWFKEDM.html
11-11-2020||Mumbai||BMC to undertake ₹125-crore drain work in Mumbai’s western suburbs to prevent waterlogging||To bring relief from monsoon waterlogging between Borivli and Bandra in the western suburbs, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has planned repair, restructuring, and widening work on stormwater drains along 19 chronic and newly-emerged waterlogging spots. On Wednesday, the civic body invited 19 separate bids for the ₹125-crore work.This is phase one of the planned works on spots that need immediate relief from waterlogging, as Mumbai is opening up after an eight-month-long lockdown due to the coronavirus outbreak and the 2021 monsoon will see more traffic and people venturing out, in comparison to the 2020 monsoon.Some work is slotted to be completed within six months to a year, while other work will take over two years to complete. It includes augmentation or new construction of box drains and removal of encroachment at Chandavarkar nulla, from SV Road to TJSV Bank at Borivli; construction of stormwater drains at Dahisar subway; augmentation of box drains at Linking Road and Dadabhai Road in Santacruz (West); construction of missing link in the drain on Pali Mala Road, Dr Ambedkar Road, and near Mehboob Studio; widening of culverts on the Western Express Highway; and widening of nullahs and drains in Malad, Ville Parle, and Khar.A senior official of the stormwater department (SWD) said, “These 19 extensive works are needed at chronic waterlogging spots. During the last monsoon, many new waterlogging spots also emerged in the suburbs that need to be addressed. The tendering process is likely to extend till January. BMC will be able to issue work orders immediately so some areas will get relief in the monsoon of 2021, and others in the monsoon of 2022.” Throughout next year, BMC has also shortlisted other areas in the city for drain augmentation work.Another senior civic official said that new waterlogging spots emerged during the previous monsoon due to incomplete drain and nullah desilting work which came to a standstill because of the lockdown and resultant lack of labour. Sedimentation due to ongoing road and Metro construction work also caused waterlogging.“We studied each of the waterlogging spots that emerged this monsoon. All ward offices were asked to identify localised waterlogging spots that can be fixed in the short duration of six months that we have before the 2021 monsoon,” he added.After the monsoon of 2017 and 2018, BMC shortlisted 273 waterlogging spots in the city. Over the past two years, it has tackled 204 of them. The 2020 budget made allocations to address 45 other waterlogging spots, leaving only 24 to be tackled next year. However, due to the lockdown, the civic body could not complete the work this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-to-undertake-125-crore-drain-work-in-mumbai-s-western-suburbs-to-prevent-waterlogging/story-RWfIZzfNyH7mYpSogOkFtN.html
11-11-2020||City||All-women self-help group join hands with garment unit in Ludhiana||Women from a self-help group in Noorpur Bet, a small hamlet situated by the bank of Satluj amidst trails of paddy field, are set to embark on an entrepreneurial journey with a garment unit of the district. The self-help group called Baba Jhandewalan comprises 15 members from Noorpur Bet with the youngest one being 20 years old.The business centre was inaugurated on Wednesday by Ludhiana ADC(D), Sandeep Kumar and Neeti Jain, director of Neva Garments in presence of village panchayat among others.“There cannot be a better time to invest in livelihood programmes. especially because rural expenditure is at an all-time low due to the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Sandeep Kumar.The garment unit will get their products manufactured by the SHG while also providing them with necessary handholding for a month and marketing support throughout the process of production. This comes at a time when the city has seen a mass exodus of workers due to the pandemic. A member of the SHG said, “It is time we stop saying we are not ready to become an entrepreneur, we will learn on the go as we do things and we are not scared to fail and learn.”This project is conceptualised and executed with the efforts of district development fellow, Aishwarya Dixit who has been appointed by the state government in Ludhiana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/all-women-self-help-group-join-hands-with-garment-unit-in-ludhiana/story-75Czxjcy478nt6yVMkRrFK.html
11-11-2020||Chandigarh||Hailed as Covid warriors, but no bonus: Chandigarh PGI non faculty staff to hold protest on Diwali||Miffed over not being given a Diwali Bonus, members of the Non Faculty Union of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research will hold a protest on the day of the festival (November 14) at the rally ground in Sector 25. The union has accused the PGIMER administration of not holding talks with them and said the deadlock over employee welfare issues had also not been resolved. “No measures have been undertaken by the government on overall fiscal management. Till then, this is the right of the healthcare workers and the bonus should be given to the employees from the internal revenue generated by the institute if it is not provided by the government,” said Ashwani Munjal, president of the PGI Employees Union of Non Faculty Members. “Since there are orders from the (Punjab and Haryana) high court prohibiting protests on the institute’s campus, the employees will protest at the rally ground instead. Employees on emergency and Covid-19 duties will not participate,” he added.After the health ministry in the recent communication directed the institute to desist from paying the non productivity linked bonus till the finance ministry’s nod, the PGIMER administration has been silent on the matter. Nurses at the institute were also surprised when authorities said they were “helpless” in sorting out the bonus issue. Satyaveer Dagur, general secretary of the Nurses Union, said autonomous bodies such as PGIMER had been at the forefront of dealing with the pandemic and such decisions affected the morale of the workers.“On Diwali, we will not light up our homes and post photographs on social networking sites. It will represent the real picture. What purpose has it served to show solidarity with the frontline warriors of the Covid-19 pandemic by turning off house lights and lighting candles and oil lamps early during the pandemic?” questioned Dagur. Approximately 5,000 group B (non-gazetted), C and D employees will not receive the bonus. Group B includes nursing officers, office superintendents, and personal assistants; Group C comprises clerical staff on different pay scale levels, and Group D employees are hospital and sanitation attendants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-bonus-pgimer-non-faculty-staff-to-hold-protest-on-diwali/story-y9zsv709a7kfXE9EUx6GLK.html
11-11-2020||Chandigarh||Man held for stalking, outraging modesty of minor in Panchkula||Panchkula police arrested a local man on Wednesday for stalking, threatening and outraging the modesty of a minor. An FIR was registered on Tuesday on the complaint of the girl’s father that Tarundeep was stalking his daughter, harassing her for her contact details and issuing threats to her.  “My daughter is less than 18 years old. She goes to the city for coaching classes. On October 26, she told me that Tarundeep forcefully took her to one shop, threatened her and asked her to share her contact details,” the minor’s father told the police.“He often stalks her and once even threatened her younger brother,” he added.A case was registered under section 12 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences, section 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), and 354 D of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-held-for-stalking-outraging-modesty-of-minor/story-M8kuI4toZ2Upb6OeJ63KNM.html
11-11-2020||City||Road accidents claim 1 life every day in Ludhiana: NGO||One person dies every day in road accidents in the district, according to figures released by a city-based NGO working on road safety.The NGO further revealed that over 1,100 people have lost their lives in road accidents in the last three years. Besides overspeeding and other causes, 92 black spots are also contributing significantly to the rising road mishaps, said Kamal Soi, chairman of NGO Raahat, the Safe Community Foundation.“Every year, more than 350 people die in road accidents and more than 600 get severely injured. The fatality rate is as high as 69% making Ludhiana one of the most dangerous cities in the country,” said Soi.Although there are various reasons for this high fatality rate, the presence of 92 black spots is one of the main reasons, he said while adding that this can easily be improved with little effort.“Poor road infrastructure is claiming several lives in the district. Apart from just separating the traffic, no effort has been made for the safety of commuters on Jagraon and Gill flyover,” said Soi.He enunciated that speed is the single biggest factor contributing to road accident deaths in the country and more particularly in Ludhiana. “Over 40% of fatal collisions are caused by excessive or inappropriate speed. We don’t have any mechanism to enforce speed limits in the district. People drive recklessly endangering their own as well as lives of others,” he added. BOXNGO Raahat and Global Society of Safety Professionals (GSHP) will undertake the following activities under Mission Safe Ludhiana from December 2020-March 2021Involvement of all stakeholders such as administration, civic authorities, police, politicians, press, transport department, public and judiciary.HSRP number plate affixation and monitoring for effective enforcement to reduce crimes and instill a fear of being caughtScientific enforcement based on violationsSafe School Vahan PolicyPolice station wise monitoring of road accidents, deaths and traffic jamsRoad safety audits and repairing potholesBlack spot managementCommercial vehicle testing for fitness and roadworthinessCondition of roads, road cuts, traffic lights, potholes and ongoing projectsEmergency medical services VTS/ GPS in public service vehicles for the safety of women and children in distress.National-level road safety conference in March next yearYearly Road Safety Award for enforcement, education, engineering, individual and NGO category.Media briefing every month for activities undertaken||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/road-accidents-claim-1-life-every-day-in-ludhiana-ngo/story-NELD3t5wjQBxd4Zy3OkAWL.html
11-11-2020||Mumbai||If Nitish Kumar becomes Bihar CM, he should give credit to Shiv Sena, says Sanjay Raut||Sanjay Raut, the chief spokesperson of the Shiv Sena, on Wednesday reiterated that if Nitish Kumar becomes the chief minister of Bihar again, he should give credit to the Sena, as it has shown what an ally can do, if the other alliance partner goes back on his word. Speaking to reporters in Mumbai, Raut said, “The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders are saying they have given him their word [on the CM post]. Nitish Kumar’s party is on the third spot. If the BJP keeps their word and if defeated Nitish Kumar becomes the CM again, he should give the credit to the Shiv Sena. Because we have shown in Maharashtra what happens if a word is not kept in an alliance.” Sena mouthpiece Saamana heaped praises on RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav for putting up a spirited fight in the Bihar polls where the BJP and Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United) won a clear majority. An editorial in the Marathi daily published on Wednesday said it was not ready to believe that Tejashwi lost the election, adding that Bihar has seen the rise of a young leader in Tejashwi Yadav. In the results announced on early Wednesday morning, the BJP won 74 seats, while the JD(U) bagged 43 seats paving way for the National Democratic Alliance to come back to power with the support of smaller allies. Yadav’s RJD became the single largest party with 75 seats, and its ally Congress secured 19 seats. “Tejashwi hasn’t lost. Merely losing an election does not mean defeat. His fight was a big struggle - not only in the family but also against the powerful in Patna and Delhi. PM Narendra Modi called him the ‘prince of jungle raj’, while Nitish Kumar made an emotional appeal to voters saying it was his last election. But Tejashwi focused on issues of development, employment, health, education in the poll campaign,” the editorial said. The editorial further added that poor performance of the Congress hurt Tejashwi’s chance at becoming the chief minister. “Bihar has seen the rise of Tejashwi era. He single-handedly fought the people in power. It would be an injustice to Tejashwi to say that Modi’’s charisma worked in Bihar. The election, which looked one-sided initially became a closely- fought contest due to Tejashwi,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/if-nitish-kumar-becomes-bihar-cm-he-should-give-credit-to-shiv-sena-says-sanjay-raut/story-XJtvnlxXLMUwimTNQY9YnO.html
11-11-2020||Gurugram||100 illegal shops along crucial road links, notices issued||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) has issued notices to the owners of 100 shops and other commercial structures that have come up illegally along the Sohna-Alwar highway, KMP Expressway and the upcoming Delhi-Mumbai Expressway. DTCP officials said that these were crucial highways and such construction will prevent future expansion, development of green belts and other facilities. KMP Expressway passes through Nuh and connects Palwal and Kundli via Manesar. The Sohna-Alwar road connects Gurugram and Sohna with Alwar district in Rajasthan. The Delhi-Mumbai Expressway, which is under construction, passes through Gurugram and Nuh.RS Bhath, district town planner, Nuh, who recently took over the charge, said that the highways last week and found that a large number of shops had come up within 50 metres of these roads. “A setback of 50 metres has to be kept on both sides of scheduled roads like these highways. During inspection it was found that commercial shops have come up unevenly and this is likely to cause problems in the future when these roads are completed and later when expansion is needed. We have already seen how difficult it has been to develop roads in Gurugram due to heavy construction in setbacks,” said Bhath, adding that any construction in controlled areas needed permission from the DTCP. “We will first ask people to vacate the shops voluntarily and if this is not done then large scale demolition drives will be carried out,” he said. In a related development, officials said that they would also carry out sealing of commercial properties built in parking areas in residential complexes Gurugram. The department said that they have received complaints in this regard and action would be initiated from next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/100-illegal-shops-along-crucial-road-links-notices-issued/story-VYtDbHFh38mYvoZqtBiVBM.html
11-11-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram air improves significantly due to wind||Gurugram’s air quality improved significantly on Wednesday. Favourable winds helped the city bring its quality down from “severe” a day earlier to “poor”, according to the air quality index (AQI) published by the central pollution control board (CPCB).The city’s air was the cleanest in the national capital region (NCR) with neighbouring Delhi, Noida and Ghaziabad recording “very poor” air.On Wednesday, the AQI read of 288 (‘poor’), down from 427 (‘severe’). Experts attributed the improvement to change in wind direction and wind speed, which helped disperse pollutants that had accumulated over the past week. Gurugram’s AQI had stayed in the ‘severe’ zone for four consecutive days since November 7. “At the moment, winds are coming from the north and the north-east of Delhi. Gurugram lies south west of Delhi, right in the path of these winds, which have blown a fair bit of pollutants away that had collected because of stagnant weather over the past few days,” said Sachin Panwar, a city-based independent air quality scientist. The concentration of ultrafine particulate matter having a diameter of 2.5 microns or less (PM 2.5), the city’s primary pollutant, was 272µg/m³ on Wedensday, as per the CPCB’s air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan in Sector 11 — down from 428µg/m³ on Tuesday. Similar improvements were seen across two other official air quality monitoring stations in Gurugram, which recorded ‘very poor’ air. However, Sector 51 continues to record higher pollution levels, with an average PM2.5 concentration of 331ug/m3 on Wednesday. This was also the only official monitor in Gurugram to record ‘very poor’ air on Wednesday, with a daily AQI reading of 331.According to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the air quality is likely to improve marginally but remain in the ‘very poor’ category on Thursday. The air quality is expected to deteriorate marginally and remain in the upper end of ‘very poor’ category on Friday. On Wednesday, the city recorded a maximum temperature of 29.9 degrees Celsius, while the minimum temperature was 12 degrees Celsius. Both maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to hover in a similar range on Thursday. As per the weekly IMD forecast, clear skies will prevail on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-air-improves-significantly-due-to-wind/story-HB5r6DKdCLy6fsKxUcx4kM.html
11-11-2020||City||Ludhiana: Father-son duo, aide booked for pilfering security agency’s ₹13 lakh||Two person, including a woman, have been booked for embezzling Rs 13 lakh of a security agency by marking bogus attendance of its employees and transferring their salaries to their bank accounts.The accused have been identified as Amrik Singh and his son, Prabhjot Singh, both residents of Gurdaspur, and Tajinder Kaur of New Janta Nagar.The trio was booked under Sections 409, 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120- B of the Indian Penal Code on the complaint of Jagraj Singh, owner of Indian Security Services, Dholewal Chowk.Investigating officer (IO) Davinder Singh said the accused were appointed to maintain the attendance register of the agency’s staff. But, the trio, in connivance with each other, made fake attendance entries and moved their salaries amounting to Rs 13.57 lakh to their bank accounts.Efforts are on to arrest them, the IO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-father-son-duo-aide-booked-for-pilfering-security-agency-s-13-lakh/story-t2SX6ZHIzV1wxsX62Cs29O.html
11-11-2020||Gurugram||Patients requiring intensive care on the rise in Gurugram||As new cases of Covid-19 continue to be reported in large numbers, the number of patients in Gurugram requiring intensive medical care is also on the rise, district health department data shows. Since Sunday, ICU bed occupancy has increased by 10%, taking the occupancy of intensive care units to almost 70%. From 160 patients in the ICU on Sunday, there are now 179 patients in intensive care in Gurugram’s hospitals — the highest since the Covid-19 outbreak — health department data shows. The total strength of reserved ICU beds is 260. The number of patients requiring ventilator support, too, has seen a proportional uptick, with 48 ventilator beds currently in use, up from 40 a week ago. A total of 122 ventilators are available for use in the districtConfirming that they are anticipating a spike in infections around the festive season, the district health department said they have requested 42 hospitals in the district, which are equipped to treat cases of Covid-19, to reserve an additional 5-10% of available beds for Covid-19 patients, over the next two weeks.While official orders in the matter are yet to be passed, department officials confirmed that the move would increase the availability of Covid-19 beds for an additional 522 patients, which is 10% of the total bed availability across 42 healthcare centres (including non-Covid). The move will push up the district’s total Covid-19 bed availability to over 2,500 beds, from 1,975 beds currently allocated. The move follows a Tuesday meeting between the chief medical officer of Gurugram and representatives of these healthcare centres. “We have communicated to the hospitals that an additional 10% of beds may be required in the coming days. We will assess the situation post Diwali and are prepared to reserve as many as 45% of all hospital beds in the district,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram. “We are looking at reserving more ICU and general beds for now. In terms of ventilator capacity, we are okay. Less than 1% of people end up requiring intubation, and the spread of the virus needs to really escalate before ventilator availability becomes a problem in Gurugram. We have 122 ventilators reserved and can augment the number when needed,” Yadav said.With the increase in the number of Covid-19 patients requiring critical care, experts warned of a possible spike in mortality numbers this month. “The progression of the Covid-19 epidemic so far shows that there is always a gap of about two weeks between a surge in cases and a surge in deaths, or at the least a surge in cases with aggravated symptoms. If Gurugram is now at a stage where ICU beds are being taken up at a rapid pace, it stands to reason that we might see more deaths as well, perhaps in the next 10 days or so,” said Dr Rajesh Kumar, epidemiologist and former head of the department of community medicine at PGIMER, Chandigarh. However, Kumar also clarified that such a surge can be countered by efficient treatment protocols and by increasing the availability of resources to treat patients showing aggravated symptoms. He also said that a spike in mortality, though possible, is unlikely to be as severe as the one Gururgam witnessed in June, when 94 patients succumbed to Covid-19 — the highest in a month.“Treatment protocols have evolved and improved over the past six months, so the mortality rate is still better than it was in June,” Kumar said. Gurugram reported 44 Covid-19 related deaths in October and has reported 11 Covid-19 related deaths in November so far, with over 6,000 new cases being reported in the first 10 days of the month. In contrast, 9,500 infections were reported in the month of October. Prabhakaran Dorairaj, head of research and policy at the Public Health Foundation of India, said that a spike in mortality is to be expected, given the current trend. “More people in the ICU means more people falling seriously ill. As the spread of the virus gains steam in the winter, the number of people getting ill will increase, and naturally so will mortality. The public health response should anticipate this and free up resources,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/patients-requiring-intensive-care-on-the-rise-in-gurugram/story-567Ie0dhZoa865yyFyO4VO.html
11-11-2020||Gurugram||Case count to reach over 43k by November 30, predicts health department||Nearly 7,000 people in the district are likely to be infected by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infection in the next 19 days, according to a projection made by the state health department. These new cases will take the tally to almost 43,300 cases in Gurugram by November 30.With the current upward trend, nearly 6,000 new infections have already been reported in just 11 days. Experts, however, said that new cases can go beyond the estimated figures due to the accelerated pace of SARS-CoV-2 virus transmission in the district.Data available with the state health department shows that by November 30, the overall tally in Gurugram will reach 43,311, of which 5,197 will be active cases. The projections were made based on the case trend till November 1. Record spikes have been reported in Gurugram from October 16, with over 500 new cases being reported every day. The spike reached a maximum of 964 on November 8. On Wednesday, at least 726 new cases were recorded, taking the tally to 36,879. Of these 5,880 are currently active.The district took more than a month and a half to reach the count of 20,000 cases from 10,000 (as depicted in the graph). In the following month, 10,000 new cases were added, taking the count to nearly 30,000 by October-end. But in just 11 days of November, almost 6,000 new cases have been reported, with the weekly positivity rate almost at 16%, similar to the July trajectory, when positivity rate reached almost 18%. In August and September, the weekly average positivity rate fluctuated between 9% and 11%.According to the prediction, at least 312 of 602 allocated beds with oxygen supply will remain occupied this month. Likewise, 156 intensive care unit (ICU) beds of 817 beds and 52 ventilators out of 343 will be engaged for Covid-19 patients. The projection takes into account only Gurugram patients. An equal number of out-station Covid-19 patients from parts of Haryana, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and other states are also admitted in Gurugram hospitals, leading to occupancy of nearly 70% of ICU beds in the city. Among the currently active cases, 396 (almost 6.7%) seriously ill patients from Gurugram are in hospital.Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer, said, “Only 2% of the new infections require hospitalisation. Considering the high recovery rate, there will be a downfall in active cases in the next 10 days. Meanwhile, fluctuations of 10-20% in daily new cases will continue now. More than 93% of Covid-19 patients are under home isolation. It is likely that we would manage serious cases with the currently available infrastructure. If required, bed capacity will be increased further.”Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, said, “It is the third spike across the Delhi-NCR, which will slightly slump in a few days after Diwali. It is a cycle which will be stabilised. We are prepared to tackle the new cases as sufficient health care infrastructure is available in Gurugram and Faridabad.”On the other hand, Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head of community medicine and community health department, PGIMER-Chandigarh, said that projected numbers can go beyond the 43,000.“Covid-19 predictions are made taking the case trend of the last 15 days. Based on it, forecast for the coming 15 days or a month is done. These estimations are based on worst case and real case scenarios. Government generally take figures between the worst and the real. Several factors like daily growth rate, doubling time and positivity rate are taken into account for the projections. Since it is a dynamic process, the numbers can vary every week.”Currently, the growth rate of the new cases is nearly 2%, while cases are doubling in every 38 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/case-count-to-reach-over-43k-by-november-30-predicts-health-department/story-NyYr0L4cFSh1JRAT66LMGM.html
11-11-2020||Gurugram||Model roads to come up in Gurugram’s residential areas||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) is planning to redesign streets in South City-1 and Sushant Lok-1 as “model streets”, by freeing footpaths of encroachments, introducing no-vehicle zones, and increasing speed calming measures, said officials on Wednesday.MCG officials said that streets in both areas are mostly residential, but due to a high volume of vehicles accessing them, pedestrians and cyclists find it unsafe to navigate.“The redesigning process has started. We want to make streets in both areas as model streets, which will serve as examples of how streets should be designed in Gurugram. Such models can then be replicated across different parts of the city,” said Raman Sharma, chief engineer, MCG.The civic body will carry out the redesigning project in association with the World Resources Institute (WRI) and Raahgiri foundation.In South City-1, four streets are being redesigned to ensure the safe passage of students studying in four schools in the area, along with those residing in residential complexes in the vicinity.“Currently, the streets within South City-1 have limited speed calming measures, due to which vehicles tend to travel at a high speed. Further, the existing footpaths are either badly damaged or heavily encroached upon, resulting in pedestrians walking on the main carriageway. As per our design plan, we want to reclaim footpaths by removing all encroachments, build new footpaths where they are either broken or missing altogether, and introduce speed breakers before residential, commercial areas,” said Sarika Panda Bhatt, co-founder of Raahgiri foundation.With regards to the four schools in the area, Bhatt said that the streets outside the schools have to be redesigned on the lines of a model school zone set up by the Raahgiri foundation, MCG, and WRI in Sector 47 earlier this week, as per the proposal. On Sunday, using traffic cones, paints and signage, the agency redesigned a 200-metre stretch outside Mount Olympus School in such a manner that dedicated waiting areas, pick and drop-off points were created along with crossing points.WRI and Raahigiri foundation have done a technical study on the four streets in South City-1 and submitted their report to the MCG for perusal.In Sushant Lok-1, MCG officials said they are planning on redesigning the 2.5-kilometre service lane between Vyapar Kendra and Gold Souk Mall in such a manner that vehicles can no longer be parked in the residential lane and that it is not used as an alternate route. Commuters extensively use this residential stretch, leading towards St Thomas Marg/Golf Course Road, instead of the main carriageway as it helps them avoid four traffic signals and save time.“The street will be designed with facilities for all road users including the management of parking around market areas, which is currently the biggest reason for the chaos on Sushant Lok-1 streets. The infrastructure change would benefit residential areas to access the market by foot or cycling safely with their families,” said Priyanka Sulkhlan, manager, cities and transport, WRI India.MCG officials privy to the matter said that bollards would be placed on all entry and exit points of the 2.5-kilometre service lane to prevent vehicles from entering the lane, while residents of Sushant Lok 1 could access the same through alternate routes within the colony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/model-roads-to-come-up-in-gurugram-s-residential-areas/story-l0RM5lq88Y97SzSkS3PnSK.html
11-11-2020||Gurugram||Developers to face action for not giving info, mistreating buyers||The Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority (H-Rera), Gurugram, on Wednesday observed that not providing information pertaining to plan, specifications and timeline of real estate projects to homebuyers shall be treated as violation of Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016, and may invite stringent actions against the promoter.The H-Rera bench, headed by Dr KK Khandelwal, the chairman, and members SC Kush and Samir Kumar, observed that a large number of complaints have been filed before the authority where serious allegations of misbehaviour and improper treatment with the allottees by the promoters have been levelled.The bench observed that the allottee has the right to visit the project site and check the quality of construction going on. But, even after persistent requests, no such opportunity is given to the allottees and when the allottees visit the site, the security guards of the promoters not only prevent them from the lawful visit of the site but also, at times, mistreat them. The treatment meted out to the allottees is not only illegal and objectionable but also against the canon of decency and decorum, it observed.Dr Khandelwal said that it has come to the notice of the bench that the customer relations department of the promoter also does not respond in a right and welcoming manner. The response of the customer relations department is totally antagonistic at times and the allottee has to face not only inconvenience, but also mental agony and pain. The authority is pained to observe that even during the proceedings of the authority, the representatives of the promoter rebuke, reprimand and scold the allottee in a very threatening manner, he said.“Bad behaviour or lack of moral behaviour with the customer, denial of their rights as mandated in the Act, non-supply of requisite information to the allottee shall be treated as violation of the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016 and promoter will meet with strict actions and penal consequences,” the bench observed.The authority has also directed two developers — Emmar and JMD Developers — to provide training to their customer relations department so that the employees behave with dignity and grace.A spokesperson for JMD Developers said that the company is “very customer-centric” and that the managing director directly interacts with the customers to resolve their issues. “We will abide by the directions of the H-Rera and try to improve our customer relationship management more if the authority desires so,” said the spokesperson. Representatives of Emmar did not respond to queries seeking comment. H-Rera will also finalise a code of conduct for promoters and staff to deal properly with buyers and also conduct workshops to train employees in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/developers-to-face-action-for-not-giving-info-mistreating-buyers/story-B8k9iWUBXEHp69nmhGTOsO.html
11-11-2020||Gurugram||Air purifiers installed at high traffic volume points||Outdoor air purifiers were installed in clusters at three crowded locations of the city on Wednesday, as part of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority’s (GMDA) Project Air Care.Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday inaugurated the GMDA venture through videoconferencing. Six purifiers were installed at the Sector 44 traffic junction, just ahead of the GMDA offices, besides 11 devices in the vicinity of the Sikanderpur Metro station and another 10 around Iffco Chowk on Wednesday.The purifiers — wind augmentation and purification units (or Wayu) — have been developed by researchers at the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (Neeri) and the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi.Sunil Kumar, a senior scientist at Neeri involved with the project, said, “When used in clusters, these devices can provide cleaner air to people in a vicinity of about 500 metres. They are effective at reducing tailpipe emissions in high-traffic areas, such as traffic intersections, bus bays, parking lots and so on, where idling vehicles are a huge source of air pollution.”Kumar said, “The device doesn’t just filter out pollutants like PM2.5 and PM10 particles, carbon monoxide and volatile organic compounds, but chemically breaks them down and releases carbon dioxide as a by-product. It can reduce 60-70% for PM10 and 30-40% for PM2.5 at traffic junctions, but efficiency will depend on the pollution load and size distribution of particulate matter in the ambient air.”Under the CSR-funded project, 65 outdoor air purifiers are expected to be installed at key locations across the city by early next year, officials in the GMDA’s urban environment division said.“About 38 more devices will be installed within the next two months at Rajeev Chowk, Vatika Chowk, Atul Kataria Chowk, Cyber City and Genpact Chowk, among other places. We will also make sure to cover industrial areas like Udyog Vihar, so we can get a sense of what the situation is like there. A Neeri team will continue to analyse data from the Wayu units and share the chemical analysis with us,” said Subash Yadav, a metropolitan green planner with the GMDA’s urban environment division.Speaking at the launch of Project Air Care on Wednesday, Khattar said, “The rising levels of air pollution in Haryana, especially Gurugram, is a case of serious concern among all of us. As we move towards the festive season, we would like to bring some relief to citizens with the installation of multiple Wayu air purifiers at strategic junctions. I welcome this public-private partnership… and urge other corporates to join the movement in building a clean and green city.”Day-to-day maintenance of these Wayu units, which require weekly filter changes, will be taken up by the CSR partners concerned, along with Neeri and an independent NGO working in the field of air pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/air-purifiers-installed-at-high-traffic-volume-points/story-nZbq63IypGEtmKqSD2BcYN.html
11-11-2020||City||Ludhiana MC seeks FIR against 29 shopkeepers for encroaching on roads||Taking a tough stance against encroachments on city roads/street portion, the municipal corporation (MC) has written to the police department seeking an FIR against 29 shopkeepers/scrap dealers in different areas falling under Zone B of the civic body.Legal action has been recommended against seven shopkeepers in the Ghoda colony and Bihari colony near Cheema Chowk, 18 shopkeepers at Chimney road near Samrala chowk, two at GT road near Transport Nagar, and two in Industrial area A. MC Tehbazaari inspector, Naresh Kumar said, “In 2012, the Punjab and Haryana high court had said that strict action should be taken against encroachments and regular challans should be issued. If the encroachers remain adamant then legal action was recommended against them.” The MC officials said that in January this year, erring shopkeepers were warned of legal action and now a reminder has been sent to the police department to lodge FIRs against them.MC secretary, Neeraj Jain said, “Strict action is being taken against encroachers and joint teams of MC and police are regularly conducting anti-encroachment drives in the city.”Mayor Balkar Sandhu said that after Diwali, action will also be taken against encroachments done by street vendors as the MC does not want to play a spoilsport during the festival. Regular anti-encroachment drives will be conducted by the civic body and police. The vendors will only be allowed to put up stalls at the sites earmarked for establishing vending zones in the city, the mayor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-seeks-fir-against-29-shopkeepers-for-encroaching-on-roads/story-14TDBLuyti5hNmfucoiOFL.html
11-11-2020||City||‘Donkey gang’ behind over 100 snatching, robbery cases in Ludhiana, say police||The gang of robbers busted on Monday evening is involved in over 100 cases of armed robbery and snatching in and around Ludhiana, the police said on Wednesday.Infamous as “donkey gang”, the seven accused were produced before a court on Wednesday and sent to five-day police remand. They were nabbed from Transport Nagar while planning another robbery on Monday evening.Those arrested are Lovedeep Singh, alias Deepu, of Jhabewal Road, Bhamia; Gagandeep Singh of Guru Angad Dev Nagar, Faridkot; Deepak Kumar of Shimlapuri; Kulwinder Singh of Gaunsgarh village; Amanjot Singh, alias Aman Donkey, of Bulara village; Shiv Kumar, alias Shibbu, of Bhamia Kalan; and Vikram Singh, alias Vicky, of Jamalpur area.Besides six motorcycles, a scooter and seven mobile phones, the police had recovered a pistol, an air gun, four blunt weapons and a dummy pistol from them.Addressing a press conference on Wednesday, commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said with these arrests, crime will reduce in Ludhiana. “Aman Donkey is the gang’s kingpin. They used to rob people by brandishing pistols, knives and iron rods. They also targeted migrant workers returning from factories and were most active in streets around Nagesh Factory, Bahadurke Road, Jassian Road, Dana Mandi, Shimlapuri, Daba area, Gill Road and Moti Nagar area,” he added.Out of the seven gang members, six are habitual offenders and have been in and out of jail many times in various crime cases.Lately, they had been targeting grocery stores, prompting their owners to approach the police for relief to save their businesses.Besides, the gang often indulged in violent clashes with the rival Chinka gang, whose members are already behind bars.During interrogation, the accused confessed to being drug addicts and committing crime to buy drugs.The police are investigating what the accused did with the stolen cash and other articles.CASES CRACKED WITH ARRESTIn October, they had robbed a grocery store owner of Rs 20,000 at gunpoint near Atam Hosiery in Guru Nanak Nagar. They had also snatched Rs 90,000 and Rs 6,900 from two other grocers on Tajpur Road and in Shahbana village, respectively.Earlier, in September, they snatched Rs 1.5 lakh from a man at gunpoint at Quality Chowk in Shamlapuri and also looted Rs 3,000 at knifepoint from a migrant worker near Nirmal Palace.Similarly, in August, they had robbed a man of Rs 4.43 lakh after opening fire, and snatched mobile phones from migrant workers after attacking them with sharp-edged weapons near Nagesh Hosiery and Bahadurke Road in two separate incidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/donkey-gang-behind-over-100-snatching-robbery-cases-in-ludhiana-say-police/story-B0OipoHIUCsFCWewjh3wtK.html
11-11-2020||City||Fast track pending infrastructure projects in Thane, Maharashtra cabinet minister tells MMRDA||The pending infrastructure projects in Thane city are set to get a major boost, said cabinet minister for urban development and public works, Eknath Shinde.Shinde, who is also the guardian minister of Thane, told the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) officials in a meeting, to fast track most projects including Teen Hath Naka remodelling, extension of the freeway from Ghatkopar to Thane and elevated Anandnagar toll plaza to Saket creek bridge.Most of the projects in Thane and other Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) suffered a setback during the Covid-19 lockdown.Shinde said, “I conducted a meeting with the MMRDA officials on Monday to know the status of major projects like Kopri to Patni creek bridge, Kolshet to Gaimukh creek bridge and New Thane Growth Centre. Most heavy vehicles from Mumbai, Pune, Nashik, Jawaharlal Nehru Port (JNPT) and Ahmedabad pass through Thane. Hence, these projects are important for decongestion of the city. I have given directives to fast track them.”He also gave directives to change the alignment of the Thane-Bhiwandi-Kalyan Metro 5, as the earlier alignment was opposed by most residents.An MMRDA official, requesting anonymity, said, “There was a presentation on the status of each of the Thane-related projects. The minister has directed us regarding the timeline of these projects.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fast-track-pending-infrastructure-projects-in-thane-maharashtra-cabinet-minister-tells-mmrda/story-0SjDJjnH02aXN4PV4KulLK.html
11-11-2020||Chandigarh||Take selfie with segregated waste for free compost in Kharar||To encourage residents to segregate waste in households, Himanshu Jain, administrator, municipal council, Kharar, has launched a campaign to give away free organic compost to those who will share selfies with the segregated waste.Residents can go to the municipal council office, show their selfies, and get free compost for gardening.The administrator said that Kharar had become a role model for other cities and, several high-level officers had visited Kharar’s compost sites to replicate the same elsewhere in Punjab. He also appealed to the residents to avoid usage of plastic gift wrappers, plastic carry bags, and single-use items while shopping during the festival season.The residents must get used to keeping twin dustbins in their households for segregating wet and dry waste. Kharar has started manufacturing organic compost from wet (biodegradable waste) using mechanical composting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/take-selfie-with-segregated-waste-for-free-compost-in-kharar/story-uJAflw3iYbKOwUG20anxzL.html
11-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Medicine vendors call hunger strike over delay in payment of dues||As Mumbai gears up to celebrate Diwali, All Food and Drugs Licence Holders Foundation (AFDLHF) has called a hunger strike on November 12 outside Haffkine Institute, Parel. Members have alleged that despite regularly supplying medicines to civic hospitals and medical colleges, the procurement cell of Haffkine Institute has not released ₹206 crore over the past seven months. In a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Haffkine Institute on Tuesday, vendors said they don’t have money to pay staffers their salaries during the festival season.According to state government rules, Haffkine Institute is the only body responsible for the procurement of medicines all across Maharashtra. After getting selected in response to tenders floated by the apex body, vendors supply medicines to civic and government-run hospitals, medical colleges, dispensaries among others. Vendors claimed they have not received their pending money since May despite submitting bills to the institute.“Due to the non-receipt of the payments, our members’ financial condition got disturbed. We don’t have the funds to pay salaries to staff/workers. We don’t even have money to buy raw materials,” reads the letter addressed to Medical Education and Drugs Department, the chief minister’s office and the institute.AFDLHF claimed that of the total pending amount of ₹206 crore, ₹93 crore is to be paid by the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) and the remaining ₹113 crore by the Directorate of Health Service (DHS).Secretary of medical education and drugs department, Saurabh Vijay, said, “I am not aware of the situation right now. But will look into it.”Abhay Pandey, president of AFDLHF, said, “DHS has released our money but the institute hasn’t dispersed it to vendors. We get blacklisted if we delay supply of medicines to hospitals, but what about our sufferings? We have sent several letters to the authority but no one has paid any heed.”The federation has decided to stage the hunger strike in front of Haffkine Institute at 10am on November 12. “People are lighting up their houses for Diwali, but we don’t even have the money to pay school fees of my children,” said a vendor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-medicine-vendors-call-hunger-strike-over-delay-in-payment-of-dues/story-rbP9UBSLj3CAXZNgE489AI.html
11-11-2020||City||Youth offers man help in traffic jam, drives off with car||An unidentified man drove off in the car of a city resident after offering to help him get out of a traffic jam at Sherpur Chowk on Tuesday.In his complaint to the police, Naveen Bajaj, 32, a resident of Balloke, said he was heading back from Mohan Dai Oswal Hospital around 2pm when he got stuck in a traffic jam and had trouble manoeuvring his Renault KWID.In the meantime, a young man offered him help. So, Bajaj stepped out of the vehicle and allowed the youth to take the wheel. However, the latter drove off in the car, leaving him gawking. Bajaj raised the alarm, but to no avail. A case under Section 406 (criminal breach of trust) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/youth-offers-man-help-in-traffic-jam-drives-off-with-car/story-TzVCIn7AlrnIKnAGJ8I5NM.html
11-11-2020||City||Ludhiana hospitality sector welcomes Punjab govt’s decision to allow re-opening of bars||The beleaguered hospitality sector has welcomed the state government’s decision to allow bars to re-open in hotels, shopping malls, and restaurants from November 10. The bars reopened after hiatus of seven and a half months.Even though hoteliers and restaurant owners were allowed to serve liquor, they were not allowed to open bars. Hoteliers said it is a welcome move ahead of Diwali and they hope for revival in the coming days. Vice-president of Hotel and Restaurant Association, Amarjit Singh said, “Our business depends on bars and it is good that the government has allowed us to reopen it. There is a steady increase in footfall in restaurants in the city.”The former president of the association said that the government should further increase the gathering limit in events.Hoteliers said that they have put together stringent safeguards to ensure a safe environment for consumers and employees.General manager of a private hotel, Abhay Kumar said, “It’s a welcome step by the state government. We have made certain changes in the rules to comply with Covid guidelines. Since social distancing is mandatory, we are following all SOPs issued by the MHA and state government. ‘Rail roko’ hitting sector Hoteliers rued that the rail roko agitation of farmers is taking a toll on their business.Amarjit Singh said, “The hotel business depends mostly on those who visit the industrial hub on business tours. As passenger trains are at a halt, the business has reduced to less than 20%. Only a few customers are visiting the city from other states by road that also for purchasing hosiery products. The government should take steps to resolve the farmer issues and restart passenger trains.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-hospitality-sector-welcomes-punjab-govt-s-decision-to-allow-re-opening-of-bars/story-B0sMkKpkEuCTG6OdOHMDFK.html
11-11-2020||Chandigarh||Ambala advocate released after Bar members protest against ‘illegal detention’||Lawyers and police faced off outside the Ambala Cantonment police station a local advocate accused of extortion was allegedly detained on Wednesday. He was released later.Advocate Kamal Dham was allegedly picked up by the police in the morning for questioning in an extortion case after which other advocates and Ambala District Bar Association (DBA) members gathered outside the police station demanding his release. Station in-charge Vijay Kumar said that Ramesh Saini, a resident of Laxmi Nagar in the Cantonment had filed a complaint against Dham of extorting money from a person to get registry done at the tehsil office. “We have registered a complaint and are investigating the matter,” Kumar said. DBA president Iqbal Singh alleged that proper procedures were not followed when Dham was detained. Even politicians got involved with Haryana Democratic Front leaders Chitra Sarwara (Congress) and Onkar Singh (Indian National Lok Dal) reaching the protest venue. Former Ambala DBA president Rohit Jain said police relented when some bar association leaders and other lawyers went to the station and asked why Dham had been detained. “When pressure was built, they asked us to take him away, after signing an undertaking. We said even if an FIR was filed the proper procedure under laws should have been followed.”Some policemen again tried to get hold of Dham when he went outside the police station and the station in-charge asked for another signature on a notice, Jain alleged. After this, nearly 200 advocates sat outside the station protesting against the “unruly behaviour of the police,” and later Dhami was served a notice to appear again on November 17, with the assurance from senior police officials that investigations would be fair. Kumar dismissed accusations against the “detention,” as “allegations”. “The man was with them outside the station. He can also be seen in some videos. He was just served a notice to appear again and has signed it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/advocate-released-after-bar-members-protest-against-illegal-detention/story-qxpLqWBmeND6wSbZfDrx5J.html
11-11-2020||City||Green firecrackers only in Punjab: Enforcing ban may prove to be a Herculean task||The Punjab government’s order allowing only the use of green firecrackers on Diwali and Gurpurab has posed a challenge in front of the police, administration and even customers – identifying the eco-friendly variety.Having come into prominence last year, green fireworks carry a QR code and a “green firework” label. However, with the standard not being followed by manufacturers invariably, traders say they neither have adequate eco-friendly stock nor are sure of differentiating between the two kinds.According to the department of science, technology and environment, Punjab, only firecrackers without barium salts or compounds of antimony, lithium, mercury, arsenic, lead and strontium chromate are considered green. These help with 30% lower emissions of toxic gases than traditional ones.However, these specifications are not reflected on the commonly available firecrackers in the market, making it a Herculean task for the administration and police to take action against the violators. A visit to the firecracker markets near Jalandhar Bypass and Model Town Extension on Wednesday revealed that most stall owners did not have green firecrackers and only few had put the limited stock on display. Commissioner of police (CP) Rakesh Agrawal said penalising the violators was a challenge, so the police will involve the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) to rein in sale of banned firecrackers during raids.Sales dive further Traders complained that they were anyway receiving a low response due to the pandemic and the Tuesday announcement by the chief minister had only dented their sales further.“The market is already witnessing a slowdown due to the Covid-19 outbreak. The government decision to ban the traditional firecrackers after issuing licences and establishment of shops has added to our woes. While we have stock of green firecrackers, what will do with the other ones?” asked Pradeep Gupta, president of the Ludhiana Firecrackers’ Association.A trader, requesting anonymity, said they had invested in huge stock and the ban will lead to heavy losses. “The National Green Tribunal and the government should first restrict the manufacture of traditional firecrackers rather than leaving the traders to bear the brunt of such bans,” he said, while questioning how the government would stop residents from bursting firecrackers already purchased with the ban being enforced just three days before Diwali.Backing the dealers, social activist Kuldeep Singh Khaira said though the ban was appreciable, it came too late and will hit the already suffering traders hard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/green-firecrackers-only-in-punjab-enforcing-ban-may-prove-to-be-a-herculean-task/story-BQY4fBlTxTrLrBhalD56rI.html
11-11-2020||Mumbai||Banned metals, chemicals found in green crackers sold in Mumbai, NGO tells Centre, state||An analysis of the chemical composition of green crackers being sold in Mumbai by city-based non-government organisation (NGO) Awaaz Foundation showed the presence of ingredients banned by the Supreme Court in 2018 such as barium nitrate, along with potassium nitrate and sulphur. Barium nitrate, which emits green flames when a cracker is lit, is a metal oxide that increases both air and noise pollution.Firecracker manufacturers from Sivakasi in Tamil Nadu confirmed that they were allowed to use barium nitrate and that they got manufacturing certificates.A 2018 study by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed that exposure to nitrates could lead to developmental dangers to children and unborn babies.On Wednesday, Awaaz Foundation wrote to the Prime Minister’s Office and various bodies of the Central and state governments. “It is truly shocking that test results of these green crackers, which children are encouraged to use, are validated by the open display of the banned chemical content on their packaging. Such crackers, which cause serious illnesses including respiratory illnesses, will worsen the effects of Covid-19,” said Sumaira Abdulali, convener of Awaaz Foundation, and called for a pan-India ban on them.A 2018 SC order banned the manufacture of traditional polluting firecrackers and called for developing green crackers using a new chemical composition. On October 5, 2019, the Centre announced the use of green firecrackers developed by the National Environment Engineering Research Institute (NEERI). With new formulations and a minimum reduction in emissions by 30%, NEERI developed flower pots and sparklers.Of the 11 green crackers analysed at a private laboratory, Awaaz Foundation identified seven with and four without the NEERI symbol. All these firecrackers comprised heavy metals such as aluminium, magnesium, strontium, barium, potassium, calcium, chlorine and sulphur. The study, however, did not calculate the percentage contribution of each ingredient in the firecracker. “Only the chemical composition is described on the boxes, not the quantity. So there seems to be no difference in these crackers from traditionally polluting ones,” said Abdulali.Ganesan Panjurajan, president, Tamil Nadu Fireworks and Amorces Manufacturers Association, said, NEERI issued certificates to around 600 of 1,075 factories at Sivakasi. “There’s a 20% reduction in barium in each green firecracker as per the new formula. We are using NEERI’s recommended additive for reduction of particulate matter emission by 25-30% when crackers are burst. However, we cannot comment on those ‘green crackers’ that do not have the stamp,” said Panjurajan.Pooja Dhar, advocate-on-record for the petitioners in the SC, said the Union environment ministry had filed an affidavit, , based on NEERI’s submissions, before the Apex court in November 2019 allowing minimal use of barium nitrate in the formula for green crackers. “However, SC has not given its final verdict since there was a delay in the matter due to Covid-19 pandemic. Thus, there is no clarity on whether barium nitrate can actually be used or not,” said Dhar adding that the SC had in March directed the Central Bureau of Investigation to probe Sivakasi-based manufacturers for using barium nitrate during firecracker manufacturing process.A NEERI official, who is not authorised to speak to the media, said, “We cannot comment on the use of any ingredients as the matter is subjudice. The Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO) grants approval for the use of green crackers. We are a research organisation developing formulations and testing emission reduction. Market or implementation-related issues do not pertain to us.”PESO official SD Mishra, controller of explosives, and MK Jhala, joint controller of explosives, refused to comment.Meanwhile, Minesh Mehta, general secretary of Mumbai and Thane district Fireworks Dealers’ Welfare Association, said, “We are only purchasing crackers from agencies that have a licence to produce crackers with the NEERI stamp on them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/banned-metals-chemicals-found-in-green-crackers-sold-in-mumbai-ngo-tells-centre-state/story-LdU9Zf4mrjrb9VZpBVMRTN.html
11-11-2020||Chandigarh||Allot land for religious places: Gian Chand Gupta||Haryana vidhan sabha speaker and Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta has reportedly expressed his disappointment over delay in land allotment for religious places and slow progress of other projects.Gupta held a meeting with the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) officials on Wednesday.Asking HSVP officials about the status of land allotment to religious institutions, Gupta expressed disappointment over the fact that though plots had been identified in some sectors it was taking a long time for officials to allot it, sources said. The principal secretary, town and country planning, Haryana, AK Singh, was asked by Gupta to look into the matter at the earliest. When Gupta was told that the municipal corporation had not submitted the drawings for the Sector 15 community centre, he asked the civic body to speed up work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/allot-land-for-religious-places-gian-chand-gupta/story-oQne0wwpOkaoOUwE7fytQP.html
11-11-2020||City||Ludhiana’s Covid tally crosses 21,000 mark with 107 new cases||Three days ahead of Diwali, the number of Covid-19 in the district recorded a significant increase with 107 patients testing positive on Wednesday.This is the first time since October 13 that the daily figure of cases crossed the 100 mark. With this, Ludhiana’s Covid tally also crossed the 21,000 mark. Of the total 21,072 cases now, as many as 700 remain active, which was last recorded on October 6.It was on October 13 last when 104 cases were reported in a day, following which there had been a steady decline in the daily cases, with October 24 recording just 24 cases.While the active cases had dropped to 281 on October 31, these increased to 337 on November 1, further to 426 on November 3, 510 on November 5 and 674 on November 10.Three senior citizens deadWednesday also saw three patients losing the battle to the virus, taking the death toll to 855.The latest fatalities include three men, aged 62, 73 and 83, residents of Chawanni Mohalla, Bajra Mohalla and GTB Nagar, respectively.Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma cautioned against being complacent during the festive season as the district was again witnessing a rise in Covid cases, which will also translate to more deaths. He urged residents to limit outdoor visits and ensure social distancing and face masks whenever stepping out, especially for the safety of the elderly and those suffering from comorbidities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-s-covid-tally-crosses-21-000-mark-with-107-new-cases/story-VGkDr52KI2PU2CpIKiEeoI.html
11-11-2020||Mumbai||Bihar victory is a result of voters’ trust in PM Narendra Modi says former Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis||The National Democratic Alliance’s (NDA) victory in the Bihar polls was the result of a wave of the voter’s trust in Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi’s leadership, said Devendra Fadnavis, Leader of Opposition, who was also the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) campaign in-charge for Bihar.Fadnavis, taking a dig at Shiv Sena and Congress, said that the former could not save its deposits, while the latter has no standing among the people of India.Fadnavis, who was tested positive for Covid-19 infection and was hospitalised during the voting in Bihar elections, said that it is the time for the Opposition to think why the Prime Minister gets the mass support across the country. He said it was the acceptance of efforts put in by the PM during the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown to safeguard the interest of poor people. “He ensured that no poor slept empty stomach during the lockdown. The voters have acknowledged his leadership in the Bihar elections,” Fadnavis said while speaking to the media in Mumbai. He also hit back at the Sena, saying that the party has not accepted the defeat. “What can I say about the party which has lost its deposit and has polled the votes less than NOTA. They need to introspect instead of attacking others,” he said. He was responding to the criticism by Sena leader Sanjay Raut.Fadnavis said that Congress has lost its base and the leadership has no standing among the people. “The party has lost its face. People have no trust in the leadership of Congress,” he said.Fadnavis said that women and youth votes stood by NDA in the Bihar elections.When asked if the Bihar election results will have any bearings on Maharashtra politics, Fadnavis said that the BJP will continue to work as a strong Opposition party. “Our confidence has been strengthened after the Bihar victory. The victory has reiterated that we are on the right path. We will continue to work as a strong Opposition party, raising the issues faced by the people of Maharashtra,” he said.Another party leader Ashish Shelar said that Congress had to face a debacle in Muslim-dominated constituencies in Bihar because of their alliance with Shiv Sena in Maharashtra. “The results have established the fact that Congress candidates in Muslim-dominated areas faced defeat. The voters could not digest the fact that Congress has formed a government with Sena. The Bihar results have established the fact that parties partnering with Congress faced defeat. This will replicate in Maharashtra in the coming days,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bihar-victory-is-a-result-of-voters-trust-in-pm-narendra-modi-says-former-maharashtra-cm-devendra-fadnavis/story-oAPugmJME9BombcJrPrAMK.html
11-11-2020||Delhi||Diwali cleaning in Covid times: Before get togethers, it’s time for sanitisation||Festival cleaning is the mood in almost every household. Amid the pandemic, Delhiites are opting for not just cleaning but going a step ahead and enthusiastically booking for sanitisation services, as the festival of Diwali nears. And service providers in Delhi-NCR have registered a noticeable spike in demand from denizens. “Earlier we were sanitising 6-8 homes per day, but in the festive season we have been sanitising 25-30 homes per day,” says Krishna Veer Singh, from Droom – an online car marketplace that offers antimicrobial surface protection services. Sharing that they have registered a five fold increase in bookings made for their germ shield sanitation services, Singh adds, “The festive season has definitely made people conscious of safety, since many expect guests in these weeks. Which is why we even came out with special offers to cater to a growing demand.” “As the pandemic continues, people want to be safe and not run into the risk of having infections. Many who have been planning on get-togethers or functions in their homes, and wish to celebrate the festival safely, are opting for our home cleaning services,” says Alok Pant, from Hytech Expert, a company that provides sanitisation services. He adds, “In the time of pandemic, people know it’s better to get a professional to not just clean the house, but also sanitise the exposed surfaces. In the last 40 days, in the run up to the festive season, we have serviced over 350 houses, which is 50% more than what we did in the previous months!”Those employees who provide cleaning services, are equipped with a full body protective suit to ensure the safety of customers as well as their own. Aamir Ayyub, founder of Delhi-based Right to Safety Foundation, which has been providing sanitisation services at a nominal cost of ₹1 per square foot, says, “We want people to celebrate Diwali with safety, and hence provide subsidised services in north and south Delhi. We have seen more requests in the last few weeks, and have sanitised and cleaned over 400 houses in the last one month. As Covid-19 cases are rising in the city, we are also continuing to offer sanitisation services to police and fire stations, for free.”Mayank Sharma, a Kalkaji-based engineer, who recently got his house professionally cleaned and sanitised, says, “I’m planning to finally host a get-together of my cousins and have a card party. It was only necessary then to ensure that my surroundings were absolutely safe for everyone coming.” And for Noida resident Sheel Agarwal, sanitisation services were God sent! “I got our home sanitised because I knew if they wouldn’t have done it, my mother would have made me clean the entire house, and I absolutely detest that,” she chuckles, adding, “I anyway wouldn’t have done a good job of it, and my mother would have had to do it again, so I saved us both some time and arguments!”Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/diwali-cleaning-in-covid-times-before-get-togethers-it-s-time-for-sanitisation/story-hMQTwX1wKYQhz1EM22eaZO.html
11-11-2020||Delhi||EV policy to reduce carbon emission by 4.8 million tonnes in 4 yrs: Delhi govt||The Delhi government’s electric vehicle policy will help reduce carbon emissions by 4.8 million tonnes by 2024, Dialogue and Development Commission Vice Chairperson Jasmine Shah said on Wednesday.Shah said this while sharing the Delhi government’s vision for clean and green future of mobility at the prestigious UNFCC ‘Race to Zero Dialogue: Launching the global race to zero-emission mobility’ on Wednesday. The dialogue was organised by the climate group in collaboration with the UN High-Level Climate Champions and the UK COP26 Presidency. Addressing a global audience of climate activists and leaders from business and government, Shah said, “The motivation behind Delhi’s ambitious roadmap to transition of zero-emission vehicles is to address both climate change and the health emergency that arises from the high level of air pollution in Delhi.” Also Read: Delhi’s air improves slightly, recorded as ‘very poor’ after six consecutive days in ‘severe’ zoneThe Delhi government’s EV policy focuses on a very clear goal - 25% of all newly-registered vehicles should be EVs by 2024. As of now, the number is 0.2%, he said. “This clarity has enabled the government to focus on all steps that need to be taken to facilitate this transition. Delhi’s EV policy will contribute to 4.8 million tonnes of reduction in carbon emissions by 2024,” Shah said.Elaborating on the five key pillars of Delhi’s EV policy, he said, “First, we targeted fiscal incentives for specific vehicle segments that contribute maximum to vehicular pollution in Delhi’s and India’s context, which are two and three-wheelers.” Second, the government introduced non-financial incentives to help overcome barriers that might hamper EV adoption. For instance, the administration has allowed bike taxis to ply in Delhi only if they are EVs. “Third, we see it as the government’s duty to facilitate the setting up of charging infrastructure - in public as well as private complexes such malls, offices,” Shah said.“Fourth, we believe governments will have to take the lead in conducting public awareness campaigns to sensitise and inform citizens of the benefits of EVs, and finally, our policy also focuses on skill training related to jobs that will arise as a result of this transition to green economy,” Shah said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ev-policy-to-reduce-carbon-emission-by-4-8-million-tonnes-in-4-yrs-delhi-govt/story-hSJRdI3ztRiCm00V2LjjCK.html
11-11-2020||City||Traders in Lucknow stare at huge losses after ban on crackers||LUCKNOW Cracker traders in Lucknow are staring at losses of around Rs 20 crore after the cancellation of their licences by the district administration following the UP government’s ban on sale and bursting of any type of crackers in Lucknow and 12 other cities where air quality index (AQI) was either poor, very poor or severe. The state government’s order was in compliance with the National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) order, banning use of cracker in cities where AQI was either poor, very poor or severe during Diwali last year. The order also stated that the use of digital and laser technique to celebrate Diwali should also be promoted in other districts. “As per the state government’s order, we have cancelled all fire cracker and related licences in the city,” said Abhishek Prakash, district magistrate. Traders termed the ban as an “unjust move”. “It’s unfair on their (NGT and UP Government’s) part to ban crackers just ahead of Diwali. We are not opposing the ban. It’s good that crackers are banned to save the deteriorating air quality. But why can’t this be done earlier and why just ahead of Diwali when cracker traders are ready with their stock. Who will be responsible for their losses?” asked Akhilesh Gupta, a cracker dealer and convener of firecracker traders’ association. Gupta said this year traders were selling only green crackers — the ones made as per the directions of the Supreme Court. “Not all firecracker traders are well off. There are many who have taken loan from the market. The order will certain push many traders to the verge of bankruptcy,” he added. Traders said along with Lucknow they used to supply crackers in the adjoining districts also, but all the sale would now be gone.Mahesh Gupta, general secretary, Lucknow Cracker Traders’ Association, said: “The cancellation of licence has come as a blow for traders who are already feeling the pinch of lockdown and cancellation of fireworks shows. This year, only 32 wholesale stalls came up at Rastogi Inter College in Aishbagh, but now we are not certain about anything.”He said, “All we want is a midway, either we should be allowed to sell crackers or we must be compensated by the state government.”“Our officer-bearers will meet the CM and divisional commissioner to represent our case,” said Satish Mishra, another office-bearer of cracker traders’ association.He said, “Livelihood of thousands depends on the sale of crackers during Diwali. I don’t know why only firecrackers are being targeted while major pollutants such as construction sites, thermal power plants, cement industries and vehicles plying on road are not banned.”Green crackers are not as polluting as the conventional ones, so their sale must be allowed, he added.“The government’s order is a second blow to firecracker traders, who will suffer huge losses,” said Mohammed Moazzam, who owns a cracker shop in Raqabganj area of Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/traders-in-lucknow-stare-at-huge-losses-after-ban-on-crackers/story-jBuDr7lD2tSrPeGNCekiWP.html
11-11-2020||Chandigarh||HARERA takes cognisance of rude behaviour by developers||Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority (HARERA), Gurugram, chairman KK Khandelwal on Wednesday said that not providing information pertaining to plan, specifications and timeline shall be treated as violation of Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016, inviting stringent action against the promoter. The chairman said that it had been observed that a large number of complaints have been filed before the Authority where serious allegations of misbehaviour and improper treatment have been leveled by allottees against the promoters. After being apprised of such negligence and laxity in the attitude of the promoter, the Authority has directed two reputed promoters -- EMAAR and JMD -- to provide training to their customer relations management department, he said. The Regulatory Authority is also in the process of finalising a code of conduct for the promoters and their staff regarding dealing with customers while exercising their rights under the provisions of RERA Act. “It has been observed that as and when the allottees contact the promoter or their representatives, the information is either not provided or is incomplete. The allottee has the right to visit the site and can check the quality of construction going on. But even after persistent requests, no such opportunity is given to the allottees and when the allottees visit the site, the security guards of the promoters not only prevent them from the lawful visit of the site but also mistreat them at times. The treatment meted out to the allottees is not only illegal and objectionable but also against the canon of decency and decorum,” the chairman said. The Authority is pained to observe that even during the proceedings of the Authority, the representative of the promoter rebuked, reprimanded and scolded the allottee. Lack of moral behaviour with the customer, denial of their rights as mandated in the Act, non-supply of requisite information to the allottee shall be treated as violation of the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016 and promoter will meet with strict actions and penal consequences, Khandelwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/harera-takes-cognisance-of-rude-behaviour-by-developers/story-gsHQLvjT4wUaN7FvHm6GPO.html
11-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi air quality slips back into ‘very poor’ category||Delhi’s air quality slipped back into the “very poor” category on Wednesday after remaining in the “severe” zone for six days on the trot, with a change in the wind direction reducing the contribution of stubble burning in city’s pollution.The city recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 388 at 9 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 476 on Tuesday.Delhi witnessed six “severe” air days on the trot till Tuesday. It had recorded seven “severe” air days in November last year.The neighbouring cities of Faridabad (345), Ghaziabad (390), Noida (339), Greater Noida (322), and Gurgaon (309), which fall in the National Capital Region (NCR), also recorded “very poor” air quality.The levels of PM2.5 – which is about three per cent the diameter of a human hair and can lead to premature deaths from heart and lung diseases – were 233 microgram per cubic meter (µg/m3) at 9 am, below the emergency threshold of 300 µg/m3. The safe limit is 60 µg/m3.On Tuesday, PM2.5 levels had soared to 528 µg/m3 in the afternoon.  PM10 level stood at 384 µg/m3 at 9 pm. It had peaked to 685 µg/m3 on Tuesday, according to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. PM10 levels below 100 µg/m3 are considered safe in India and 500 µg/m3 is the emergency threshold.  According to the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP), the air quality is considered in the “severe plus” or “emergency” category if PM2.5 and PM10 levels persist above 300 µg/m3 and 500 µg/m3 for more than 48 hours.Also Read | 500: What a maxed out AQI meansGRAP recommends measures such as a ban on construction activities, entry of trucks and car rationing scheme in such a scenario.The Commission for Air Quality Management in the National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas on Tuesday tasked the CPCB with operationalising and monitoring GRAP measures till a mechanism is set up by the newly-constituted panel. At a meeting, the commission also decided that in view of deteriorating air quality in the NCR region, there is a need to invoke the GRAP, which has been already notified by the central government.GRAP, which is a set of anti-pollution measures followed in Delhi and its vicinity towns according to the severity of the situation, came into force on October 15.An official of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the predominant wind direction is east-northeasterly, which is not favourable for transport of pollutants from farm fires in Punjab and Haryana.The city recorded a minimum temperature of 11.4 degrees Celsius on Wednesday morning. Calm winds and low temperatures trap pollutants close to the ground, while favourable wind speed helps in their dispersion.  The central government’s Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi said, “The change in wind direction and wind speed has positively impacted air quality. It is likely to remain in the upper end of the ‘very poor’ category on Thursday and deteriorate marginally on Friday.” “The farm fire count in Punjab was around 3500 on Tuesday, but the impact of stubble burning on air quality was negligible because of easterly winds,” it said.Also Read | Air emergency in Delhi, no signs of Grap The share of stubble burning in Delhi’s PM2.5 pollution was 22 per cent on Tuesday.Delhi’s ventilation index -- a product of mixing depth and average wind speed -- is likely to be around 12,500 m2/s on Wednesday, favourable for dispersion of pollutants. Mixing depth is the vertical height in which pollutants are suspended in the air. It reduces on cold days with calm wind speed.The ventilation index lower than 6000 m2/s with average wind speed less than 10 kmph is unfavourable for dispersion of pollutants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-air-quality-slips-back-into-very-poor-category/story-SbmWLG2zVjNmkFgnZxPheM.html
11-11-2020||Chandigarh||Revised collector rates for land in Haryana to be fixed by March||The Haryana government has directed deputy commissioners of all districts to publish a draft list of collector rates by December 15. The final publication of collector rates will be done by March next year. Additional chief secretary, revenue, Sanjeev Kaushal, said that guidelines regarding fixing of collector rates in each colony or area in each tehsil of their districts have been issued to all divisional commissioners and deputy commissioners. As per the guidelines, a committee would be formed at each tehsil and sub-tehsil to assess the collector rates of each colony or area in the tehsil. The committee would also consult non-officials who are knowledgeable about market rates of property in the areas concerned. The committee would also conduct surveys and examine registrations done over the past 12 months in every area, and arrive at a logical calculation of collector rates. The deputy commissioners may designate a senior officer, such as the additional deputy commissioner, as the district nodal officer. This officer would be responsible for collating the rates assessed by all such tehsil-level committees, and proposing the collector rates of all areas to the deputy commissioners. Subsequent to draft publication of collector rates, a period of 30 days, or till January 15, 2021, would be reserved for receiving objections and complaints. A portal to receive objections and complaints would be developed by December 15. After this, 30 days, from January 15 to February 15, would be reserved for hearings and deciding the objections received. This would be followed by state-level screening of the draft collector rates for each district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/revised-collector-rates-for-land-in-haryana-to-be-fixed-by-march/story-MmhSqFvr3GZMpgWxrBjkrM.html
11-11-2020||City||Factory worker arrested for raping 14-year-old neighbour in Ludhiana||A 14-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her neighbour at Hera Colony in Transport Nagar on Tuesday night.The accused, identified as Munna, 28, a factory worker, was arrested on Wednesday morning.The victim’s father, a labourer, told the police that his 14-year-old daughter, the youngest among his four children, was taking a walk outside their house after dinner on Tuesday night.There, Munna dragged her into his room and locked it from inside. He turned up the TV’s volume to conceal her screams and raped her. Traumatised, the minor girl fainted while trying to fight him off. Assuming that she was dead, Munna bolted his room’s door from the outside and fled the colony.“On regaining consciousness, the girl raised the alarm. Meanwhile, her parents rescued her from the room while looking for her. The girl narrated the matter to her parents, who then approached the police,” said sub-inspector Simrajit Kaur, station house officer (SHO), Moti Nagar police station.On receiving information, police swung into action and arrested the accused on Wednesday morning.“The girl’s medical examination was conducted at the civil hospital. A case for kidnapping and assault has been registered. We are awaiting the medico-legal report (MLR) and may add more sections based on it,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/factory-worker-arrested-for-raping-14-year-old-neighbour-in-ludhiana/story-NqCOoIZjRlAK6BLqWaz4gM.html
11-11-2020||Delhi||Experts warn of double trouble in Delhi with rising air pollution, Covid-19||The nearly week-long spell of worsened air quality and a fresh surge in coronavirus cases in the national capital have proved “doubly detrimental” to people suffering from respiratory ailments, as their complications have increased and many of them have also contracted Covid-19 infection, experts said on Wednesday.Many doctors and medical experts had earlier cautioned that rising air pollution coupled with the ongoing pandemic, could make matters worse for people with lung or breathing-related complications.Describing it as a “double whammy” for those with respiratory problems, Suranjit Chatterjee, a senior consultant at Apollo Hospitals, told PTI that “The air quality in the last six days being particularly terrible, we are seeing a jump in cases of respiratory illnesses and with greater severity than say, the scenario last November when also the pollution level was very high. But, this unpredictable virus is what is causing all the more complications.”  Smog enveloped Delhi on Tuesday as the city’s air quality hit “emergency” levels, while it also recorded 7830 fresh Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day spike here till date, taking the infection tally in the national capital to over 4.5 lakh.Delhi recorded a 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) of 476, which falls in the “severe” category. The neighbouring cities of Faridabad (448), Ghaziabad (444), Noida (455), Greater Noida (436) and Gurgaon (427), which fall in the National Capital Region (NCR), also recorded “severe” air quality.It was the sixth “severe” air day on the trot in Delhi on Tuesday. The city had witnessed seven “severe” air days in November last year.The levels of PM2.5 -- which is about three per cent the diameter of a human hair and can lead to premature deaths from heart and lung diseases -- were 494  g/m3 at 5 pm, more than eight times the safe limit of 60  g/m3.The twin factors of rising pollution level and a massive surge in Covid-19 cases in the last several days have also led to increased burden on hospitals with vacancy of beds shrinking fast and rise in footfall of patients in the OPD too, doctors said.Besides, ICU beds with ventilators at most top private hospitals and major Centre-run facilities are also getting filled up with spiralling cases and a large number of deaths in the last few days.On Tuesday, 83 Covid-19 fatalities were recorded, the highest since June 16. On the preceding three days, the daily death count was over 70.“Definitely, with rising air pollution in Delhi and worsening air quality index, there has been an increase in the number and severity of cases of Covid-19 as well COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) and asthma patients. This is because air pollution causes inflammation of the nose, airways and lungs which increase our susceptibility of catching respiratory infections such as the coronavirus,” said Richa Sareen, Consultant, Pulmonogy and Critical Care Medicine, Fortis Hospital Vasant Kunj.The studies done in the US and another study suggest that there is a “direct link” between an increase in Covid-19 cases or mortality from it and rising air pollution, she said.The senior doctor said the worsening air quality and surge in cases of coronavirus are proving doubly detrimental to patients who have respiratory illnesses.Chatterjee said, “Many of these patients coming up with complaints of severe complications, like breathlessness, high fever are also ending up covid-positive”.“Even those I did not suspect to have contracted the infection, were diagnosed with coronavirus infection after a test. Since, the virus is behaving in an unpredictable way, it is making things even more difficult for patients with respiratory illnesses,” he added.Chatterjee said, the ICU beds with ventilators are getting swamped and “on a case basis, we are rotating patients to HDUs (high dependency units) so that very severe patients can be accommodated in ICUs”.The online Corona dashboard of the Delhi government showed that at 1:20 PM, out of 1270 ICU beds with ventilator facility, only 162 were vacant.At the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH) and LNJP Hospitals, both dedicated Covid-19 facilities under the Delhi government and each having 200 ICU beds with ventilator facility, only 44 and 6 beds respectively, were vacant at 1:20 PM.Air pollution may increase transmissibility of the novel coronavirus making people more vulnerable to the disease and aggravating the Covid-19 situation, experts had recently said, while warning that those who have had the infection in the past may also have to face new challenges.  Sandeep Nayar, senior director and head, Centre for Chest & Respiratory Diseases, BLK Hospital, said, due to increase in pollution, the number as well as severity of respiratory problems has “increased suddenly in the last few days”.“We are already fighting a tough battle with Covid-19. Pollution per se may not increase covid infection directly but may worsen their symptoms. It may increase in coughing and sneezing in patients which may result in more chances of spreading respiratory infections including covid if the patient is suffering from it,” he said.Moreover, since Covid-19 affects predominantly lungs, and so does pollution, the symptoms and respiratory problem will be manifold. This surge in number as well as severity in cases have caused acute shortage of beds in hospitals and patients are suffering from it, Nayar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/experts-warn-of-double-trouble-in-delhi-with-rising-air-pollution-covid-19/story-GPpFpi0kWgiHgpFor9rNUO.html
11-11-2020||Mumbai||Will accept Diwali wishes only through social media: Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday said he would accept Diwali greetings only through social media and emails, and appealed to people to celebrate the festival of lights safely at home.One of the most affected regions in the country amid the pandemic, Maharashtra has recorded 17,26,926 cases of coronavirus and 44,435 casualties so far.“I will accept Diwali greetings only through emails and social media. We need to keep ourselves safe and protect the health of our near and dear ones,” Thackeray said in a statement.Referring to the second wave of the viral outbreak in Europe, the chief minister warned against complacency.“Corona warriors are working hard to protect us from the pandemic and we shouldn’t burden them,” he said.“We have to resume schools and colleges after Diwali.We have to follow the protocol of wearing masks, washing hands and physical distancing,” he said, urging people to consider the health of senior citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/will-accept-diwali-wishes-only-through-social-media-uddhav-thackeray/story-hUy5TsUhL5MOiGuisszfFK.html
11-11-2020||City||Confusion over firecracker ban in Assam during Diwali||There was much confusion over a firecracker ban in Guwahati on Wednesday after a minister’s tweet that there will be no restrictions on celebrating Diwali, including the use of firecrackers, even as Assam’s Pollution Control Board has ordered a complete ban on their sale and use in the city until November 30. The ban was ordered days before Diwali on Saturday to check pollution amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Himanta Biswa Sarma, the minister, said in a tweet on Tuesday: “Like any other religion, Hindus have the right to celebrate festivals. With improvement in Covid-19 situation in Assam, we plan no restrictions on celebration of Diwali, including use of firecrackers.” He asked the public to exercise sell-restraint as it is the key to combat Covid-19.Also Read: Assam Pollution Control Board orders complete ban on firecrackers in GuwahatiThe tweet came after the Board on Tuesday said there will be a total ban on the use of all kinds of firecrackers in Guwahati from the midnight of November 9-10 till the midnight of November 30-December 1. “Except Guwahati, in other areas only green crackers can be sold and burst... for two hours during Deepawali festivals from 8 pm to 10 pm; during Chatth Puja from 6 am to 8 am and during Christmas and New Year Ever from 11:55 pm to 12:30 am,” the Board said in an order.The Board directed all district magistrates, commissioners, and police superintendents to implement the directions and submit action taken reports daily.The order came after the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Monday said bursting of firecrackers releases “copious amounts of harmful chemicals” which in turn can have a serious impact on the health of vulnerable groups and aggravate the health of Covid-19 patients or those staying in home isolation.The NGT allowed the bursting of firecrackers for two hours during festivals like Diwali, Guru Parab, Christmas, Chatth Puja, New Year’s Eve, etc at places where air pollution levels are moderate or below.The Board ordered a complete ban on firecrackers in Guwahati as the air quality of the city has been categorised as “poor”.The NGT and the Board’s orders days ahead of Diwali has come as a disappointment for traders, who have procured firecrackers.“I bought firecrackers worth a few thousand rupees last week expecting there would not be any ban on the sale. But with the [ban] order, there is no chance of selling the stuff this Diwali,” said Alakesh Basumatary, a shopkeeper in Guwahati.Last week, state environment minister Parimal Suklabaidya told journalists the government was against a blanket ban on the sale and bursting of firecrackers during Diwali.Assam has reported a decrease in the daily Covid-19 cases since October. On Tuesday, the state recorded 271 cases with a positivity rate of 1.07%. The state has overall reported 209,388 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/confusion-over-firecracker-ban-in-assam-during-diwali/story-CDGm5ExbSLO0PMTiPkMgrK.html
11-11-2020||Pune||Pune reports one death, less than 500 Covid cases in 24 hours||The state health department reported less than 500 Covid-19 cases on Tuesday as 457 cases were reported from Pune city, PCMC and Pune rural. One death due to the infection was reported in 24 hours. The district has reported 3.39 lakh Covid cases of which 3.15 lakh have recovered, 7,119 have been reported dead and 16,903 are active cases undergoing treatment or in home isolation. Pune city reported 187 new cases taking the total count to 174,433 and zero deaths taking the death toll to 4,073 while PCMC reported 110 new cases taking the final count to 85,706 and zero deaths with 1,187 as death toll. Pune rural reported 160 new cases taking the final count to 79,311 and one death taking the death toll to 1,826, according to the state health department. The state health department reported that 10,769 patients were discharged on Saturday taking the final count to over 15.88 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 91.96%. Also, 3,791 new cases in the state were reported on Monday taking the total to over 17.26 lakh. In addition, 46 Covid deaths were reported in the state taking the death toll to 46,374. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.63%. Of 9,536,182 laboratory samples, 1,726,926 have been tested positive (18.11%) for Covid until Tuesday. Currently, 1,011,004 people are in home quarantine and 6,980 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-reports-one-death-less-than-500-covid-cases-in-24-hours/story-eBSYzpYvtxAQ8C3nkb9xzI.html
11-11-2020||Pune||Three killed in separate road accidents in Pune||A 24-year-old motorcyclist was killed after a speeding truck grazed his bike at Manjri Budruk. The deceased has been identified as Anil Ramprasad Rajbhar of Deepaknagar in Gopalkatti area of Manjri. The truck driver fled the spot. A case under IPC and Motor Vehicle (MV) Act has been lodged against the truck driver. Assistant police inspector Manoj Patil is investigating the case. Complaint was lodged by Suraj Dodimise (28) of Gadital in Hadapsar. Shrikant Nivrutti Pawar (43) of Ambegaon Budruk died after his bike was knocked down by a speeding bus near Navale bridge on the Katraj-Dehu road bypass on Monday evening. According to the police, the luxury bus driver identified as Amresh Manohar Gunjte (30) of Bidar, Karnataka lost control over the wheels and mowed down the biker leading to his death. Gunjte has been arrested under Sections 279 (rash and negligent driving) and 304 (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). A truck driver was killed after his vehicle rammed into a truck parked along the Katraj-Dehu road bypass at Sutarwadi. According to Bharati Vidyapeeth police, the driver lost control over the wheels leading to the accident with the stationary truck. The deceased is a resident of Bhum- Paranda in Osmanabad district. A case related to rash and negligent driving has been lodged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/three-killed-in-separate-road-accidents/story-10j16g1vUxi9xUT4cqrI8L.html
11-11-2020||Pune||Second sero survey: samples to be taken from three civic hospitals||It has been over two months now since the city’s first pilot sero survey was conducted and the second survey was announced but the second sero survey which will represent samples from across the city is yet to start. The National Institute of Virology (NIV) and BJ Medical College and Sassoon General hospitals will conduct the second survey but is yet to get any approval on the same. While the PCMC has completed its first survey with over 500 samples the second sero survey for Pune city is yet to start. Dr Sanjeev Wavare, PMC assistant health chief said, “The PMC’s only role is to provide samples from three of its hospitals, namely Pote hospital, Rajiv Gandhi and Anna Saheb Magar hospital. The study would be conducted by Sassoon and NIV.”The proposal states that about 15-30 samples would be collected every day from patients who come to these hospitals starting from December 23 (Monday) till January or February. Dr Ashish Bharti, PMC health chief said, “In addition to the four sites which were surveyed in the previous survey, two more sites will be added.” The previous sites include Bhawani Peth, Kasba Peth, Dhole Patil road and Yerwada. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, epidemiologist and chairman of the state technical committee on communicable diseases and was part of the meeting to determine the second wave, said, “The proposal by NIV is yet to be approved, but since PCMC had over 5,000 samples, it is advised that Pune city have at least over 10 thousand samples.” Dr Murlidhar Tambe, dean, BJ Medical College, and Sassoon Hospital said, “We are yet to finalise the proposal and we have not got any approval yet for the same.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/second-sero-survey-samples-to-be-taken-from-three-civic-hospitals/story-8YYdbSGed7x1PlIIV2kgVI.html
11-11-2020||Pune||Pune cooler than Mahabaleshwar, mercury dips to 11.3 degrees Celsius||Residents woke up on Tuesday morning with winter chill as minimum temperature dipped to 11.3 degrees Celsius which was less than Mahabaleshwar that recorded 13.6 degree Celsius. It was the lowest temperature for Pune this season as minimum temperature was recorded 13.3 degrees Celsius on November 7. According to the India Meteorological Department, Pune, it will be a good winter season ahead. IMD usually considers December to February as the winter season. “It is not winter yet, but post monsoon period. Chill has started and one western disturbance is likely to reach Jammu and Kashmir in 2-3 days so temperature will fall after three days,” said Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather department, IMD Pune. In the state, Chandrapur was coolest with 8.3 degrees Celsius. Yavatmal (9.5 degrees Celsius) also noted temperature in a single digit. Pune’s temperature was the third lowest in the state. Nashik recorded 11.8 degrees Celsius while Nagpur also woke up with the temperature touching 11.5 degrees Celsius. “Western disturbance likely to reach by November 13 and its impact in the city will be felt in 2-3 days,” said Kashyapi. The maximum temperature of the day was 29.8 degrees Celsius. “From 11.3 degrees Celsius, the temperature will increase for the next three days (November 11-13), but after the western disturbance effect it will decrease. The moisture is increasing from Bay of Bengal so we forecast cloudy weather on November 15 and 16,” Kashyapi said. In Marathwada and Vidarbha region, many places saw dip in temperature while in region of Konkan and Goa temperature has not seen a major fall. IMD has forecast dry weather till November 14 while partly cloudy weather is expected during afternoon hours on November 15 and November 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-cooler-than-mahabaleshwar-mercury-dips-to-11-3-degrees-celsius/story-zFW2wC5oymkJP4JG3vEWiL.html
11-11-2020||Pune||Poorly controlled diabetes found highest among 20-30 age group: Pune lab||A Pune lab has found that out of the 89,000 blood samples tested for diabetes, 10% was found to be suffering from poorly controlled diabetes. Young age group (20-30 year olds) was found to be the most affected in this segment at 18%. City doctors said that controlling diabetes is essential even among the young as it can have multiple effects on body, including reduced fertility in men and women. The study conducted by Metropolis Healthcare indicated that Pune is fast becoming the diabetes capital of the country. Of the 89,881 samples tested for diabetes between January 2019 and August 2020 in their Pune lab, 10% was found to be suffering from poorly controlled diabetes. The incidence of poorly controlled diabetes was found to be highest (18%) in the age group of 20-30 years, followed by 30-40 years (12%) and 40-50 years (11%). The incidence was the lowest in the age group 80 years and above (8%).The study showed that men were more prone to diabetes, as 11% of all males tested were found to suffer from unsatisfactorily controlled diabetes compared to 9% for females.Dr Manish Karekar, chief pathologist, Metropolis Healthcare Pune lab said, “Diabetes strikes Indians a decade earlier than the world. It is a growing challenge in India with an estimated 8.7% diabetic population in the age group of 20 and 70 years.” Dr Sanjay Ingle, zonal pathologist at another lab said that blood sugar tests should be part of routine check-up as it will help manage diabetes too. “Diabetes is associated with complications like heart attack, a stroke, loss of vision, erectile dysfunction, oedema, kidney damage, nerve damage, skin conditions, hyperglycaemia and even scarring problems that can lead to amputation,” Dr Sanjay Ingle said.Dr Nisha Pansare, Nova IVF Pune, said, “Cardiovascular diseases, kidney, eye, foot and nerve damage, skin conditions and even sexual dysfunction may occur owing to diabetes. Those males with diabetes tend to have low testosterone levels and can lead to reduced fertility, low sperm count, erectile dysfunction, and even loss of sex drive. Thus, getting screened on a regular basis for diabetes is essential.”Dr Swati Gaikwad, obstetrician and gynaecologist in a private maternity hospital said, “Diabetes is linked to low fertility, PCOD, and other autoimmune diseases. Babies of the mothers who are diabetics may have birth defects and even heart and digestive health issues, have jaundice or even premature birth can occur.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/poorly-controlled-diabetes-found-highest-among-20-30-age-group-pune-lab/story-cU8yI72zqAWWNmSf2QIksO.html
11-11-2020||Delhi||Third Covid peak is longer than previous ones, may subside soon: Satyendar Jain||The duration of the third peak of the spread of Covid-19 in the national capital is longer than those of the previous peaks but it may subside in the next few days, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Wednesday.Interacting with reporters, he asserted that the city government has significantly ramped up testing by nearly three times on an average per day compared to the number of tests conducted when the second peak had hit around September 16, when over 4,000 daily cases were being reported.The minister also said the city government had filed a special leave petition (SLP) in the Supreme Court after the Delhi high court did not allow reserving 80 per cent ICU beds for Covid-19 patients at many private hospitals here, and the apex court has asked the government to approach a division bench of the high court.“About two to three months ago, we had written to the Centre to increase about 1,000 beds and 300 ICU beds in Centre-run hospitals in the city,” Jain added.Delhi recorded over 7,800 fresh Covid-19 cases for the first time on Tuesday, taking the infection tally in the national capital to over 4.5 lakh, and 83 new fatalities, the highest numbers since June 16.This highest single-day spike here till date -- 7,830 cases -- resulted from the 59,035 tests conducted the previous day, while the positivity rate stood at 13.26 per cent amid the festive season and rising pollution in the city, according to the latest bulletin issued by the Delhi health department.The previous highest single-day spike till date here -- 7,745 cases -- was recorded on Sunday.On Tuesday, 83 new fatalities were recorded, pushing the death toll in the national capital to 7,143. On June 16, the city had recorded 93 deaths from Covid-19.Asked about the long spell of the surge in cases, Jain said in the previous peak which had lasted about 5-6 days, the tests conducted were about 20,000 per day and now the number of tests is nearly three times of that.The third peak is longer but it “may subside in the next few days,” he said.Delhi had recorded 71 fatalities from Covid-19 on Monday and 5,023 fresh cases. On Saturday and Sunday, 79 and 77 deaths due to the disease were recorded respectively.The active cases tally on Tuesday rose to 41,385 from 39,795 the previous day, while the recovery rate stood at over 89 per cent.The bulletin said the total number of cases has climbed to 4,51,382.Meanwhile, seeking to reduce coronavirus-related deaths in the national capital, the Delhi government has ordered Covid-19 test centres to mandatorily check the oxygen saturation levels of people, and persons found with below 94 per cent level are to undergo compulsory medical examination.“We are also doing RT-PCR tests in large numbers,” Jain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/third-covid-peak-is-longer-than-previous-ones-may-subside-soon-satyendar-jain/story-LTXDm1uWJ16GOe3mAeIxIL.html
11-11-2020||Pune||As people’s movement increases, Pune sees a slight rise in positivity rate||Post Dussehra and upcoming festive season, there has been an increase in the movement of people leading to a slight rise in Covid positivity in the city. Since the past five weeks the city saw a dip in the positivity rate indicating a fall in the number of Covid-19 cases, however, since the past one week from October 30 to November 5, the positivity rate has gone up indicating that more number of people are testing positive. The number of tests being carried out by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is also going down and the city is also seeing a rise in the virus cases. As per the data from PMC, the city saw a continuous dip in positivity rate which came to 10.8% as of the week between October 23 and October 29 when over 17,853 tests were conducted of which 1,921 tested positive. In the following week, the civic body conducted 17,011 tests between October 30 and November 5 in which 1,970 tested positive. Despite the civic body conducting about 700 lesser tests compared to the previous week, 50 more cases were reported which led to a rise in the positivity rate.The administration has been warning about a possible second wave in January or February and the civic body is preparing for early detection and treatment of newer cases. Additional commissioner Rubal Agrawal said, “These are not actually new cases, but I got to know from private hospitals and labs that they are updating their data and so there has been an increase in the number of cases and not necessarily new cases. We are expecting a spike in number of cases given that people are crowding markets and public places. It is also true that people are not coming forward for testing and most of our wards and testing centres are not able to fulfil their targets. People have probably lost the fear of virus which is not a good thing. Anyone facing symptoms must get themselves tested.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/as-people-s-movement-increases-pune-sees-a-slight-rise-in-positivity-rate/story-OF6HSDN1hJ2u7bIbGQe7RN.html
11-11-2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Covid-19 norms flouted on local trains||Doctors expressed concern over flouting of Covid safety norms in suburban trains that resumed services in Kolkata and other parts of West Bengal on Wednesday, warning that the pandemic situation would deteriorate.People jostled at several stations to catch the trains with compartments crammed as services resumed after seven months in the morning.Doctors said that such violations are ideal for the spread of the virus, diminishing the gains made over the past few weeks in the fight against the contagion.“We can clearly see people are not abiding by the Covid-19 safety protocols and this is definitely a matter of concern for us,” said Dr Anirban Dalui, a public health specialist.“The problem is that those who are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms are travelling on the trains, risking the lives of people who are not taking proper precaution,” he said.Dr Hiralal Konar of the Joint Platform of Doctors blamed improper planning by the state government and the railways for the violations.Also Read: Supreme Court refuses to interfere with HC cracker ban in West Bengal, says preserving life more important“The situation is quite alarming. I fear that if it goes on, the virus will spread to a level where it will be beyond control,” he told PTI.“More planning was required keeping in mind that different people travel on the trains for different purposes.Those travelling to visit their relatives should not have been allowed. The government and the railways got ample to do the planning, but they could not,” Dr Konar said.Senior physician Dr Syamasis Bandyopadhyay, however, said that it will take a couple of days for the commuters to understand and practice the safety norms while travelling on the suburban trains.“The situation is a concern for us but the government or the railways cannot be blamed. The common people have to show some responsibilities to maintain the physical distancing and follow the protocols while travelling,” he said.“I believe the sense of responsibility will grow in a couple of days. We have to wait and see,” Dr Bandyopadhyay said.The local train services under the jurisdiction of the Eastern and the South Eastern Railways have resumed. They were suspended in March as the nation went into a lockdown with the detection of Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-covid-19-norms-flouted-on-local-trains/story-695aMfC2p7xuxE5IPmoQCO.html
11-11-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand minister undergoes lung transplant in Chennai after Covid-19 damage||Jharkhand minister Jagarnath Mahto, 53, has undergone a successful lung transplant after Covid-19 infection damaged his lungs, doctors at Chennai’s Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) Healthcare said on Wednesday.Dr Apar Jindal, clinical director, lung transplant, interventional pulmonology, and chest medicine, MGM Healthcare, said, “The operation, which took around 11 hours, was carried out on Tuesday and it went very well. His condition is stable and he is recovering well.”Mahto was on life support for 21 days after his lungs were damaged due to the infection. The hospital as well as the Jharkhand government had been looking for suitable lung donor for the transplant.Also Read: Russia says its Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine is 92% effectiveJindal said the lung was found at MGM Healthcare on Tuesday and transplant surgery was done successfully.“The minister will be kept under observation in the hospital for at least two to three weeks. The revival rate in such cases is 90%, which is very good. He will lead a normal life very soon.”Mahto tested positive for Covid-19 on September 28 and was admitted to Ranchi’s state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences. He was shifted to the intensive care unit of a private super-specialty hospital in Ranchi on October 1. As his condition deteriorated, Mahto was airlifted to MGM Healthcare on October 19.Mahto’s son, Akhilesh, said everything is going well right now. “He is recovering well, as per the doctor. I hope to return to Jharkhand soon with my father.”He said the state government recently released Rs 50 lakh as first instalment of Mahto’s treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-minister-undergoes-lung-transplant-in-chennai-after-covid-19-damage/story-0EovAF1jzpD3UOjon4HoXO.html
11-11-2020||Kolkata||West Bengal pollution board distributes GPS-fitted devices to monitor violation of firecracker ban||The West Bengal Pollution Control Board (WBPCB) is distributing over 1,000 GPS-fitted sound monitoring devices among different police stations in the state to track people violating the firecracker ban during Kali Puja.The Calcutta High Court has banned the sale and bursting of firecrackers during Kali Puja and other upcoming festivals.“The devices will help the Kolkata and West Bengal police forces pinpoint the spot and track the offender immediately,” WBPCB Chairman Kalyan Rudra told PTI on Wednesday.The display board of the device shows the spot, date and time of the firecracker bursting along with the decibel level. A thermal printer embedded with the device enables the printout of the details for documentary evidence and prosecution, he said.“We have taught the police to run the devices. The WBPCB team in each zone will coordinate with the local policemen and offer assistance if needed,” the official said.The GPS-fitted devices, developed by a state-run IT undertaking, are being used by the police and the WBPCB since Kali Puja last year.Earlier, the police used sound monitoring gadgets without GPS tracker and tried to nab violators after recording noise pollution in an area.The new devices will also be used to record decibel levels from loudspeakers and sound boxes blaring during the festival and take action if required. PTI SUS ACD ACD||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/police-to-track-firecracker-ban-violators-with-gps-fitted-sound-monitoring-devices-in-bengal/story-JciW0MTmsu9S4tLMmzad4I.html
11-11-2020||Election:||Will never support Nitish Kumar, Sushil Modi: Chirag Paswan||While continuing to have faith in Prime minister Narendra Modi, Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) chief Chirag Paswan on Wednesday said even though the mandate has been given to National Democratic Aliance (NDA) but he will never support Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar and Deputy chief minister Sushil Modi in the state assembly.“I will never support Nitish Kumar and Sushil Modi. If he continues to be the Chief Minister of my state, there will be no support from me at the state level...We will continue supporting PM Modi at the Centre,” Chirag said.Reacting to the verdict in Bihar elections 2020, Chirag said despite the difficulties the performance was satisfactory and the current mandate clearly indicated that his party was close to 2025 election target.Read more | LJP: Biggest X-factor of the elections“We were close to victory in a few seats. But I can say our party performed well. The Bihar mandate has given us an indication that we are close to our 2025 target,” he added. Chirag also thanked his supporters and candidates for showing the courage to fight the election alone.“Happy that Bihar gave love to LJP, around 25 Lakh voters trusted ‘Bihar First, Bihari First’ and we secured 6 per cent votes while contesting alone. We were called a ‘pichhlaggu party’, that we can do something only with other’s support. We showed courage.”Chirag also remarked that it is impossible to go with Tejashwi Yadav’s Rashtirya Janata Dal. On being asked to speak on the development of Nitish Kumar to become the Chief Minister once again, the LJP chief said, “Would have interfered in the decision but I am not in the position of power to comment on that now.” The only seat won by the LJP eventually was Matihani, where Raj Kumar Singh defeated sitting JD(U) MLA Narendra Kumar Singh alias Bogo Singh by a razor-thin margin of 333 votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/will-never-support-nitish-kumar-sushil-modi-chirag-paswan/story-psyQtALrNYOjy1rrHNrXKJ.html
11-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC pulls up AAP govt for relaxing norms as Covid-19 cases spike||The Delhi High Court Wednesday pulled up the AAP government for relaxing norms for public movement and gatherings in the national capital even as Covid-19 cases were increasing and questioned whether it has any policy or strategy in place to deal with the “alarming” situation.A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramanium Prasad said that when Delhi, as city state, was “hands down beating” Maharashtra and Kerala in the number of daily new cases in the past two weeks, what concrete steps have been taken by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government to contain the spread of infection.The court noted that the daily number of new Covid-19 cases received for November 10 was at 8,593 and “still counting” and the number of containment zones in the city were 4,016.The court further noted that as per the latest sero survey report of the government the antibodies presence was detected in 25 per cent of the persons tested which meant that one in four persons has been infected by Covid-19.“No household has been left untouched,” the bench said, referring to the survey data and questioned as to why the Delhi government was relaxing norms in such a situation when other similarly placed states were bringing in restrictions.The court questioned the rationale behind allowing 200 people to attend public functions instead of reducing the number and permitting public transportation to be fully occupied, saying that these could turn into “super spreaders” of the infection.The court also sought to know as to why the Delhi government, represented by additional standing counsel Satyakam, has not come out with any legislation to ensure strict adherence to wearing of masks which was being termed as a “vaccine” till the actual vaccine comes.It directed the Delhi government to file a status report explaining steps taken by it in the last two weeks, when the Covid-19 cases have risen alarmingly, to contain the spread of the infection and listed the matter for further hearing on November 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-hc-pulls-up-aap-govt-for-relaxing-norms-as-covid-19-cases-spike/story-gWe9XeZJzHkT8bOAwir4QM.html
11-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi high court lambasts govt approach after rise in Covid-19 cases||The Delhi high court on Wednesday lambasted the state government for its alleged lackadaisical approach in handling the Covid-19 cases in the national capital while seeking to know the reason as to why a slew of businesses and activities has been reopened in the city, despite close to 8,000 cases being reported every day.A bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad questioned the Delhi government’s strategy of unlocking almost everything, including granting permission for 200 people to gather at weddings, allowing public transport to function at full capacity, tehbazaari and gatherings with no social distancing and lack of masks in public places.“The rates in the city are mind-boggling. The number of deaths is every day in double figures. What’s with the Delhi government allowing all the un-lockdown when the cases are skyrocketing? Why have you opened everything? What are the strategies that you are following?Also Read: Covid-19: Three times more testing as compared to last peak, says Satyendar Jain“You (Delhi) have seen the heights which no other state in the country has seen. When the numbers are decreasing in all the states, then why numbers are rising only in your state? Either there is no control or there is lack of control,” the bench said, coming down heavily on the Delhi government, represented by additional standing counsel Satyakam.The court also noted that even the petitioner, advocate Rakesh Malhotra, had been infected with Covid-19 and had to run from pillar to post to arrange a bed near his house and later “had to settle for a friend’s nursing home in Dwarka after his oxygen level dipped due to the virus.”“People are running helter-skelter without knowing what to do. There are children, elderly people at everyone’s house and there is no household left in Delhi, which hasn’t been touched by the virus. When other states are locking up, either partial or weekend lockdowns, Delhi government has decided to throw its wings open and has allowed all the gatherings,” the court said.It also questioned as to who would monitor wedding attendees and how these functions would not act as superspreaders. It is a matter of deep concern, the court said.“When we speak, we do it for all the citizens of the city. From our personal experiences and those of our colleagues, we are left to wonder whether there is any policy by the Delhi government that is being followed. We do not live in ivory towers and even we receive several requests from the citizens who are struggling. It’s a struggle, a real struggle,” the bench said.The court also noted that the sero survelliance report suggested that one out of four people in the city is affected with the virus. The Delhi government, in its status report, stated that while there is no or negligible change in the sero survelliance report, the central district of the city has seen a hike in the number of cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-high-court-lambasts-govt-for-lackadaisical-approach-towards-rise-in-covid-19-cases/story-2hAqVAHpCi2R4allUlNiLP.html
11-11-2020||Mumbai||Bombay high court directs ASI to protect medieval aqueduct in Aurangabad||The Bombay high court has expressed displeasure over the apathetic approach of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) in maintaining Thatte Nahar, a 7.5km long aqueduct in Maharashtra’s Aurangabad built over two-and-half centuries back. It directed the ASI on Monday to maintain the aqueduct properly and also reconsidering its decision of not declaring it a protected monument.A division bench of Justices SV Gangapurwala and Avinash Gharote expressed displeasure over the Union culture ministry, the ASI, and Aurangabad superintending archaeologist’s view that Thatte Nahar required to be protected, but the Maharashtra government should do it.“We are unable to countenance this argument as this merely results in passing the buck and nothing else,” said the bench.Also Read: Bombay high court paves way for redevelopment of Mumbai’s Chandan Cinema propertyThe bench said asking the state government to take over the work of preserving the monument will defeat the purpose. It added the ASI took over the monument in 1971 and has been maintaining it since.“This is not only dereliction of the duties and responsibilities under the AMASR [Ancient Monuments And Archaeological Sites And Remains] Act but apathy of the grossest nature, which in fact results in destroying the very purpose for which the ASI has been created,” said the bench.Anant Thatte, a descendant of Bhagwantrao Thatte, who built the underground water channel in 1762, moved the court in 2013, challenging ASI’s move against declaring it a protected monument.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-high-court-directs-asi-to-protect-medieval-aqueduct-in-aurangabad/story-yDAJlmfBrpqryEkEzFbb0K.html
11-11-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Three times more testing as compared to last peak, says Satyendar Jain||Amid the surge in Covid-19 cases in the national capital, Delhi Health Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said that three times more tests are being conducted as compared to the last peak in number of the positive cases. Around 17,000 RT-PCR tests were conducted on Tuesday. “Three times more tests are being done now as compared to the last peak. No doubt the third peak is here, hope cases fall in the next couple of days. 17,000 RTPCR tests were conducted yesterday, we have increased testing,” said Jain on the recent surge in Covid-19 cases in Delhi.On increasing ICU beds for Covid-19 patients admitted to the hospitals, he said: “We had already issued an order earlier to private hospitals for increasing ICU beds but Delhi High Court stayed that. Hope we get a vacation tomorrow from the Supreme Court on our plea against HC stay.”The Health Minister further informed that the Delhi Government has written a letter to the Central Government to increase the beds. “We have asked the central government to increase about 1,100 beds and 300 ICU beds in government hospitals. There are 11 districts inside Delhi, each district has more than 80 mobile bans which are collect samples and send them to the lab for testing,” Jain added.Delhi has reported 41,385 active cases, according to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-three-times-more-testing-as-compared-to-last-peak-says-satyendar-jain/story-CnIgO8Q9Ybq48mgHbmSv4I.html
11-11-2020||Election:||Bihar poll boost: AIMIM plans to contest in UP, West Bengal||Buoyed by the results of Bihar assembly elections, the AIMIM which bagged five seats is now looking to spread its wings to states such as Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal. Addressing reporters on Tuesday night, MIM’s president Asaduddin Owaisi said the party will fight for justice inthe northern state’s Seemanchal region.Reacting to allegations that his party was dividing anti-BJP votes, Owaisi said he was running a political party that has a right to contest on its own. “You mean we should not fight elections. You (Congress) went and sat in Shiv Sena’s lap (in Maharashtra). If anyone asks why did you fight the elections... I will fight in West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh and will fight every election in the country... Do I need to ask anyone’s permission to fight the polls,” he said when asked whether the party would contest in any other state.He however, did not clarify whether the party would contest on its own or in alliance with other parties.Read More | AIMIM gains as smaller parties fail to make a mark“AIMIM will fight in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections. Time only will tell with whom we will ally,” Owaisi added. Owaisi is often criticised by Congress and other parties as “B-team” of BJP denting anti-saffron party’s votes. Owaisi-led AIMIM seems to have cut big time into the RJD-led Mahagathbandhan vote in the Seemanchal region in the third phase of the polls, according to poll pundits.The Hyderabad MP-led party was in the fray in 20 seats in Bihar elections, a majority of which went to polls in the third phase on November 7, as part of the Grand Democratic Secular Front that has four other parties, including Upendra Kushwaha’‘s Rashtriya Lok Samta Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party. The party’s victory in five seats has become inconsequential in terms of lending support in case of hung- assembly as NDA emerged as the clear winner. When asked if his party will support Mahagathbandhan in case of a shortfall of majority, Owaisi did not give a direct answer saying, “Why should I speculate, when the final results are out then a decision will be taken.” Results of Bihar Assembly polls were not completely declared when the question was posed.According to statistics provided by the Election Commission of India, AIMIM got 1.24 per cent of over 4 crore votes polled.The party unsuccessfully contested in Bihar Assembly polls in 2015 and secured less than 0.5 per cent votes. MIM also unsuccessfully contested in UP Assembly polls in 2017. Besides Telangana and Bihar, MIM has two MLAs and one MP in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-poll-boost-aimim-plans-to-contest-in-up-west-bengal/story-XTgIWKE6uAu4Yw5bjikOPK.html
11-11-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal steps up health infra after spike in Covid cases||The spike in Covid-19 cases across Himachal Pradesh, particularly in the state capital of Shimla, over the past week has set alarm bells ringing for the government, which had unlocked almost all activities in phases. Besides closing down educational institutions till November 25 to break the chain of new infections, the state government has now directed hospitals to ready more beds for coronavirus patients as it fears a rise with the arrival of winter. On Wednesday, the state’s cumulative Covid-19 tally stood at 26,808 of which 5,365 are active cases. The coronavirus toll has mounted to 390. In the first week of November alone, the state saw more than 4,000 people testing positive. Mandi is the worst-hit district where the number of positive cases is 4,044, which is 15% of the total cases in the state. The district has 1,129 active cases, the highest in the state. Mandi is followed by Solan with 3,886 cases and Kangra with 3,490 positive patients. COVID WARDS PACKED TO CAPACITY “The number of beds for Covid-19 patients has been increased by 25 at the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital and by 40 at the Indira Gandhi Medical College in Shimla. Makeshift hospitals are also being set up in Shimla, Tanda and the Lal Bahadur Shastri Medical College in Mandi,” says state health secretary Amitabh Awasthi. The government has directed increasing non-ventilator intensive care unit (ICU) beds at the medical college in Mandi besides the Dr Rajendra Prasad Medical College Hospital, Tanda, and IGMC, Shimla. The isolation ward at IGMC is already full to capacity. All 85 beds for coronavirus patients are occupied and the hospital has no space to accommodate more cases. Seventy patients in the hospital are on oxygen support, while the isolation ward at Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital with 90 beds is nearing capacity, too. WEDDINGS, APPLE BELT NEW HOTSPOTS Besides the opening of schools, the spurt in cases is being attributed to gatherings at weddings. Wedding ceremonies have emerged as hotspots, particularly in Mandi, Kullu and Shimla districts. Rural parts of the state are also in the Covid grip. Shimla’s affluent apple belt of Kotgarh, Kumarsain, Jubbal, Kotkhai, Rohru and Rampur are among the worst-hit places. Officials say people here have not been adhering to social distancing norms. Twenty-six positive cases have been reported from Rampur Bushar, 31 from Jubbal and Kotkhai last week alone. A total of 121 people tested positive in Shimla district, while seven of them died in hospitals in the state capital during the week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-steps-up-health-infra-after-spike-in-covid-cases/story-VQ1W1WqiZtHbajoFlC4M1M.html
11-11-2020||Election:||Bihar Election 2020: JD(U) wins Hilsa seat by just 12 votes||The JD(U) has won the Hilsa assembly seat in Bihar just by 12 votes, according to the Election Commission website, a result contested by the rival RJD. According to the results updated on the Election Commission website late Tuesday night, JD(U)’s Krishnamurari Sharan alias Prem Mukhiya polled 61,848 votes, while his nearest Atri Muni alias Shakti Singh Yadav of the RJD has got 61,836 votes.“Results declared,” the poll panel wrote in the ‘status’ column for Hilsa seat late Tuesday night. And in the margin column it wrote “12”.Earlier, around 10 pm, when the poll panel website showed that votes for Hilsa were still being counted, the RJD alleged foul play in the process.Read more | Bihar Election 2020: Shiv Sena fetches fewer votes than NOTA“The Returning Officer had declared RJD candidate Shakti Singh from Hilsa assembly constituency as winner by 547 votes. He was told to wait for issuing the victory certificate. But then the Returning Officer receives a call from the chief minister’ss residence and the officer suddenly says the RJD candidate has lost by 13 votes due to postal ballots being cancelled,” the party alleged in a tweet. The Election Commission has, however, denied it was under any pressure from anybody. As per the poll panel data, JD(U)’s Krishnamurari Sharan has got 232 postal votes and the RJD’s Shakti Singh Yadav 233.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-election-2020-jd-u-wins-hilsa-seat-by-just-12-votes/story-XpfcLY5vcWhUsRQLvvCVEK.html
11-11-2020||Kolkata||Local train services resume in West Bengal with Covid-19 protocols in place||Local train services in West Bengal resumed on Wednesday after a period of over seven months as authorities maintained strict vigil and passengers were seen following coronavirus (Covid-19) protocols. Train services coming under the jurisdiction of the Eastern and the South Eastern Railways started during the early hours after being suspended in March due to the coronavirus outbreak in the country. The Eastern Railway is operating 413 suburban trains in Sealdah division and 202 in Howrah division from Wednesday, an official said, according to news agency PTI. To avoid overcrowding of trains, 148 of 177 time- tabled services are being run during peak hours, he added.On Sunday, Union railway minister Piyush Goyal said a total of 696 suburban services would operate in Bengal from November 11. “Railways to run 696 suburban services in West Bengal from 11th November. With adequate safety measures in place, this will greatly enhance passenger convenience, ease of movement & facilitate smooth travel for the people,” he tweeted. The train coaches on Wednesday were not as crowded as they were during the pre-Covid era but passenger footfall is expected to rise gradually as this mode of public transportation is preferred by those living in the suburbs. Railway authorities requested passengers follow all Covid-19 protocols and also made wearing of masks mandatory for entering stations or trains. With a view to prevent the spread of the disease, officials made several other arrangements such as sanitising of stations and coaches, alternate seating arrangements in coaches to maintain physical distance and spot markings at all important places including platforms and ticket counters.On the other hand, passengers sought an increase in the number of trains to avoid overcrowding. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/local-train-services-resume-in-west-bengal-with-covid-19-protocols-in-place/story-bXlhv6PjJussEUVqO7BG6J.html
11-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Wanted man shot by police in Shahdara||A man with a criminal past, Hashim alias Baba, whose capture carried a reward of Rs6 lakh, was injured during an exchange of fire after being intercepted by the police in Shahdara in East Delhi on Tuesday morning, the police said.He was caught as soon as he left a woman friend’s house and was shot in the left leg during the crossfire, said Pramod Kushwaha, deputy commissioner of police (special cell).“Baba fired three rounds at us. We shot five times in retaliation,” said Kushwaha.Baba was first shifted to the nearby Jag Parvesh Chandra Hospital, and, after initial treatment, he was moved to Dr RML Hospital.Also Read: Delhi court orders FIR against gurdwara committee head, says allegations ‘serious in nature’The DCP said that the police were working on a tip-off that Baba would visit one of his hideouts in Shahdara. “We laid a trap outside the house. Around 5.45am, he exited a woman friend’s house and walked towards his parked motorcycle. Just as he was about to start his motorcycle, he sensed our presence and began shooting at us,” said Kushwaha.While Baba was hit, the police team escaped unhurt.They have seized his motorcycle, a pistol and a live bullet, apart from some spent cartridges, said the DCP.The police are yet to share more details about the arrested man.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-wanted-man-shot-by-police-in-shahdara/story-Ukm8r0xbPZ5m0BO2dV9BxL.html
11-11-2020||Kolkata||Local train services resume in West Bengal; could be restricted on Puja days to check crowding||Suburban trains resumed operations in West Bengal from Wednesday after a gap of more than seven months due to the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. However, the Calcutta high court (HC) on Tuesday directed the state government to consider whether local trains could be suspended or the services could be restricted during the upcoming Kali Puja – to be celebrated during the weekend (on November 14 and 15) -- and followed by Jagadhatri Puja to restrict the public from making a beeline for Kolkata.Eastern Railway (ER) and South Eastern Railway (SER) authorities have started running 696 suburban trains from Wednesday. The break-up of the suburban train service is as follows.It has been decided to run 413, 202 and 81 suburban trains in the Sealdah, Howrah and Kharagpur division, respectively, from Wednesday. Also Read: Calcutta high court bans Chhath Puja processions across the stateSuburban trains connect Kolkata and Howrah with the villages and towns of the adjoining districts in south and central Bengal. These trains form a lifeline for the public who need to visit Kolkata daily for work. Howrah and Sealdah railway stations cater to more than two million passengers a day. “Train services have resumed following all Covid-19 protocols. Police along with the railway’s own security force are maintaining a strict vigil. Wearing face masks have been made mandatory, passengers are being checked with thermal scanners and security agencies are maintaining queues in a bid to maintain adequate social distancing in a bid to keep the contagion at bay,” said a state government official. Railway officials said that while train compartments and stations are being sanitised, the handles and seats in bogies have been colour coded to help passengers maintain social distancing during their rail journeys.“Announcements are being made on public address (PA) systems to make the public aware of the Covid-19 safety norms. Hawkers are not being allowed to board suburban trains,” said a railway official. Bamboo, ropes and guard-rails have been used to put up barricades to ensure queues could be maintained at ticket counters and on railway platforms. Entry and exit gates of railway stations are being made separate to comply with social distancing norms. On Tuesday, the Calcutta HC said that crowding could be avoided during Durga Puja because suburban train services were suspended. “The state should consider whether it may be fit in the best of interest of all to suspend the operation of local trains on November 14 and 15 (Kali Puja) and on the day of Jagadhatri Puja or to manage the number of trains in such a manner that people do not find it convenient to come to Kolkata or travel to other places. The state is left free to make appropriate arrangements with the railway authorities in such regard,” the HC said in its order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/local-train-services-resume-in-west-bengal-could-be-restricted-on-puja-days-to-check-crowding/story-wkVlMzOZ0vx6u15qe6DkRI.html
11-11-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh Bypoll Results 2020: Samajwadi Party’s hopes to gain momentum for 2022 polls dashed||Opposition Samajwadi Party (SP) was hoping to make significant gains in the bypolls held to seven seats in Uttar Pradesh for some momentum ahead of the 2022 assembly elections. But the party managed to retain one seat while the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the remaining six.Even as the SP had been the lone gainer in the bypolls in the state since 2017, former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav and other top leaders of the party stayed away from campaigning. BJP’s top leaders, including chief minister Yogi Adityanath, campaigned extensively.Political analyst SK Dwivedi said the bypolls results have once again established that the BJP continues to be the dominant party in the state and it will be an uphill task for SP to wrest power from it.Also Read: Brand Yogi gets a boost as BJP warms up for 2022 UP elections with bypoll sweepLucky Yadav was the lone winner for SP. He managed to retain Malhani (Jaunpur) constituency for SP that his late father Parasnath Yadav earlier held. Lucky Yadav won by a thin margin of 4,632 votes.In Naugawan Sadat (Amroha), SP’s Javed Abbas led the tally for most of the day but eventually lost to BJP’s Sangeeta Chauhan. The SP earlier in 2018 won Gorakhpur, Phulpur, Kairana Lok Sabha bypolls as well as Noorpur assembly seat. In 2019, of the by-polls held to 11 seats, SP retained Rampur and wrested Jalalpur from Bahujan Samaj Party and Zaidpur from BJP. The BJP won the remaining eight seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-bypoll-results-2020-samajwadi-party-s-hopes-to-gain-momentum-for-2022-polls-dashed/story-0OJPFbXVE5BASrFPmKpprL.html
11-11-2020||Kolkata||Calcutta high court bans Chhath Puja processions across the state||The Calcutta high court on Tuesday banned Chhath Puja processions across West Bengal while allowing only two persons per family to enter a water body to offer the puja. Also, devotees have been barred from entering two of the largest lakes within the city, Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar. Earlier, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had banned Chhath Puja at Rabindra Sarobar. “The court has banned Chhath Puja processions. Only two persons from a family can enter any water body to perform the puja. Devotees coming in vehicles will have to maintain social distance and not all will be allowed to get down,” said Sabyasachi Chatterjee, high court advocate. Also Read: Kolkata Police files case against activist for spreading misinformationOther members of the family will have to observe Chhath Puja from home or in and around their home. Wearing of masks has been made mandatory at all stages. Earlier in November, the high court had banned the bursting of crackers during all pujas, including the Kali Puja and Chhath Puja. Also the police have been directed to ensure that no crackers are sold or used in Kolkata as crackers have already been banned till November 30 by the high court and the NGT. Despite the NGT’s ban, hundreds of devotees broke open the gates of Rabindra Sarobar in November 2019 to perform the Chhath rituals. They even burst crackers and played drums at the Sarobar although the government had earmarked alternative water bodies in the city for conduct of the rituals. The incident made headlines and triggered a huge controversy. “As far as the Subhas Sarobar and Rabindra Sarobar are concerned, in view of the subsisting order of the NGT, these water bodies will be totally out of bounds for Chhath Puja celebrations,” the Calcutta high court said in its order on Tuesday. The state has been directed to impose restrictions under Section 144 of the CrPC to restrict the number of people in any area to restrict the people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/calcutta-high-court-bans-chhath-puja-processions-across-the-state/story-6LwuqPeC6G7Q0JZGgZed9N.html
11-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s air improves slightly, recorded as ‘very poor’ after six consecutive days in ‘severe’ zone||The air quality index (AQI) of Delhi showed a marginal improvement on Wednesday morning after six consecutive days of pollution in the “severe” category. The AQI was in the “very poor” category as the early morning recording of 394 showed. The improvement from “severe” to “very poor” category was largely due to the wind speed gathering momentum and an appreciable dip in farm fire incidents in Punjab on Tuesday. An AQI between 401 and 500 and from 301 to 400 is considered in the “severe” and “very poor” category, respectively. Poor AQI causes distress and respiratory illnesses, especially among the vulnerable population such as children and senior citizens, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).Also Read: Worst episode of smog negates all good air records in DelhiThe minimum temperature in the national capital recorded at 6.10am on Wednesday was 12 degrees Celsius (C). There was no fog, only mist.On Tuesday, at around 9:30 am, at least 18 stations in Delhi had reported an AQI of 500, which is the maximum on the pollution measurement metric.A few private air quality monitoring platforms had even reported an AQI of 999, indicating that the pollution measuring values had hit the maximum level.On Tuesday, the average 24-hour AQI in Delhi was 476, according to CPCB data. The past six days was one of the longest spells in the nation capital’s brush with “severe” air quality.Scientists said that Wednesday’s improvement was primarily due to a change in wind speeds. According to the Tuesday’s bulletin of System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), a national initiative introduced by the Union Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES), the wind condition further aggravated Delhi’s pollution woes.The national capital is reeling under stubble burning in neighbouring Haryana, Punjab and also parts of western Uttar Pradesh (UP), which has become an annual feature around this time of the year. “AQI is likely to improve on Wednesday. It will hover between the lower end of ‘severe’ and the higher end of ‘very poor’ category owing to a likely change in wind direction and marginally better ventillation condition,” the bulletin said.“A few hundred farm fires were raging on Tuesday, as compared to thousands in the past week. Winds are also picking up. We are expecting an improvement in the pollution level,” said Vijay Soni, a scientist with India Meteorological Department (IMD).The weather bureau has predicted that Wednesday would be foggy. The maximum and minimum temperature’s forecast is 30 and 11 degrees C, respectively.On Tuesday, the minimum temperature had dropped to 10.7 degrees C -- three degrees below normal -- and maximum temperature stood at 30.1 degrees C – a notch above normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-air-improves-slightly-recorded-as-very-poor-after-six-consecutive-days-in-severe-zone/story-8CPSz9qSHrGK4IGNmOmGZP.html
11-11-2020||Election:||Why did the exit polls get the Bihar results wrong?||The numerical see-saw presented by the Bihar election results through the day was not just hard on political parties and their supporters but also on psephologists who were wondering how they could have, yet again, gotten things as wrong as they did.Most predicted a clear win for the Tejashwi Yadav led Mahagatbandhan, but the alliance eventually lost out in a close contest that went down to the wire, and which was decided by wafer-thing margins in some constituencies.Such surveys measure vote share and then use an algorithm to convert this into seats, with the conversion usually being the cause of erroneous projections.This time, many even got their vote shares wrong. Also Watch | Five lessons from Bihar Assembly elections 2020For instance, Today’s Chankya, a polling agency that has made a name for itself predicted that the Mahagatbandhan could win up to 180 seats on a 44% vote share. The NDA’s vote share would be around 34%, it said.The Mahagathbandhan was projected to get about 120 seats in the 243-member house by the Times Now C-Voter exit poll. Republic TV-Jan Ki Baat projected 118-138 for the alliance.The ABP C-Voter and the News X-DV polls did better, with the Mahagatbandhan’s final numbers falling square in the middle of the range predicted by them .So, what went wrong this time?Experts said three factors could have skewed exit polls.One, timing, with the National Democratic Alliance really picking up momentum after the first phase. Two, an underrepresentation of women in exit polls, who, in the end, voted overwhelmingly for the NDA. And three, the presence of a huge silent majority, unrepresented in exit polls, who actually voted in large numbers for the NDA.Noted political scientist Neelanjan Sircar said that predicting election outcomes is difficult at any time, but that during the Covid-19 pandemic, those conducting these surveys may have also faced logistical difficulties. He also said the BJP and RJD performed well, while alliance partners JD(U) and Congress did not. He argued that this sort of volatility, which is often not seen, may have made the prediction of final outcome all the more difficult.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/why-did-the-exit-polls-get-the-bihar-results-wrong/story-f3Ye3kZorAdRGpvgH9VMBP.html
11-11-2020||Election:||LJP: Biggest X-factor of the elections||The Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) contesting the Bihar elections outside the fold of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) was the biggest X-factor in these elections, though the party has won a solitary seat in the elections.On the campaign trail, the LJP’s main attack was focused on the Janata Dal (United) -- so much so that it kept talking about forming a government with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) after the results, stressing on how it was still part of the NDA at the Centre and leader Chirag Paswan kept criticising chief minister Nitish Kumar while praising the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.This talk of being a part of government formation has little meaning now -- the NDA has managed a simple majority of 124 in the assembly, and the LJP has won just one seat. The LJP has managed to improve its vote share from 4.8% to 5.7% between 2015 and 2020 assembly elections, largely a function of the fact that it contested in 135 assembly constituencies (ACs) this time, compared to just 42 in 2015. However, this is the LJP’s worst performance in terms of seats, and in keeping with the trend of its growing marginalisation in the state’s politics. (See Chart)But an HT analysis of the LJP’s performance shows that its candidates played the role of a spoiler in 64 assembly constituencies (ACs). Candidates are defined as spoilers if they are ranked third or below, and get more votes than the victory margin in a constituency. The biggest sufferer of the LJP in these elections was the JD(U), which lost elections in 27 ACs where the LJP was a spoiler.The LJP also has acted as a spoiler in 17 ACs for the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), 11 for the Congress, 4 for the Vikassheel Insan Party (VIP), 3 for the Communist Party of India Marxist Leninist (Liberation), and one for the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/ljp-biggest-x-factor-of-the-elections/story-ZuZme8FoU0SUK7GQ6FmZyH.html
11-11-2020||Election:||Bihar Assembly Election 2020: LJP wins one seat but cuts into JD(U)’s votes||The Chirag Paswan-led Lok Janshakti Party (LDP) won a single seat in the 243-member Bihar assembly, results and trends for which were declared late Tuesday evening.The party fielded 137 candidates, primarily in opposition to Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United), after it decided to quit the National Democratic Alliance. As many as 25 Bharatiya Janata Party rebel leaders had joined the LJP after being denied a ticket by the party.The party’s tally, however, is down from its last performance in 2015 where it managed to win 2 seats after contesting from 42 assembly constituencies. In the lone seat of Matihani that LJP managed to win, its candidate Raj Kumar Singh defeated JD(U)’s Narendra Kumar Singh by a slim margin of 333 votes.Though the party got just one seat, it managed to slice through a crucial chunk of the NDA vote by impacting nearly 29 of the 58 constituencies that the JD(U) was trailing on. In most of these assembly constituencies, the LJP managed to secure a nearly 10% vote share, dealing a decisive blow to its erstwhile ally. Results for a number of these constituencies was still in process, according to the EC website until press time.The party has, according to experts, managed to help the Mahagathbandhan by helping the RJD, the Congress and the Left parties cross the threshold to gain the upper hand in nearly 50% of 58 constituencies analysed by Hindustan Times.In the key constituency of Dinara, where the LJP fielded former BJP loyalist Rajendra Singh, who had been an RSS worker for nearly 37 years, the JD(U) was reduced to 16% votes, while the RJD bagged victory with 34.97% votes. The LJP managed to secure 30.13% votes.Former BJP legislators Usha Vidyarthi, who contested from Paliganj on an LJP ticket, and Rameshwar Chaurasiya, who contested from Sasaram, barely managed to secure a little over 10% of the vote share. Other BJP leaders including Ravindra Yadav managed only 6% votes in Jhajha, while Mrinal Shekhar managed 24.59% of the vote but failed to trounce Jayant Raj of the JD(U).Psephologist Yashwant Deshmukh said on Tuesday evening that by the time final numbers would come in, the LJP would have impacted the JD(U)’s chances on nearly 35 seats. “Whatever the idea was, Hanuman has ended up damaging Ayodhya rather than Lanka,” Deshmukh said. “If Hanuman was implanted to inflict such damage, then he has done remarkably well.”Deshmukh added that the NDA would have won no less than 150 seats if the LJP hadn’t cut down its chances.Political analyst Sandeep Shastri concurred with Deshmukh that the strategy for the LJP to go it alone may have backfired. “At the end of the day, LJP has not achieved anything,” said Shastri. “There is no shadow of doubt that it has caused a major decline in the JD(U)’s seat count.” However, Shastri added that Chirag Paswan may have inevitably damaged the role his party would play in the future of Bihar politics. “Whatever his father Ram Vilas Paswan worked to achieve, the social identity, has been undone,” said Shastri. “It seems he (Chirag) is paving the way to become part of the BJP fold; in the long run, it will hardly be a gain.”Deshmukh said he wouldn’t be surprised if Chirag is offered a position as a Union minister in the near future. “It was always impossible for a party like LJP, which barely has a 6% vote share in the state, to win nearly 35% without being in an alliance,” Deshmukh said. “Chirag did exactly as he was told... it wouldn’t come as a surprise if he is offered a Union ministership soon.” He added that BJP rebel candidates could never have made a mark since the party organisationally works with a cadre system. “Unless you have a long-standing grassroots level connect, the candidate wouldn’t have made a difference as the BJP goes forth as a party and not individuals.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-assembly-election-2020-ljp-wins-one-seat-but-cuts-into-jd-u-s-votes/story-L3TFBSB7tgOeNKUpCbJPNK.html
11-11-2020||Election:||AIMIM gains as smaller parties fail to make a mark||The All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM), led by Asaduddin Owaisi, appears to have found a foothold in Bihar even as most other smaller parties in the fray, including the once significant Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) now led by Chirag Paswan, were unable to open their account on verdict day in the Bihar assembly elections.The AIMIM won five seats — Baisi and Amnour in Purnia district, Bahadurganj and Kochadhaman in Kishanganj, and Jokihat in Araria district -- a performance that meant the party must shed its vote thief or spoilsport card, and emerge as a party with a not insignificant presence on the next assembly.All five seats have a high Muslim population ranging between 50% and 70% of the electorate.The party did not win a single seat in the 2015 elections, but grabbed one seat (Kishanganj) in a bypoll last year.Its partner in the Grand Secular Democratic Front (GDSP), the Bahujan Samaj Party, was leading from Chainpur constituency in Kaimur.The BSP, too, failed to open its account in 2015, when its candidates forfeited their deposits on 225 of the 228 seats they contested.Other members of the GDSP, former Union minister Upendra Kushwaha’s Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) and the Janwadi Party Socialist (JPS), did not feature on the leaderboard.What is impressive is the AIMIM’s strike rate, having contested just 24 seats for its five wins, while the RLSP contested 104 seats and the BSP 80. AIMIM had got 1.25% of the total votes polled in the state so far.“It’s a great moment for us as people of Bihar have honoured us with so many votes. Our leaders & workers have put a lot of efforts into strengthening our party in Bihar. We will try our best to fulfil the promises made by us,” Owaisi, a four-time member of Parliament from Hyderabad since 2014, told news agency ANI.The Congress, meanwhile, dubbed the AIMIM the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) “B-team” and accused it of colluding with the party.Congress spokesperson Rajesh Rathore admitted the AIMIM snatched key seats in the Seemanchal region from the Congress. “Had it not contested, some of the seats would have come to us,” he said. “It’s a test for the AIMIM now as it has to decide which side it will be, as it may have an important role to play in government formation, with the contest being close.”It may not come to that with the National Democratic Alliance securing a slender majority, winning or leading 124 seats in the 243-member assembly, as per results declared on the Election Commission website at 11pm.But AIMIM national spokesperson Asim Waqar told PTI in New Delhi that there was no question of supporting the NDA in any case, asserting that his party has always stood against the BJP.Experts said the performance may have been driven by aggressive voting by the Muslim migrants. “The AIMIM has done extremely well in areas having Muslim majority, with a sizeable migrant population. The voters believe that the AIMIM will take up their cause more aggressively and proactively than the RJD or the Congress, which would have simply consolidated their position,” said Prof Arvind Aditya Raj of the political science department at Patna’s College of Commerce, Arts and Science.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/aimim-gains-as-smaller-parties-fail-to-make-a-mark/story-Ban9hcyqSngZseMaqsh7wJ.html
11-11-2020||Election:||RJD, Congress allege irregularities by EC in announcing poll winners||Members of the opposition Mahagathbandhan, including Manoj Jha of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and Randeep Singh Surjewala of the Congress, on Tuesday alleged irregularities in the counting process in seats with tight margins, as the Grand Alliance appeared to make a late charge but fell short of the crucial majority mark in a close contest against the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA). The charges were denied by the Election Commission of India (EC), and said they were going about their duties with all procedures followed impartially.Jha alleged that leaders from the ruling Janata Dal (United) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) were “misusing their official power” to delay the handing over of certificates to winning candidates, and thereby leaving the scope for tampering with the final results in the elections held amid the Covid-19 curbs.Jha, the national spokesman of the RJD, said that the Mahagathbandhan -- the RJD, the Congress and three Left parties -- was confident of pulling off a victory at the last moment. “Our strike rate is better than others. The JD(U)-BJP leaders are sitting at the chief minister’s residence. I urge these leaders and the administration that it is their duty to be impartial,” he said.Jha, however, did not elaborate on what this alleged pressure amounted to.Surjewala said that in Kishanganj, the Congress candidate won by 1,266 votes. “Now the Congress candidate is being denied a winning certificate,” he alleged.Responding to their comments, the EC said that there was no wrongdoing of any kind, and that some winning certificates were pending further verification because of the tight margins.“We have cross-checked with the chief election commissioner of Bihar and the allegations (by the RJD) are found to have been false and are not substantiated. At no place has counting of postal ballots stopped,” said deputy election commissioner Chandra Bhushan, in charge of BiharJD(U) dismissed the Grand Alliance’s allegations.“The one who used to take gin out of ballot boxes are talking about foul play. What an irony. They (Grand Alliance) are taking respect out of the mandate,” said JD(U) spokesperson Ajay Alok.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/rjd-congress-allege-irregularities-by-ec-in-announcing-poll-winners/story-NgRGF7t0gWtMH2cDmNgTcM.html
11-11-2020||Election:||Bihar Assembly Election 2020: Increased poll booths delays vote counting||Counting of votes in the Bihar assembly polls turned out to be a slow process — about 42% votes were counted by 4pm on Tuesday and nearly 27 million out of the 41.1 million votes polled in the state were counted by 5.30pm, according to Election Commission of India officials.Given the extraordinary circumstances caused by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, there was an increase in the number of booths from where votes were to be counted. In 2015, counting took place at 38 locations.“In all assembly constituencies, counting is happening at invariably 14 tables, across large halls,” said deputy electio n commissioner Chandra Bhushan, in charge of Bihar. “The number of rounds of counting range from 19 at the least to 51 at the most. The average number of rounds per constituency will be around 35. We hope to finish the counting as per procedure by late tonight.”“The final data for postal ballots will only be available at the RO level,” said Chandra Bhushan. He added that since the number of rounds of counting would vary from constituency to constituency, exact data could not be provided.The commission had set up nearly 63% more polling booths, up from 65,000 in 2015 to 106,000 in 2020, to meet Covid-19 guidelines.“Correspondingly, the number of EVMs as also increased to 106,000.”Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Manoj Jha said that in multiple seats, counting could go up to 30 to 35 rounds, which left scope for a comeback, particularly with several constituencies being decided by wafer-thin margins.Deputy election commissioner Ashish Kundra said nearly 160,000 ballots were dispatched for service voters, of which over 50,000 were received by the returning officers.Deputy election commissioner Sudeep Jain said the EVMs (electronic voting machines) were absolutely robust, shooting down any insinuations about the possibility of tampering with the count.The delay in counting led to members of the opposition Mahagathbandhan, including Manoj Jha of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and Randeep Singh Surjewala of the Congress, alleging irregularities in the the counting process in seats with tight margins.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-assembly-election-2020-increased-poll-booths-delays-vote-counting/story-XnEb1GbwqTV08fezdUXJbN.html
11-11-2020||Election:||Bihar Assembly Election 2020: Amid demands for recount, EC points to May 2019 order||Amid demands by some political parties in Bihar for a recount of votes in some constituencies, the Election Commission of India (EC) on Tuesday said that a recount would only take place when the margin of victory was lesser than the number of postal ballots found invalid.According to an order issued by EC on May 18, 2019, when the margin of victory is less than the number of postal ballot papers rejected at the time of counting, all rejected postal ballot papers must mandatorily be reverified by the returning officer. “Wherever such reverification is done, the entire proceeding should be videographed as per instructions of the Commission,” the instructions state, said officials of the poll body.The clarification came amid demand for a recounting of votes by the Communist Party of India (Marxist-Lenin) in light of the narrow margin of victory in three constituencies.“We urgently seek a recount of votes in the Bhorey, Arrah and Daraundha Assembly constituencies of Bihar. On all three of these seats, CPI(M-L) candidates have been shown to be defeated in very narrow margins, following some worrying violations of counting norms,” said party politburo member Kavita Krishnan in a representation to the chief election commissioner on Tuesday.She alleged that in Bhorey -- where the party lost by 462 votes, according to EC data -- the Janata Dal (United) candidate Sunil Kumar, a former additional director general of police (DGP), commands clout. “The local JD(U) MP Alok Kumar Suman was seen entering the counting hall – which is illegal and prohibited. This was clearly an attempt to influence fair count of votes. As of now, the EC site shows Sunil Kumar at 73,550 votes and CPI(M-L)’s Jitendra Paswan at 72,524 votes,” the letter stated.EC secretary-general Umesh Sinha, however, shot down any allegations of undue pressure on the commission. “The election commission is not under anyone’s influence,” said Sinha.The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), too, alleged irregularities in the counting process in seats with tight margins. The party released a list of 119 seats that it said it had purportedly won in the state, prompting the poll body to clarify that the results for only 146 assembly constituencies in Bihar had been declared as of 10pm, with trends for the remaining 97 seats available on its website.“A message on social media claimed that a party has won 119 seats about an hour ago, the EC’s website in the public domain and one can see that only 146 seats have been won so far,” said deputy election commissioner Chandra Bhushan at a press conference at 10 pm. As of 9:30 pm, 39.6 million votes had been counted, the election commission said. While the electorate in Bihar stands at 72 million, only 57.09%, or about 40 million, cast their votes in the polls to the 243-member assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-assembly-election-2020-amid-demands-for-recount-ec-points-to-may-2019-order/story-RuJVmyDLJfTbohn4hu808I.html
11-11-2020||Election:||Bihar Assembly Election 2020: Left records higher strike rate than RJD, Cong; lags in popular support||The three left parties – the Communist Party of India (CPI), the Communist Party of India (Marxist) or CPI(M), and the Communist Party of India Marxist Leninist (Liberation) or the CPI-ML – have won 16 of the 29 assembly constituencies (ACs) they contested in the Bihar assembly elections. Their combined strike rate of 55.2% is third after the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) strike rate of 66.4% and Hindustani Awaam Morcha (HAM)’s 57.1%.The CPI-ML has got its highest ever tally of 12 ACs, 5 more than the previous high of 7 ACs in the February 2005 elections in Bihar. In the February 2005 election, the party contested 109 ACs, while it contested only 19 ACs in this election.Although some of the improvement in the performance of the left parties in Bihar can be attributed to their alliance with the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and the Congress, they have performed better than their alliance partners in terms of strike rate. The CPI, CPI(M), and CPI-ML, who contested four, six, and 19 seats respectively, have a strike rate of 33.3%, 50%, and 63% respectively. The RJD and Congress, which contested 144 and 70 seats respectively, have a strike rate of 52.8% and 27.1% respectively.With 16 legislators in the 243-member assembly, the left’s seat share is 6.6%. This is its highest in the Hindi belt since 1995 when the three parties together had a seat share of 14% in the 243 seats that comprise the current Bihar assembly.To be sure, the improvement in seat share and strike rate of the left parties must not be construed as a big rise in popular support for the left. Its total vote share at the time of writing this story (11:45 pm) was 4.6%, less than the 5.1% votes it polled in the November 2005 election to win nine ACs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-assembly-election-2020-left-records-higher-strike-rate-than-rjd-cong-lags-in-popular-support/story-r5Qr3Oa4N2BEbsKP4gkMQO.html
11-11-2020||Election:||Bihar show strengthens BJP’s national standing||Its performance in the battle of Bihar is a salve for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) that has faced several defeats in assembly elections starting 2018 -- of the 17 assembly elections starting late 2018, it has won six and lost 10. The party, as a primary winner in the NDA, has secured 74 seats, the most in the alliance.The losses that the party faced in strongholds such as Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh (it managed to wrest power in the last, and the results of the by-elections in the state have consolidated its position), punctured the notion of the party’s invincibility after the BJP’s electoral juggernaut collected wins in as many as 21 states between the 2014 general elections and 2017.The BJP, in alliance with the Janata Dal (United), the HAM(S) and the VIP party has retained power in Bihar proving both forecasts of anti-incumbency and the exit polls wrong. And with Bihar in its kitty, the BJP-led NDA is now in power in 16 states.In Madhya Pradesh by-election, the party won or was leading in 19 seats of the 28 seats that were critical for the survival of the state government; in Karnataka, the BJP won both seats; in UP 6 of the 7 seats and in Gujarat all 8. The party also won the only seat in Telangana and 4 of the 5 seats in Manipur.Following the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, where the BJP retained the seat of power at the centre with a brute majority, the party’s electoral fortunes reversed.It lost the chance to return to power in Maharashtra where it fell out with its oldest ally, the Shiv Sena, over power sharing, and in Jharkhand where the Raghubar Das government lost to the coalition of the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha with the Congress, RJD, CPI and NCP.In Haryana, a hurried post-poll alliance with the Jananayak Janta Party ensured a second term for chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar in the face of a surprisingly strong performance by the Congress.Earlier this year, it lost Delhi to the Aam Aadmi Party. In 2018, the party lost polls in the Hindi heartland states of Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan. Its coalition government in Jammu and Kashmir with the PDP also collapsed in 2018.The losses were attributed to the BJP’s inability to relate to the issues on the ground, and amplified the trend of Indian voters voting remarkably differently in state and national elections.Ajay Gudavarthy, political analyst and professor at the Jawaharlal Nehru University said the BJP has not been able to perform as well at the state level as it does at the Centre because of its inability to understand the federal structure of the country.“Its campaigns are all centered on PM (Narendra ) Modi. In some cases they undermine and undo their own regional leaders. This centralization helps win the general elections but proves to be detrimental at the state level.”He said the campaigns in states sought to project Modi as a strong leader but failed to focus on the track record of the local leadership.BJP leaders disagree with the assessment. Vinay Shahsrabuddhe, a Rajya Sabha MP, said the BJP’s approach to contesting state elections has been to head into a contest on the twin planks of development and politics of performance.“A democracy imprisoned by identity politics has changed. Now people are inclined to vote for development politics and the politics of performance. I have never heard the Congress leadership including Mrs (Sonia) Gandhi appeal for votes on the basis of performance. In contrast in West Bengal recently, union home minister Amit Shah said people should compare the BJP’s track record of governance with that of the opposition and they will see we are far better,” he said.The BJP’s winning streak began in late 2013 with wins in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Chattisgarh. It then swept to power in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. Soon after the May 2014 Lok Sabha elections, the BJP led-NDA formed government in 11 states including in Jammu and Kashmir with an unlikely partner, the ideological polar PDP.But in 2015 it lost Delhi and Bihar. The season of losses ran through 2016, when the party managed a win only in Assam and fared poorly in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, but showed an increase in its vote share in Kerala and West Bengal.It gained ground in 2017 and some part of 2018, through weaving alliances in the North East, and winning Goa, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Gujarat and Manipur. It did lose in Punjab to the Congress, though.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-show-strengthens-bjp-s-national-standing/story-5yni19kj1WP2Xj5BiwNoYJ.html
11-11-2020||Election:||Bihar Assembly Election 2020: NDA’s seat share rose with every phase||The fact that the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) has managed to secure a majority in the Bihar elections is largely an outcome of its ability to gain momentum after the first phase of polling in the state. The irony involved here is difficult to miss, as it was the NDA which entered the contest as the favoured coalition against the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD)-led Mahagathbandhan (MGB).An HT analysis of phase-wise statistics shows this clearly. On every indicator, be it strike rate, vote share, or victory margin, the NDA performance improved discernibly from the first to the final phase of the elections. Phase-wise statistics also suggest a growing counter-polarisation against the RJD, which could have been the result of the NDA evoking the memories of RJD president Lalu Prasad from 1990 to 2005.The Bihar elections were held in three phases. Seventy-one assembly constituencies (ACs) went to poll on October 28, 94 ACs on November 3, and 78 on November 7. The seat share of NDA increased over each phase. It is 29.6% in the first phase, 52.1% in the second phase and 66.7% in the third phase. The MGB’s performance is the opposite. It bagged 67.6% of the seats in the first phase, 46.8% in the second phase and just 26.9% in the third phase.What is interesting is the fact that this huge difference in seat share is more a result of vagaries of the first-past-the-post (FPTP) system rather than difference in popular support.Even though the MGB suffered a dip of just about 1.5 percentage points in its vote share from Phase 1 to Phase 2 and phase two to phase three, its seat share dropped by about 20 percentage points compared to the previous phase in both the second and the third phase. The increase in the NDA’s vote share was bigger than the loss in the MGB’s vote share. It increased by 6.33 percentage points between Phase 1 and Phase 2, and 1.9 percentage points between Phase 2 and Phase 3. As a result of these changes, the NDA recovered from a 6.8% vote share deficit vis-à-vis the MGB in the first phase to a lead of 4.4% in the third phase. This suggests that the NDA was more successful in consolidating the floating voter than eat into the MGB’s support base. (See Chart 1)The phase-wise difference in performance also shows in the victory margins of the two major alliances. Median victory margin of the NDA increased from 5% to 9.8% from the first to third phase, whereas it came down from 11.4% to 6.6% for the MGB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-assembly-election-2020-nda-s-seat-share-rose-with-every-phase/story-ZS5x063tSw75agxBU3zvlK.html
11-11-2020||Election:||Bihar Assembly Election 2020: Congress’s poor show hurts allies, party says fought tough seats||A poor performance by the Congress appeared to prove costly for the Grand Alliance (GA) in Bihar as the party was leading or winning in just 19 of the 70 seats it contested in the assembly elections. Considered a “weak link” in the GA and despite piggybacking on the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), the Congress could not match its performance of the 2015 assembly elections. It had then contested 41 seats and won 27.The Congress also lost the crucial bypolls in Madhya Pradesh, where the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was ahead in 19 out of the 28 seats and was set to retain power with a comfortable majority. The Congress was leading on 9.Click here for complete Bihar election coverage It failed to win any seat in the bypolls in Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Manipur, Nagaland, Odisha and Telangana.In Bihar, the strike rate of the three Left parties — Communist Party of India (CPI), Communist Party of India (Marxist) or CPI(M) and Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) or CPI(ML) — was much better than that of the Congress, as per the Election Commission’s figures. Out of the 29 seats contested by them as part of the GA, the three Left parties were leading or winning in 16. Out of the 144 seats it contested, the RJD was ahead in 76. Congress leaders blame a delayed seat-sharing deal between alliance partners, poor selection of candidates, weak organisational structure, ineffective state leadership, unimpressive campaign and lack of coordination with alliance partners for the party’s poor show.The RJD-Congress-Left combine struck the seat-sharing deal on October 3, just 25 days ahead of the first phase of the elections on October 28. “It was a bad deal for us. Our negotiators should not have accepted the choice of seats. Out of the 70 seats given to us, 30-35 were extremely tough. These were the seats where we had no base and even the RJD was weak,” said senior Congress leader Kishore Kumar Jha.A Congress functionary said the 70 seats given to his party were NDA strongholds, with the BJP and the Janata Dal (United) having won 33 and 32 seats respectively in the 2010 assembly elections. And in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the two NDA parties won 67 out of these 70 segments. The Congress also ran into trouble after protests erupted across the state over the selection of “tainted and incompetent” candidates. The allegations of irregularities in ticket distribution and growing dissidence in the state unit prompted the Congress leadership to step in and form six different panels to oversee the party’s poll preparations and management. But that didn’t seem to have helped. “Our ticket distribution was the worst I have seen in my political career. A candidate from east Bihar was given ticket in north and so on. Similarly, caste balance was not maintained in Seemanchal and that is why we fared so badly in the region,” added Jha. Patna-based political analyst Ajay Kumar Jha said Congress leaders, including Rahul Gandhi, failed to lend a helping hand to the RJD’s Tejashwi Yadav in campaign trail or take forward the narrative set by him. “While Tejashwi Yadav talked about jobs, economy and development of Bihar, Rahul Gandhi and other Congress leaders spoke of China, attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and raised inconsequential issues,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-assembly-election-2020-congress-s-poor-show-hurts-allies-party-says-fought-tough-seats/story-BomddHRdIZjld1KB2yqlXP.html
11-11-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab continues to fare worst in Covid-19 fatality rate in country||Punjab has consistently fared worst in the country in terms of Covid-19 case fatality rate (CFR) for the last more than two months with the Union government expressing concern over the issue again. When the other states are showing remarkable improvement on the count, Punjabs CFR has been on the rise, reaching 3.14% on Tuesday, more than double the national average of 1.49%. On Monday, the Union health ministry in a meeting with officials of 10 worst-hit states again asked Punjab to take steps to improve its CFR by taking urgent steps. It was on September 9 when Punjab topped the country with the highest CFR (2.95%) by surpassing Gujarat (2.93%) and Maharashtra (2.90%), the two worst-affected states. As on Tuesday, whereas Maharashtra managed to reduce its CFR to 2.6% and Gujarat to 2.1%, Punjab’s ratio increased to 3.14%, showing a worrying sign as the number of daily addition of cases has also fallen sharply to average 500 a day this week. Concerned over the high CFR, the Centre in September had rushed a team of experts to the state. The team had made some recommendations to make certain changes in the treatment protocol. Punjab Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said the state’s high CFR is primarily because of a sharp decline in daily addition of positive cases. “In the other states with high CFR, the daily addition of cases has not decreased in the same proportion as in Punjab. High rate of co-morbidities and lifestyle diseases is also a major reason behind a high CFR. But Punjab has also been appreciated for testing every person even as their death was due to other reasons,” said Dr Bhaskar. “We are in the process of compiling data but we also tested those who lost their lives in accidents. In at least 25 such cases, the patients were found positive after their death. Similarly, three persons who consumed poison and died were also found positive after death,” he added. States with highest death rateState CFR on Sept 9 CFR on Nov 10 Punjab 2.95% 3.14% Gujarat 2.93% 2.1% Maharashtra 2.90% 2.6% Madhya Pradesh 2.08 % 1.7% West Bengal 1.97% 1.8% National average 1.71% 1.49%||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-continues-to-fare-worst-in-covid-19-fatality-rate-in-country/story-tsNJ3BuDvl4XBkG97UaphN.html
11-11-2020||Election:||Bihar Assembly Election 2020: Did Modi push propel NDA in tight poll race?||The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) has managed a simple majority in what was a very closely contested election in Bihar. However, the difference in the performance of the two major alliance partners, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Janata Dal (United) will mean that the balance of power changes significantly within the NDA. The BJP and the JD(U) have won 73 and 43 seats in the new assembly. Click here for complete Bihar assembly election coverage The difference is in keeping with their strike rates; seats won as a share of seats contested. This number is 66% for the BJP and just 33% for the JD(U). Did the BJP save the elections for the NDA? One way to look at this question is the performance of the NDA in assembly constituencies (ACs) where Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed election rallies. Modi addressed 12 rallies during the campaign. HT has looked at the performance of the NDA in 110 ACs which are in the 12 districts where these rallies took place. A simple analysis suggests that the NDA’s performance is much better in these regions. The NDA’s strike rate in these 110 ACs is 56.4%.  This is significantly higher than the strike rate of 48.9% in the remaining 133 ACs. However, a more nuanced analysis suggests otherwise. As has been pointed out, the NDA has performed significantly better in the second and third phases of the polls compared to the first phase. Its strike rate is just 29.6% in the 71 ACs that went to the polls in the first phase. This increases to 53.2% and 66.7% in the 94 and 78 ACs that went to the polls in the second and third phase. A phase-wise break-up of the NDA’s performance in the 110 ACs in districts where Modi addressed rallies for the NDA follows a similar pattern. A comparison of NDA performance in ACs in each phase where the Prime Minister addressed and did not address rallies shows that these rallies generated relatively greater tailwinds for the NDA in the third phase compared to the first and second phases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-assembly-election-2020-did-modi-push-propel-nda-in-tight-poll-race/story-RSXXSpypzvm5Pe3L5fGlYK.html
11-11-2020||Election:||Bihar Assembly Election 2020: With superior poll strike rate, BJP may call the shots in NDA||The tables have turned.For many years, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) relied on Nitish Kumar and his Janata Dal (United) to stay in power in Bihar. Today, their National Democratic Alliance (NDA) is back in power. But the BJP calls the shots now. Nitish Kumar, the poster boy for a good governance chief minister, is a shell of his former self.As I had argued in election day commentary for this paper, since the election of Narenda Modi as Prime Minister, Nitish Kumar and JD(U) have been an electoral weak link — underperforming compared to major alliance partners in both 2015 and 2019.Nitish Kumar’s political appeal was premised on the ability to deliver benefits, and myriad development and welfare schemes kept him in power. But today, those same voters primarily attribute the delivery of benefits to Prime Minister Modi, stripping Nitish Kumar of his main political appeal.Voters were willing to vote for the BJP but not the JD(U).This is borne out by the provisional election returns in Bihar (at 10:19pm). There was a wide gap in performance between the BJP and the JD(U). The BJP had an average vote share of 43% in the seats it contested (contested vote share) as compared to 33% for the JD(U). In fact, even the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) had a much higher contested vote share than the JD(U) at 39% (the Congress once again proved to be a weak coalition partner with a contested vote share of 33%).The vote share differences manifested in radically different strike rates (percentage of contested seats won) — with the BJP scoring a strike rate of 65% and the JD(U) of just 37%. Nowhere was this difference more evident than in head-to-head contests with rival RJD.In the 57 head-to-head contests against the RJD the BJP had a strike rate of 65%, while the JD(U) had a significantly weaker 33% in its 61 head-to-head contests against the RJD.To be sure, an important factor was that NDA rebel Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) put up candidates in direct competition with the JD(U) on 113 seats, with the LJP gaining a vote share of at least 10% in 51 (45%) of those seats. Assuming perfect vote transfer between the LJP and the JD(U), which is unlikely, the LJP played a spoiler on up to 34 seats for JD(U).But that wasn’t the only thing that mattered. Tejashwi Yadav, the new leader of the RJD, grew his wings in this campaign. His focusing on the jobs crisis (and migrant issues) in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic dented Nitish Kumar’s popularity even further and yielded electoral dividends for the BJP.The lockdown from March, which triggered a massive migrant crisis and economic deprivation, could in principle have hurt both the BJP’s and the JD(U)’s popularity. But like so many other such issues, it is the state-level leader in Nitish Kumar that bore the brunt of voter anger with little cost to Modi and the BJP.In order to understand how migrant-heavy areas may have voted, we look to the 2001 Census data (the last year for which out-migration data is available) to calculate the rate of male out-migration (males migrating out as a proportion of the total population).Because the actual numbers are no longer trustworthy after 20 years, I calculated two groups of constituencies for a meaningful analysis — the 102 constituencies in districts below the median district rate of male migration, and the 141 constituencies above the median district rate of male migration.The RJD’s average contested vote share rose from 37% in the low migration constituencies to 41% in the high migration constituencies, while the JD(U)’s dropped slightly from 33% to 32%.Against the RJD, the JD(U) dropped from a 46% strike rate in low migration constituencies to a strike rate of just 24% in high migration constituencies. Even with RJD’s increase in vote share, the BJP’s strike rate remained impressive across low (71%) and high (58%) constituencies.Click here for complete Bihar election coverage While things may look the same (after all, the NDA is back in power), the political game in Bihar has changed significantly.Chirag Paswan and his LJP have shown their electoral importance to the NDA, and Nitish Kumar no longer has much bargaining power within the NDA. In this new era, politics in Bihar will revolve around the competition between a nationally dominant BJP with Modi at the helm and a resurrected RJD led by an ascendant Tejashwi Yadav.(The writer is an assistant professor, Ashoka University, and visiting senior fellow, Centre for Policy Research)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-assembly-election-2020-with-superior-poll-strike-rate-bjp-may-call-the-shots-in-nda/story-REOAbzOoVOLvhYSUW8SuDJ.html
11-11-2020||Election:||PM Modi: Bihar taught the world first lesson of democracy||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said the people of Bihar have made a “decisive move” to give development a chance, as results of the assembly election continue to trickle in, showing the ruling NDA leading in or winning 124 seats and the opposition alliance in 111 seats.PM Modi’s tweets came minutes after Union home minister Amit Shah declared victory in Bihar for the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA). “Bihar has taught the world the first lesson of democracy. Today Bihar has told the world again how democracy is strengthened. A record number of poor, deprived and women of Bihar also voted and today have also given their decisive decision for development,” PM Modi tweeted in Hindi.“The poor in villages, farmers, labourers, merchants, shopkeepers and every section of Bihar have relied on the NDA’s mantra of sabka saath, sabka vikas, sabka vishwas. I again assure every citizen of Bihar that for the balanced development of every person, every region, we will continue to work with full dedication,” PM Modi tweeted.Senior party leader and Union home minister Amit Shah termed the victory in the elections as a reflection of people’s faith in the Modi government’s battle against Covid-19 and said it was a lesson to those who were trying to misguide the people.In a series of tweets in Hindi, Shah also said that the victory of the NDA was the win of the “double engine” development of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Nitish Kumar. “Every section of Bihar has once again chosen the development of NDA by denying hollow politics, casteism and appeasement politics. I thank all the brothers and sisters of the state from the core of my heart for re-choosing development, progress and good governance. I especially thank the youth and women who formed the NDA government with absolute majority by choosing security and a bright future in Bihar.”Another senior party leader and Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said the victory in Bihar is a win of the NDA’s commitment to good governance and development and expressed his gratitude to the people of the state.Describing the BJP’s victory as the reimposition of faith in the Modi government’s pro-poor policies, the party president J P Nadda said the entire nation has reposed its trust in the welfare work done by the Centre, as shown by results of the Bihar assembly elections and of by-elections in Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Karnataka, Manipur and Telangana.“In the difficult times of the Covid-19 epidemic, when the country was struggling with crisis and challenges, Modi government took all possible steps to help the poor and the needy and provided them free ration and financial assistance as well. It was a unique example of serving the humanity,” JP Nadda said in a series of tweets.Talking about Bihar assembly elections, Nadda said people of Bihar have rejected dynasty, corruption, divisive politics while expressing faith in Prime Minister Modi’s leadership and in the work done by the state’s NDA government led by Nitish Kumar.(With inputs from Agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/pm-modi-bihar-taught-the-world-first-lesson-of-democracy/story-jzhkn0PtZ1QRRkRJ0bT1KP.html
11-11-2020||Election:||Bihar Assembly Election 2020: Five JD(U) ministers lose assembly elections||On Tuesday, even as the NDA inched closer to magic figure of 122 to retain power, it was clear that this would be the only constant in the relationship. For, with the BJP winning 58 seats and leading in 15, and the JD(U) 33 and 10, respectively, the traditional roles have changed and the latter has now become the junior partner. This was expected, and the BJP, ahead of the polls, said that Nitish Kumar would be the chief minister, even if the JD(U) won fewer seats than it. On Tuesday, the party repeated this. “There is no question of going back on our promise. An announcement to this effect was made by our former national president Amit Shah. We stand by our commitment,” said BJP state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal. The JD (U) has a strength of 71 MLAs in the outgoing assembly. It has seen as many as five ministers lose, as the LJP played spoiler. Still, experts believe the loss of the JD (U)will have far-reaching consequences. “It will be reduced to smaller party after carrying the tag of big brother over a period of time,” said former director of A N Sinha Institute of Social Studies, D M Diwakar. “The alliance may be affected. And there is a possibility that Nitish Kumar might get a role in centre,” he added, putting forth a theory that has been doing the rounds in some corners of Patna in recent days. A senior JD (U) functionary added: “The party lost due to 15-years of anti-incumbency. Tejashwi (Yadav of the RJD) was taken light-heartedly and even our senior leaders mocked him. Some loose comments were made.” Kumar and the JD (U) have been criticised for their handling of the migrant issue, especially by the LJP. Still, it is creditable that the party and Kumar have returned, said another analyst. “The last time in 2015, the JD (U) was with a different alliance and its vote bank was different. I think the party has done reasonably well though its seat share may have come down given the fact that chief minister Nitish Kumar, who is seeking re-lection for the fourth successive term, faces anti-incumbency. People’s ire is directed against him because some of his policies may not have gone down well,” said Prof Arvind Aditya Raj of the political science department of the College of Commerce, Arts and Science in Patna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-assembly-election-2020-five-jd-u-ministers-lose-assembly-elections/story-zdeUO53X0BOQTbHY2nHc7I.html
11-11-2020||Election:||Bihar Assembly Election 2020: How women steered NDA towards majority||Women seem to have played a pivotal role in ensuring the victory of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in Bihar assembly elections. An HT analysis shows that the NDA has a decisive edge over the Mahagathbandhan (MGB) in assembly constituencies (ACs) where women voters outnumbered men.Click here for complete Bihar election coverageData from the Election Commission of India shows that women do not outnumber men among registered electors in any of Bihar’s 243 ACs. But there are 118 ACs where the number of women voters this year was higher than men voters. This is because voter turnout was higher among women. HT has calculated this from the number of electors and voter turnout figures, both of which are available by gender.There is a massive lead of 19 percentage points in the NDA’s strike rate (seats won as a proportion of those contested) in ACs where actual women voters outnumbered actual men voters. In fact, the higher the share of women voters in a constituency, the better is the NDA’s performance. This is evident in a quintile (bottom 20% to top 20%) distribution of all ACs by the share of actual women voters.The NDA won 62% of the seats in the highest quintile compared to just 24% seats in the lowest quintile. There is a 6 percentage point gap in vote share between these two extreme groups of constituencies. (See Chart 1)The advantage or lack of it among women voters is consistent for parties in either the NDA or the MGB, which suggests that they voted for government formation rather than local factors. Nitish Kumar’s government in Bihar has tried to consolidate women voters by schemes such as distribution of bicycles for girl students and announcing prohibition in 2016. (See Chart 2)Women in Bihar have a higher share among voters, compared to their share in the population and registered voters. Women comprised 47.9% of Bihar’s population,according to the Census 2011, and 47.4% of the registered electors, but approximately 49.6% of the people who voted this year. Turnout by women has been higher than that of men in Bihar in the last three assembly elections. (See Chart 3)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-assembly-election-2020-how-women-steered-nda-towards-majority/story-BSLLSGsDD8SOXsml8B0iTP.html
11-11-2020||Chandigarh||Poll expenditure limit for mayor revised in Haryana||The Haryana State Election Commission has increased the election expenditure limit for mayor to ₹22 lakh and members of MC to ₹5.5 lakh. The limit of members of municipal council and committee has been increased from to ₹3.3 lakh and ₹2.25 lakh, respectively. Intensify challan drives: Haryana chief secy to DCs Haryana chief secretary Vijai Vardhan has directed the DCs to authorise kanungos, patwaris and village secretaries to challan people not wearing masks in rural areas. The chief secretary also directed the DCs and SPs to increase the testing. He asked the police, urban local bodies and panchayat to implement the ‘Covid-19 appropriate behaviour’ campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/poll-expenditure-limit-for-mayor-revised-in-haryana/story-fdhY0yb7uyGACeVbBoBYCP.html
11-11-2020||City||Four Haryana thermal plants get 2-year extension to comply with emission limits||Almost six months after the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) imposed environmental compensation on four thermal power plants of Haryana for non-compliance with norms, the pollution control body has granted extension to these plants to comply with emission limits. As per the copy of the orders accessed by Hindustan Times, National Thermal Power Corporation’s Indira Gandhi Thermal Power Plant in Jhajjar, Haryana Power Generation Corporation’s Deen Bandhu Chhotu Ram Thermal Power Station in Yamunanagar, Rajiv Gandhi Thermal Power Project in Hisar and Panipat Thermal Power Station have been under Section 5 of the Environment (Protection) Act given extension up to December 31, 2022. The orders mentioned that the compliance with the directions will be reviewed by CPCB periodically and if required, further directions will also be issued which may include closure of the erring units.It is worth mentioning here that in May this year, CPCB had imposed environmental compensation of ₹18 lakh per month per non-compliant unit of the four thermal power plants in the state for not following emission norms. As per the orders, the penalties levied under Section 5 of the Environment Protection Act had come into force from January 1 and plants had to pay ₹7.2 crore till June 5. According to the orders, these power plants, which were to be retrofitted with modern flue-gas desulfurization (FGD) units that cut emissions of sulfur dioxide, did not comply with the norms.The penalties were imposed following a study by IIT Kanpur on air pollution and greenhouse gases in Delhi in January 2016, which had indicated that 13 thermal power plants with the capacity of over 11,000 MW in the 300-km radius of Delhi were expected to contribute to secondary particulate pollutants, and considering the impact of coal-based power plants on ambient air quality in Delhi-NCR, the timelines given by the ministry of power for thermal plants within the specific limits were revised on December 31, 2019.Haryana State Pollution Control Board member secretary S Narayanan said that the state pollution control board is following up the issue with the power plants and Haryana Power Generation Corporation for the necessary compliance with norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-haryana-thermal-plants-get-2-year-extension-to-comply-with-emission-limits/story-PVtgDtTu4d5giKjpgI6ilL.html
11-11-2020||Mumbai||Bihar elections: NCP, Shiv Sena laud RJD’s Tejashwi Yadav||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Tuesday praised Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav for giving a tough fight to the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) led by incumbent chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the Bihar elections. “I believe the election was between NDA and Tejashwi... On one side, there’s a young, inexperienced person like Tejashwi and on the other, a gentleman [Narenda Modi] who was the CM of Gujarat for so many years and is also the Prime Minister of the country for the second term with an incumbent CM Nitish Kumar, who has been heading the state for so many terms. Irrespective of all that, whatever seats he [Yadav] has got, it’s a good achievement. I am sure this will be an inspiration for younger generations,” the NCP chief said, reacting to the results of the Bihar Assembly elections. Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut also lauded Yadav’s performance in the polls and said that though he may not emerge as the winner, he is the ‘Man of the Match” in the Bihar election as the 31-year-old put up a “brave fight” against the ruling party. “Definitely the trends favour NDA. BJP is now at the top and Nitish babu [Kumar] is on the third spot. But the Man of the Match is Tejashwi Yadav. Sometimes, a member of the losing team is awarded Man of the Match award for the brave fight he puts up. In the entire Bihar election, Tejashwi has shone alone. He fought alone against the ruling party without any major allies and no support from the family,” Raut told media persons in Mumbai. The Sena parliamentarian added that Tejashwi controlled the campaign narrative for the Bihar polls and took it from frivolous issues to unemployment. “He put up a fight against the prime minister and the Union cabinet. I think the country and the state have got a leader who can be banked upon,” Raut said. Commenting on the performance of its ally, Raut said, “If the Congress had performed better, then Tejashwi Yadav would have been the frontrunner in the race to the CM’s post.” The Sena leader added that the JD(U)’s performance needs introspection. “If a three-term CM is on the third spot, then it is definitely a matter of introspection. Nitish Kumar and NDA should introspect. It also means that the government had failed completely,” Raut remarked. With BJP expected to be the single largest party in Bihar with its pre-poll ally JD(U) on the third spot, Raut said that BJP will not go back on its words to make Nitish Kumar the CM again. Referring to the fallout between the BJP and Sena after last year’s Maharashtra Assembly elections, Raut said, “All the BJP leaders are still saying that Nitish Kumar will be the CM. For this Nitish Kumar has to thank Shiv Sena. After our counterattack on BJP following what they tried to do with us, they will not behave in that manner again. Nitish Kumar will and should be the CM.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bihar-elections-ncp-shiv-sena-laud-rjd-s-tejashwi-yadav/story-mdcLVVwTgq3pQNgMwdQA2H.html
11-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai wakes up to the coldest morning of season after mercury dips to 19 degrees Celsius||The city recorded its lowest minimum temperature of the season so far on Tuesday. The Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, recorded the minimum temperature at 19.2 degrees Celsius, over 3 degrees Celsius below normal. The Colaba weather station, representative of south Mumbai, recorded 22.5 degrees Celsius – a degree Celsius below normal. Prior to Tuesday, Mumbai had recorded 19.7 degrees Celsius on November 7, but thereafter the minimum temperature had been fluctuating. It increased to 25 degrees Celsius on November 8 and then dropped back to 23 degrees Celsius over the same weekend. The weather bureau on Sunday had predicted a drop in temperatures from Tuesday onwards. “Cool winds from easterly to northeasterly direction from Monday late at night and early Tuesday morning allowed the night temperature to dip. However, this fall is short-lived as the wind pattern is likely to change again from Thursday,” KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. While the minimum temperature has remained low, the maximum temperature was a degree Celsius above normal in the suburbs, showing high variability through the day. Tuesday’s day temperature at Santacruz was 34.5 degrees Celsius as compared to 34.7 degrees Celsius on Monday. However, the day temperature at south Mumbai was below the normal mark at 32.5 degrees Celsius. “This is happening owing to the late setting in of sea breeze and increase in heat radiation through the day due to clear skies,” said an IMD official. Meanwhile, most parts of interior Maharashtra witnessed cold conditions over the past two days with the lowest minimum temperature recorded at Chandrapur (9 degrees Celsius), followed by Parbhani (10.1 degrees Celsius). Pune recorded 11.3 degrees Celsius, while Nashik recorded 11.8 degrees Celsius. The IMD has predicted clear conditions for Wednesday, with the maximum temperature to rise to 36 degrees Celsius and minimum temperature to be 21 degrees Celsius. Air quality fluctuates between moderate-poor categories, 3 areas record very poor air The drop in temperature did not affect the city’s air quality on Tuesday morning, as the pollutant measuring indicator – air quality index (AQI) – for PM2.5 pollutant was recorded at 142 (moderate), according to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), even though a thin layer of haze was witnessed. By Tuesday afternoon, the AQI worsened to 221 (poor) but by evening, as the sea breeze set in, it fell to 183 (moderate). Chembur had the worst air quality in the city at 322 (very poor), followed by Malad at 309 (very poor) and Mazagaon 305 (very poor). While all other locations in Mumbai recorded ‘moderate’ air quality, Worli had the cleanest air on Tuesday at 86 (satisfactory). SAFAR categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor and above 400 as severe. An AQI of 166 (moderate) has been predicted for Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-wakes-up-to-the-coldest-morning-of-season-after-mercury-dips-to-19-degrees-celsius/story-8E6Zs14OIipPFsn4bPgidL.html
11-11-2020||Mumbai||Owners of Mumbai’s Kamala Mills compound discharged in 2017 fire case; other accused to face trial||The sessions court on Tuesday discharged Ramesh Gowani and Ravi Bhandari – the two owners of the Kamala Mills compound – booked in connection with the 2017 inferno which broke out in a restaurant located inside the compound. The court however, refused to discharge the owners of the restaurant, some civic body officials and other accused. Special public prosecutor Prakash Shetty said that the detailed order is yet to come and the prosecution would take further action only after going through it. Gowani and Bhandari had claimed that they cannot be booked for the incident as they had no connection with it. On December 29, 2017 around 12.30am, a fire broke in 1Above and Mojo’s Bistro restaurants, which killed 14 guests and injured several others. The investigation had claimed that the blaze broke out first at 1Above restaurant owing to hookah embers, and later spread to Mojo’s Bistro. The NM Joshi Police had booked 14 accused, including the owners of the restaurants and their employees, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials and the owners of Kamala Mills compound. Meanwhile, the court rejected the plea for discharge of the other accused, who include the owners of 1Above restaurant, Kripesh Mansukh Sanghavi and Jigar Mansukh Sanghavi: two managers of 1Above, Lisbon Lopes and Kevin Bawa; the owner of Mojo’s Bistro pub, Yug Ravindrapal Singh Tuli; fire officer Rajendra Baban Patil; BMC’s G South ward sub-engineer Dinesh Yashwant Mahale; assistant divisional fire officer (Worli division) Sandeep Shivaji Shinde and hotelier Vishal Kariya. All the accused had been booked under various charges, including culpable homicide not amounting to murder. They had claimed that the charge of culpable homicide is not applicable to the case as the accused had no intention to cause death. However, the prosecution had contended that all the accused had failed to abide by the law and there were several irregularities in the fire safety system at the restaurants, which ultimately resulted in the death of innocents. The court has ordered that the accused would face trial for the charges of culpable homicide not amounting to murder along with the other charges filed against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/owners-of-mumbai-s-kamala-mills-compound-discharged-in-2017-fire-case-other-accused-to-face-trial/story-6Nj5vbzOkx7PHsXtsZ6GVL.html
11-11-2020||Chandigarh||Baroda bypoll: Downer for ruling combine, shot in the arm for Hooda||The outcome of the Baroda assembly bypoll in Haryana may not influence the political arithmetic or upset the ruling coalition’s apple cart, which had last month completed its first year in power, but the emphatic Congress victory over the ruling BJP-JJP alliance is surely an indication of the people’s sentiment especially, the farming community and the Jats. For the sake of statistics, the Congress on Tuesday retained its tally of 31 in the 90-member assembly following the bypoll win. The victory margin of 10,566 votes is more than impressive, considering the fact that the opposition party was pitted against the ruling coalition having four years of its term left. The win has also come as a shot in the arm for Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader and former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda. Baroda assembly constituency is known as Hooda’s backyard. The segment in Sonepat district lies adjacent to Hooda’s home constituency Garhi Sampla Kiloi in Rohtak. The bypoll victory has underlined Hooda’s sway in the Deswali belt, particularly among the Jats who have a brute 50% majority in this constituency. In fact, the Congress candidate, Indu Raj Narwal, secured over 49% of the votes polled, about 15% more than what Sri Krishan Hooda, the deceased MLA, had polled in 2019 assembly elections. The bypoll win is also expected to give impetus to the “anti-farm laws” protest by farmers and their unions. Analysts say the enactment of three farm laws by the BJP-led NDA at the Centre has influenced the complexion of this contest in a constituency which is agrarian in nature. A bitter pill for Khattar, Dushyant The loss has come as a downer not only for chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, but also his ally and deputy Dushyant Chautala, a Jat leader. Wary of the vociferous protests by the farmers, including the dominant Jats in Baroda constituency over the enactment of three farm laws, both Khattar and Dushyant chose to stay away from the poll campaign for a major part of the electioneering. The duo though stepped in the poll arena in the last couple of days of the campaign, their efforts lacked vigour. The BJP’s candidate, Yogeshwar Dutt, who suffered second consecutive loss from Baroda, though increased his vote share by about 10% in the bypoll, it was not enough. The last time he contested, Dutt had lost by about 4,800 votes. ‘BJP graph on a decline since 2019 assembly polls’Prof Ashutosh Kumar of political science department at Panjab University, Chandigarh, said the bypoll result indicated that the graph of the BJP is clearly on a decline. “Their downslide in Haryana had started in 2019 assembly polls when the BJP fell short of a simple majority. It won just 40 seats in the 90-member assembly. It was way below the leads they got in 79 assembly segments in 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Also, the BJP got only 45 lakh votes in the assembly polls as compared to 73 lakh in Lok Sabha election held a few months ago in 2019,” he added. Prof Kumar further said the recently enacted three farm laws by central government which were vehemently opposed by the farming community was a big factor behind BJP’s humiliating defeat in the bypoll. “If elections were to be held in Haryana and Punjab today, the Congress will register easy wins,” he said. Chautala’s INLD puts up a poor show Om Prakash Chautala’s Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) performed poorly in the bypoll, securing just about 5,000 votes to finish a poor fourth behind Raj Kumar Saini of the Loktantra Suraksha Party. The INLD candidate, Joginder Singh Malik, got 4.07% votes while Saini polled 4.56%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/baroda-bypoll-downer-for-ruling-combine-shot-in-the-arm-for-hooda/story-XB1Uy8EcgkCjizlx0irtDI.html
11-11-2020||Chandigarh||Dispute over Covid duties: Punjab and Haryana HC for transfer of two junior doctors||The Punjab and Haryana high court has said that the two doctors who had entered into a fight with a senior medical officer over Covid-19 duties in April should also be transferred out of their present postings.The high court was hearing a plea from Dr Aradhana, the senior medical officer who was transferred after the fight with two of her subordinates. She had challenged her transfer order stating that she was only trying to enforce what had been ordered by the higher authorities in view of the outbreak, asking junior doctors Dr Meenal and Dr Sarita to carry out their duties, who were not cooperating.Dr Aradhana told the court that “Dr Meenal accompanied by Dr Sarita entered my room and harassed me. I was being told things like “app hamari COVID duty lgate raho aur hum katvate rahenge”, “register apni custody me kitne din chupakar rakhoge”. Followed by this, they misbehaved and attempted physical assault by trying to push me. They were very aggressive and could have done significant harm; my safety was compromised.”The incident was brought to the knowledge of authorities on April 17 and instead of taking action against the junior doctors, she was transferred out of her present posting, she said.The bench of justice Mahabir Singh Sindhu while seeking a response by November 18 said that it would be appreciated if these two doctors were also transferred from their present place of posting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dispute-over-covid-duties-punjab-and-haryana-hc-for-transfer-of-two-junior-doctors/story-ZqD2v4UvcF5IVQEAN2hrBN.html
11-11-2020||City||Covid-19 positive pregnant woman gives birth prematurely at Mira Road hospital, ; mother and baby discharged||A 35-year-old woman from Mira Road beat Covid-19 and went on to successfully deliver her baby in the 7th month of her pregnancy. Both the mother and baby were discharged after the woman spent 60 days in the hospital, including 21 days in the intensive care unit (ICU) and 14 days on the ventilator.The patient was referred to Wockhardt Hospital, Mira Road, after she complained of fever, breathless and desaturation (low blood oxygen concentration), said Dr Bipin Jibkhate, a senior critical care consultant at the hospital. “The patient was taken to a private practitioner, and after testing positive for Covid-19, she was shifted to our hospital. There were multiple challenges in managing the pregnant patient in the ICU as her immunity was low. Her physiological needs were different from normal women, and pregnant women have a higher tendency of clotting, high abdominal pressure, low carbon dioxide levels and higher tendency to vomit, said the medico.In such situations, if the oxygen level is not maintained, the options are limited, Dr Jibkhate explaining, adding that they had to put the patient on the ventilator. “Fortunately, she responded to the treatment, and her ventilator requirement went down. However, even after seven days, she required a significant amount of ventilator use, and so we removed the tube from her mouth and put it through her throat – a procedure called as tracheostomy,” he said.In the meanwhile, the woman’s second Covid-19 test came negative. She was shifted to a non-Covid ICU and slowly taken off the ventilator.“Because of the stress of the disease and ICU stay, the patient went into labour prematurely and delivered a baby boy,” said Dr Mangala Patil, obstetrician, Wockhardt Hospital.According to Dr Samir Shaikh, consultant neonatologist, the baby weighed only 1,560 gram and was shifted to the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU). After a few days, the baby’s condition improved, and he and his mother were discharged.“My world came crashing down when I tested positive for Covid-19. But the doctors made sure that I delivered my baby safely, and now his health has also improved,” said the patient.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-positive-pregnant-woman-gives-birth-prematurely-at-mira-road-hospital-mother-and-baby-discharged/story-Yc3lm2JUtnaxQ7RD5NhqTO.html
11-11-2020||Chandigarh||28-year-old arrested with 10g heroin in Chandigarh||A resident of Mauli Jagran Complex was arrested with 10 grams of heroin, the police said on Tuesday.The accused was identified as Krishan, 28, was arrested at a naka when he tried to turn around and walk away on spotting a police team near Prachin Shiv Mandir in Mauli Jagran. On checking, the police recovered 10 gram heroin on him.As per police, the accused has four cases registered against him of assault and under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act in different police stations in the city. They said Krishan was a drug addict who even supplied drugs to fund his addiction.A case under the NDPS Act was registered in the Mauli Jagran police station in Chandigarh. The accused was produced before a court on Tuesday and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/28-year-old-arrested-with-10g-heroin-in-chandigarh/story-jvf4JOGr9iY9MpgyWG7wjI.html
11-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai reports lowest Covid-19 case spike since May 12; Maharashtra tally 1,726,926||Maharashtra on Tuesday recorded 3,791 Covid-19 cases, second day of fewer than 4,000, pushing the count to 1,726,926. The day’s caseload included Mumbai’s smallest spike in the past six months — 535 infections. Before this, the smallest spike was 426 on May 12.It was the 24th consecutive day daily cases recorded in the state were fewer than 10,000. Active cases have maintained the downward trend and reached 92,461, which meant 5.35% of the total patients were taking treatment at various hospitals and Covid Care Centres in the state presently.The state’s Covid-19 toll reached 45,435 as 46 casualties were reported. Of the total deaths, 37 were from the past 48 hours and five were from last week. The remaining four deaths were from the period before last week, health officials said.Meanwhile, the total number of cases in Mumbai has reached 265,679, of which active cases were 16,373. There were 19 deaths reported and the total toll in the city has reached 10,484. An initial hot spot for Covid-19, Dharavi has also witnessed a downward trend in November with just a case being reported. The total cases in Dharavi reached 3,606. City’s recovery rate is at 90% and the doubling rate of cases is 233 days.Malegaon city in Nashik, which was also once a prime Covid-19 hotspot, recorded zero cases and no deaths on Tuesday. Total cases and deaths recorded in the city till date were 4,219 and 152 respectively.The graph of fresh infections is gradually going down in the past 45 days. The downward trend in cases that started from the last week of September has continued even in the second week of November. On September 26, the state reported 20,419 cases and since then, it is on a decline. Since the past two consecutive days, fresh infections have not crossed the 4,000-mark. On November 9, cases recorded were 3,277 cases.However, the danger is yet over as there are concerns over a rise in cases by the end of this month.“This is the reason that the temporary facilities developed to fight against Covid-19 have been continued, despite beds at Covid care facilities and field hospitals being vacant with the number of active cases drastically reducing,” said a senior official from the state health department.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said that the next 20 days were crucial and people will have to maintain social distancing, avoid crowding and wear masks to prevent another surge in Covid-19 cases in the state. “Even if the numbers are coming in control, Diwali and the next 15 days after Diwali are the big test... European countries have gone on lockdown again.… if we have to go into a lockdown again, it will be very tough. I am seeing many people are not wearing masks, it will not be tolerated. Those who do not wear masks will be fined. An estimation said a patient without a mask could infect up to 400 people,” he said.Solapur district contributed the second-highest infections in the daily caseload as it recorded 248 cases, taking its tally to 35,227.Nagpur city recorded 215 cases, third-highest number of cases, pushing its count to 82,133.With decline in fresh cases, the number of deaths also reduced. However, the case fatality rate (CFR) is not coming down. It has also maintained second position after Punjab in the country with 2.63%. The CFR of Punjab was 3.14% (with 4,338 deaths) till Monday, according to the information shared by the state medical education department.The state has completed 9,536,182 tests with 53,242 conducted on Tuesday. The positivity rate for the day dropped to 7.12% against the overall positivity rate of the state that stood at 18.11%.The number of recovered patients reached 1,588,091 with 10,769 recorded in the past 24 hours. The recovery rate was recorded at 91.96%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-reports-lowest-covid-19-case-spike-since-may-12-maharashtra-tally-1-726-926/story-QgjdQYkuon5Mq0xSTWZWTL.html
11-11-2020||Election:||BJP gives Bihar to Nitish Kumar||The Nitish Kumar-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) was set to return to power in Bihar, scraping past the majority mark with 124 seats in the state assembly, but with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) emerging as the senior partner in the alliance for the first time with 73 seats, in a mandate that appeared to mark both continuity and change. The closely fought election — results were declared late on Tuesday night — saw the Tejashwi Yadav-led Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) run an energetic campaign and emerge as the single largest party with 76 seats in the 243-member assembly. But its wider alliance, the Mahagatbandhan (MGB), failed to become the largest pre-poll formation, with the Congress winning only 19 of the 70 seats it contested, though the Left forces put up their best performance in the state in the last two-and-a-half decades, with 16 seats. In all, the alliance won 111 seats. All numbers are wins plus leads at 11:45pm Tuesday. by which time, according to the Election Commision’s website. 99.5% of the votes had been counted.Also read: Bihar show strengthens BJP’s national standingPrime Minister Narendra Modi, whose rallies played a part in ensuring the NDA returned to power in the state, tweeted: “Voters in Bihar have made it clear that development is their only aspiration and priority... People’s blessings to NDA’s good governance even after 15 years of rule show what Bihar’s dreams and expectations are. The youth of the state have made it clear that the new decade will be of Bihar and for a self-reliant Bihar.”He added in another tweet: “...from farmers to traders, from businessmen to shopkeepers, every section has trusted NDA’s sabka vikas, sabka vishwas. I assure each person that we will continue to work towards development of the state.” The election also witnessed a key role being played by forces outside the framework of the two alliances, with the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) winning just one seat but hurting the Janata Dal (United)’s prospects in 26, and the Asaduddin Owaisi-led All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) winning five seats to affect the MGB’s prospects in the Seemanchal region.The fierce nature of the election, and the consolidation of support behind the major forces in the state, was reflected more sharply in the vote share, with the MGB winning around 8,000 votes more than the NDA (as of 11:45 pm) . Political leaders offered their interpretation of the result, with the BJP claiming this was a vote in favour of the double engine model — with Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the Centre and chief minister Nitish Kumar in the state — while the RJD said there were attempts to change the “people’s mandate”. The JD(U) said the party’s performance may have been affected due to anti-incumbency while the Congress claimed it did a creditable job given it was contesting on tough seats. “It was a bad deal for us. Our negotiators should not have accepted the choice of seats. Out of the 70 seats given to us, 30-35 were extremely tough. These were the seats where we had no base and even the RJD was weak,” said senior Congress leader Kishore Kumar Jha. Experts, however, suggested that the outcome reflected the popularity of PM Modi, the consolidation of non-Yadav castes behind the NDA as Yadav-Muslim consolidation behind the RJD became apparent with Tejashwi Yadav’s rallies, and the memory of the misgovernance of the Lalu Prasad years overwhelming the more recent post-lockdown distress. Also read | Bihar Assembly Election 2020: NDA’s seat share rose with every phaseAt the same time, the RJD’s performance was seen as marking the arrival of Yadav as a key Opposition figure, growing out of the shadow of his father even if he could not translate the energy of his campaign into enough seats for a victory, but only just. The results of the first state-level election held in the middle of the pandemic took longer than usual to tabulate, with the day witnessing constant ups and downs in the fortunes of political parties in the fray — the MGB led when early leads emerged on Tuesday only to see the NDA edge past it, a trend that stayed till the end though it became close on several occasions. The MGB alleged irregularities in the last rounds of counting in seats with tight margins -- a charge that the poll panel has denied.The big takeaway from the election, however, is the return of Nitish Kumar as chief minister for a fourth term. His close aide and minister in the Bihar government, Sanjay Jha, said, “We were shocked at the media narrative against Nitish Kumar in the run up to the election. The results show that the ground reality was different. The CM’s past record of governance, his tremendous appeal among women voters, and the resilience of our social coalition has proved many people wrong.”While Kumar has indeed returned after what appeared to be deep anti-incumbency, his seats have reduced from 71 in 2015 to 43 in 2020. The JD(U)’s strike rate (seats won in proportion to the seats contested) was just over 35% while the BJP’s strike rate was close to 70%. He will, thus, have to reconcile with the BJP as a senior partner, and suspicions that the BJP did not do enough to stop the LJP continue to mark the dynamic between the two leading NDA partners. A second JD(U) leader, familiar with the thinking in the party, said, “The BJP unnecessarily created confusion initially. If the LJP was within the NDA, or if the BJP had spoken more strongly against LJP, the NDA would have crossed 160 seats.” But this, he insisted, will not impair future ties. “Both parties are clear that the mandate is for a Nitish Kumar-led NDA government.”For its part, the BJP is pleased at both emerging as the single largest party in the state for the first time in political history and returning to power. A top leader involved in the campaign said, “You should take into account the fact that there was anti-incumbency. Covid-19 has caused difficulties for people. But the results have shown that there is complete support for PM Modi and recognition that BJP is needed for the state’s development.” When asked if they would stick to supporting Kumar, despite his depleted numbers, the BJP leader said there was no doubt about that, and that BJP would fulfil its promise and “coalition dharma”.For the RJD, the campaign reflected a big comeback after the 2019 Lok Sabha election rout, when it failed to win a single seat of the 40 in the state. But a top RJD leader claimed that the party had begun working quietly soon after — building booth committees on the ground on the same lines as the BJP, launching an outreach campaign on employment early in the year that got interrupted by the pandemic, providing support to migrant workers seeking to return home during the lockdown, and then launching a campaign that focused on key economic and livelihood themes with Tejashwi Yadav leading the charge.But a second leader of the Opposition alliance acknowledged that the campaign had errors. “Our support base became too vocal and aggressive. As news channels began talking about RJD’s return, the other social groups — who still resent Lalu Prasad’s rule — began to get worried. They were silent but turned out in substantial numbers to vote for NDA.” The second reason for the upset — since the MGB was expecting a majority on its own — was the Congress’s performance, which got 19 seats with a strike rate of just over 25%. In comparison, the RJD’s strike rate was over 50%.Experts believe the result is a boost to the BJP. Milan Vaishnav of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace said, “The Bihar result — read with the bypoll outcomes — is positive affirmation for ‘brand BJP’. Despite a prolonged economic slowdown, ongoing pandemic and the migrant crisis, Modi’s image remains undeniably strong. The voters have directed the brunt of their anger at the BJP’s coalition ally JD(U) and chief minister Nitish Kumar. Within the NDA, this victory puts the BJP in the driver’s seat in Bihar.” Rahul Verma of the Centre for Policy Research agreed said that the outcome of the election would bring relief to the BJP leadership since there were questions after 2019 over its political prospects in the wake of setbacks in state polls. “The BJP has consolidated further and is another pole of Bihar politics now. The outcome also shows that elections are won and lost during the campaign. A deeper analysis of data will reveal the X factor, but it seems MGB got complacent, while the NDA, like seasoned players, came from behind and clinched the game.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bjp-gives-bihar-to-nitish/story-bBGU4gvmhK1KXpEWFIHP6L.html
11-11-2020||Chandigarh||Man held for sexually harassing neighbour in Chandigarh’s Mauli Jagran||The police on Tuesday arrested a man for sexually harassing his neighbour in Mauli Jagran, Chandigarh.In her complaint, the 19-year-old victim said that the accused identified as Brijesh had trespassed into her house and quarrelled with her. He had assaulted her and touched her inappropriately, she alleged.Police said Brijesh works as a labourer. He was produced before a court on Tuesday from where he was sent to judicial custody.A case was registered under Sections 324 (Voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 354 (Assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 354A (sexual harassment), 451 (House-trespass in order to commit offence punishable with imprisonment), 456 (Punishment for lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-held-for-sexually-harassing-neighbour-in-chandigarh-s-mauli-jagran/story-tK2AyWv9w4tTWNvJHI3IJM.html
11-11-2020||Chandigarh||Cabinet meet: Himachal shuts schools again as Covid cases see a spurt||A week after it had allowed opening of higher education institutions and holding of regular classes for Classes 9 to 12, the Himachal Pradesh government on Tuesday granted special vacation to government and private educational institutions in the wake of a spike in Covid cases across the hill-state. In a meeting of the state cabinet , presided over by Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, it was decided that special vacation will be granted to all government and private schools, colleges, industrial training institutes (ITIs), polytechnics, engineering colleges and coaching institutes from November 11 to 25, a government spokesperson said. The cabinet recommended the governor to convene the Vidhan Sabha winter session from December 7 to 11 at Dharamshala. It also decided to organise the next Jan Manch on December 5. It approved reduction the token tax charged on vehicles. A token tax of 6% will be charged on motorcycles, scooters costing up to ₹1 lakh, while 7% will be charged on two-wheelers costing over ₹1 lakh. It also decided to charge token tax of 6% on personal vehicles and construction equipment vehicles costing up to ₹15 lakh and 7% on personal vehicles and construction equipment vehicles costing over ₹15 lakh. It decided to fill 220 posts of pharmacists on contract basis. Vacant Class-4 posts in Primary Health Centres (PHCs) and Community Health Centers (CHCs) of the state will be filled on daily wage basis in the health and family welfare department.The cabinet approved a ropeway from Narkanda to Hatu Peak and alloted the consortium of Randhawa Constructions Private Limited, New Delhi, and Q2A Solutions Limited, Hong Kong, (JV) on public–private partnership (PPP) mode for 40 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amid-spike-in-covid-cases-hp-govt-shuts-down-schools-again/story-uV0S5ZaIhlBrMzPOolpuGJ.html
11-11-2020||City||Ludhiana: MC House approve 60% hike in water-sewer user charges||Bad news for residents as the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) has passed a resolution for a hike of around 60% in water-sewer user charges in the city. The decision was taken during the General House meeting held at the Rose Garden on Tuesday afternoon. The House has also revoked the exemption on water-sewer user charges being given to houses on area up to 125 square yards. Now, the exemption will be available only for single-storey houses, on area up to 50 square yards.Until now, the MC had been charging users according to the fixed slab rates. The system will continue until the water-metering system is introduced in the city. Once metering is introduced, residents will be paying a two-part tariff, including fixed charges and consumptions charges.The newly passed resolution also allows for a 3% annual hike in slab rates, with the possibility of further revision once 24/7 water supply starts in the city. Residents will also have to install water meters within the timeframe given by the MC, failing which they will be penalised.Speaking on the hike, mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “It was necessary to increase the tariff as it is one of the conditions imposed by the World Bank before funding the 24/7 surface water supply project for the city. The resolutions approved by the House will be forwarded to the local bodies department for final approval.”Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) councillors, including Sunita Rani, opposed the hike, stating that the residents are already reeling under economic hardships due to the ongoing pandemic.No zero-hour allowed, councillors irked While the meeting lasted for over two hours, the agendas were approved in about half an hour. Even some Congress councillors, including Pallavi Vinayak, were unable to raise the issues of their wards. Only two councillors from each party were allowed to speak during the meeting. Mayor Sandhu said that zero hour could not be allowed as they had to wind up the meeting quickly due to Covid-19 restrictions. Meanwhile, two leaders, including Anil Malhotra and Balwinder Shanky, were shown the way out of the meeting as they were participating in place of their councillor wives. Congress councillors lock horns over contentious resolution; LIP stages protest High drama was witnessed over the formation of a committee to take a decision on the allotment of 1,600 yards of land reserved for a park in Sarabha Nagar area to a person, in exchange for a land in the same area.Congress councillors Mamta Ashu and Amrit Varsha Rampal came into loggerheads over the issue as Rampal stood against the decision to form a committee while Ashu was in favour of it. Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) councillors, led by Sawarndep Chahal, also opposed the resolution, stating that this would encourage illegal encroachments. Chahal sat in protest over the issue during the meeting itself. Private company for collection of charges:With MC officials failing to achieve the recovery targets in the past, the House has also given a nod for appointing a private company for recovery of water-sewer charges, property tax etc. The company will also check illegal water-sewer connections in the city. As per information, MC has failed to recover over 200 crore from the residents.User charges for firms using plastic packagingThe fund-starved MC has decided to impose user charges on multinational and home delivery companies, including Amazon, Flipkart, Snapdeal, Zomato and Swiggy, and liqour vendors for using plastic packaging to deliver their products as the plastic is ultimately disposed off by the civic body.Reconstruction of MC Zone A building and multi-storey parking:The MC has also approved a resolution for reconstruction of MC Zone A office and a multi-storey parking on 3.5 acres in the old city market area. The MC will invite proposals from different companies willing to take up the project. Bring back JEs, SDOs of O&M cellDifferent councillors, including leader of Opposition Harbhajan Singh Dang, Jaspal Giaspura, Rakesh Prashar among others demanded that the MC should bring back outsourced JEs and SDOs of O&M Cell as the branch is facing acute shortage of staff. For the last three months, the MC has been mulling on whether to extend their contract or not. Illegal connections choking sewer lines With residents at different parts of the city raising hue and cry over choked sewer lines, the councillors slammed the MC for its failure to take action against illegal colonies and their sewer connections, which have been attached to the MC sewer lines especially in outer wards of the city. The matter was raised by SAD councillor Jaspal Giaspura who accused the MC building branch officials of being hand-in-glove with inhabitants of illegal colonies. Congress councillor Pal Singh Grewal even named a former SAD minister who got the sewer connections of colonies, falling under GLADA, attached with the MC sewer lines. The councillors said that this is increasing pressure on MC sewer lines and MC should collect sharing charges from GLADA. Non-functional streetlightsLIP councillor Swarandeep Singh Chahal raised the issue of non-functional streetlights in various parts of the city. Meanwhile, the House approved a resolution to get over 15, 000 LED streetlights installed at the missing points.Publishers, printers to face heat over illegal hoardingsWith complaints against illegal hoardings continuing to pour in, the MC has decided to go tough on printers and publishers of illegal hoardings. While the printers and publishers will have to pay a penalty up to ₹50, 000, MC superintendents will be charged ₹5, 000 a day if they fail to remove the illegal hoardings in their jurisdiction within 24 hours.AGENDAS APPROVEDThe MC approved 21 out of the total 31 agendas taken up during the meeting. These include: - Project to install biogas plant at Bhattian sewer treatment plant- Providing 2 acres for transforming a slaughterhouse into an export-oriented unit- Waiving off water bills for LIG flats (81 yards) situated in Urban estate, Phase-2, Dugri.- Waiving off water-sewer charges for the dyeing industry for 70 days of lockdown. - Identification of slum area under Punjab slum dwellers (proprietary rights act) 2020- Buddha Nullah rejuvenation project- Filling up of over 100 vacant MC posts on outsourcing basis- Punjab municipal services improvement project, including surface water supply project||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-house-approve-60-hike-in-water-sewer-user-charges/story-9KG7s2zdgWNVd40qHMzZeK.html
11-11-2020||City||Developer among four booked for carving out illegal colony in Ambala’s Barara||Four men including a local developer of an authorised colony were booked on Tuesday for allegedly constructing the colony illegally in Ambala’s Barara.Lodging the complaint, district town planner (DTP) Rajesh Kumar told the police that Jitender Kumar, Madan Lal, Narender Pal and Amarjeet Singh (developer) had carved out the unauthorised colony on 19 kanal 10 marla land falling in the revenue estate of Adhoya village, Barara of Ambala district, in violation of norms.“The said site falls within the urban area which means that the land owner shall get a licence before carving out a colony within the notified area from the competent authority, director town country planning, Haryana, Chandigarh. The above-named offenders have thus violated the rules and are deliberately continuing with the contravention of provision of the Act,” Kumar said.The DTP also asked the police to stop the unauthorised colonisation and to keep vigil in the area to bring any unauthorised activity to his notice.A case was registered under Sections 3, 7(i) and 7(ii) of the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act at Barara police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/developer-among-four-booked-for-carving-out-illegal-colony-in-ambala-s-barara/story-fJvjKih7Wn3Mzv1nBinZtL.html
11-11-2020||City||Ludhiana: Three arrested for multi-crore GST fraud||Officials of the Special Investigation Team (SIT), Punjab State GST, Ludhiana, arrested three proprietors of city-based firms for allegedly claiming fraudulent Input Tax Credit (ITC), created by way of bogus invoices without actual purchase of goods (readymade garments) through purchases shown from bogus/non-existent firms.Tejbir Singh Sidhu, deputy commissioner (state GST), Ludhiana, said the search and seizure operations were conducted at four premises, including the business premises of the accused, in order to gather evidence for establishing the modus operandi of getting fake invoices without actual receipt of goods.A network of bogus firms using fake IDs in the name of various persons, including daily wagers, auto-rickshaw drivers etc, were created across five different states in order to pass on the fraudulent ITC to the final beneficiaries (accused).Investigation revealed that the bogus billing network of non-existent firms was used to generate fake invoices of more than ₹350 crore, resulting in utilisation of genuine ITC worth more than ₹30 crore. The accused had utilised about ₹23 crore of the total fraudulent ITC. The accused have been arrested under the provisions of GST laws and remanded to judicial custody for 14 days. Action against other beneficiaries is also being initiated.The accused used the fraudulent ITC generated by way of fake invoices for the purpose of exports which were IGST paid and thereafter claimed refund from the customs authorities, added Sidhu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-three-arrested-for-multi-crore-gst-fraud/story-tsXNMRrQiC6BeQxPxKYuEO.html
11-11-2020||City||Ludhiana: Active cases rise to 674 as Diwali nears||With more and more people venturing out in the festive season, Covid-19 cases seem to be on a surge in Ludhiana. The district recorded 74 fresh infection in the last 24 hours, health officials said on Tuesday. Apart from that, three more persons succumbed to the virus in the district. Worryingly, the active cases in the district have crossed the 600-mark after over a month. The number of active cases currently stands at 674.Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said that as many as 131 persons were sent into home quarantine on Tuesday. The district’s cumulative count of cases stands at 20, 965 while the toll is 852. Those who succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours include: an 85-year-old woman of Satguru Nagar, two men, aged 39 and 74, of Jammu Colony and Mann village respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-active-cases-rise-to-674-as-diwali-nears/story-xIwZDvP6ESNr3aMQ2jVFHM.html
11-11-2020||City||Haryana Democratic Front’s first foundation day a show of opposition strength in Ambala||The first foundation day of the Haryana Democratic Front (HDF) turned into a show of strength as several leaders from various opposition parties, except Congress, gathered in Ambala City’s Panchayat Bhawan on Tuesday on the occasion.The party recently announced its mayoral candidate, Amisha Chawla, former councillor and wife of Dilip Chawla Bittu and former media coordinator of former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda. The foundation day celebrations were made grand to officially launch the party’s campaign for the upcoming municipal corporation (MC) polls in Ambala City.Leaders from Indian National Lok Dal (INLD), Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU-Charuni) and stalwarts from various caste-based and religious groups, who had supported HDF’s founding leaders Nirmal Singh and Chitra Sarwara in Ambala City and Ambala Cantonment during the 2019 assembly elections, were present at the event.Both the leaders were denied tickets by Congress, who then decided to contest as independents, securing the runner-up position on their respective seats.Speaking at the occasion, HDF founder and president Nirmal Singh called for support to make separate political issues and development agenda for North Haryana. “North Haryana, with 27 MLAs, has been neglected for five decades. There has been considerable discrimination in terms of jobs as well as development. Even after 54 years, no leader of North Haryana could sit on the CM’s chair,” he said.North Haryana’s ‘own leader’Nirmal has been trying to project himself as North Haryana’s “own leader”, in contrast to former CM Hooda, whom he was close to before the 2019 assembly polls.He said that the HDF will make a strong entry in the elections of the municipal council, zilla parishad and MC, and thereafter in the assembly and Lok Sabha elections as well.The absence of senior party leader Himmat Singh at the event, however, raised several questions. Singh was absent at the presser on Sunday as well, when the party announced its mayoral candidate and gave him important responsibility as the head of a screening committee for those seeking HDF ticket in MC polls.Chitra Sarwara told the Hindustan Times that Himmat Singh was busy and had informed her that he was out of station. Nirmal, on the other hand, denied any knowledge of the matter.Former general secretary of the Youth Congress, Himmat Singh, was also reportedly seeking a Congress ticket from Ambala City in the previous elections, but was denied and later joined Nirmal Singh.HDF also inaugurated its first party office next to the Panchayat Bhawan and announced its official website along with social media handles at the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-democratic-front-s-first-foundation-day-a-show-of-opposition-strength-in-ambala/story-Zg6Gyz72EPTkUIZNgbxn2N.html
11-11-2020||Chandigarh||HC seeks report on threat to Chandigarh lawyer from gangster Monty Shah||The Punjab and Haryana high court has sought a report on the threat perception to a lawyer and her family members from Monty Shah, an aide of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi. The report has been sought by the bench of justice Manjari Nehru Kaul by November 18, on the plea of a high court lawyer, who had sought directions to the UT administration to provide protection of life and liberty to her and her family members. The court was told that she and her family members are facing continuous threats to their life and liberty at the hands of Monty Shah, who is involved in a number of other criminal cases. Despite continuously approaching police, no action has been taken to apprehend the dreaded criminal, she had told court, adding that the harassment started after she filed an FIR against Shah. The FIR was registered on September 30 this year, after the woman had alleged that he posted her daughter’s pictures on social media platforms. Shah is presently on the run after being booked last month for threatening two witnesses in Sonu Shah murder case. He has a reward of ₹50,000 on him, and has been declared proclaimed offender in multiple cases. He has also been convicted and sentenced to three-year jail in one of the cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-seeks-report-on-threat-to-chandigarh-lawyer-from-gangster-monty-shah/story-xO7mAqckn3nhf5vO6po7BO.html
11-11-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers close down Reliance stores for third day in a row in Ludhiana||Farmers protesting against the agri bills continued to shut down Reliance stores in the city for the third day in a row on Tuesday. Reliance jewellers near Fountain Chowk, four stores at a mall near Old Court Chowk and a Reliance Fresh store in Haibowal were forced to pull their shutters down. The protesters reached the stores and requested the customers to leave. Then, they made the employees close down, who did not offer any resistance.Gurpreet Singh Noorpur, district president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU, Ekta) Ugrahan, said they will close down all establishments belonging to Reliance and Adani Group in the city and not allow them to reopen till the government revokes the “anti-farmer” laws.The protesting farmers had forced two Reliance Fresh outlets in Dugri Phase -1 and Shaheed Bhagat Singh (SBS) Nagar to close down on Monday. They also closed down six Reliance stores at a mall in Ferozepur Road on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmers-close-down-reliance-stores-for-third-day-in-a-row/story-BOl03PhSMWAcabYuAaeTaO.html
11-11-2020||City||Has Panjab University senate outlived its utility?||The four-year term of Panjab University senate came to an end on October 31 and now the varsity is without the apex governing body, an integral part of its administration since its inception in Lahore in 1882. There is now uncertainty over its future with polls not being notified, a development coinciding with the central government announcing National Education Policy, which envisages the constitution of board of governors in all universities. The University Grants Commission has last month asked all higher educational institutions to initiate governance reforms in the light of the new policy. The PU senate has more than half of its members elected from various constituencies. In recent years, their role in the functioning of the varsity has come under criticism, especially from those heading the institution. Needs some reforms: The notion of senate has not outlived its utility in academic institutions. What has outlived is the role assigned and privileges accorded to senators in PU Act 1947, which is a variant of Indian Universities Act 1904 introduced for the then five varsities of India, which did not have campuses and departments and teachers on their rolls. What is needed is the reform of the construct of the senate and the election of syndicate on behalf of faculties as per stipulations given in the 1904 Act.Arun Kumar Grover, former vice-chancellorVarsity’s nature has changed: It is not only about the senate, but the whole structure of the university. The PU Act needs a review to meet the requirements of the university, which is a different institution from what it was in 1882 or 1947. The nature of the university has changed over time. There are various committee reports, such as Kothari’s, that can be taken into consideration while reviewing the Act. The present senate should be allowed to continue till a new senate is formed.RP Bambah, former vice-chancellorReduce nominated members: The Panjab University senate has always discharged its responsibilities and served its purpose well. PU has been a dynamic example of democratic governance. In the past, many V-Cs have moved along well with the governing body. If at all, it requires any change, my suggestion is that the provision regarding elected members should remain as it is, and only the number of nominated members should be reduced. However, the president and secretary of PU Campus Students Council should be included as ex-officio members.Pawan Kumar Bansal, former senator and Congress leaderPresent system is transparent: PU’s governance system is unique in the country, and members of the governing body represent different sections of the stakeholders. It also has public participation in the form of a graduate constituency. No university has such a healthy democratic system of participation of stakeholders. Universities with executive council, which is similar to board of governors, feel the system is autocratic. The senate system is transparent with every voice being heard. Some reforms may be required and can be done without affecting the senate’s structure and concept.Rajat Sandhir, former PUTA presidentPU governance needs revampBeing a member of the governing body, over the years I have realised that the functioning of the university always gets compared with the functioning of other universities. I believe that the governing system of PU needs a revamp on the pattern of how other universities are run, so that its functioning becomes smooth.Sanjay Tandon, former senator and BJP leaderIt is a democratic body: Democratic bodies never outlive their utility. Several V-Cs in the past too disliked the senate as they could not use it as per their wishes. Agendas and issues discussed in the senate are in public, which reflects its character. The PU senate cannot be thrown away. If at all there is a need, it should be reformed appropriately.Mritunjay Kumar, PUTA presidentMinor changes are fine: I am not in favour of abolishing the senate. It is a very unique and majestic system where we have the representation from all different walks of life. With time, minor changes can be made, but the senate must be in place. Also, the president and secretary of the student council should be its members.DPS Randhawa, syndicate member and former student representativeRepresents all stakeholders: Senators work for the university and make policies for the benefit of both students and faculty members. The senate has representation of all stakeholders. There might be a case where one person misuses the power, but that doesn’t mean we should do away with the senate. We have complete faith in the senate.Chetan Chaudhary, former president, Panjab University Campus Students Council||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/has-panjab-university-senate-outlived-its-utility/story-3b0MWs6DzcjfkUnqym15lJ.html
11-11-2020||Chandigarh||Covid hampers construction of Panjab University’s multi-purpose auditorium||The Covid-19 crisis has hit the construction work of the multi-purpose auditorium on the south campus of Panjab University, which is now expected to get ready by August 2021.The foundation stone of the ₹90 crore project was laid in 2009 by the then prime minister Manmohan Singh and its construction started in 2012. PU’s executive engineer RK Rai said, “Earlier, we were expecting to complete the construction by the end of 2020, but now it will get delayed. The basic structure of the auditorium is ready though.”“The tendering of the construction of phase 3 is expected to be done in coming days,” he added. In the final stage, the work on panelling, stage lighting, flooring, lifts and electrical fittings will be done.Over the years, the construction work of the auditorium has remained tumultuous. In 2018, ₹80-lakh fine was imposed on the contractor of the auditorium for delaying the project.With the seating capacity of over 2,400, it will have a main auditorium with three small seminar halls able to accommodate 130 to 600 people. The total covered area will be 1.4 lakh sq ft and auditorium will include dining area, parking area, approach roads, substation, power backup, AC plant, elevators, firefighting system and CCTV cameras. It will have a VIP workshop, green rooms and rehearsal rooms as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-hampers-construction-of-panjab-university-s-multi-purpose-auditorium/story-ocnYDCBVltHEX3FPDrvb7L.html
11-11-2020||Chandigarh||Four succumb to Covid, 90 test positive in Chandigarh||Six people, including four from Chandigarh, succumbed to Covid-19 in the tricity on Tuesday, while 235 tested positive. The toll has climbed to 241 in Chandigarh with the death of three men, aged 76, 58 and 56, from Sectors 48, 7 and 25, respectively, and a 45-year-old woman from Makhan Majra. With 66 patients being discharged, the number of those cured has reached 14,176. The infection tally stands at 15,339 with 90 fresh cases, with 922 cases still active.Mohali district recorded 75 fresh cases, two deaths and 45 recoveries. Of 13,060 people tested positive so far, 12,035 have recovered and 250 have succumbed, leaving 45 active cases.Panchkula recorded no casualty while 70 people, including five health workers, tested positive. The tally has climbed to 7,644, with 442 cases still active. While 7,085 patients have recovered, 117 have died so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/four-succumb-to-covid-90-test-positive-in-chandigarh/story-5Amar339UE3WGZKf0UM4wM.html
11-11-2020||Chandigarh||HC gives CBI 3 months to probe Sector-5 property grab case||The Punjab and Haryana high court (HC) has asked the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to probe within three months an alleged attempt to grab an NRI’s ₹30-crore property in Chandigarh’s upscale Sector 5. In the detailed order released on Tuesday, the bench of justices Daya Chaudhary and Meenakshi Mehta asked CBI to entrust the probe to a superintendent of police rank officer and submit the report by February 26. The case was handed over to CBI on October 30. The case came to light in August, when Padamjit Singh, 84, a former United Nations executive who lives in the US, alleged that a petition filed on July 8 using his name was not, in fact, filed by him. The NRI and his brother’s family have 50% share each in the property — House No 17 in Sector 5 — as later verified by the Chandigarh administration. Padamjit Singh, in a July 8 plea, had claimed that he had not sold his share to a woman named Pritam Kaur, but in an affidavit in August said he had in fact sold it to her and that no one had been authorised by him to file the July 8 plea. When the lawyer appearing in connection with the July 8 petition was questioned, he told court that the matter had been conveyed to him by another lawyer and all requisite permissions to file the plea were obtained through mail. HC in its order said that in the best interests of justice the entire matter regarding the transfer of 50% share of the house in dispute by Padamjit Singh and all the matters incidental thereto, including the said record in respect of the house in dispute having gone missing from the Estate Office, Union Territory, Chandigarh, be referred to the CBI for investigations. “It is further clarified that the CBI shall look into all the angles of the said dispute,” the order stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-gives-cbi-3-months-to-probe-sector-5-property-grab-case/story-Zsynmj57PAEHTmJQKrrvJM.html
11-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt to put fee hike orders, financial details of private schools in public domain||In a bid to bring in more transparency, the Delhi government’s directorate of education (DoE) has decided to make public all its orders, accepting or rejecting the proposals of private schools to hike their fees, on its official website, along with financial details -- fee statements, salary expenses, savings, balance sheets and budget, officials said. The DoE informed the Delhi high court about the decision in an affidavit filed on Tuesday, drawing adverse reactions from schools that said they were examining the order and could challenge it. The affidavit was submitted as a response to a petition filed by NGO ‘Justice for All’ in July, seeking directions to the respondent (DoE) to upload fee-hike related orders passed by it, along with related file notings and documents. The court had on July 24 issued a notice to the DoE, asking its stance on the plea. In its affidavit, the DoE said it will make the mentioned information available on its website solely on the basis of provisions of the Right to Information (RTI) Act, 2005, as sought in the petition. The answering respondent submits that they would, within a period of four months, be able to upload and/or put on their website all the earlier final sanction orders passed by the DoE qua fees increase proposals filed by recognised private unaided schools in Delhi and will continue to upload them,” the DoE stated in the affidavit.The DoE said it will also put on its website the statement of fees of schools along with annexures as directed in an order by the Supreme Court (Modern School Vs Union of India in 2004), while interpreting Section 17 (3) of Delhi State Education Act, 1973. According to the Supreme Court judgment, every unaided private school has to maintain financial statements consisting of information such as balance sheets, and profit and loss accounts. The schools are required to file a statement of fees every year with the DoE. The statement includes income of the school derived from fees, current operations expenses towards salaries, provision of donations, and savings, among others. “The respondent shall also upload on its website the inspection reports and orders passed to correct the statement of fees submitted by recognised unaided schools of Delhi after finalisation of the same,” the DoE affidavit added.Yogesh Pal Singh, assistant director of education at DoE’s private school branch, said, “there have been several instances in the past when parents complained that private schools increased the fees without prior approval from the DoE or increased the fee more than they were allowed by the directorate.” “With this move, all relevant information will be available on the official website of the DoE. Parents will now be able to check if schools have got permission for fee hike from the DoE or not in a particular financial year,” Singh said.Under the land lease agreements, private schools built on government land in Delhi cannot increase fees without DoE’s approval. Once a proposal is sent, the DoE will audit their finances and allow the schools to increase fees only if they are found to be struggling to manage expenses. Schools operating on private land are not required to take DoE’s approval to increase fees but they have to submit their statement of fees and other financial details with the directorate every year. The petitioner advocate Khagesh Jha said the move will help both parents and teachers. “Many a time, private schools hire teachers on a contractual basis and do not pay them on a par with permanent teachers. Besides, schools won’t be able to fool parents now by demanding hiked fees without permission from the DoE.”SK Bhattacharya, president of the action committee of unaided recognised private schools -- an umbrella body of over 400 schools in Delhi -- said they are examining the legality of the DoE’s decision. “Our legal team will examine what all can be made available in the public domain following provisions of the RTI Act. This kind of order will open a new chapter of unnecessary confrontations between school management and parents.”Advocate Kamal Gupta, who represents private schools in several fee-related matters, said, “We will file our response and challenge the decision. Disclosure of such information is not only prohibited under the RTI Act but also under the Income Tax Act.”The Delhi parents association, meanwhile, welcomed the move. Aprajita Gautam, president of the association, said, “We had been demanding that DoE should make public the list of schools permitted to increase fee. Parents should know how schools are functioning and it will bring transparency in the system.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-to-put-fee-hike-orders-financial-details-of-private-schools-in-public-domain/story-VOaYHqxpPgZ5Q40D8magCO.html
11-11-2020||Delhi||500: What a maxed out AQI means||On Tuesday morning, around 9.30 am, at least 18 stations in Delhi reported an air quality index (AQI) of 500, the highest value on the pollution measurement metric. A few private air quality monitoring platforms even reported an AQI of 999, indicating that the pollution measuring values had maxed out.What these numbers don’t indicate is that concentrations of the ultra-fine and hazardous particulate matter (PM 2.5 or PM 10) in Delhi could be much higher than indicated by the maximum index value of 500. However, experts say the index is not underestimating the crisis by capping the value at 500. The PM concentrations may be far higher than the criteria for meeting an AQI of 500. But ‘500’ indicates worst air quality with worst health impacts, the experts said.For example, an AQI of 401 to 500 represents PM 2.5 concentrations of over 250 micrograms per cubic metres and PM 10 concentration of over 430 micrograms per cubic metres on an average.. Since Monday, PM 2.5 and PM 10 concentrations in Delhi have been over 350 micrograms per cubic metres and 550 micrograms per cubic metres, respectively, but the AQI values have remained within or up to 500.The daily safe limit of PM 2.5 is 60ug/m3 while that of PM 10 is 100 ug/m3.A Central Pollution Control Board scientist explained, “In our estimate, the AQI cannot deteriorate infinitely. Exceeding the 500 scale indicates the situation is terrible. At 500, maximum damage is done so there is no point going beyond that. It’s a situation similar to the US Environment Protection Agency’s (EPA) hazardous level. Its recommended that people remain indoors but indoor air quality is also impacted.” “Not much has been studied as to what happens after we reach an AQI of 500. Health impacts plateau after a certain point. There is not much point in monitoring beyond that,” the scientist added.“An AQI of 500 is exceptionally high. One can always conflate numbers. But it only means that air quality is in a very severe condition,” said Mukesh Sharma, scientist, department of civil engineering, IIT Kanpur, who helped develop the AQI system for India.The United States EPA considers the AQI as a yardstick that runs from 0 to 500. The higher the AQI value, the greater the level of air pollution and the greater the health concern.“The kind of air quality you are breathing depends on the concentrations of pollutants such as PM 2.5 or PM 10. The AQI is basically taking pollution levels from different pollutants and grading them in sub-indices and then calculating an index value based on the pollutant, which is of highest concentration at the time…,” said Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director, Centre for Science and Environment (CSE).“The maximum AQI values have been calculated based on the kind of pollution experienced during the London smog of 1952. There is no logic in extending AQI values. We need systemic changes to control air pollution levels in the region,” Roy Chowdhury said.Severe category air could have respiratory effects even on healthy people and serious health impacts on people with lung/heart diseases. The health impacts may be experienced even during light physical activity, according to Central Pollution Control Board’s AQI report released in 2015. RoyChowdhury said all action to curb severe air quality should kick well in advance and not when AQI is 500.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/500-what-a-maxed-out-aqi-means/story-Zg0gUMnSKCZKEAu0iry62J.html
11-11-2020||Delhi||Air emergency in Delhi, no signs of Grap||Delhi equalled its longest spell of severe air on Tuesday -- the sixth consecutive day of the city breathing in an air with most harmful levels of particulate and gaseous pollutants. Before this, the capital had breathed severe air for six consecutive days in 2016. However, there was no sign of emergency measures that used to kick in under the graded response action plan (Grap).Even though India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast said that Delhi might experience a slight respite on Wednesday, but it will be “short-lived”, scientists said.CPCB data showed that the overall AQI of Delhi on Tuesday was 476, in the severe category. On Monday, the AQI of the city was 477.Tuesday began with pollution levels clocking an all time high of the season at 487. By 9am, at least 18 monitoring stations, such as Sirifort, Anand Vihar, Vivek Vihar, Bawana, Mundka, and Alipur recorded the maximum possible AQI recording of 500.According to Central Pollution Control Board’s data, at 7pm on Tuesday, it was 48 hours since the PM 2.5 levels (ultrafine particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) had constantly remained above the 300ug/m3 and 51 hours since the PM10 levels (particulate matter with diameter less than 10 micrometers) had been above the 500ug/m3 mark, pushing the city into the severe plus zone.The national ambient air standard for PM2.5 is 60ug/m3 and 100ug/m3 for PM10. Till 12 pm, the Dr Karni Sena Shooting Range station recorded a maximum PM2.5 level of 907ug/m3. In Mundka, these levels were as high as 1156ug/m3.Such long episode of bad air mandates emergency measures under Grap, including odd-even road space rationing scheme, ban on all construction activities, entry of trucks that are not destined for the city, except those carrying essential commodities, etc. However, till late Tuesday, no such steps had been initiated by the agencies. In a letter written to the CPCB late Thursday evening, the newly appointed Commission on Air Quality Management (CAQM) said “till a mechanism is set up by the commission, as an interim measure, the CPCB is entrusted with the task of operationalising and monitoring the Grap measures”.The letter read, “...(the commission) has decided that in view of the deteriorating air quality in NCR region, there is need to invoke the Grap already notified by the central government.”Responding to this direction a CPCB spokesperson said that the monitoring body will issue the required directions on Wednesday looking at the AQI.Experts, however, said that the agencies should have been more proactive and this late direction by the commission was “too little, too late”.“We have reached a point where the measures listed under Grap should automatically be implemented according to the AQI levels, without having to give any directions. I understand that the commission has just been formed and is taking some time to get used to this system, but we already have a mechanism in place, CPCB taskforce is supposed to monitor the air quality levels and recommend action. There is no excuse for not doing that,” said Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment.She said that let alone bringing in additional measures, the authorities seem to be struggling with the enforcement of the basic measures listed under Grap, and Tuesday’s situation was a classic example of that.“Delhi air pollution is in the severe category, the ministry of earth sciences’ prediction suggests that the AQI will remain very high even tomorrow (Wednesday) and reduce marginally on November 12...A lot of challenges for the commission for air quality over NCR set up by the government of India,” said Madhavan Rajeevan, secretary, union ministry of earth sciences.Rajeevan added, “Let us not expect this pollution problem will be resolved quickly. Even China took 15 years to clean up their air. We need consistent and sincere efforts by all stakeholders without any blame game.”Last year, the now dissolved Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority had restricted construction activities and the operation of hot mix plants in the city from October 26, before calling for a complete ban on construction from November 5, as a preventive measure to control the rise of pollution levels. The ban was finally lifted by the Supreme Court in February this year.“We are implementing Grap and will continue to do so. Its implementation does not depend on Epca,” said RP Gupta, secretary, union environment ministry.Scientists at the IMD said that a change in the wind direction and improved wind speed came to the rescue of the city, and after 2pm, the air quality started showing marginal improvement.VK Soni, head of IMD’s environment monitoring research centre, said that the wind direction changed to easterly on Tuesday afternoon, which reduced the impact of the high instances of stubble burning in the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana on Delhi’s air.“The wind picked up to reach around 8kmph during the day but there was so much pollution accumulation that its impact was not immediately seen in the air quality. We are hoping that we will be able to get out of the severe plus category through Tuesday night. Easterly winds will continue till Thursday,” Soni said.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that this relief, however, will be short-lived.“From Thursday, the wind direction will change again to north-westerly, which will be conducive to bring the plumes of smoke from Punjab and Haryana. There is also a possibility that Delhi and NCR towns might get light rain around Friday and Saturday, which means that the moisture in the air lead to pollutants latching on closer to the surface, worsening the air quality further,” Srivastava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/air-emergency-in-delhi-no-signs-of-grap/story-44xfCaYgZCM8qbELH4dUXJ.html
11-11-2020||Delhi||Worst episode of smog negates all good air records in Delhi||More stubble fires than previous years and unsuitable weather conditions have negated the gains made in terms of more good and satisfactory air days as well as the annual average PM2.5 and PM10 concentrations on account of a prolonged lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19, experts said. They said consecutive days of severe air quality days or an air emergency episode like the present one wasn’t recorded since 2016. The present smog episode will be the worst since AQI is being measured if severe air quality persists till Wednesday. Experts said the improvement in air quality over Delhi being recorded in the past two years will be negated because of severe air pollution this winter.In 2018 and 2019, 159 and 182 good to moderate air quality days were recorded compared to 108 and 152 in 2016 and 2017. In 2018 and 2019, 206 and 183 poor to severe air days were recorded compared to 246 and 213 in 2016 and 2017 according to CPCB. One of the signs of air quality improving is the absence of any severe air quality or smog episodes which are linked to higher hospital admissions and complications of respiratory and cardiovascular conditions in the vulnerable population. . Officials from anti-pollution agencies said one of the reasons Delhi couldn’t sustain its improvements in curbing severe air episodes is an unusually high number of stubble fires flared this year and possibly because of the reopening of the economy after curbs imposed to control Covid-19 spread coinciding with adverse meteorological conditions like calm winds for the past one week.This time there have been at least 62,000 fire points compared to less than 60,000 in the past two years.“There is no doubt that 2020’s annual average concentrations will be lower than last year. Even if you consider AQI, we have had a very high number of good, satisfactory and moderate days this year because of the national lockdown for Covid 19 pandemic. Severe days occur every year whether they were consecutive or not will not matter much,” said a senior Central Pollution Control Board official on condition of anonymity.Scientists said the satellite data indicates a very high number of stubble fires this year. “The satellite data we assessed indicates that crop stubble fires have been relatively higher than the average number of fires recorded in the past five years from 2015 to 2019. This has mixed with poor meteorological conditions. It is definitely true that number of severe air days had reduced in 2017, 2018 and 2019. There were a very high number of severe air days in 2016 and we experienced one of the worst smog episodes. This year again this has happened because of higher stubble fires, lack of surveillance because of Covid-19 related restrictions,” explained Sagnik Dey, associate professor at IIT Delhi. He also flagged that Delhi needs to reduce its own emissions by at least 30% during the winter months beginning October to avoid such spikes. “Air pollution has doubled in October-November compared to say August-September even though local emissions have remained nearly the same. Stubble fires have only added to the emissions. If neighbouring states do not cooperate, Delhi will have to reduce its own emissions even further so that we don’t see such hazardous air quality episodes. We also need to fine tune the graded response action plan so that strict control mechanisms kick in even before we have severe air continuously for six days,” Dey said, referring to NASA satellite images which show a smoke plume has descended over Delhi and surrounding regions from the north.Trilochan Mohapatra, director of Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), and farmer leaders in Punjab have been saying more stubble fires are being reported in the state because of agitation and discontent over the three farm bills introduced by the Centre. Farmers are in no mood to comply with regulations and labour shortage due to the national lockdown has also made disposing stubble very difficult.“This year we have started recording several severe air quality days even before Diwali has arrived. The entire region is suffering severe air quality because pollutants get trapped here due to adverse meteorological conditions. We need significant curbs locally to reduce the intensity, duration and frequency of such episodes. Its important to monitor how fast such episodes clear up with emergency action. I am not aware of how effectively Grap is being implemented on a regional level right now,” said Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director, Centre for Science and Environment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/worst-episode-of-smog-negates-all-good-air-records-in-delhi/story-n7IFCtp2dtEbXMWcQRFSnI.html
11-11-2020||Delhi||SC refuses to interfere with Delhi HC order staying govt decision to reserve Covid beds in pvt hospitals||The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to interfere with the Delhi High Court’s order, staying the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government’s decision asking private hospitals in the city to reserve a substantial number of beds in intensive care unit (ICU) for Covid-19 patients.The AAP government had on September 12 told 33 private hospitals to reserve 80% ICU beds for Covid-19 patients. But the Delhi High Court on September 22 stayed the government’s order on a petition filed by the Association of Healthcare Providers. On October 9, a division bench of the Delhi High Court took up the Delhi government’s appeal against the stay but adjourned the matter to November 27. The AAP government approached the apex court against these two orders of September 22 and October 9.The apex bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and BR Gavai raised a preliminary objection against hearing the case. The bench said, “We know the problem faced by Delhi as cases (of Covid-19) are increasing. But the October 9 order passed by the Delhi High Court has merely adjourned the matter. How can a special leave petition (SLP) be entertained against such an order?”Appearing for the Delhi government, additional solicitor general (ASG) Sanjay Jain pressed the panic button citing the Diwali festival this weekend. He said, “We are willing to go back to the Delhi High Court but we request if the high court judgment could be stayed for a week as this week is crucial. Due to Diwali, people are intermingling and cases will go beyond control...If our order (of September 12) would not have been stayed, we could have got 500 more beds to admit Covid-19 patients. The current requirement is for more than 6,000 beds and Delhi government hospitals put together can provide only up to 4,000 beds.”The bench told Jain, “We are aware that the situation in city is worsening. Delhi has a problem, sometimes 5,000, sometimes 10,000, this is a fluctuating situation...You can bring this matter to the attention of the High Court.”Jain explained that in the last few days, the daily average of Covid-9 cases had crossed the 7,000-mark. “If possible, please understand my predicament. The city is facing an extraordinary situation. Lots of people from other states are coming into Delhi for better health care. A large number of people in the middle-class segment in the city prefer to get admitted in private hospitals.” He said the order to reserve 80%ICU beds applied only to 33 private hospitals and was meant to be a temporary measure. “We won’t insist on reserving 80% beyond a week or two weeks,” Jain said.The Association of Healthcare objected to any stay of the HC order. Senior advocate Maninder Singh informed the court that the high court was functioning till November 12 and to date, no request for an early hearing has been made before the division bench. Even the matter arising out of the September 22 order was listed for hearing on November 18. Singh said he had no objection if the top court directs the matter to be heard by high court this week.The bench recorded this submission and stated in its order, “Looking to the facts of the case and the request made by learned counsel for the parties, we request the concerned bench (of the Delhi High Court) for taking up the letters patent appeal (LPA) on November 12.”The Delhi government’s standing counsel Chirag M Shroff presented a chart before the apex court, showing the availability of ICU beds in Delhi’s government hospitals vis-à-vis private ones. In its petition, the Delhi government stated that out of a total of 1263 registered hospitals and nursing homes, 88 are government-run hospitals while 1,175 fall in the private sector. There are 168 private hospitals in Delhi (including the 33 hospitals asked to reserve ICU beds) with 3,239 ICU beds.The Delhi HC in its September 22 order held, “The state cannot discriminate between a Covid-19 and a non-Covid-19 patient requiring emergent treatment. In time of emergency, such patients cannot be told to run around finding a hospital where beds have not been reserved for Covid-19 patients.” Though the HC accepted a surge in the number of Covid-19 patients, it felt that the government’s decision was “arbitrary, unreasonable and violative of Article 21 (right to life)” of non-Covidpatients suffering from life-threatening diseases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sc-refuses-to-interfere-with-delhi-hc-order-staying-govt-decision-to-reserve-covid-beds-in-pvt-hospitals/story-J0qEg6N6wdSzyisbZqKs7O.html
11-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt makes oxygen saturation check mandatory for Covid tests; warns hospitals against denial of beds||The Delhi government has made it mandatory for all hospitals and laboratories to record blood oxygen saturation levels of every person being tested for the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease in a bid to ensure needy patients get medical attention on time. With Delhi recording an average of 6,898 cases every day over the past seven days, the government also warned all hospitals against denial of beds to Covid-19 patients.The new directives, aimed at easing the chaos at hospitals and preventing Covid-19 deaths, were issued in the form of two orders issued by the state health department on Monday.“It has been noticed that many people are approaching the hospitals, having already progressed to either moderate or severe categories of Covid-19 illness… Early identification of not only those with detectable infection (via testing), but also those at increased risk of developing complications or progressing to moderate to severe disease, shall help us reduce Covid-19 associated complications and deaths,” read the order, which made it mandatory for hospitals and labs to check the oxygen saturation level of people taking a Covid-19 test. The rule will apply to all government and private hospitals and laboratories as well as sample collection centres -- all of whom will have to record the oxygen saturation level on OPD slips. It will have to be followed for both rapid antigen tests (RAT) and RT-PCR tests. “In case, oxygen saturation is found to be less than 94%, the client be mandatorily advised to be examined by a doctor,” the order read.On Tuesday, Delhi recorded 7,830 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the city’s total tally to 451,382, including 402,854 recoveries and 7143 deaths. Delhi had on Sunday recorded a spike of 7,745 new cases after which the Union health ministry said the national Capital had overtaken Maharashtra and Kerala to become the largest contributor towards the daily Covid-19 tally of the country.NO BED REFUSAL, NO PATIENT TRANSFER WITHOUT CONFIRMATION In a bid to address the repeated complaints of Covid patients being refused a bed or serious Covid patients being shifted from one hospital to another because of the scarcity of ICU beds, the Delhi government issued another order, warning health facilities against such as practice.“Instances of Covid-19 designated hospitals refusing admissions to Covid-19 cases/suspected Covid-19 cases even when there is a vacancy available have been brought to the notice of the competent authority. Further, it has been noticed that the patient has to approach multiple hospitals before getting himself/herself admitted,” read the order, seen by HT. Seeking “most strict compliance” of the order, the government directed that no Covid-19 patient should be refused admission if a bed is available in a hospital. It ordered that a patient under critical care should only be transferred with the prior confirmation of the referral hospital and under emergent need.“Also, it has been learnt that some critical patients are also being transferred from one hospital to another without ascertaining the availability of vacant critical care bed/infrastructure or bringing to knowledge of the referral hospital regarding the referral being made and reasons there off. All this may put the life of the patient in jeopardy...,” the order stated.As cases surge in the national capital, there has been an increase in the occupancy of hospital beds. On Tuesday evening, less than half of Covid-19 hospital beds in Delhi were vacant, according to the state government’s Delhi Corona mobile application.Of 16,375 beds earmarked to treat patients with the disease, 8,026 were vacant, of which only 191 ICU beds with ventilators and 335 ICU beds without ventilators were available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-makes-oxygen-saturation-check-mandatory-for-covid-tests-warns-hospitals-against-denial-of-beds/story-VmSgqlc3ZtXM86VJjP6wEO.html
11-11-2020||Delhi||DMRC requests Centre to stagger office timings||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has requested the Centre to implement staggered office timings, both in government and private sector, in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases in the capital. DMRC officials said the measure is important to ensure social distancing during peak hours on its network.DMRC managing director Mangu Singh, it is learnt, has written to Union housing and urban affairs ministry in this regard suggesting that government and private offices should work in two slots: 9am and 4pm and 11 am to 6pm.A housing and urban affairs ministry official said, “We have received the suggestion from the DMRC and the matter has been referred to the Department of Personnel and Training for consideration.”A copy of the letter was also marked to the Delhi government.Delhi recorded 5,023 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Monday, fewer than 6,500 cases for the first time in six days. Also, the positivity rate has remained above 12%. Monday’s tally was the highest number of cases reported after a weekend, which usually see a drop in testing, and cases. The Metro, which resumed operations on September 7 after a gap of 169 days, said its ridership has doubled—14 lakh passenger journeys are performed daily now—in the past two months. This is posing a serious challenge before the Metro, which is the transport lifeline of Delhi, to ensure social distancing at the station and on trains during peak hours.The DMRC recently conducted an online survey to study the commuting pattern of Metro users and explore the possibility of them planning their travel as per flexible timings to avoid overcrowding, especially during peak hours.As per the survey, nearly 66% of the Metro users travel during peak hours—63.1% between 8am and 10 am, and 66. 1% between 5pm and 7pm. DMRC official said that 68.5% commuters said that they don’t have the provision to work from home and 73.1% said that their offices won’t agree for staggered timing. But to ensure smooth operations while following the Standard Operating procedures laid down by the Centre for social distancing, DMRC officials said that it is important to implement staggered timing for offices. The two time slots will ease the pressure on the network during peak hours.Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communication, DMRC, said: “On a few corridors, the volume of traffic is exceeding the reduced carrying capacity of the system during the peak hours. Keeping this in view, the DMRC has repeatedly appealed to the passengers to ‘break the peak’ and stagger the timings of the journeys so that all Covid protocols can be stringently followed.”DMRC officials said that currently the level of traffic during the peak hours on some corridors has actually exceeded the available capacity. However, enough spare capacity is available during the non-peak hours.In the past two months of its operations, the carrying capacity has been exceeded on a number of sections during peak hours on DMRC’s Blue (Dwarka Sector 21 - Noida Electronic City and Vaishali), Red (Dilshad Garden - Shaheed Sthal) and Yellow (HUDA City Centre - Samaypur Badli) corridors.With economic activities resuming on full scale in the Capital, the situation is the same on some sections of its Green(Inderlok - Mundka), Violet (Kashmere Gate- Raja Nahar Singh and Magenta (Botanical Garden- Kalkaji Mandir Section) corridors. With Covid cases on the rise and air pollution slipping into severe category, public health and transport experts say that staggered office timing is important.“It is a very good suggestion by the DMRC. This will not only help in ensuring social distancing but also help in reducing air pollution, as it will stagger the vehicular load during peak hours. In the present scenario, it’s advisable that people should stay at home and offices should encourage work from home,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of community medicine at Safdarjung Hospital.Transport expert Amit Bhatt, director transport at WRI India, said staggered timing should be made a permanent feature in Delhi which faces a serious problem of pollution due to traffic congestion.“Staggering of office timings becomes even more important now during the pandemic. It will help in ensuring social distancing in public transport. Currently, there is bunching of people happening during peak hours as offices start and end at almost the same time. While DMRC’s suggestion will help ease crowding on its network, there is also a need to stagger timings area-wise to ease congestion on roads,” said Bhatt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dmrc-requests-centre-to-stagger-office-timings/story-NeS2QInpBLGizrA20qzERI.html
11-11-2020||Mumbai||TRP case: Republic TV’s distribution head arrested; channel denies charges||A special investigation team (SIT) of Mumbai crime branch, probing the Television Rating Point (TRP) fraud case, on Tuesday arrested the Republic TV’s distribution head Ghanshyam Dilipkumar Singh, 44, from his Thane residence. The crime branch has claimed in their remand copy that Singh allegedly paid ₹15 lakh (a month) for seven months to a vendor to boost viewership of his channel. Police also claimed that hawala channels were also used for these transactions.Singh was arrested after several days of questioning in the case. He is the 12th person to be arrested in the case. However, Republic TV in a tweet said, “Relentless attack on Republic Media network continues; Republic Distribution head AVP Ghanshyam Singh detained by crime branch; Ghanshyam had been cooperating in the Mumbai police’s fake TRP case probe.” Sachin Vaze, assistant police inspector heading the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) and also part of the investigating team said, “Singh was produced before the court and was sent to police custody up to November 13”.Singh’s name cropped up in the investigation while the officers were probing the role of Abhishek Kolawade alias Ajit alias Amit alias Mhadik, who was arrested on October 31.Kolawade worked as a vendor for many channels and ran a company named Max Media. He first met Singh last year at Ashish Chaudhary’s office (11th arrested accused in the case).Police’s remand copy stated that Kolawade’s sustained interrogation revealed that to amplify TRP of Republic TV he has received monthly ₹15lakh from Singh between January 2020 to July 2020. This money he had received at the office of Ashish Chaudhary. Some of the money he had received through the hawala channel.The remand copy further stated that Kolawade gave some part of this money to Ramji Varma, Dinesh Vishwakarma and Umesh Mishra to further pay to the families whose house were selected for installing barometer, with instructions to watch Republic TV channels. Kolawade would keep some part of this money with himself for personal gains. When SIT conducted a raid at his residence and office they seized ₹13.72 lakh cash.While seeking Singh’s custody, the SIT informed the court that they wish to investigate if in past too Singh had paid money to Kolawade to increase viewership of his channels.The police also told the court that they want to investigate if Singh was in contact with officials of Multi-System Operators (MSO) and Direct To Home (DTH) to increase the viewership of his employer channels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/trp-case-republic-tv-s-distribution-head-paid-15-lakh-for-7-months-to-boost-viewership-says-mumbai-crime-branch-channel-denies-all-charges/story-04yFDjZCtiUEwtRKddRqsL.html
11-11-2020||Mumbai||Air pollution in rural India at par with cities, finds study by Colorado State University and IIT-Bombay||A study has found that air pollution levels are similar in rural and urban areas in the Indo-Gangetic plain (IGP), which has the highest levels of pollution in India. A team of four researchers from Colorado State University (CSU) in the United States of America and Indian Institute of Technology Bombay (IIT-B) — led by professor AR Ravishankara, department of chemistry, CSU — compared the amount of particulate matter (PM2.5, referring to suspended particles which are 2.5 microns or smaller) in six regions in the country (IGP, north India, eastern India, western India, central India and southern India) for over four months. PM 2.5 levels were studied at ground level from satellite measurements of aerosols. Partly funded by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), the study reiterated that IGP — covering Punjab to West Bengal — has the highest levels of air pollution. The study was published on November 2 in the international multi-disciplinary journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.Unlike in industrialised countries, there wasn’t much difference in air pollution levels in rural and urban areas in India. “Globally, air pollution research is focussed in urban areas, particularly in industrialised countries where a large section of the population resides in cities. In India, however, the case is different,” said Chandra Venkataraman, professor, department of chemistry at IIT-B, who was part of the research team.“The lack of a massive difference in population density between urban and non-urban regions may be a feature of the developing world,” said Ravishankara. With similar health risks being posed to rural and urban populations alike, the study estimates approximately 10.5 lakh people die prematurely of causes that may be attributed to PM 2.5. The causes include ischemic heart disease, stroke, lower respiratory infections, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, lung cancer, and type 2 diabetes. “Of this, 69% deaths occur in rural areas and the rest are in urban areas. This is likely because more people reside in rural areas,” said Venkataraman. “We have found that in non-urban areas, residential energy use is a significant emissions source, primarily due to household cooking with solid fuels. Therefore, we need string regional monitoring systems and include emission controls in rural areas,” she added.LS Kurinji, who is a research analyst at the Council on Energy, Environment and Water; and was not involved in the study, said, “The report raises concerns about the lack of rural air quality monitoring. The concern is pertinent as several studies have documented that air quality in rural areas is equally bad due to the use of solid fuels in households.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/air-pollution-in-rural-india-at-par-with-cities-finds-study-by-colorado-state-university-and-iit-bombay/story-kqZuPUNTzuaEs5DJIhVYfL.html
11-11-2020||Mumbai||2018 suicide abetment case: Court order on plea for Arnab Goswami’s police custody due on Thursday||A sessions court in Alibag will on Thursday deliver its order on the revision application filed by Alibag police to question Arnab Goswami and two others arrested in connection with the 2018 suicide abetment case of architect Anvay Naik and his mother, Kumud. Goswami, Feroz Shaikh and Nitesh Sarda were arrested on November 4. Arguing for Goswami, senior counsel Abad Ponda on Tuesday requested the court not to grant police custody. Ponda said there was a contractual dispute with Naik as the work done by him was not satisfactory. “90 per cent of the amount was paid and 10 per cent of the amount was kept on hold. This matter is of contractual dispute and that should be decided in a civil court, not in a criminal court. If people start committing suicide in contractual dispute, then there will be many suicide cases,” argued Ponda. “There was no need to arrest Goswami as he was not absconding and was available for questioning…After the incident in 2018, when the FIR was registered, my client was called to record his statement, and he remained present. And at that time, police chose not to arrest him and filed ‘A’ summary report. It was clearly mentioned in the ‘A’ summary that there is no nexus between accused number one, two and three in this crime. My client was not aware till 4th of November that a closure report has been filed in this case. My client was told about it when he was arrested. My client was not called for questioning even once before arrest. Joginder Singh principle said in every case arrest is not required. There is no question of further custody.” Ponda went on to give the background of the case and referred to Goswami’s comments on the Maharashtra chief minister. “My client is a news anchor and may have said things he shouldn’t say. But this is not the way to arrest him. How can it be abetment to suicide when in my mind it is a contractual dispute? How is it instigation for suicide,” asked Ponda. There are no reasons made out on why this court should go against magistrate court order for judicial custody, argued Ponda. “Also, the magistrate court has already given permission to police to question my client in judicial custody three hours every day, then why is police custody required? My client has already alleged assault by police and we all are very much aware there are ways of assaulting which will not be visible. If I am sent to police custody, God bless me,” Ponda argued before the court. Niha Raut, defence lawyer for Shaikh, argued there was no direct work contract between the companies of Shaikh and Naik. “Shaikh had given work contract to Atos India Pvt Limited company which gave a sub-contract to Naik. The contract was given on the total price of around ₹3.85 crore. However, my client has paid around ₹4.78 crore,” argued Raut. “There is no connection between my client and Naik. Naik has taken several work contracts for interior work and has given money to his sub-contractors, and kept pending work of his customers,” said Raut. Public prosecutor Pradeep Gharat pointed out that “the order given by magistrate was perverse”. “Learned magistrate didn’t use the discretion given and hence correctness and proprietary of the order is under challenge. Magistrate was duty bound not to get swayed in pressure,” said Gharat. “Fair chance should be given to police to confront the accused with available evidence to verify,” argued Gharat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2018-suicide-abetment-case-court-order-on-plea-for-arnab-goswami-s-police-custody-due-on-thursday/story-FOu8P14fYlFujCL5JX1dkN.html
11-11-2020||Mumbai||Leopard cub reunited with mother at Mumbai’s Sanjay Gandhi National Park||A three-to-four-month female leopard cub was reunited with its mother at the Tulsi range of Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) on Monday, in one of the first leopard cub rescue and reunion operations at SGNP, the forest department said.This was also the second time an abandoned leopard cub was found inside SGNP after a male cub was found in critical condition in the Yeoor range in December 2019. In the latest incident, the cub was located early Monday morning near Kalamabacha Fonda, a small hamlet near Akurli Malad in the Tulsi range by local residents.“After the residents informed the forest department, the cub was moved to a secure location by the rapid response team, citing safety of hamlet residents,” said G Mallikarjuna, director and conservator of forest, SGNP.A medical examination was conducted and the cub was kept under observation, Mallikarjuna said, adding that the cub was then taken to a secure location close to the spot where she was found. “The cub was reunited with its mother at 9pm on Monday, making it one of the first such rescue and reunion operations at SGNP,” said Mallikarjuna, adding that the cub was kept in a basket. “We had left the lid open from one end. On hearing the mother’s call, the cub got out of the basket and walked deeper into the forest towards her mother. We will monitor the area to ensure that the cub is not abandoned again and to see if there is any other movement,” he said.According to veterinarians, reunions, which are common at landscapes such as Junnar in Pune, play a significant role in avoiding human-animal conflict as leopards unable to locate their cubs may turn hostile or aggressive on seeing humans in close proximity to that area. “The effort by staff from Tulsi range, SGNP’s rapid response team, biologist Nikit Surve and wildlife warden Mayur Kamath ensured the safe reunion of this cub in the least possible time with minimum disturbance, which also increases a sense of security for local residents,” said Mallikarjuna.“As this is the second instance of a leopard cub being identified in SGNP and probably the first reunion, it highlights the importance of positive human intervention. In some cases, if the reunion is not successful, the cub spends its life in captivity. However, Monday’s incident was encouraging from the point of view of wildlife conservation,” said Surve.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/leopard-cub-reunited-with-mother-at-mumbai-s-sanjay-gandhi-national-park/story-eB47fVDg1eFzElPQrhCQlO.html
11-11-2020||Election:||Bihar Election 2020: Result updates for Gaighat, Sakra, Aurai, Bochahan, Kurhani, and Muzaffarpur||The recently conducted polling exercise in Bihar assembly culminated on Tuesday with the counting of votes being held in all the 243 seats, marking the return of Nitish Kumar led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) to rule the state for the next five years.Six assembly seats under Muzaffarpur Lok Sabha constituency- Gaighat, Sakra, Aurai, Bochahan, Muzaffarpur and Kurhani - voted under the third phase on November 7 and had witnessed the Rashtriya Janata Dal’s(RJD) firm stronghold over the constituency in the last few years. Here is a look at the performance of all the parties in these five seats in Bihar Assembly Election 2020:Gaighat assembly election 2020 result updates: RJD’s Niranjan Roy won Gaighat by 7566 votes.The seat was previously held by the JD(U)’s Maheshwar Prasad Yadav.Sakra assembly election 2020 result updates: JD(U)’s Ashok Kumar Chodhary won by 1537 votes .A stronghold of no political party in particular, Sakra has a sitting RJD MLA Lal Babu Ram and will pick from regional players in this round of assembly elections. Aurai assembly election 2020 result updates: Ram Surat Kumar from BJP won Aurai by a margin of 47866 votes.BJP won Aurai, which went to polls on November 7, wrestling it away from incumbent ex-RJD face Surendra Kumar, who is already representing the constituency. This time he is fighting as an Independent candidate after the RJD let CPI(M) field Md Aftab from the seat. Bochahan assembly election 2020 result updates: Another seat which went to polls in the final phase, Musafir Paswan of VIP won by 11268 votes.Kurhani assembly election 2020 result updates:  Anil Kumar Sahni of RJD won by a narrow margin of 712 votes.Kurhani, which has 19 political candidates in the fray, was slated to choose between the BJP’s Kedar Prasad Gupta and the RJD candidate Anil Kumar Sahni.Muzaffarpur assembly election 2020 result updates: INC’s Bijendra Chaudhary won by a margin of 6326 votes. Muzaffarpur voted for Bihar Assembly Election 2020 on November 7. In the 2015 Bihar Legislative Assembly Election, Muzaffarpur constituency had 20 candidates in the fray, and was one of 53 seats won by the Janata Dal (United). The Bihar assembly elections were held in three phases for 243 seats -- the first phase for 71 seats was held on October 28, the second phase for 94 seats on November 3, and the third phase for the remaining 78 seats on November 7. Out of all 3,722 candidates analysed, 349 are from national parties, 470 from state parties, 1,607 from registered unrecognised parties, and 1,296 candidates are contesting independently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-election-2020-result-updates-for-gaighat-sakra-aurai-bochahan-kurhani-and-muzaffarpur/story-GJQ0M3La9e0onyNWQzI51O.html
11-11-2020||Election:||Bihar Election 2020: Result updates for Sandesh, Barhara Arrah, Agiaon, Tarari, Jagdishpur, Shahpur||The Arrah Lok Sabha constituency has been the BJP’s stronghold since the 2014 general election. It comprises seven Vidhan Sabha constituencies which saw voting in the Bihar Assembly Election 2020 in the first phase. All these constituencies from a total of 71 went into voting on October 28 amid the various restrictions placed by the Election Commission of India (ECI) due to the prevailing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak in the country. The Grand alliance emerged victorious in five out of the total seven assembly seats. While the BJP managed to win two assembly seats Here is a look at the performance of all the parties in these seven seats in Bihar Assembly Election 2020:Sandesh assembly election 2020 result updates: Kiren Devi of the RJD won the Sandesh constituency while Vijayendra Yadav of the JD(U) secured the second position. The difference between Devi and Yadav was a massive 50,607 votes. Read more about Sandesh constituecy Barhara assembly election 2020 result updates: Raghvendra Pratap Singh of the BJP emerged victorious and defeated RJD’s Saroj Yadav by a margin of just 4,973 votes. In the earlier, trends Yadav was leading the Barhara constituency. Read more about Barhara constituency Arrah assembly election 2020 result updates: Arrah witnessed a cut-throat competition between the CPI-ML and BJP. Quyamuddin Ansari of the CPI-ML was leading the constituency till evening and it seemed he would win. But BJP’s Amrendra Pratap Singh overtook Ansari and won Arrah constituency by a margin of just 3,002 votes. Arrah has not been the stronghold of any political party till now. Read more about Arrah constituency Agiaon assembly election 2020 result updates: Manoj Manzil of the CPI-ML won Agiaon while JD(U) leader Prabhunath Prasad retained the second spot. The difference between winner and runner-up was a massive 48,550 votes.  Agion among many other constituencies is reserved for Scheduled Castes (SCs). Read more about Agiaon constituencyTarari assembly election 2020 result updates: Tarari is another constituency where the CPI-ML led throughout. Party leader Sudama Prasad who is also the sitting MLA won by a margin of 11,015 votes. The runner-up was Narendra Kumar Pandey who is an independent candidate. Read more about Tarari constituency Jagdishpur assembly election 2020 result updates: Jagdishpur constituency saw a tough contest between the RJD and the LJP. RJD candidate Ram Vishnu Singh won by a margin of 22,107 votes while Shribhagwan Singh Kushwaha from Chirag Paswan’s party became the runner up. Read more about Jagdishpur constituencyShahpur assembly election 2020 result updates: RJD’s Rahul Tiwary won the Shahpur constituency by a huge margin of 22,883 votes while independent candidate Shobha Devi came second. Read more about Shahpur constituencyThe 243-member Bihar assembly went to polls in three phases, starting October 28 the first with 71 constituencies the second with 94 constituencies on November 3 and the third with 78 constituencies on November 7.A majority of 122 seats is required to come in power for the next five years. This year’s assembly election has seen better voter participation compared to the previous ones. All three phases recorded a voter turnout of over 55 per cent. The exit polls, which have gone wrong in the past, showed that a majority of Bihar’s population wants to see a change in governance with a hope that the new party - either individually or in an alliance, would address the relevant issues and improve further improve the political, economic and social environment in the state. Exit polls have projected that the Mahagathbandhan has an edge this time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-election-2020-result-updates-for-sandesh-barhara-arrah-agiaon-tarari-jagdishpur-shahpur/story-jFI0tCHsy9LbFZiCdlnwyL.html
11-11-2020||Election:||Bihar Election 2020: Results for Bakhtiarpur, Digha, Bankipur, Kumhrar, Patna Sahib, Fatuha||The Patna Sahib Lok Sabha constituency has six Vidhan Sabha segments, which are a part of the Bihar Assembly Election 2020. All these six constituencies were among the 94 seats which polled in the second phase of the assembly election in Bihar on November 3. In the 2019 general election, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and current Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad won the Patna Sahib Lok Sabha constituency after defeating Congress leader and veteran actor Shatrughan Sinha. Sinha had won the 2014 mandate on a BJP ticket. This year’s election saw a tough contest between the RJD and the BJP. The BJP won four out of the total six assembly seats while the RJD could only manage to win two seats. Here is a look at how all these parties in these seven seats are faring in Bihar Assembly Election 2020 as counting is underway:Bakhtiarpur assembly election 2020 result updates: The RJD leader Aniruddh Kumar won the Bakhtiarpur constituency by a margin of 20,672 votes. While Ranvijay Singh of the BJP came second. Bakhtiarpur had a voting population of 256,575 in the assembly election of 2015 which included 138,161 males and 118,408 females. BJP leader Ranvijay Singh defeated Aniruddh Kumar of the RJD by a margin of nearly 8,000 votes. Read more about Bakhtiarpur constituency Digha assembly election 2020 result updates: Current trends reflect BJP leader and current MLA Sanjiv Chaurasia emerged victorious for a second time as he defeated Shashi Yadav of the CPI-ML by a massive margin of 46,073 votes. Digha during the 2015 election had 31 candidates in the fray. Chaurasia defeated JD(U)’s Rajeev Ranjan Prasad by a margin of 24,779 votes. Read more about Digha constituency Bankipur assembly election 2020 result updates: Nitin Nabin of the BJP secured a fourth consecutive in Bankipur after Congress party’s Luv Sinha by a massive margin of 39,036 votes. Son of Congress leader and veteran Shatrughan Sinha, Luv is made his poll debut this year. In the 2015 election, the BJP defeated the Congress by a margin of nearly 40,000 votes. Read more about Bankipur constituency Kumhrar assembly election 2020 result updates: Arun Kumar Sinha of the BJP won the Kumhrar constituency for a fourth straight time as he defeated RJD leader Dharmendra Kumar by a margin of 26,463 votes. There were 34 candidates in the fray during the 2015 Bihar assembly election. BJP’s Arun Kumar Sinha secured 87,792 votes and won the election after defeating the Congress party candidate Aquil Haider by a big margin of 37,275 votes. Read more about Kumhrar constituencyPatna Sahib assembly election 2020 result updates: The Patna Sahib saw a fluctuating battle between Nand Kishore Yadav of the BJP and Pravin Singh of the Congress. When the initial trends came in , BJP’s Yadav was leading. Shortly, Congress’ Pravin Singh overtook Yadav. However, as the final results came in BJP’s Yadav won the constituency by a margin of 18,300 votes. The BJP’s Nand Kishore Yadav had won the 2015 election after defeating RJD’s Santosh Mehta by a margin of just 2,792 votes. A total of 16 candidates were in the fray for the Patna Sahib assembly seat during this year. Read more about Patna Sahib constituency Fatuha assembly election 2020 result updates:  RJD candidate Dr Ramanand Yadav defeated BJP’s Satyendra Kumar Singh by a margin of 19,370 votes. Initial trends had showed that the BJP was leading this constituency.  Dr Ramanand Yadav of the RJD defeated Satyendra Kumar Singh- who was then with the LJP by a margin of over 30,000 votes. Yadav got a total of 77,210 votes while Singh secured nearly 47,000 votes. Read more about Fatuha constituency The 243-Bihar assembly went to polls in three phases, starting October 28 the first with 71 constituencies on October 28, the second with 94 constituencies on November 3 and the third with 78 constituencies on November 7. This election was majorly a battle between two alliances - the NDA which fielded the JD(U) president Nitish Kumar as its chief ministerial candidate and the Mahagathbandhan -which had RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav as its face for the top job in Bihar. The exit polls, which were conducted by major news channels in the country on November 7 showed that the Mahagathbandhan would perhaps emerge as the winner after getting the requisite majority. As the electoral process comes to end in the state of Bihar, voters and politicians actively participated in this festival of a democratic institution. The crucial issues for this year were of employment, health, education, corruption and women empowerment. All political parties fielded their best candidates and ensured Bihar’s populace of nearly 124 million that all these issues will be addressed with swiftness if they come into power for the next five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-election-2020-result-updates-for-bakhtiarpur-digha-bankipur-kumhrar-patna-sahib-fatuha/story-RIQLSbw7NRycGAaPntsYNM.html
11-11-2020||Election:||Bihar Election 2020: Results for Brahampur, Buxar, Dumraon, Rajpur, Ramgarh, Dinara||Buxar Lok Sabha constituency is one of the 40 parliamentary seats in Bihar. Currently dominated by the BJP, Buxar previously has been a stronghold the Congress too. Six assembly constituencies - Brahampur, Buxar, Dumraon, Rajpur, Ramgarh and Dinara - fall under Buxar. These seats saw voting in the first phase of the assembly election in Bihar on October 28. The Mahagathbandhan- which includes the RJD, Congress, CPI-ML and other left leaning parties won all the six assembly consituencies. Here is a look at the performance of all the parties in these six seats in Bihar Assembly Election 2020:Brahampur assembly election 2020 result updates: RJD candidate Shambhu Nath Yadav defeated Hulas Pandey of the LJP by a huge margin of 51,141 votes. This is Shambu Nath Yadav’s second consecutive win. Brahampur had a voting population of 312,748 in the 2015 assembly election which included 168,417 males and nearly 145,000 females. RJD’s Shambu Nath Yadav had defeated BJP’s Vivek Thakur by a margin of 30,776 votes and secured. Nath secured a 52 per cent vote share for the RJD. Read more about Brahampur constituency Buxar assembly election 2020 result updates: The BJP and the Congress were the main rivals in this constituency. Congress leader Sanjay Kr Tiwari won as he defeated BJP’ Parshuram Chaubey by a margin of 3,892 votes. Earlier trends, Parshuram was leading in the constituency. The 2015 mandate was won by Congress’ Tiwari after he defeated BJP’s Pradeep Dubey by a margin of just over 10,000 votes. Read more about Buxar constituency Dumraon assembly election 2020 result updates: Ajit Kumar Singh of the CPI-ML, won Dumraon after defeating JD(U)’s Anjum Ara by a huge margin of 24,415 votes. JD(U)’s Dadan Yadav emerged as the winner in the assembly election of 2015 by upstaging RLSP’s Ram Bihari Singh by a massive margin of 30,339 votes. The electorate strength during this year stood at 292,754 comprising 157,466 males and 135,280 females. Read more about Dumraon constituencyRajpur assembly election 2020 result updates: The Congress and the JD(U) who fought as allies in the 2015 Bihar assembly election contested as immediate rivals in 2020 in Rajpur- which is reserved for Scheduled Castes (SCs). Vishwanath Ram of the Congress defeated Santosh Kumar Nirala of the JD(U) by a margin of 21,204 votes. Nirala had won the assembly election in 2015 after defeating BJP’s Bishawnath Ram. Nirala secured 84,184 votes while Ram 51,396 votes. BSP candidate Lalji Ram stood third and could only secure 17,031 votes. Read more about Rajpur constituency Ramgarh assembly election 2020 result updates: Ramgarh assembly constituency saw a triangular contest between the BJP, BSP and RJD. Sudhakar Singh of the RJD won the constituency after defeating Ambika Singh of the BSP by just a margin of 189 votes. While this was opposite in the 2015 assembly election. BJP’s Ashok Kumar Singh triumphed over Ambika who was then with the RJD. Ashok secured 57,501 votes while Ambika managed to get 49,490 votes. Read more about Ramgarh constituency Dinara assembly election 2020 result updates: Vijay Kumar Mandal of the RJD defeated Rajendra Prasad Singh of the LJP by a mrargin of 8,228 votes. A total of 17 candidates were in the fray during the 2015 election. JD(U)’s Jai Kumar Singh defeated BJP leader Rajendra Prasad- who was then with the BJP by a margin of nearly 2,700 votes. The electorate strength of Dinara in 2015 was 272,725 which included 146,630 males and 126,089 females. Read more about Dinara constituencyThe 243-member Bihar assembly went to polls in three phases, starting October 28 the first with 71 constituencies on October 28, the second with 94 constituencies on November 3 and the third with 78 constituencies on November 7. The top contenders for this year were the NDA, the Mahagathbandhan and the Chirag Paswan led LJP. NDA fielded current chief minister and JD(U) president Nitish Kumar as its CM face for 2020 too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-election-2020-result-updates-for-brahampur-buxar-dumraon-rajpur-ramgarh-dinara/story-5QoSYeXBtkj2gZC41OPqeP.html
11-11-2020||Election:||Bihar Election 2020: Result updates for Barbigha, Rajauli, Hisua, Nawada, Gobindpur, Warisaliganj seats||The six Assembly constituencies of Barbigha, Rajauli, Hisua, Nawada, Gobindpur, Warisaliganj in Bihar are part of the Nawada Lok Sabha constituency. In 2015, the six seats had following winning candidates: Sudarshan Kumar of INC (in Barbhigha), Prakash Veer of RJD (in Rajauli), Anil Singh of the BJP (in Hisua), RJD’s Rajballabh Prasad (in Nawada), INC’s Purnima Yadav (in Gobindpur) and BJP’s Aruna Devi (in Warisaliganj).Barbigha assembly election 2020 result updates: Sudarshan Kumar of the JDU has won the seat with 39878 votes and Gajanand Shah of the INC came in at a close second with 39765 votes. In the 2015 Bihar Legislative Assembly Election, Sudarshan Kumar won the election by defeating Rashtriya Lok Samta Party’s Sheo Kumar by a margin of 15,717 votes.Rajauli assembly election 2020 result updates: Sitting MLA Prakash Veer of the RJD has won the seat again with 69984 votes. Kanhaiya Kumar of the BJP came in second and got 57391 votes. In the 2015 elections, the constituency was bagged by Prakash Veer of the RJD and Arjun Ram of BJP was the runner-up.Hisua assembly election 2020 result updates: Nitu Kumari of the INC has won the seat with 94930 votes. Sitting MLA Anil Singh of the BJP got 77839 votes and could not retain his seat. The seat, in the last three elections, has been won by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). In the last assembly polls, party candidate Anil Singh has defeated JD (U) candidate Kaushal Yadav by over 12,000 votes. The primary electoral battle in the seat is between the Congress and BJP.Nawada assembly election 2020 result updates: Vibha Devi of the RJD won the seat with 72435 votes as opposed to 34567 votes of Kaushal Yadav of the JDU. RJD’s Rajavallabh Yadav had won from Nawada in 2015 Bihar assembly election by defeating Rashtriya Lok Samta Party’s (RLSP) Indradeo Prasad by a margin of over 16,000 votes. However, Yadav was sentenced to life imprisonment in 2018 in a rape case, following which his membership was cancelled. Later, JD (U) candidate Kaushal Yadav contested from this seat in the 2019 by-election and won against independent candidate Shravan Kushwaha. Warisaliganj assembly election 2020 result updates: Aruna Devi of the BJP has won the seat with 62451 votes. Satish Kumar of the INC came in second and got 53421 votes. Gobindpur assembly election 2020 result updates: Congress’ Purnima Yadav is the present MLA of Gobindpur legislative assembly but she lost the seat to RJD’s MD Kamran. RJD’s MD Kamran got 79557 votes.In the 2015 Bihar assembly elections, Congress had won the seat by defeating Fula Devi of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) by 4,399 votes. The Congress party has won the seat six times in the past.Click here for the complete coverage of Bihar assembly elections. Voting in the three-phase assembly election in Bihar concluded on November 7 as candidates from NDA, grand alliance and LJP contested for 243 assembly constituencies.According to the exit polls, released shortly after the third and final round of polling on November 7, RJD-led grand alliance got an edge over the NDA, which is aiming to come back to power.Read more | Nitish Kumar or Tejashwi Yadav? Verdict day in BiharThe exit polls are based on responses from people who pollsters speak to after they come out of a polling station. Assuming that the voters have correctly revealed their choice, pollsters predict the results much before the actual counting of votes begins.These exit polls have been off the mark in the past, so almost all the candidates and parties are waiting for the official counting to get over to know who emerges as the winner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-election-2020-result-updates-for-barbigha-rajauli-hisua-nawada-gobindpur-warisaliganj-seats/story-TxQ40LDUgGhMmnhBjsJifI.html
11-11-2020||Election:||Bihar Election 2020: Result updates for Munger, Jamalpur, Suryagarha, Lakhisarai, Mokama, Barh seats||The six Assembly constituencies of Munger, Jamalpur, Suryagarha, Lakhisarai, Mokama, Barh seats in Bihar are part of the Munger Lok Sabha constituency. In 2015, the six seats had following winning candidates: RJD’s Vijay Kumar (in Munger), Shailesh Kumar of the JDU (in Jamalpur), Prahlad Yadav of RJD (in Suryagarha), BJP’s Vijay Kumar Sinha (in Lakhisarai), Independent Anant Kumar Singh (in Mokama) and BJP’s Gyanendra Kumar Singh (in Barh).Munger assembly election 2020 result updates: Pranav Kumar of the BJP has won the seat with 75573 votes. Avinash Kumar Vidyarthi of the RJD came second with 74329 votes. In the last assembly elections in Bihar, the RJD’s Vijay Kumar ‘Vijay’ had defeated Pranav Kumar Yadav of the BJP by a margin of 4,365 votes. The RJD has changed its candidate this year but the BJP has retained Pranav Kumar Yadav. Jamalpur assembly election 2020 result updates: In Jamalpur, INC’s Ajay Kumar Singh won the seat with 57196 votes. Shailesh Kumar of the JDU finished second with 52764 votes. Suryagarha assembly election 2020 result updates: The sitting MLA Prahlad Yadav of Rashtriya Janata Dal has won the seat with 62306 votes.Ramananda Mandal of the Janata Dal (United) is second with 52717 votes.Ravishanker Prasad Singh of the Lok Jan Shakti Party is third with 44797 votes. Therefore, the seat is witnessing a very tight triangular contest. In 2015, RJD’s Prahlad Yadav defeated BJP’s Prem Ranjan Patel by a margin of 30,030 votes.Lakhisarai assembly election 2020 result updates: Sitting MLA Vijay Kumar Sinha of the BJP has won the seat with 74212 votes. INC’s Amaresh Kumar finished second and got 63729votes. In the 2015 Bihar Legislative Assembly Election, Lakhisarai was one of 53 seats won by the Janata Dal (United). It was a close contest with Bharatiya Janta Party’s Vijay Kumar Sinha winning the election upstaging Janata Dal (United)’s Ramanand Mandal by a margin of just 6,556 votes.Mokama assembly election 2020 result updates: Anant Kumar Singh of the RJD has won the seat with 78721 votes. Rajeev Lochan Narayan Singh of the JDU came second with 42964 votes. Barh assembly election 2020 result updates: The Barh seat is currently held by three-time winner Gyanendra Kumar Singh, alias Gyanoo, of the BJP and he has won the seat again with 49327 votes. Satyendra Bahardur of the INC got 39087 votes. Independent Karnveer Singh Yadav got 38406votes. In the 2015 Bihar assembly elections, Gyanendra Kumar Singh had won the seat by defeating Manoj Kumar of the Janata Dal (United) by a margin of 8,359 votes.Click here for complete coverage of Bihar assembly elections. Voting in the three-phase assembly election in Bihar concluded on November 7 as candidates from NDA, grand alliance and LJP contested for 243 assembly constituencies.Read more | What to look for in the Bihar poll results todayAccording to the exit polls, released shortly after the third and final round of polling on November 7, RJD-led grand alliance got an edge over the NDA, which is aiming to come back to power.The exit polls are based on responses from people who pollsters speak to after they come out of a polling station. Assuming that the voters have correctly revealed their choice, pollsters predict the results much before the actual counting of votes begins.These exit polls have been off the mark in the past, so almost all the candidates and parties are waiting for the official counting to get over to know who emerges as the winner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-election-2020-result-updates-for-munger-jamalpur-suryagarha-lakhisarai-mokama-barh-seats/story-VWAZ5bpIF4gcbIINgyHh9H.html
11-11-2020||Election:||Bihar Election 2020: Result updates for Tarapur, Sheikhpura, Jamui, Sikandra, Jhajha, Chakai seats||The six Assembly constituencies of Tarapur, Sheikhpura, Jamui, Sikandra, Jhajha, Chakai in Bihar are part of the Jamui Lok Sabha constituency.In 2015, the six seats had following winning candidates: Mewa Lal Choudhary of the Janata Dal(United) (in Tarapur), Randhir Kumar Soni of Janata Dal (United) (in Sheikhpura), Vijay Prakash of Rashtriya Janata Dal (in Jamui), Sudhir Kumar Alias Banty Choudhary of Indian National Congress (in Sikandra), Rabindra Yadav of Bharatiya Janta Party (in Jhajha) and Savitri Devi of Rashtriya Janata Dal (in Chakai).Tarapur assembly election 2020 result updates: Divya Prakash of the RJD lost the election and got 57243 votes. Sitting MLA Mewa Lal Choudhary of the JDU won with 64468 votes. In the last Bihar assembly elections, Mewa Lal Choudhary had won from the constituency and Shakuni Choudhary of Jitanram Manjhi’s Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) was the runner-up.Sheikhpura assembly election 2020 result updates: Sitting MLA Randhir Kumar Soni of the JDU has lost the seat to Vijay Kumar of the RJD who got 56365 votes. In 2015, Janata Dal (United)’s Randhir Kumar Soni won the election upstaging independent candidate Naresh Saw by a margin of 13,101 votes.Jamui assembly election 2020 result updates: Shreyasi Singh of the BJP has won the seat with 79603 votes. Vijay Prakash of the Rashtriya Janata Dal got 38554 votes. This is the first time that the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) has pitted a woman candidate from Jamui. Shreyasi, who is the daughter of late Digvijay Singh, is a professional shooter and has represented India in Commonwealth Games winning gold and silver medals. During the 2015 assembly elections, the RJD’s Vijay Prakash defeated the BJP by a margin of 8,249 votes. Sikandra assembly election 2020 result updates: Prafull Kumar Manjhi of the Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) has won the seat with 47061 votes. Sudhir Kumar Alias Banty of the Congress is the sitting MLA and got 41556 votes. In 2015, Kumar had won the seat after defeating the candidate of the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) in the 2015 assembly polls.Jhajha assembly election 2020 result updates: Damodar Rawat of the JDU has won the seat with 76972 votes. Rajendra Prasad of the RJD got 75293 votes. In the 2015 Bihar Legislative Assembly Election, Bharatiya Janta Party’s Rabindra Yadav won the election by upstaging Janata Dal (United)’s Damodar Rawat by a margin of 22,086 votes.Chakai assembly election 2020 result updates: Independent candidate Sumit Kumar Singh has won the seat with 45548 votes. Sitting MLA of the RJD, Savitri Devi got 44967 votes. JDU’s candidate Sanjay Prasad finished third and got 39319 votes. In the 2015 assembly elections, RJD’s Savitri Devi won the constituency with 47,064 votes after defeating independent candidate Sumit Kumar Singh, who secured 34,951 votes. Click here for complete coverage of Bihar assembly elections. Voting in the three-phase assembly election in Bihar concluded on November 7 as candidates from NDA, grand alliance and LJP contested for 243 assembly constituencies.Read more | Bihar Assembly Election 2020: Grand Alliance poll campaign may have turned election, says surveyAccording to the exit polls, released shortly after the third and final round of polling on November 7, RJD-led grand alliance got an edge over the NDA, which is aiming to come back to power.The exit polls are based on responses from people who pollsters speak to after they come out of a polling station. Assuming that the voters have correctly revealed their choice, pollsters predict the results much before the actual counting of votes begins.These exit polls have been off the mark in the past, so almost all the candidates and parties are waiting for the official counting to get over to know who emerges as the winner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-election-2020-result-updates-for-tarapur-sheikhpura-jamui-sikandra-jhajha-chakai-seats/story-zrPnFpdOyfFUgPP0ftCYFN.html
11-11-2020||Election:||Bihar Election 2020: Result updates for Sultanganj, Amarpur, Dhoraiya, Banka, Katoria, Belhar seats||The six Assembly constituencies of Sultanganj, Amarpur, Dhoraiya, Banka, Katoria and Belhar seats in Bihar are part of the Banka Lok Sabha constituency. In 2015, the six seats had following winning candidates: Subodh Roy of Janata Dal (United) (in Sultanganj), JD(U)’s Janardan Manjhi (in Amarpur), Janata Dal (United)’s Manish Kumar (in Dhoraiya), Ram Narayan Mandal of the Bharatiya Janta Party (in Banka), RJD’s Sweety Sima Hembram (in Katoria) and Giridhari Yadav of the Janata Dal (United) (in Belhar).Sultanganj assembly election 2020 result updates: Lalit Narayan Mandal of the JDU has won the seat with 72823 votes. Lalan Kumar of the INC finished second with 61258 votes. Amarpur assembly election 2020 result updates: JDU’s Jayant Raj has won the seat with 54308 votes and Jitendra Singh of Indian National Congress is a close second with 51194 votes. Mrinal Shekhar of the LJP got 40308. In 2015, the Amarpur seat was won by JDU candidate Janardan Manjhi, who defeated Mrinal Shekhar of the BJP by 11,773 votes. Dhoraiya assembly election 2020 result updates: Bhudeo Choudhary of the Rashtriya Janata Dal has won the seat with 78646 votes. Manish Kumar of JDU came in second and got 75959 votes. In 2015, Janata Dal (United) candidate Manish Kumar won from Dhoraiya defeating Bhudeo Choudhary of Rashtriya Lok Samta Party (RLSP) by 24,154 votes. Choudhary joined the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) in September this year and has been fielded by the party from Dhoraiya. Banka assembly election 2020 result updates: BJP’s Ram Narayan Mandal has won the seat with 69762 votes. RJD’s Javed Iqbal Ansari came second with 52934. Katoria assembly election 2020 result updates: Sweety Sima Hembram of the RJD is second in the seat with 68364 votes as opposed to Dr. Nikki Hembrom of the BJP who has 74785 votes. Belhar assembly election 2020 result updates: Manoj Yadav of the JDU has won the seat with 73589 votes as opposed to 71116 votes of Ramdeo Yadav of the RJD. Click here for complete coverage of Bihar assembly elections Voting in the three-phase assembly election in Bihar concluded on November 7 as candidates from NDA, grand alliance and LJP contested for 243 assembly constituencies.Read more | Bihar Assembly Elections 2020: CM Nitish Kumar could be banking on silent force of women voters to retain throneAccording to the exit polls, released shortly after the third and final round of polling on November 7, RJD-led grand alliance got an edge over the NDA, which is aiming to come back to power.The exit polls are based on responses from people who pollsters speak to after they come out of a polling station. Assuming that the voters have correctly revealed their choice, pollsters predict the results much before the actual counting of votes begins.These exit polls have been off the mark in the past, so almost all the candidates and parties are waiting for the official counting to get over to know who emerges as the winner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-election-2020-result-updates-for-sultanganj-amarpur-dhoraiya-banka-katoria-belhar-seats/story-3f4NEji3Ft4t5c7eZQGHCM.html
11-11-2020||Election:||Bihar Election 2020: Result updates for Bihpur, Gopalpur, Pirpainti, Kahalgaon, Bhagalpur, Nathnagar seats||The six Assembly constituencies of Bihpur, Gopalpur, Pirpainti, Kahalgaon, Bhagalpur and Nathnagar in Bihar are part of the Bhagalpur Lok Sabha constituency. In 2015, the six seats had following winning candidates: Varsha Rani RJD (in Bihpur), Narendra Kumar Niraj of JD(U) (in Gopalpur), Ram Vilash Paswan from RJD (in Pirpainti), INC’s Sadanand Singh (in Kahalgaon), INC’s Ajeet Sharma (in Bhagalpur) and JDU’s Ajay Kumar Mandal (in Nathnagar).Bihpur assembly election 2020 result updates: Kumar Shailendra of the Bharatiya Janata Party has been declared the winner with 72938 votes. Shailesh Kumar of the Rashtriya Janata Dal got 66809 votes and Md. Haidar Ali of the Bahujan Samaj Party has 3553. In the 2015 Bihar Legislative Assembly Election, Rashtriya Janata Dal’s Varsha Rani won the election upstaging Bharatiya Janta Party’s Kumar Shailendra by a margin of 12,716 votes.Gopalpur assembly election 2020 result updates: Narendra Kumar Niraj of Janata Dal (United) has been declared the winner with 75533 votes. Rashtriya Janata Dal’s Shailesh Kumar got 51072 votes. Sures Bhagat of Lok Jan Shakti Party got 23406. Pirpainti assembly election 2020 result updates: As per early trends, Lalan Kumar of the BJP won the seat with 96229 votes. Ram Vilash Paswan of the RJD got 69210 votes. In the 2015 witnessed a close contest with Rashtriya Janata Dal’s Ram Vilash Paswan winning the election upstaging Bharatiya Janta Party’s Lalan Kumar by a margin of just 5,144 votes.Kahalgaon assembly election 2020 result updates: Shubhanand Mukesh of INC lost the seat, getting 72645 votes. Pawan Kumar Yadav of the BJP has been declared the winner with 115538 votes which is a huge margin from the Congress’ candidate. Bhagalpur assembly election 2020 result updates: Rohit Pandey of the BJP lost the seat and got 64389 votes. INC’s Ajit Sharma won the seat with 65502 votes and is in the lead as per the election commission site. Nathnagar assembly election 2020 result updates: Lakshmi Kant Mandal of the JDU lost the seat after trailing behind Ali Ashraf Siddiqui of the RJD for a long time. Siddiqui got 78832 votes as opposed to 71076 of Mandal. In the 2015 Bihar Legislative Assembly Election, Janata Dal (United)’s Ajay Kumar Mandal won the election by upstaging Lok Jan Shakti Party’s Amar Nath Prasad Alies Amar Singh Kushwaha by a margin of just 7,825 votes.Click here for complete coverage of Bihar assembly elections Voting in the three-phase assembly election in Bihar concluded on November 7 as candidates from NDA, grand alliance and LJP contested for 243 assembly constituencies.According to the exit polls, released shortly after the third and final round of polling on November 7, RJD-led grand alliance got an edge over the NDA, which is aiming to come back to power.Read more | What to look for in the Bihar poll results todayThe exit polls are based on responses from people who pollsters speak to after they come out of a polling station. Assuming that the voters have correctly revealed their choice, pollsters predict the results much before the actual counting of votes begins.These exit polls have been off the mark in the past, so almost all the candidates and parties are waiting for the official counting to get over to know who emerges as the winner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-election-2020-result-updates-for-bihpur-gopalpur-pirpainti-kahalgaon-bhagalpur-nathnagar-seats/story-PFPoLxdax8dpg7bH22VR4J.html
11-11-2020||Election:||Bihar Election 2020: Results for Asthawan, Biharsharif, Rajgir, Islampur, Hilsa, Nalanda, Harnaut||After voting for all the three phases in Bihar Assembly Election 2020 came to an end on Saturday, Tuesday marks the day of counting in all the 243 constituencies. A majority of 122 seats is needed for any party - either contesting individually or in an alliance - to rule the state for the next five years.Six assembly seats of Asthawan, Biharsharif, Rajgir, Islampur, Hilsa, Nalanda and Harnaut, which are under the Nalanda Lok Sabha constituency, voted under the second phase on November 3. The Nalanda Lok Sabha constituency has been a stronghold of the Janata Dal (United) since the 2009 general election.The NDA which includes parties such as the BJP and JD(U)- which also rule the state of Bihar emerged victorious in five out of the total seven seats. Here is a look at how all these parties in these seven seats are faring in Bihar Assembly Election 2020 as counting is underway:Asthawan assembly election 2020 result updates: JD(U)’s Jitendra Kumar won after defeating Anil Kumar of the RJD by a margin of 11,600 votes. The 2015 assembly election had a voting population of 269,559 out of which 2 per cent voters did not vote for anyone. The constituency had 12 candidates in the fray. Read more about Asthawan constituency Biharsharif assembly election 2020 result updates: Dr Sunil Kumar of the BJP who is also the sitting MLA of Biharsharif won by a margin of 15,102 votes. While, Sunil Kumar- an RJD candidate stood second. The 2015 mandate was won by the BJP. Party leader Dr Sunil Kumar defeated JD(U)’s Mohammad Asghar Shamim by a margin of just over 2,300 votes. The electortae strength in 2015 stood at 346,650 out of which 184,926 were males and 1,61,699 females. Read more about Biharsharif constituencyRajgir assembly election 2020 result updates: Kaushal Kishore of the JD(U) won the constituency after defeated Ravi Joyti Kumar of the Congress by a margin of 16,048. Rajgir is one of the constituencies out of the total 243 reserved for Scheduled Castes (SCs). There were 17 candidates were in the fray during the 2015 election. The JD(U) candidate Ravi Jyoti Kumar won in 2015 as he defeated Satydeo Narain Arya of the BJP by a margin of just 5,390 votes. Read more about Rajgir constituency Islampur assembly election 2020 result updates: RJD’s Rakesh Kumar Roushan won the Islampur constituency by a margin of 3,698 votes. Chandra Sen Prasad of the JD(U) who was earlier leading came second. Islampur is no longer a JD(U) stronghold. JD(U) had won this constituency twice- in the 2015 and 2010 assembly election of Bihar. Islampur had 22 candidates in the fray. In 2015, JD(U)’s Chandrasen Prasad won the election after securing 66,587 votes and defeated BJP’s Birendra Gope by a margin of 22,602 votes. Read more about Islampur constituencyHilsa assembly election 2020 results: Hilsa was a cut-throat competition between the RJD and the JD(U). As the final results came out, JD(U)’s Krishnamurari Sharan took over the RJD leader Shakti Singh Yadav by just 12 votes and won the constituency. According to earlier trends. Shakti Singh Yadav of the RJD who is also the sitting MLA was leading while Krishnamurari Sharan of the JD(U) was behind him. A total of 16 candidates were in the fray from Hilsa in the 2015 election. RJD’s Shakti Singh Yadav emerged as the winner and defeated LJP’s Deepika Kumari by 26,076 votes. The constituency had a voting population of nearly 280,000. Read more about Hilsa constituency Nalanda assembly election 2020 results: Sitting MLA and JD(U) candidate Shrawon Kumar won the Nalanda constituency for a third time after defeating Kaushlendra Kumar of the Jantantrik Vikas Party by a margin of 16,077 votes.  In the 2015 election, JD(U)’s Shrawon Kumar won the constituency after defeating BJP’s Kaushlendra Kumar by a margin of just 2,996 votes. The electorate strength in 2015 was 282,811 out of which 150,112 were males and 1,32,689 females. Read more about Nalanda constituency Harnaut assembly election 2020 results:  JD(U)’s Hari Narayan Singh won the constituency for a third consecutive time by a huge margin of 27,241 votes while LJP’s Mamta Devi stood second. The Harnaut assembly constituency is witnessed a tight battle between the JD(U) and the LJP. The Chirag Paswan led-party was earlier with the JD(U) as a part of the NDA but it decided to leave the alliance and contest as an independent party in the 2020 election. The JD(U) had won this constituency in the 2015 and 2010 election. In 2015, JD(U)’s Hari Narayan Singh defeated LJP’s Arun Kumar by a margin of nearly 14,300 votes. Out of a voting population of 287,370, 1.9% of voters didn’t vote for any political party. Read more about Harnaut constituency The 243-member Bihar assembly went to polls in three phases - the first with 71 constituencies on October 28, the second with 94 constituencies on November 3 and the third with 78 constituencies on November 7. The Nitish Kumar-led JD(U) fought the 2015 election along with the RJD and Congress as part of the Mahagathbandhan or the Grand Alliance in 2015. This year, the JD(U) reunited with the NDA. But the Chirag Paswan-led party decided to split from the alliance and contested the Bihar assembly elections alone.All the three phases witnessed a good voter turnout amid the coronavirus pandemic in the country. The Election Commission of India (ECI) had laid several Covid-19 related guidelines such as regular sanitising of polling booths, provision of gloves and masks to those visiting the booths to exercise their franchise and maintenance of social distancing at all times. The commission also allowed Covid-19 infected patients placed under home or institutional quarantine to participate by the way of postal ballots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-election-2020-result-updates-for-asthawan-biharsharif-rajgir-islampur-hilsa-nalanda-harnaut/story-X1DQZ9jiVHWRdjukoVvOZN.html
11-11-2020||Election:||Bihar Election 2020: Result updates for Danapur, Maner, Phulwari, Masaurhi, Paliganj, Bikram||The Pataliputra Lok Sabha constituency located in the Patna district of Bihar has six Vidhan Sabha constituencies - Danapur, Maner, Phulwari, Masaurhi, Paliganj and Bikram - which saw voting in the first and second phases of the assembly election on October 28 and November 3 respectively. Pataliputra has been a bastion of the BJP since the 2014 general election. As the results came in on Tuesday night, the Mahagathbandhan- which comprises the RJD, Congress, CPI-ML and other left leaning parties, won all the six assembly seats under the Pataliputra Lok Sabha constituency. Here is a look at the performance of all the parties in these six seats in Bihar Assembly Election 2020:Danapur assembly election 2020 result updates: The constituency was a tough fight between the RJD and the BJP. RJD leader Rit Lal Ray won the constituency after defeating BJP’s Asha Devi by a margin of 15,924 votes. A total of 13 candidates were in the fray in the 2015 assembly election in the state. Asha Devi of the BJP defeated RJD’s Kishor Yadav by a small margin of 5,209 votes. Out of the electorate strength of 319,290, 1 per cent voters did not vote for anyone. Read more about Danapur constituency. Maner assembly election 2020 result updates: Maner was another constituency which witnessed a direct face-off between the RJD and the BJP. Bhai Virendra of the RJD emerged victorious as he defeated BJP candidate Nikhil Anand by a huge margin of 32,917 votes. Virendra had won the 2015 election after BJP’s Shrikant Nirala. Virendra won 89,773 while the BJP managed to grab nearly 67,000 votes. The electorate strength in 2015 was 299,069 comprising 160,762 males and 138,300 females. Read more about Maner constituency Phulwari assembly election 2020 result updates: The Phulwari constituency is reserved for the Scheduled Castes (SCs) Gopal Ravidas of the CPI-ML defeated JD(U) leader Arun Manjhi by a margin of 13,857 votes. Phulwari was won by the JD(U) in the 2015 election after party leader Shyam Rajak triumphed over Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular)’s (HAM) Rajeshwar Manjhi by a massive margin of 45,713 votes. Read more about Phulwari constituency Masaurhi assembly election 2020 result updates: Masaurhi constituency is also reserved for Scheduled Castes (SCs). Rekha Devi of the RJD won this constituency after defeating JD(U) candidate Nutan Paswan by a margin of 32,227 votes. During the 2015 election, RJD’s Devi had defeated Paswan-who was then with the HAM by a margin of nearly 40,000 votes. Read more about Masaurhi constituencyPaliganj assembly election 2020 result updates: Sandeep Saurav of the CPI-ML won the Paliganj assembly constituency after defeating Jay Vardhan of the JD(U) by a huge margin of 30,915 votes.A total of 14 candidates were in the fray during the 2015 assembly election. The electorate strength was nearly 261,000 which included 139,416 and 121,154 females. In 2015, Jay Vardhan Yadav - who was with the RJD defeated BJP candiate Ram Janm Sharma by a margin of 24,453 votes. Yadav contested the 2020 election on a JD(U) ticket. Read more about Paliganj consituency Bikram assembly election 2020 result updates: Siddharth Saurav of the Congress won the constituency after defeating independent candidate Anil Kumar by a huge margin of 35,460 votes. Read more about Bikram constituency The 243-Bihar assembly went to polls in three phases, starting on October 28 with 71 constituencies, 94 on November 3 and 78 seats on November 7.Click here for complete coverage of the Bihar Assembly Election 2020Parties in the battlefield, either alone or with an alliance have to secure a majority of 122 seats in order to win this election. This year’s elections saw relatively fewer Maoist-related violence during polling. Security personnel in all the three phases were placed on high alert across all districts where polling was taking place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-election-2020-result-updates-for-danapur-maner-phulwari-masaurhi-paliganj-bikram/story-hYc9nAzfZxwa0ALiPLR36K.html
11-11-2020||Mumbai||Ready to reopen, Mumbai’s colleges plan staggered classes and stringent checks||With schools and junior colleges set to reopen on November 23, colleges in the city are also gearing up to open up their classrooms. Even as colleges wait for directives from the state government and the University of Mumbai (MU), several steps are already being taken to ensure students’ safety. Social distancing, temperature checks, sanitisation and face masks are a priority as colleges prepare to resume classes on campus after a hiatus of over eight months. From insisting on Covid-19 tests for teachers and other staff members to ensuring 24/7 sanitisation of college premises, many institutes are finding ways to ensure social distancing is maintained on campus. “We are waiting for clear directives from the government on how to reopen, whether to stagger classes etc. In the meantime, we have been regularly sanitising our premises, including labs, classes and offices. Temperature checks will be done when students start coming in,” said Tushar Desai, principal, Ruparel College, in Matunga. “Sanitisation has been our top priority and that is something we will continue throughout the day, especially once college reopens. We are just worried about handling the staff and students because at any given point of time, at least 1,000 people will be on campus and we don’t want to take chances with the staff’s or students’ health,” said Marie Fernandes, principal, St Andrew’s College, in Bandra. Social distancing, compulsory masks and cleanliness around the campus will be priority, said Fernandes.Some institutes have decided to call only those students to college who need practical sessions while continuing online classes for others. Keeping in mind the large number of students per batch, some colleges will also run classes in two or three shifts whereas others plan to wait for more directions from MU before reopening colleges. Some principals are hoping for the rule of 75% attendance rule will see a relaxation this year, considering the lockdown.Usha Pravin Gandhi College, in Vile Parle, caters to around 1,600 students in the degree college and is trying to work out the best way to implement rules so that the institution can reopen safely. ”We plan to start a staggered entry of students, starting first with students from Bachelors of Arts (BA) and Information Technology (IT) students for their practical classes only, while the rest of the batches continue virtual classes,” said principal Anju Kapoor. Kapoor added that without local transport functioning normally, expecting students to attend lectures would not be practical. “The university needs to relax the 75% compulsory attendance rule keeping in mind the current situation. We will also ensure a student doesn’t have to physically attend college more than two or three times a week,” she added.At Matunga’s GN Khalsa College, authorities are hoping the head of the institute will be the one who decides how many students must attend college in person. “Depending on the total strength of [students at] the college, principals and management should have the authority to decide how many students should be invited to college on a daily basis. This will help us ensure that only those students who need to be in college for practical lectures are invited while the rest continue online classes,” said principal Kiran Mangaonkar, adding that GN Khalsa College has 5,500 students currently studying in the degree college.MMK College in Bandra has appointed a doctor to be on call, in addition to other measures including regular sanitising and check temperatures of students and staff. “We have staggered the benches to allow social distancing norms to be followed in classrooms. Hand sanitisers have been installed at every floor. A doctor, who is close to the campus, will be available on call in case of any distress,” said principal Kishore Peshori.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ready-to-reopen-mumbai-s-colleges-plan-staggered-classes-and-stringent-checks/story-y3cY2l0LOutQ5iTEmiT5KO.html
