12-11-2020||Mumbai||DGGI arrest director of firm in Mumbai for availing fictitious input tax credit amounting to ₹520 crores||The Mumbai zonal unit of the directorate general of GST intelligence (DGGI) on Thursday arrested Sunil Ratnakar Gutte, director of Sunil Hitech Engineering Ltd., on charges of having fraudulently availed and utilised, as well as passed on fictitious input tax credit (ITC) total amounting to ₹520 crores. The input tax credit is an option that allows taxpayers to claim credit for taxes paid on the purchase. Issuance of an invoice or bill without supply of goods or services and wrongfully availing or utilising the input tax credit on a bill/invoice, without any supply of goods or services is a cognizable and non-bailable offence.The accused Gutte fraudulently availed and utilised ITC on the strength of bogus invoices received and issued without any actual supply of goods or services. A recent extensive investigation by DGGI Mumbai zonal unit led them to unearth a large cartel of companies, which had indulged and participated in the fraud. According to GST department, Sunil Hitech Engineers Ltd. had issued and received fake invoices valued at approximately ₹3,000 crores, and involving ITC amounting to ₹520 crores. Further investigations have revealed that the beneficiaries of these bogus invoices are located in all parts of the country, including New Delhi, Hyderabad, Ludhiana, Gurugram, Meerut, Ahmedabad, Kolkata. During the probe, Sunil Hitech Engineers Ltd emerged as one of the key operators involved in the fake ITC cartels throughout India. Following this Gutte was arrested on Thursday. GST investigators believe that the bogus transactions by the accused company were used not just for generating bogus input tax credit, but also for artificially inflating their turnover so as to gain higher credit limit & bank loans, and also to siphon off funds.Gutte was arrested under the provisions of section 69 (1) of the Central Goods and Services Act, 2017, for committing offences under section 132 (1) (b) and Section 132 (1) (c) of the said Act. He was produced in court and was remanded to judicial custody. In a similar action, the GST officials have also arrested one Vijendra Vijayraj Ranka, director of Shree Oshiya Ferro Alloy Pvt. Ltd. Shree Oshiya Ferro Alloy Pvt. Ltd. had fraudulently issued as well as received bogus invoices without actual supply or receipt of any goods or service to the tune of ₹1,371 crores, involving ITC amounting to ₹209 Crores. The investigation has revealed that Shree Oshiya Ferro Alloy Pvt. Ltd. had made substantial supplies to Sunil Hitech Engineers Ltd.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dggi-arrest-director-of-firm-in-mumbai-for-availing-fictitious-input-tax-credit-amounting-to-520-crores/story-cJZa4RrBs7RKGN59pHeXvJ.html
12-11-2020||Mumbai||Firecrackers banned in 9 districts, 14 districts yet to decide, Maharashtra govt tells Bombay HC||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday disposed of a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking ban on the sale and use of fire crackers during Diwali after the court was informed by the state that it had issued a notification banning the sale and use of fire crackers in nine districts and asked the local authorities of 14 districts to decide on the issue. The PIL filed by a Pune-based environmentalist sought implementation of the National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) order which banned the use of fire crackers across the country due to poor air quality. The PIL sought directions to the state and local authorities to abide by the NGT order. A division bench of justice AK Menon and justice SP Tavade, while hearing the PIL filed by Aniruddha Deshpande, was informed by advocates Niranjan Bhavake, Amit Karle and counsel Aseem Naphade that NGT had, on November 9, passed an order banning the sale and use of fire crackers. The order, while specifying a total ban on fire crackers in cities where average ambient air quality during November (as per available data of last year) fell under ‘poor’ and above category, had also directed states to regulate the use and sale of fire crackers where air quality was ‘moderate’ or below. In light of these directions of NGT, the PIL sought a ban on sale and use of crackers across the entire state as the ambient air quality, as per the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB), was below ‘moderate’ or ‘poor’ categories. On its part, the state through government pleader Priyabhushan Kakde informed the court that in light of the NGT order, the state had issued a notification on sale and use of crackers across the state on November 9 itself. The notification, Kakade submitted, put a total ban on use of fire crackers in nine districts which included Ambernath, Badlapur, Chandrapur, Dombivli, Nagpur, Thane, Mumbai, Vasai, Virar and Kalyan. Referring to the notification, Kakade submitted that in 14 other districts, which included Akola, Amravati, Aurangabad, Bhiwandi, Jalgaon, Jalna, Kolhapur, Latur, Nashik, Navi Mumbai, Pune, Solapur, Sangli and Ulhasnagar, the respective municipal corporations had been directed to assess the situation and air quality and to take a decision accordingly in line with the NGT order. After hearing the submissions, the court expressed its satisfaction with the measures initiated by the state in implementing the NGT order and disposed of the PIL.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/firecrackers-banned-in-9-districts-14-districts-yet-to-decide-maharashtra-govt-tells-bombay-hc/story-fbVK5434O5h8Fpe70cuhjI.html
12-11-2020||City||Software firm’s office in Ludhiana raided for data theft||Acting on a complaint of data theft, the cyber crime cell of Mohali police conducted raids at the office of Exoways Web Technologies Pvt Ltd at Feroze Gandhi market and also raided the residences of its owners in Ludhiana and Longowal on Thursday.The owners, who run Fourmodules.com, have been accused of stealing data and copying the software of the complainant, TCYonline.com.They were identified as Ramandeep Singh, Jagjit Singh, Rupinder Singh, Rahul Nagpal and his wife Harpreet Kaur.Two teams of 13 police personnel conducted these raids and seized 17 computers, along with pen drives, DVDs and other materials.Ramandeep was earlier working for the complainant and Jagjit was running a franchise at Barnala. During their tenure, they allegedly downloaded, copied and extracted client data and source codes from their employer’s network.Later, they set up Exoways Web Technologies Pvt Ltd in 2018 and started building parallel services under different firms.A case in this regard is registered under Sections 406, 408, 379, 381, 120-B and 34 of the Indian Penal Code and IT Act at the Punjab state cyber crime police station in Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/software-firm-s-office-in-ludhiana-raided-for-data-theft/story-CuqkZy01UxJeCmubq0TAkM.html
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh seeks Centre’s nod for second medical college||The Chandigarh health department has submitted a fresh detailed project report to the central government for establishing a new undergraduate medical college in the city. Approval has been sought from the ministry of health and family welfare for a medical college with 100 MBBS seats, associated with the 500-bed Government Multi Speciality Hospital, Sector 16, officials privy to the development said.The city currently has only 150 MBBS seats offered by Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, which also has 125 seats for postgraduate programmes. The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research offers only postgraduate programmes with around 310 seats.Land and InfraGovernment Multi Speciality Hospital is spread over 12 acres in Sector 16. In order to establish the medical college’s academic block, libraries and hostels, the health department had sought additional land within 10 kilometers. The UT administration has earmarked 15 acres in the outskirts of the city in Sarangpur. AffiliationThe process for affiliation of the proposed medical college has also begun, and requisite documents have been submitted to Panjab University, said a senior health department official.“Panjab University has also been apprised with the status of the proposal that has been sent to the central government and also the fulfilment of mandatory land requirement clause for medical colleges. A letter to the registrar along with the consent of application form has been submitted for starting the process at the university’s end,” said the official.Faculty“For departments, such as anatomy, which have not been established at GMSH but are a basic requirement for MBBS course, faculty members from Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, will be roped in until the new college start functioning in a full-fledged manner,” said UT health secretary Arun Gupta.In certain departments, the cadre of senior medical officers will be designated as faculty members based on their experience. “It will be helpful in the initial stages,” said another official.The hospital is already offering Diplomate National Board programmes in five specialities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-seeks-centre-s-nod-for-second-medical-college/story-nLd9qebodOEevmlx8MlOnJ.html
12-11-2020||Mumbai||Firecrackers could lead to Mumbai’s worst air pollution post-Diwali in 6 years: SAFAR||The city could breathe its most polluted post-Diwali air in six years if firecrackers are used on Saturday, according to an air quality prediction by researchers.With a 50% firecracker emissions scenario on Diwali (Saturday) and prevailing weather conditions over Mumbai, high smoke level is expected to aggravate and push the city’s air quality to the ‘very poor’ range the next day, making it the worst air quality in the last six years, read the air pollution forecast for Diwali 2020 released on Thursday by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research’s (SAFAR), under the Ministry of Earth Sciences. In an emission scenario where no crackers are burst, the air quality is likely to be in the ‘poor’ category. SAFAR began air quality monitoring in Mumbai in June 2015.Last year, Mumbai had recorded its cleanest Diwali and post-Diwali air in five years, owing to high wind speed under the influence of Cyclone Kyarr in the Arabian Sea.This year, the most polluted areas in the city are likely to be Andheri, Mazgaon and Chembur. “The highest levels of PM10 (large coarser pollutant particles) and PM2.5 (fine pollutant particles) are expected between 1am and 4am on the night of November 14 (Saturday) and morning of November 15 (Sunday). Air quality will start to improve from November 16 (Monday) and could reach poor or moderate levels by Tuesday,” the SAFAR forecast stated, adding that cool winds from the northerly to northeasterly direction were expected over Mumbai with moderate wind speed.“The air quality has been predicted taking into account two emission scenarios. The first where 50% firecracker use as compared to the average analysed, based on usage in previous years (2016-2018), standard background emissions, and meteorological conditions such as wind speed, temperature, moisture, etc. The other scenario considers nil firecracker use and just weather parameters,” said Gufran Beig, project director, SAFAR.“This may be the most polluted post-Diwali air since we began monitoring air quality in Mumbai, if firecrackers are used, as moderate wind speed and cool temperatures will allow pollutant particles to settle close to the surface and limit swift dispersion,” Beig added. SAFAR categorises AQI levels from 0-50 as good, 51-100 as satisfactory, 101-200 as moderate, 201-300 as poor, 301-400 as very poor, and above 401 as severe.In the scenario where firecrackers are used, the air quality index (AQI) for PM2.5 on Friday is expected to be 217, falling under the ‘poor’ category. On Saturday (Diwali) it may reach 263 (poor) and on Sunday may hit 338 (very poor). The AQI is likely to drop to 308 (very poor) on Monday. However, in the emissions scenario when no firecrackers are used, the AQI on Friday would remain the same but the Saturday recording would be 243 (poor), Sunday 267 (poor), and Monday 233 (poor).SAFAR also predicted that the concentration of PM2.5 this Diwali was likely to be almost three times the safe limit if firecrackers were used, and almost twice the safe limit without firecrackers. Against the safe limit of 60µg/m3 (microgrammes per cubic metre), Mumbai could record 109µg/m3 on Saturday and 170 µg/m3 (50% firecracker emissions) and 103 µg/m3 and 110 µg/m3 (nil emission from firecrackers).On Thursday, the city recorded an AQI of 204 (poor) with Mazgaon and Chembur being most polluted at 310 and 309 (both very poor), respectively. Bhandup (54) and Worli (68) had the cleanest air, both in the satisfactory category.Last year, the AQI was as low as 87 (satisfactory) on Diwali day (October 27, 2019) and 96 (moderate) a day after Diwali. In 2018, Mumbai recorded an AQI of 221 (poor) on Diwali (November 7, 2018), and 305 (very poor) AQI a day after. Mumbai recorded high pollution levels during Diwali 2017, when the AQI was 204 (poor) on Diwali (October 19, 2017), and 319 (very poor) the next day. In 2016, an AQI of 278 (poor) was recorded on Diwali (October 30, 2016), and 315 (very poor) the day after. In 2015, the city recorded an AQI of 279 (poor) on Diwali (November 11), and 313 (very poor) the day after.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/firecrackers-could-lead-to-mumbai-s-worst-air-pollution-post-diwali-in-6-years-safar/story-aYtsWnZpYHASuJ9RGWCxfK.html
12-11-2020||Delhi||CM tells PWD to hire consultants for redesigning roads||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday issued directions to the public works department (PWD) to immediately hire consultants for the redesigning of around 500km of arterial roads in the city that are more than 100 feet wide, said a statement issued by the CM’s office.“CM Arvind Kejriwal convened a review meeting with PWD officials today on the ongoing road redesigning project in Delhi, along the lines of European cities. He directed the officials to ensure that all obstacles under the pilot project to redesign the seven identified roads in Delhi. He said the process of appointing a consultant for the redesigning of roads is in the final stage and the PWD should complete the appointment process soon,” said the statement.It further said, “The project will follow the build, operate, transfer (BOT) model, the constitution company will have the responsibility to maintain the road for 15 years. The deadline for redesigning the first seven roads has been extended till March 2021, due to Covid-19; the earlier deadline was December 2020.” The ambit of the project – which originally had seven stretches – was expanded after the government redesigned the road in Chandni Chowk market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/cm-tells-pwd-to-hire-consultants-for-redesigning-roads/story-4FEqPlAweseTMsD3ZXkLqJ.html
12-11-2020||Delhi||E-vehicle service for transporting Covid-19 patients||New DelhiThe Delhi government on Thursday launched an app named ‘Jeevan Seva’ that can be used by non-critical coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients to hail electric vehicles to transport them to and from health care facilities. Those who test positive will be shared a link through SMS or a QR code for downloading the app. Launched in collaboration with EVERA, these electric vehicles will be used as ambulances to transfer patients to any health care facility for free. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said, “We are launching the Jeevan Sev app today to facilitate safe travel for Covid patients in home isolation. The service can be used for health check-ups, transfer for admission to a hospital, or purchasing health amenities. With this app, you will get access to an e-vehicle, which will provide for free pick-and-drop services. Each vehicle will be properly sanitised after every ride.”Patients can book a cab after registering through an OTP. The nearest cab will automatically be dispatched to the pick-up location. The service will be available 24*7.The drivers will wear PPE kits and will be equipped with sanitisers. The cabin will be insulated. GPS tracking will allow supervisors to monitor the location.The service will help free up ambulances for more critical cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/e-vehicle-service-for-transporting-covid-19-patients/story-8pXNIVmq0kb3PpfLFDChWM.html
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||Cracker ban to stay in Chandigarh||The ban on firecrackers will continue without any relaxation, the Chandigarh administration decided on Thursday.Rejecting the review representation made by a city-based traders’ association, UT adviser Manoj Parida said the order issued on November 6 under the Disaster Management Act, banning sale and use of firecrackers in the city, needs no modification or relaxation.The Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday had denied any relief to Chandigarh Cracker Dealers Association, which had challenged the UT administration’s order. Refusing to intervene in the matter, the court had told the dealers to approach the administration instead with a representation of their grievance.“The number of Covid cases is rising in Chandigarh. The pollution caused by bursting of crackers is likely to aggravate the situation further by adversely affecting the air quality. Despite restrictive hours for bursting crackers last Diwali, the air quality remained very poor in Chandigarh,” Parida said in his order in response to the traders’ representation.The adviser also quoted the National Green Tribunal order on the cracker ban on November 9, which states that “if there are more stringent measures under orders of the (local) authorities, the same will prevail”.‘Stall allotment was conditional’The traders had opposed the decision to ban crackers just a week before Diwali, stating it would lead to heavy losses. Traders had contended that they already purchased their stock and the administration had also conducted draw of lots for the allotment of stalls for cracker sale. However, Parida said that while conducting the draw of lots, it had been “clarified categorically that the allotment will be subject to a final decision by the UT administration regarding imposition of any ban on crackers”. “The applicants (association) were specifically asked not to go for advance purchase of crackers until November 6. A letter was also written to the president, Chandigarh Cracker Dealer Association, on November 5, stating that the purchase of crackers should be kept on hold,” the adviser said in his order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cracker-ban-to-stay-in-chandigarh/story-XH18SPgEzDY59Gd61kcmnO.html
12-11-2020||Mumbai||BMC commences coral translocation at Haji Ali and Worli for Mumbai coastal road project||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) began the process of shifting corals along the coastal road project route on Thursday, and it will take seven days to complete the process.The state mangrove cell, which is monitoring the translocation, explained how the process will be carried out by the Goa-based National Institute of Oceanography (NIO).Protected under Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act (WPA), 1972, corals are marine species sporadically spread across rocky intertidal regions along the Mumbai coast. BMC plans to shift two species of corals – 18 colonies across almost three feet at Worli, and another species across 1.1 foot at Haji Ali. BMC received WPA clearance from the Centre and forest department in October for the translocation.“We began surveying both coral areas on Thursday with NIO and the mangrove cell. From Friday, major works will commence,” said a senior BMC official, requesting anonymity.DR Patil, divisional forest officer (mangrove cell) said that the corals will be shifted to two different sites by NIO. “For Haji Ali, large boulders [on which coral colonies are] will be removed from the base and shifted at an identified location at Navy Nagar. Each coral colony will be tagged. Initially, all boulders will be removed and kept at Haji Ali in the water itself. Once all colonies are collected, the boulders will be shifted together.”The mangrove cell has appointed range forest officer Suresh Warak and marine biologist Harshal Karve to monitor the translocation.At Worli, sparse coral colonies have been identified across isolated rocks. “These rocks will be cut out and relocated to a site in Worli itself [outside the project area]. A base using cement and other materials will be made on which the cut rocks will be placed,” said Patil, adding that each coral colony will be tagged. “This will help us understand how many corals have been shifted and monitor them post translocation.”Environmentalists said the entire translocation process had been plagued by lack of transparency. “It seems that this translocation is being carried out as a fait accompli, and there is no information available about the experience or the track record of the people carrying out this operation. I do hope the corals survive the translocation,” said Debi Goenka, executive trustee, Conservation Action Trust.CONDITIONS TO TRANSLOCATE CORALSWhile issuing the final nod to translocate two coral patches the Union environment ministry listed six conditions that BMC must comply with:i) The entire translocation operation must be carried out in the presence of the forest department, and an expert from the Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun or any marine expert from a national instituteii) Ensure adequate protection to the corals during the entire process and also at the translocated siteiii) No damage is caused to other wildlife and utmost care exercised during translocationiv) Submit a completion report post translocation to MoEFCC and periodic reports on the status of corals after translocation to new sitev) Ensure no diversion of protected areas or eco-sensitive zones are involved, and the process is not in contravention to any judicial awardsvi) In case of any mishap during translocation that endangers or may endanger the safety of the scheduled species, MoEFCC may review or revoke permissions given. (Source: MoEFCC permission document)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-commences-coral-translocation-at-haji-ali-and-worli-for-mumbai-coastal-road-project/story-aKMZBG3tzPnjtXD2Di9BcN.html
12-11-2020||City||Ludhiana: Inter-state gang of vehicle lifters busted, BTech grad among 3 held||A three-member gang, led by a history-sheeter and comprising an engineering graduate, that stole vehicles in Ludhiana, Chandigarh and Panchkula has landed in the police net.Arrested in Pune, Maharashtra, the gang members were brought to Ludhiana on a production warrant on Wednesday.As many as four cars, including two Toyota Innova, one Toyota Fortuner and a Chevrolet Beat, have been recovered from the gang members, identified as Harpreet Singh, alias Smarty, 32, of Urban Estate, Phase 1, Patiala; Deepak Khanna, alias Tushar, 40, of East Uttam Nagar, New Delhi and Manjit Singh, alias Babba, 32, of Ankur Residency, Pune.Police claim to have cracked at least five cases of vehicle lifting in Ludhiana, Chandigarh and Panchkula with their arrest. They had stolen six cars from the three cities between September 6 and October 8, of which four have been recovered.“Cops in Pune arrested the accused following information provided by the Ludhiana police. As they executed vehicle lifting in Ludhiana also, we brought them here on production warrant for questioning,” said Simratpal Singh Dhindsa, deputy commissioner of police (DCP, investigation).The gang’s kingpin, Deepak, is facing trial in 35 cases, while Harpreet and Manjit are booked in 10 and 15 cases, respectively.Engineer used know-how for crime “Harpreet holds a BTech and used his know-how to devise ways to break into even cars equipped with security systems. After stealing the cars, they would drive these to Pune, where Manjit owns a workshop. There, they would dismantle the cars and sell off the spares,” DCP Dhindsa said.The gang also sold off some cars using the documents of totally damaged cars. “They lived in a rented accommodation at Zirakpur and after stealing vehicles, used to leave for Pune,” he added.Police are expecting more information on the network of vehicle-lifter gangs through interrogation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-inter-state-gang-of-vehicle-lifters-busted-btech-grad-among-3-held/story-KecyhYFwuFxzrp0SaafTvN.html
12-11-2020||Delhi||Don’t be burdened by ideology if it hinders national interest: Modi at JNU event||New DelhiOne should not be burdened by ideology if it is a question of national interest, which is a much higher aim, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday while inaugurating a statue of Swami Vivekananda at Delhi’s Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU).Speaking at the event at JNU -- considered an academic bastion of the Left -- through video-conferencing, Modi said India’s history was replete with examples such as the freedom struggle or the movement against Emergency, where people of diverse ideologies joined hands for a common national goal.The prime minister, however, warned against shedding ideology for opportunistic goals.The premier university has been in the eye of many ideological battles in recent years as debates on nationalism and secularism have raged within its campus.“If there is one thing that has inflicted huge damage on our country’s democratic set-up, that is to giving more importance to an ideology over national interest. Because someone’s ideology says something, that person will stay confined within that thought – this is not the right approach. Everyone takes pride in their ideology. But our ideology in matters of national interest should be in standing with the nation, and in no circumstance against the nation,” the prime minister said.In the past whenever the country has faced a tough time, people from varying ideologies came together, Modi said, adding during the freedom struggle, people from diverse thoughts came together under Mahatama Gandhi’s leadership.“No one had to shed their ideology under Bapu’s leadership. Everyone gave preference to a common cause. The country saw a similar unity during Emergency. I was fortunate to be part of that movement...there were former leaders and activists of the Congress, leaders of the RSS and Jana Sangh, socialists and communists. There were many from JNU who struggled against emergency. None had to compromise on their ideology. There was only one aim – national interest. And that was the greatest aim,” the prime minister said.When there is the question of national integrity or interest, to be burdened by ideology only leads to harming of the country’s interest, Modi said.“I agree that to compromise on ideology for opportunism or selfishness is as wrong. However, in this information age, such opportunism does not succeed. We are able to see such things minutely in our day-to-day life. We have to stay away from opportunism,” the prime minister said.Pointing to the JNU hostels, the prime minister said they were named after rivers such as Ganga, Sabarmati, Godavari, Tapti, Jhelum, Sutlej, etc. “Like these rivers, you come from diverse parts and with diverse thoughts. This sharing and germinating of ideas has to continue to flow,” he said, adding, only because of diversity of ideas, India is the most vibrant democracy of the world.Modi said the youth should not accept any status quo without questioning it.“I wish this statue of Swami Vivekananda provides inspiration to all to develop compassion, devotion to country and a vision of oneness. This is not just a statue but a symbol of that lofty thought by the strength of which one sanyasi introduced India to the world. He knew what India could give to the world. In USA’s Michigan University, he had said this century belongs to you but the 21st century would belong to India. This statue embodies that very sentiment, the prime minister said.Referring to the popular Sabarmati Dhaba in the JNU campus, Modi said debates and ideas were exchanged happened at this spot. “Your craving for ideas and discussion were satisfied at the Sabarmati Dhaba; now you have another spot,” he added. Speaking on his government’s “pro-farmer” and pro-poor reforms, he said reforms were being carried out in every sector with self-dependence (Atma-nirbharta) in mind. People of the country have through their vote supported these reforms, he said.“You in JNU keep analysing the social and political scenario of the country. Who knows better than you what kind of things were said about reforms at one time in India. Is it not true that good reforms were considered bad politics? Then how did good reforms become good politics?” the prime minister asked.“A safety shield is being prepared before every reform. This shield is vishwas (trust). For instance, pro-farmer reforms; the farmer was only a subject of political discussion for decades and actual steps for their welfare were very limited. But in the past five-six years, we have developed a safety system for farmers. Be it better irrigation system, modernisation of mandis, availability of urea, crop insurance, online marketing, MSP to the tune or one and half times the cost, etc.”The path had been cleared to allow farmers to become exporters, he said.A similar approach was being followed to uplift the poor, the prime minister said, adding this section was always the most neglected. Lauding the new National Education Policy (NEP), he said, “The focus of the NEP is inclusion. Language is just a medium and not a measure of knowledge. That is the spirit of this NEP.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/don-t-be-burdened-by-ideology-if-it-hinders-national-interest-modi-at-jnu-event/story-U5LwZfnRyZ9z5qcB4g7boK.html
12-11-2020||Lifestyle||Yours, mine, ours — A happy Diwali for all||A glimmer of hope, a sparkle of happiness and twinkles of laughter - the little joys of life are what festivals entail. Celebrating Diwali in its true essence and espousing its true spirit, these industry pioneers are doing every bit to ensure that the people around have a truly happy Diwali. From an award-winning fashion designer supporting her weavers through the pandemic to a Michelin-star chef helping the less fortunate, here’s how the stalwarts are giving it back to society this year. Designer Madhu Jain, who is known for her exemplary work in keeping Ikat alive is supporting her weavers through these times, with Diwali being no exception. “I am giving them work. It’s just that we are not working on the huge scale that we used to, but I will fight hammer and tong for what I believe in. It is a tough call in today’s time but that’s my philosophy,” she says.Crafts revivalist Laila Tyabji has just wrapped up the annual 11-day Diwali Bazaar, the Festival of Lights at Dastkaar, which received good footfall despite the pandemic. “There were around 125 participants – weavers and crafts people from all over the country. Both the artisans and the customers were happy to have an event like this happening again,” she says, adding that Diwali for her would be sans any parties or celebrations.Michelin-star chef Suvir Saran feels that it is now incumbent upon us that have a roof over our heads and gainful employment to help others less fortunate. He says, “My calling to action came as I saw loyal and hardworking employees lose their jobs and livelihood. I help where and as I can. Have also retained two of my chefs and we are working on R&D so as to be ready for the next chapter of the life of hospitality post Covid-19. Of course, there is the Blind School and we as a family make sure to keep them in our minds. It was where my mother always went to shop for Diwali and also give her time, and we kids carry on that tradition.”The year has been a very tough one and any support that we can give others is much needed believes restaurateur AD Singh. He says, “Now that Olive is restarting its restaurants we have restarted our efforts to fight hunger in children which is an absolute crime. At many of our restaurants under the Kitchens Against Hunger initiative, we charge diners ten rupees extra on their bill and match the same from our side. This corpus will go this season to specific NGOs we support like the Jai Vakeel foundation, the OM foundation etc, to help them provide midday meals for children.”Designer Nupur Kanoi feels that any small contribution towards the society makes a big difference. She says, “This year everybody’s helping each other in the maximum ways one can. We have been working at 30-40% capacity and we have ensured ‘corona-insurance’ for the safety of our workers. We are intentionally working with everything made in India to provide work to our karigars and artisans, and are concentrating more towards our own textiles.”Follow htcity for more updates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/yours-mine-ours-a-happy-diwali-for-all/story-QotaNY0MqIyAG0blnTShaN.html
12-11-2020||Delhi||77 top athletes get Delhi govt’s scholarship||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday felicitated 77 athletes who won Delhi government scholarships under its Mission Excellence scheme.The scheme aims to provide financial assistance to top performing sportspersons of Delhi for their training and coaching.Kejriwal said, “This scheme is not just for the people of Delhi, but for the entire country. Because when these sports people win laurels globally, not just Delhi but the whole nation will feel proud and celebrate them… Our dream is that India should win more medals than China in international games. We have made several plans, including building a Delhi Sports University, to fulfil this dream.”The 77 sportspersons collectively received ₹4.39 crore. A total of 708 candidates had applied for the scholarship, said the government in a statement.“There are talented players in every village and every locality, but they do not get the support of any government. The Delhi government will provide that ray of hope for such players and nurture them,” said Kejriwal at the felicitation event, accompanied by deputy CM Manish Sisodia.Sisodia said, “Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, sporting events have suffered a lot which has impacted the players severely. However, that it is imperative to move forward in the world of sports, and adapt to the circumstances. Delhi Sports University is a step forward in that direction. We also need your suggestions. Tell us what you need from us, and we will do our best to deliver that.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/77-top-athletes-get-delhi-govt-s-scholarship/story-c155DYVEyoWUJcmmgZMesO.html
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s active Covid count goes past 1,000 again||After nearly a month, the number of active Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh crossed the 1,000 mark once again on Thursday. Following a surge, active cases had shot up to 3,171 on September 16. The pandemic hit a plateau the following month, and active cases dropped below 1,000 in mid-October. As the number of recoveries remained higher than fresh cases, the number of active cases reached 593 on November 2, before starting to rise again.Meanwhile, the death toll increased to 244 after a 74-year-old woman from Manimajra succumbed at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research on Thursday.After two days, the daily infection count, too, breached the 100 mark once again, with 109 people testing positive for the deadly virus. It also took the total tally to 15,543. The number of tests conducted during the day stood at 1,046, lower than 1,356 done on Wednesday.In a little breather, 64 patients were discharged, taking the number of those cured to 14,297. Among those tested positive on Thursday is an India Meteorological Department (IMD) official, who works at its observatory in Sector 39. A resident of Sector 7, he stopped coming to the office after developing symptoms on November 7. He got tested on November 10, and was found to be positive. Earlier, too an IMD employee, who resides at Modern Housing Complex in Manimajra, had tested positive on August 12.Tricity’s daily count crosses 300The tricity’s daily count also crossed 300 after a considerable period, with 313 people testing positive. Mohali district registered two deaths, 132 cases, and 53 recoveries.Among the fresh cases, 108 surfaced in Mohali city alone, followed by nine in Gharuan and five in Dera Bassi.As many as 13,311 people have tested positive so far, of whom 12,159 have recovered and 253 have died . The number of active cases stands at 899.Panchkula reported no casualty for seventh consecutive day, while 72 people tested positive. Among those infected are two infants, aged six and nine months, from Sector 7 and Majra Mehtab, respectively.Of 7,783 people tested positive so far, 7,154 have recovered and 117 have died, leaving 512 active cases..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-active-covid-count-goes-past-1-000-again/story-HDDqYYg8XUx0693ZoHG9GM.html
12-11-2020||City||Police arrest man who robbed R40 lakh to buy car as Diwali gift for girlfriend||New Delhi: To arrange money for purchasing a car for his girlfriend as a Diwali gift, a 26-year-old man allegedly robbed R40 lakh from two car-borne persons in Sonepat near Delhi on November 4, police said on Thursday after arresting the man.For the next five days, the man, Surender alias Sonu, spent R1 lakh from the stolen money partying with his companion. But before he could buy a Skoda car as a Diwali gift, the Delhi Police’s crime branch received information about his crime and caught him from outer Delhi’s Narela with the remaining amount on November 10, the police said.“We arrested Surender in the robbery and attempt to murder case registered at Kharkhoda police station in Haryana’s Sonepat. Apart from the stolen money, we recovered a Swift Dzire car Surender used in the crime. He was previously involved in two cases, including an armed robbery, registered at the Narela police station,” additional commissioner of police (crime) BK Singh said.According to Singh, Surender had allegedly intercepted a Honda City car in Kharkhoda on November 4. When the two occupants of the car did not open the door, Surender allegedly fired two bullets to force them to do so. He took R40 lakh kept the Honda City’s boot and fled in his Dzire car. The cash belonged to a Delhi-based businessman, police said.On November 10, Singh said, the crime branch team learnt about Surender’s movement in Narela and caught him after a brief case.“His interrogation led to the recovery of R39 lakh, while he spent R1 lakh on his girlfriend for whom he wanted to purchase a Skoda car as a Diwali gift and committed the robbery to arrange the money. Surender said the businessman’s employee, Rajender, informed him about the cash ,” the additional CP said, adding the Kharkhoda police have been informed about Surender’s arrest.A resident of Kundli in Haryana, Surender was first booked in a case of attempted culpable homicide in Narela in 2017. In 2019, he and his associates committed an armed robbery of R18 lakh in Narela. A reward of R50,000 was announced on his arrest. Surender was arrested and jailed in the case. He was bailed out in February 2020, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-arrest-man-who-robbed-r40-lakh-to-buy-car-as-diwali-gift-for-girlfriend/story-kHOyQM6GlIo3B8isIIMERL.html
12-11-2020||City||Minor’s rape accused flees from Chandimandir police station||A 20-year-old Delhi youth arrested for allegedly kidnapping and raping a 16-year-old Panchkula girl escaped from the Chandimandir police station on Wednesday. Identified as Deepak of Dwarka in New Delhi, he was booked on September 19 on the complaint of the girl’s father. Police traced the girl to Delhi and arrested Deepak on Wednesday. After being brought back, the girl recorded her statement before a judicial officer and Deepak was taken to the police station for further interrogation.On the excuse of using the washroom, Deepak gave the guards on duty the slip around 7pm. Searches conducted in the nearby areas proved futile. Following this, he was booked under Section 224 (resistance or obstruction by a person to his lawful apprehension) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). In the previous case, he faces charges under Sections 363 (kidnapping), 366A (procuration of minor girl) , 376(2)(n) (rape repeatedly the same woman) of the IPC, and Section 6 (aggravated penetrative sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/minor-s-rape-accused-flees-from-chandimandir-police-station/story-tckd4RciXxpXymchQ7OYjJ.html
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh golfer Karandeep Kochhar pockets maiden pro title||In November 2016, Kolkota; then at 17 years and four months, Chandigarh’s Karandeep Kochhar became the first amateur to win the PGTI (Professional Golf Tour of India) title. The efforts also helped him better the record of another local golfer, Shubhankar Sharma (17 years and eight months), to become the country’s youngest to win the title. Kochhar turned professional the very next year in February.Now, after a wait of almost four years and 45 tournaments in the PGTI circuit, Kochhar has finally won his maiden pro title at the Tata Steel Players Championship 2020 presented by the Chandigarh Golf Club on Thursday.The leader of the last two days, Kochhar taking full advantage of his home course, played a round of three-under-69 to complete his tally at 18-under-270 and pocket the winner’s cheque for ₹4.84 lakh. Kolkota’s Sunit Chowrasia finished second at 16-under-272, while another Chandigarh golfer and last event’s winner Akshay Sharma finished third at 14-under-274.“It’s obviously a long awaited win. It’s been almost four years since I turned professional. I was searching for this opportunity,” said an elated Kochhar, adding that though over the years he was not able to win the title, he remained very calm, focused and kept on working on his game. “Today, finally, I am able to break the jinx. In the past, I came close to winning and finished at second place three to four times. I was even placed second last week in Panchkula, and that built my momentum for this win. I am really happy for today’s victory, and being my first pro title, it will always remain special for me in the years to come,” he said. ‘Overall I am in a better shape’Kochhar started the tournament with six-under-66 and maintained his consistency till the end (66-68-67-69). In the tournament, he had just two bogeys. “I have put in a lot of work in the past two-three months, especially in the gym and that has helped me a lot. My confidence is up, I am much healthier, changed my lifestyle, the way I eat, the way I sleep and the way I work. Overall I am in a better shape,” he said. “In the last two months, I had played a lot of golf at my home course and have been very much familiar with the course. And our weekly in-house pro tournaments at Chandigarh Golf Club also helped me to prepare better for the tournament,” said Kochhar, who has been visiting the course with his grandfather Dr GS Kochhar since he was little above three.He started the sport at an early age and had been the top ranked golfer in the age group categories in the amateur circuit. He also won the 116th All-India Amateur Championship in December 2016, before turning professional. “Golf is very important for me and my life revolves around it. My entire day goes to the sport, and after Class 12, I had taken a break from the studies. But now, I will pursue my graduation from next year,” said Kochhar. As for now, he plans to take a break for a few days, following which his coach Jesse Grewal will conduct analysis of his game and “will work on my shortcomings or wherever we need to improve”. “My next target is the Jeev invitational tournament to be held next month in Chandigarh,” he said.How others fared at tournamentChowrasia played Thursday’s best card of 10-under-62 and also broke the previous course record of 8-under-64, jointly held by Rashid Khan, Sudhir Sharma and Abhijit Singh Chadha.Chandigarh golfer Yuvraj Singh Sandhu (67) and Gurugram’s Veer Ahlawat (70) were joint fourth at 13-under-275.Abhijit Singh Chadha (66) in tied sixth at 11-under-277 and Aadil Bedi (68) in tied 10th at nine-under-279 were the other two local players in the top 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-golfer-karandeep-kochhar-pockets-maiden-pro-title/story-tCxM3Kh5kYS5dWPbhS4JHP.html
12-11-2020||Noida||Noida: Man claims cheated by escort service||Noida: A 30-year-old man has alleged that he was robbed off ₹10,000 by two men after he contacted them for an escort service online. A probe in the matter is underway, said the police.The man, who is from Lucknow, is living in an area under the Sector 39 police jurisdiction. He has alleged that he had contacted an escort service online on November 6.“I spoke to a man and it was decided that we would meet at the Botanical Garden metro station. Two men came there in a white Swift car. They took ₹8,500 from me in cash and another ₹1,500 via an online transaction. The duo asked me to wait and said that a girl will reach shortly, after which they left,” said the man.However, after waiting a long time he realised that no one was coming. When he tried to contact them to get his money, he could not get through to them, the man alleged.The man later filed a complaint with the Sector 39 police, after which a case was registered under section 406 (Punishment for criminal breach of trust) of the Indian Penal Code.“We have filed a case and are on the lookout for the suspects. The complainant only remembered part of the licence plate number (of the suspects’ car) and we are working on tracing the vehicle,” said Azad Singh Tomar, station house officer, Sector 39 police station.However, senior police officials said that the case is more complicated.“It seems that the victim has had prior contact with the suspects and had even worked with them on earlier occasions. A probe in the matter is underway and we will know more soon,” said Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1.In a separate incident, a 32-year-old businessman has alleged that he was blackmailed by a woman who extorted ₹1 lakh from him by threatening to release objectionable videos of him.“The man, who is married, had come in contact with the woman earlier this year on social media and the two became friends online. In July, the suspect began blackmailing him and threatening to release his videos on the internet, after which the suspect started extorting money from him,” said Rakesh Kumar Singh, station house officer, Sector 20 police station.He said that the suspect took ₹1 lakh from him through online transactions but as they did not stop blackmailing him, he approached the police. A case of cheating (Section 420 of the IPC) and the IT Act has been registered against unidentified suspects at the Sector 20 police station while a probe is being conducted by the cyber cell to trace the blackmailers, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-man-claims-cheated-by-escort-service/story-QhqtpF9eyAzA2bCYq2O9iN.html
12-11-2020||Noida||Minor forced to work as domestic help, mother files complaint||Noida: A woman living under the Sector 39 police jurisdiction has alleged that a family living in their neighbourhood is forcing their minor daughter to do domestic work despite her objections.The incident was reported from Sadarpur village where the woman, who is a daily wage earner, lives with her husband, two sons and two daughters. She has alleged that a couple living nearby has taken her daughter and is forcing her to work as a domestic help.“In February, the couple sweet talked my 14-year-old daughter into staying and working for them. Since then they have kept her there despite us telling them time and again to send her back. But they are not listening and are forcing her to stay there and keep working,” alleged the mother.She added that the couple has been molesting their daughter and are not letting her go.“The husband seems to be a powerful man and claims to have many contacts at high places, whereas we are a very poor family. We cannot stand up to them. When we tried to get our daughter back, the man and his relatives assaulted me and my husband. They even threatened my entire family with dire consequences. They wouldn’t even let us meet her,” alleged the woman.She said her family is scared of the accused family and is also worried about the safety of not only their daughter but also her other children, who are all minors. The woman’s complaint also did the rounds on social media, after which police officials took cognizance of the matter and a case was registered at the Sector 39 police station against the couple.“A probe in the matter is underway. No arrests have been made yet. We will verify the claims and take necessary action accordingly,” said Azad Singh Tomar, station house officer, Sector 39 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/minor-forced-to-work-as-domestic-help-mother-files-complaint/story-28W5jahM37RbgZSVZmTMXO.html
12-11-2020||Noida||Noida: Ranney wells not functional, residents face water woes||NOIDA: The Noida authority has started the process to hire an agency for repairing defunct Ranney wells and tube well. The move comes after residents complained of poor water supply for the last one month. Officials said complaints have been coming in from October 15, when cleaning of Upper Ganga canal, which supplies drinking water, began.The cleaning will continue till November 15. It is an annual exercise due to which residents witness water woes annually. Officials said residents have requested that the Ranney well and tube well should be repaired on time so that they do not face water woes during the festive season.According to the authority’s water department, five out of the 11 Ranney wells they have are completely shut and 126 tubewells out of 431 are not functional due to technical issues. As a result, the supply of groundwater also gets affected during the festive season.“We are preparing estimates so that we can invite tenders from interested agencies, which can repair the non-functional Ranney wells and tubewells,” said RP Singh, project engineer of the Noida authority.Residents, meanwhile, said the authority should have repaired these well in advance. There are a total of 11 Renney wells in Noida. Each Ranney well extracts ground water and stores it for supply to households. One Ranney well supplies 18 million liters per day (MLD) water to the city. “We have been demanding from the Noida authority that the water supply should not get affected during the festive season. But the water department did not repair these earlier. As a result we are staring at a water crisis. The water supply is not only erratic but muddy water is being supplied in many areas,” said AN Dhawan, legal advisor to the federation of Noida residents’ welfare association (FONRWAs), an umbrella body of city RWAs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-ranney-wells-not-functional-residents-face-water-woes/story-dseI0o1zBjp2QTVfGjay5H.html
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC’s Class-4 staffers to get refundable festive allowance||The municipal corporation (MC) on Thursday announced a refundable festival allowance for its regular and contractual Class-four employees.An allowance of Rs 7,000 has been announced for permanent staffers including sweepers and sewermen while contractual staff will get Rs 4,000. The employees will have to return the amount in 12 equal instalments.There are 4,300 permanent and 3,425 contractual Class 4-employees under the MC and a sum of around Rs 4.38 crore will be distributed. On Thursday morning, members of the Municipal Employees Sangharsh Committee met mayor Balkar Sandhu and municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal demanding a festival allowance for the Class-four employees.Ashwani Sahota, chairman of the committee, said: “The Mayor and MC commissioner have accepted the demand of the employees and we are thankful to them. The employees will have to return the amount in 12 equal instalments.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-mc-s-class-4-staffers-to-get-refundable-festive-allowance/story-WHndoi3mIOfTwPmvmZAqJN.html
12-11-2020||Noida||Noida: Slight drop in air quality likely on Diwali but rains may lead to quick recovery||Noida: The air quality of Noida could drop due to a change in wind direction late on November 13 and November 14 – Diwali day, which may lead to accumulation of pollutants, however, a quick recovery is on the cards due to the possibility of rains, said experts. Favourable weather conditions pulled Noida and Greater Noida out of the “severe” air quality category on Wednesday, however, the air as on Thursday was still very poor. According to weather analysts, a slight deterioration, though within the “very poor” category, is likely on Friday and Saturday due to change in the wind directions and speed. “The wind speed is likely to drop towards Friday evening and Saturday. The direction may drop from easterly to north-westerly and the speed may drop from maximum 12 kmph to 6 kmph. This combined with additional local emissions, or possibility of stubble burning, may slightly bring down air quality. But rains are expected on Sunday, a day after Diwali, after which the winds will also increase. This could lead to quick improvement,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, India Meteorological Department (IMD). The experts also believe that the improvement in the air quality a day after Diwali would also depend on the intensity of the rains. “There is a western disturbance and a cyclonic circulation over Uttar Pradesh, which will lead to rains in western UP and the national capital region, including other areas in northern India on Sunday, November 15. However, the improvement of air quality depends upon the intensity of the rain. If the intensity is moderate then the air quality will improve,” said Mahesh Palawat, director, private weather forecasting agency Skymet. He added that a low rainfall or a drizzle would lead to an increase in the moisture content and trap the pollutants, rather than washing them away. “Heavier pollutants would need strong winds for ventilation,” he adds. According to CPCB records, the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Diwali 2019 (October 27) was 358, or “very poor”, against Diwali 2018 (November 7) at 288 or “poor”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-slight-drop-in-air-quality-likely-on-diwali-but-rains-may-lead-to-quick-recovery/story-6EBX6JsbUSmIuLuKKjrPWI.html
12-11-2020||Noida||Air quality of Noida improves slightly, even as violations continue||Noida: The air quality of Noida and Greater Noida showed a little improvement on Thursday as weather conditions remained mostly favourable, yet pollution levels remained in the “very poor” category.However, a slight rise was seen in the smaller particle pollutant PM2.5, which often increases due to smoke from fire or vehicular emissions, showed data assessed by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the city saw easterly winds at a speed of 10 to 12 kmph, however, the dispersion was not as high as expected, possibly due to the higher humidity in the air or festival rush leading to more emissions. Weather analysts expect the air quality to worsen slightly due to the change in wind direction on November 13 and 14, but the recovery is likely to be swift in the days to follow.“Easterly winds may see a marginal change or may vary for the day to north-westerly and easterly, but pollutants will ventilate due to better wind speed. On November 14, however, the wind speed may drop to five to six kmph, which may worsen air quality,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. According to CPCB, the air quality index (AQI) of Noida, on a scale of 0 to 500, was 305 on Thursday, against 309 on Wednesday. The city witnessed an AQI of 455 or “severe” on Monday. The AQI of Greater Noida on Thursday was 327, against 340 on Wednesday, and 436 or “severe” on Monday. The AQI of Ghaziabad was 328 on Thursday, against 360 on Wednesday and 444 or “severe” on Monday.Despite a slight drop in the overall AQI, Noida’s PM2.5 levels were at 180.63 microgrammes per cubic metres (µg/m3) on Thursday against 170.54µg/m3 a day earlier. The PM10 levels, however, shrunk in Noida, from 418.49µg/m3 on Wednesday to 342.17µg/m3 on Thursday. In Greater Noida, PM2.5 remained unchanged 180µg/m3 Wednesday and Thursday, despite supportive winds. The PM10 also remained almost the same with the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) recording them at 385.57µg/m3 on Thursday against 388.79 on Wednesday. “Smoke is the major source of PM2.5, be it from vehicle or stubble burning, unlike PM10 which are coarser particles which rise due to dust. The rise in PM2.5 could be because of more vehicular movement due to the festive season,” said Shambhavi Shukla, program officer, air pollution, centre for science and environment (CSE). Meanwhile, a large pile of horticulture waste was set afire during the day on Thursday in Greater Noida West. The fire was quickly doused off and the waste taken away.“A huge pile of freshly trimmed fauna and some dry horticulture waste was set afire at Sector 16, Greater Noida west. The waste came from three spots – one from a private builder who was getting hedges trimmed outside their construction site, the second from development work at a park and the third from a road divider. We quickly sent a complaint to the concerned officials and after some time, the fire was doused and remains removed from the spot. This is a common issue in this area,” said Manish Kumar, vice-president of Noida extension flat owners’ welfare association, a citizen’s welfare group, who reported the incident. “We had received a complaint about the burning and are investigating the matter. A penalty will be imposed on the concerned department or individual. Waste burning cases are random and we had been imposing penalties and instigating the concerned authorities, like the state industrial development authority and Greater Noida authority, to manage their waste so that it’s not set afire,” said Archna Dwivedi, regional officer, UPPCB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/air-quality-of-noida-improves-slightly-even-as-violations-continue/story-IbDy5f7I8R6FX6qvliHlcL.html
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||Govt school in Ludhiana gets national award for water mgmt||SPS Government Senior Secondary School (boys), Gill, received the second position in the best school category during the second National Water Award ceremony organised by ministry of Jal Shakti, government of India, on Thursday. The school was awarded for its commendable efforts in the area of water conversation/management. A team from the ministry inspected the school in January and had decided to announce the awards on National Water Day in March. But, due to the coronavirus outbreak, it was delayed. School principal Anita Singla congratulated the students and staff members and said that they will continue to make efforts to save water. The initiative was taken up by Jasbir Singh Sandhu, the school’s agriculture master, who has come up with a kitchen garden from waste water and the seasonal vegetables grown there are used to prepare mid-day meal. Singh also came up with another creative idea to set up a water-recharging pit where waste water is utilised and can be reused. He also formed teams of NSS volunteers which keep a tab so that water is not wasted and another team of students to help villagers to save water. To sensitise students, authorities organise various competitions such as painting and nukkad nataks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/govt-school-gets-national-award-for-water-mgmt/story-0aNPmReBhONTV9xhnLRgrI.html
12-11-2020||City||Noida: Public places get new look||NOIDA: The Noida authority said that it has beautified the main entry gates of the city ahead of the Diwali festival. It has installed a water fountain, murals and also put up lights not only at the entry gates but also at city parks and public places to greet visitors, said officials.“We decided to beautify the entry gates so that it gives a good impression about the image of the city to visitors. We are focusing on cleanliness and beautification of the city to make it a better place to live in,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer of the authority.With murals, sculptures and other artwork, the city has adorned a new look. The authority has painted city walls, pillars of the Metro corridor and other public spaces with art works.The Sector 33A gate has been adorned with dancing puppets and the entry gate at Delhi-Noida border is beautified with mix material.“We have used mix material to make a beautiful sculpture at the Delhi-Noida border near Mayur Vihar. However, it gives an impression that it is made out of stone. These artworks are not only an attraction to visitors but also help in creating a positive image of the city,” said another Noida authority official, not authorised to speak to the media.The authority has made four sculptures on different yoga postures at the Noida Stadium. Another sculpture has been made of a trophy at the stadium, said officials.The authority has placed a sculpture about children playing games, at a traffic intersection in Sector 125 and a golf stick sculpture is installed at the Golf Course traffic intersection in Sector 38A.“Our objective of installing these murals and sculptures at public places in the city is that the general public become aware of art, culture, sports, yoga and other aspects of life. Apart from this, these initiatives are aimed at giving a different, attractive look to the city ahead of the festival,” said Indu Prakash Singh, officer on special duty of the authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-public-places-get-new-look/story-zhhj2ytggnDTuPM7BPEtxL.html
12-11-2020||Noida||Man beaten up, pushed from first floor over property dispute in Dadri||Greater Noida: A 30-year-old man was beaten and then pushed from the first floor of his under-construction building, allegedly over a property dispute, in Greater Noida’s Dadri. A video of the incident has gone viral on social media. In the video three persons are purportedly seen beating the victim with bricks and punches, and then pushing him to the ground below. One of the suspects was purportedly seen on the ground floor. The victim has been admitted to a private hospital. Police said they have registered a case and are investigating the matter.The victim, Manish Bhati, is a resident of Dabra village in Dadri. The complaint has been filed by his wife Poonam has filed a complaint in Dadri police station. Poonam said her family was developing a house in the village. “Construction workers had completed one floor. My husband was at the roof supervising the work when four persons from the neighbourhood reached the spot and started quarrelling with him, saying the pillar was tilted towards their land,” she alleged.The matter soon escalated and the three suspects punched Bhati and thrashed him with bricks lying nearby, she alleged, adding that they did not stop at this, and the three suspects pushed him from the roof to the ground below, in which the victim received critical injuries. In the video, the victim was purportedly seen falling to the ground from the roof and did not move after that, appearing he received critical injuries. Local residents captured the incident on their mobile phones and the footage was widely circulated, said officials. Rajveer Singh Chauhan, station house officer, Dadri police station, said the four suspects are neighbours and they have a property dispute with the victim. “We have received a complaint and have registered an FIR against them. We have launched a search to arrest the suspects,” he said. The FIR has been registered under IPC Section 147 (rioting) and Section 323 (voluntarily causing hurt).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/man-beaten-up-pushed-from-first-floor-over-property-dispute-in-dadri/story-a5j3Cx3AKDRyr3StGg8jEP.html
12-11-2020||Noida||Sub-inspector suspended for manhandling security guards in Greater Noida society||The Noida Police suspended a sub-inspector (S-I) who allegedly manhandled the security personnel of his residential society, Panchsheel Hynish, in Greater Noida west on Wednesday night. The officer, Vikas Chauhan, was posted at Parthala Police check post in Sector 122. Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said, “The sub-inspector and his wife were going outside in their car at night. They had a heated argument over some issue and the sub-inspector allegedly abused his wife. The society’s security reached the spot and tried to intervene.”“The sub-inspector lost cool and manhandled the guards and abused them too. A guard alerted the society’s maintenance department and some officials reached the spot. The cop also brandished his gun at the security personnel and created panic,” said Alok Dwivedi, a resident of the society. Video clips of the alleged incident soon made its way onto social media. In it, the S-I is purportedly seen in his trousers and vest with the weapon strapped in the belt, and holding a guard’s by his collar. Society residents informed the police and a team from Bisrakh police station arrived to resolve the matter by 12.30 am. GB Nagar Police Commissioner Alok Singh later suspended the sub-inspector. Chander said that police have also launched a departmental enquiry into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/sub-inspector-suspended-for-manhandling-security-guards-in-greater-noida-society/story-Whqoo2ZUF0k461YzJJNIkN.html
12-11-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad exhausts rapid antigen kit stock, officials ask nearby districts for help as state raises testing target||It is for the first time since March that the Ghaziabad district faces an acute shortage of rapid antigen kits, as the entire stock was exhausted on Thursday. Officials said they are trying to seek help from neighbouring districts as Uttar Pradesh officials have increased the daily antigen testing target of both Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar, from 2,000 per day to at least 3,500 per day.Sources in the district health department said that the entire stock of rapid antigen kits was exhausted by Thursday evening, and that no replenishments could be made from the warehouse at Meerut. Sources also revealed that stocks of Viral Transport Medium (VTM) vials were about 6,000 in number till Thursday evening. The vials are used for storing samples which are taken up primarily for RT-PCR tests. “A shortage was often observed during the past several days, but new stocks used to come in. However, by the end of Thursday, the entire stock of rapid kits was exhausted and new stock is awaited. We tried to find more boxes of rapid kits, if any was available with us, but to no avail,” said a source from the district health department, asking not to be identified.The district at present has been conducting about 4,000-4,500 tests per day, most of which are being done through rapid antigen kits, at different walk-in centres. The rapid kits give faster results for the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease and the test results are generally made available to people within half an hour.“We are trying to get about 2,000 kits from a neighbouring district to ensure that testing is conducted on Friday. Further, we have also spoken to officials in Lucknow and they have assured that sufficient stock of kits and vials will be provided by Friday evening. During Diwali days, we expect that a lesser number of people will come for testing,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer of the district. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey did not respond to calls and messages sent for his response over the issue. At 58.15%, the share of rapid antigen kits in the overall testing for Sars-Cov-2 in Ghaziabad is high. According to the records of the district health department, they have conducted a total of 4,77,923 tests so far till November 11, and these included 2,77,952 tests through rapid antigen kits, whose use was started from June 26 in the district.Alok Kumar, the state’s principal-secretary (health), on Thursday sent a communication to all the districts in UP where the revised target for daily tests conducted through rapid kits was defined. The order said that all districts combined had earlier been given a target of 92,500 daily tests and this has not been changed. However, officials said that targets have been reduced for districts having lesser number of cases, while the daily testing target has been increased for districts where daily positive case count is higher. As a result, both Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar have been given a revised target of conducting 3,500 tests through rapid antigen kits, as against the previous daily target of 2,000 tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-exhausts-rapid-antigen-kit-stock-officials-ask-nearby-districts-for-help-as-state-raises-testing-target/story-6F1ZenAI6iQye4DP0VaJHP.html
12-11-2020||Noida||‘Super spreaders’ in Ghaziabad markets as 79 staff of business establishments found Covid-19 positive||Ghaziabad: Residents need to be extra cautious while visiting various showrooms, sweets and chemist shops, and auto workshops, among others, as the records of the district health department’s “focussed testing” indicate that staff of these establishments have potential to be “super spreaders”. The 15-day drive was initiated on October 29 in Ghaziabad during the festival season and ended on Thursday. According to the health department figures, under the drive from October 29 to November 12, about 20,852 tests were conducted for the specific groups such as auto-rickshaw drivers, beauticians, staff of showrooms and malls, staff at sweet shops and chemist shops, among others.The focussed testing yielded 79 positive cases who were isolated as per Covid-19 protocols. However, officials of district administration said that such specific groups have potential to spread infection more than a normal person who moves out.“These groups were tested specifically as they operate in markets and, if found infected, have potential to spread infection to large number of people. So, this drive was taken up specifically around the festival season so that more of such people can be identified and filtered out if infected. This will prevent their customers from getting infection,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.The target groups were tested through rapid antigen kits as well as through RT-PCR tests. The reports of 738 RT-PCR tests conducted on November 11 and 12 are awaited, the officials said.However, the test records available from October 29 to November 12 indicated that highest number of positive cases, 19, was found among staff of showrooms and automobile workshops. About 13 staff members working at chemist shops were also found positive. The records also found that seven auto drivers and 14 staff at different sweet shops were found positive for Covid-19 during the drive.Though the overall positivity rate of the tests conducted during the drive was about 0.38%, experts said that the rate can still be considered high if it is seen in comparison to the total population.“I feel that 0.38% positivity is still high for such groups if we see them in view of total population of the district which is about 45 lakh. So, such categories of persons can also be called as high risk groups which have potential to spread infection manifold. So, the drive has been conducted timely and must continue till the festive season ends,” said Dr VB Jindal, former president of the Indian Medical Association - Ghaziabad.The health department officials said that the focussed testing was done to prevent the spread of infection.“The focussed testing was done randomly for specific groups to find which one has high positivity and can infect people more. These groups, which have potential to be super spreaders, come in contact with hundreds of people each day during the festival season. So, we conducted random tests and isolated those who turned positive,” said an officer from district health department who wished not to be named.The officials added that the department has time and again advised and is spreading awareness among the masses to adhere to wearing of face masks, wash hands frequently and maintain social distancing in order to avoid infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/super-spreaders-in-ghaziabad-markets-as-79-staff-of-business-establishments-found-covid-19-positive/story-2Xz5bkKG9gRIoxW1u4WMLI.html
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||Traditional appeal of diyas still popular in Ludhiana||The festival of lights is incomplete without diyas but the coronavirus outbreak this year has cast a shadow on the business of earthen potters and sellers. Traditional diyas have stood the test of time. As residents are saying no to Chinese lights, most are inclined towards buying the earthen pots to light up their homes on Diwali.A dozen earthen diyas are available at Rs 10 in most markets including Jawahar Nagar, near Kundan Vidya Mandir School, and Gandhi Nagar, behind SDP College for Women. In Ghumar Mandi, the price may go upto Rs 20. Decorated and painted diyas are available at the price range of Rs 30 to Rs 40 per dozen. The diya handi is priced between Rs 120 to Rs 500 depending on the size. Kumhar Gali, behind SDP College for Women, is a potter’s colony where over 25 people are in the business of preparing clay products including diyas and utensils. Laxman Das, 50, has been making diyas for the last 35 years and learnt the art from his grandfather. The most important aspect about making diyas is getting the clay right and shaping the item perfectly, he said. It took Das three months to prepare the earthen pots and about 70% stock has already been cleared. “I have devoted a lot of time to making the diyas and spent nights to complete the work a month before Diwali. My wife and son painted 30% diyas as both traditional and coloured diyas are in demand. I am hopeful that the rest will also get sold before Diwali as my son is selling them near Chaura Bazaar and has set up a temporary stall to clear the stock.”Salamat Ali, 40, recalls that the previous generations of his family were able to sustain themselves by selling earthen products throughout the year. “Amid the pandemic, all diya sellers have bought limited stock and except that it will be cleared ahead of Diwali. This time, customers are opting for traditional diyas and saying no to Chinese lights. Apart from selling diyas and handis, I have a variety of clay utensils and flower pots at my shop,” he said. “I went to Kolkata in March this year to get the stock as idols of Ganesh and Laxmi are in huge demand during festival such as Ganesh Chaturthi, Durga Puja, Karva Chauth and Diwali. But, due to the lockdown, I got stuck there for 10 days and returned on March 30 by hiring a private taxi. The items which I have purchased in March reached Ludhiana in July and not many customers turned up during Ganesh Chaturthi. But, before Diwali, rush was witnessed at the shop and we have come up with a variety of items for customers,” Ali added.The diya sellers in Ghumar Mandi and Jawahar Nagar have set up stalls and receive over 50 customers per day. More rush at these shops is witnessed in the evening. The clay diyas are biodegradable and environment friendly. Keeping in mind the poor air quality levels in the city, shoppers have switched to buying earthen diyas. Sumitra Rani, a resident of Prem Nagar, said: “This time, I have decided to celebrate Diwali in a simple way. Instead of decorating the house with Chinese lights and candles, I purchased three dozen earthen diyas and will beautify the rangoli with them. I want to show my children the Indian culture and by lighting diyas on the day, I will embellish my home. It is better to use earthen pots they don’t cause pollution. Due to worsening air quality in the city, we must avoid crackers.” Novel shapes pique shoppers’ interest Diyas from Kolkata that are shaped like religious figures including Ganesha, Laxmi, Shiva and Hanuman have filled the markets. The flower decorated diya with a glass lid on top is also very popular among shoppers. Shopkeepers said the variety of idols come from Delhi, Kolkata and Gujarat. The plate diyas with Goddess Laxmi’s feet is another variation added by the sellers. These special items were available in several shops near Police Lines and Hambran Road. Customers were seen inquiring about these new fancy items and bought them to decorate their homes and use them while performing puja in the evening on Diwali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/traditional-appeal-of-diyas-still-popular-in-ludhiana/story-oqme6xq5JQVd9xyM2OsfII.html
12-11-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram’s air worsens slightly; still better than rest of NCR||For the second day running, Gurugram’s air was the cleanest in the national capital region (NCR) on Thursday clocking in a “poor” score of 293 on the central pollution control board’s (CPCB’s) air quality index (AQI) bulletin.Meanwhile, neighbouring Delhi, Noida and Ghaziabad recording “very poor” air. Thursday’s AQI reading was, however, marginally worse from the previous day’s 288, also in the “poor” category that falls under the range 201 and 300 and can cause breathing discomfort to people on prolonged exposure. Experts, however, said that the air quality was predicted to deteriorate from Diwali night on November 14 and attributed the current improvement to favourable wind - blowing easterly rather than north-westerly and thus reducing the effect of stubble burning in neighbouring areas.“The air quality is expected to stay in a similar range during the day on Friday but will start deteriorating towards the night. Due to emissions and low wind speed on Diwali night, air quality will deteriorate further,” said Sachin Panwar, a city-based independent air quality scientist. Kuldeep Srivastava, a scientist at Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) and the head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, also maintained that the improvement in the air quality over the past two days would not last for long. “The air quality will deteriorate during the Diwali weekend due to a change in the wind direction,” said Srivastava said. An expected Western Disturbance around November 16 may bring about rain in certain areas that could improve air quality and reduce temperature by at least 4°C, he added.The level of ultrafine particulate matter, PM2.5 (diameter of 2.5 microns or less), the city’s primary pollutant, was 241.12 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m³) on Thursday, as per the CPCB’s air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan in Sector 11. Gurugram’s minimum temperature on Thursday was 14.6°C and maximum was 28.3°C, according to the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Palam observatory in Delhi, which, according to the Met department officials, gave a fairly accurate reading of city’s weather. Both maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to hover in a similar range on Thursday. As per the weekly IMD forecast, fog and mist are expected to prevail in the morning hours followed by a clear sky during the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-s-air-worsens-slightly-still-better-than-rest-of-ncr/story-twcSdCDqBlBb8w4ONMTa3N.html
12-11-2020||Gurugram||HSVP to reclaim land along Rapid Metro line||The Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) has initiated the process of identifying its land along the Rapid Metro line, particularly adjacent to the metro stations, for developing markets, parking areas and other utilities. HSVP administrator Jitender Yadav said that the agency had land on both sides of the Rapid Metro line but a lot of it had been encroached upon for shops, service centre and other commercial purposes. “We have appointed an official to look into the details of land ownership, identify the pockets acquired by HSVP, find out the latest status so that these can be monetised. Soon the status of land will be quantified,” said Yadav. The identification process is expected to be completed within a month, said officials. As per the initial estimates of the authority, HSVP has land on both sides of the metro stations at sectors 55/56, 54 and 42/ 43; and also DLF Phase 1 metro station and other metro stations in Cyber City, said officials. Yadav said that along with monetising the spaces, the authority would also see if there any civic requirement is needed to be fulfilled in these areas.” Not only this but we are in the process of identifying all HSVP land in the city to make it encroachment free as we want to monetise our assets,” he said. The HSVP for the last two years has been facing acute financial stress due to payment of enhancements for land acquisition and the authority owes around ₹12,000 crore to the banks, as per an RTI. Recently, the HSVP suffered a setback in raising money after Punjab and Haryana High Court stopped it from holding e-auctions for sale of plots till the claims of allottees for alternative plots is settled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/hsvp-to-reclaim-land-along-rapid-metro-line/story-r5vFxN0Mn8Ht8FqSqgWBEO.html
12-11-2020||Gurugram||Active Covid cases cross 6K mark; festive season may see reduced testing||The number of active Covid-19 cases in Gurugram crossed the 6,000 mark on Thursday for the first time, according to the daily health bulletin issued by the district health department. In 24 hours, the district recorded 692 new infections. The total number of patients currently in home isolation or hospitalised increased to 6110. According to official data, more than 450 people are recover every day in the city. But active cases are consistently moving upward. Out of the total active cases, 93% are under home isolated and almost seven percent are hospitalised. Health officials cite that it is likely that the number of active cases will decline in the next 10 days due to a recovery rate of almost 83%. As reported by HT on Thursday, active cases might be around 5100 by November 30 based on the state health department projection for the current month.Dr. Virender Yadav, Gurugram’s chief medical officer, said, “Since it is Diwali time, the team will observe the Covid-19 trend during the weekend and if required meeting will be held with private labs and hospitals on November 17 or 18 to tackle cases.”Reduced testingYadav said he expected the walk-in testing footfall and overall testing to decrease during the weekend. On Thursday, 3832 tests were conducted, slightly lower than Wednesday’s 4161. “Diwali is a major festival. Therefore, we are expecting not many people would turn up for the Covid-19 until it is an emergency,” said Yadav. Another reason for reduced testing, Yadav said, would be the concern on the testing kit stocks. “The department is running short of antigen kits. Only RT-PCR tests will be administered till the department receives kits from the state government next week,” he said. Both government and private labs conduct nearly 800 rapid antigen tests a day. It is likely that without antigen kits, testing will drastically fall down by nearly 600 tests a day. More so, evening testing camps will not be held on the evening of Diwali, while routine sample collection at Civil Hospital, sector 10 and Urban Primary Health Centres (UPHCs) and 14 testing camps as per the department’s schedule will continue on Diwali day, that is, November 14.“Routine testing will happen at the sample collection centres. Health workers will do contact tracing and hold testing camps. Routine evening camps, however, will not take place on the evening of Diwali,” said Yadav. For the evening camps, health department stations its two testing vans outside malls or market areas. Tests are administered to only symptomatic patients. For more than a month, these vans were stationed at different locations each day to facilitate people to get tested for Covid-19 while they visit markets. Through evening camps, the district health department administers Covid-19 tests to over 200 people every day. A few private labs said that the routine walk-in testing will be handled till 3pm on Diwali. “Generally, team conducts tests on collected Covid-19 samples during the night hours. On Diwali, the night team won’t be working instead the tests would run on Sunday morning. Despite this, the target is to deliver test report within 24 hours,” said Dr Rishabh Rajput of Modern Lab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/active-covid-cases-cross-6k-mark-festive-season-may-see-reduced-testing/story-RUnpKTs91N7Gc4hVy5ujlN.html
12-11-2020||Gurugram||Man assaulted to death for marrying Dalit woman||A 28-year-old man died on Tuesday night after he was assaulted by a group of Dalit men for marrying a woman from their community. Police on Thursday arrested at least five suspects, who are relatives of the woman, in connection with the assault in Badshahpur.According to the police, Aakash Singh, of Alwar in Rajasthan, had married the woman in July, against her family’s wish, and started living at a rented accommodation in Bhondsi.Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police, said that since his wedding, he had been receiving threatening calls from his brothers-in-law and the woman’s relatives. “His in-laws were unhappy with the couple as they had eloped and married against the wishes of the woman’s family. They had threatened them not to be seen in the area. On November 8, he received a call from his in-laws, after which the couple went to meet them in Badshahpur. Both were excited,” he said.Singh and his wife went to his in-law’s place on November 9 for the first time in five months, the police said.Rahul Singh, Aakash’s elder brother, who lived in the same house as the couple and accompanied them that day, said that the woman’s relatives asked them over for drinks and dinner, and took the brothers out. “His brothers-in-law and his friends had already kept iron rods, wooden sticks and plastic pipes in their car with the intention to assault my brother. After a couple of drinks, they started abusing us, to which my brother intervened and asked them to behave. Two of them went out and returned with sticks and rods and attacked us,” he said.The police said that Rahul had escaped from the spot and called his friends from the vicinity, but the suspects severely thrashed Aakash and left him in an unconscious state.Sangwan said Rahul returned with his friends after half an hour and found his brother lying in a pool of blood. He rushed him to Civil Hospital in Sector 10 and informed police. “He was referred to Safdarjung Hospital where he died on Wednesday undergoing treatment,” he said.The police booked the suspects under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 323 (assault) of the IPC on Monday and added Section 302 (murder) on Thursday at Badhshahpur police station.On Thursday, the suspects, identified as Ajay alias Prami Jatav, Ravi Singh Jatav, Pawan Jatav, Dharmender Jatav and Mohit Jatav, all residents of Ravidas Mohalla of Badshahpur, were arrested.“They wanted to take revenge on the deceased as he had eloped with their sister and married her against their wishes. They had planned to kill him several times earlier also, but could not succeed,” he said.The police said Aakash’s statement could not be recorded before he died, as he did not regain consciousness. “During questioning, the suspects gave different statements. One of them said he had come to their area to sell illegal countrymade liquor and another one said that he had hit one of the suspects while he was walking and Aakash was sitting in an autorickshaw. We are investigating and questioning the suspects,” he said.The woman is presently living with her parents and could not be contacted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/man-assaulted-to-death-for-marrying-dalit-woman/story-nZiwKtnGdK5Cj33Inw1NBK.html
12-11-2020||City||Manesar to have its own municipal corporation||Gurugram: The proposal to set up a municipal corporation in Manesar has the potential to transform the area into a satellite township of Gurugram, industrialists based in Manesar said Thursday. According to residents, the area as of now is struggling due to weak infrastructure, poor sanitation and civic services even as the population has increased manifold.Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday had announced the setting up of a municipal corporation in Manesar that would take care of the civic needs of IMT, Manesar and the urbanised villages around it as well as residential sectors adjoining it. Senior government officials said that work on setting up the new municipal corporation will start within the next 15 days. Industrial associations in Manesar said the proposed corporation would be a boon for the area as the infrastructure and maintenance would greatly improve. Manmohan Gaind, general secretary, Manesar Industries Welfare Association, said that Gurugram has expanded manifold and that agencies in the city are overburdened with work. “There is a need to have a separate agency to look after the development and upkeep of Manesar and adjoining area. It would boost business and also make decision making localised,” said Gaind. Pawan Yadav, president of the IMT industrial association, said this decision should be implemented at the earliest. “There is a large population of executives, industrial workers and migrants living in industrial areas as well as developing sectors and they will greatly benefit,” he said.According to former Manesar sarpanch Om Prakash Yadav, who has had the experience of working in the panchayat, block samiti and zila parishad of Manesar and Gurugram, the majority of the villages in the area have urbanised and a civic agency would be better suited. “The time has come for a change and it is important that the new corporation is empowered and given adequate resources for development,” said Yadav.The area to be included in the corporation has around 24 villages, including Manesar, Kasan, Shikohpur, and Panchagaon, which have a very large population, said Yadav. Amit Arya, media advisor to the chief minister, said that the objective of setting up the new municipal corporation in Manesar is to ensure better development of infrastructure, improved services to residents of the area and localised decision making by urban development bodies. “The work on implementing the decision has been initiated and it would ensure more resources for better development,” he said. While industrialists and residents of Manesar welcomed the decision, residents of developing sectors said that instead of clubbing these areas with Manesar, the government should set up a new corporation for sectors 58 to 115. “The new corporation for Manesar is welcome but the government should create a corporation for developing sectors as presently it is neglected. We have paid our EDC/IDC in Gurugram so there is no question of our area being clubbed with Manesar,” said Pravin Malik, president, Sare Home residents’ welfare association. Senior government officials, meanwhile, said the area of the present civic agency of Gurugram will be expanded while the corporation for Manesar will include Manesar and urbanised villages around. There is a possibility of including residential sectors beyond Kherki Daula under Manesar as well, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/manesar-to-have-its-own-municipal-corporation/story-58dDKMnWpiKcQCsPNOa4YO.html
12-11-2020||Gurugram||MCG plans cycle track along Gurgaon-Faridabad Road||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) is planning to survey the Gurgaon-Faridabad Road for setting up cycle tracks along the stretch, officials said on Thursday.For the upcoming MCG House meeting on November 18, an agenda regarding this has been proposed by Mahesh Dayma, MCG councillor of Ward 30. In the reply section of the agenda list, the MCG answered that commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh has already directed officials to carry out a survey in Ward 30 for setting up cycle tracks.“Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) and MCG, together, are working on setting up cycle tracks across the city. In this regard, work on the cycle track on Gurgaon-Faridabad Road has been taken up by MCG’s engineering wing. Our objective is to bring air pollution levels down through encouraging people to use non-motorised transport modes, such as bicycles, by creating the requisite infrastructure for it,” said Hariom Attri, joint commissioner, MCG.The entire Gurgaon-Faridabad Road falling within Gurugram is located under MCG’s Ward 30, comprising localities of Bandhwari, Gwal Pahari, Ghata, Baliawas, Ullawas, Bahrampur, sectors 55, 56, 57 and 62.“The Gurgaon-Faridabad Road is the ideal location for setting up cycle tracks in Gurugram. It is wide enough to accommodate cycle tracks without compromising on the road width. In addition, the road has several slopes and hilly terrains which will make it a major point of attraction for cyclists across NCR. Hence, I included the stretch as one of the areas in my ward where cycle tracks need to be established on an immediate basis,” said Dayma.Dayma’s agenda also proposed construction of cycle tracks along Golf Course Road (GCR) and between Ullawas and Sohna, along the Aravallis.Dayma said that with the GMDA already having plans for constructing cycle tracks along GCR, and the MCG not in favour of constructing any concrete track in the Aravallis, the civic body is no longer considering these two options and solely focusing on assessing the feasibility of cycle tracks along Gurgaon-Faridabad Road.Around 11 kilometres of the 25 kilometres Gurgaon-Faridabad Road fall under Gurugram, while the remaining section falls in Faridabad. MCG officials will be surveying the 11-kilometre section between Khushboo Chowk and the toll plaza for assessing if cycle tracks can be installed there.“MCG and GMDA are looking at establishing cycle tracks across various parts of the city and undertaking assessment at multiple locations as part of this process. Increasing cycling infrastructure is not only important for health but also vital for safeguarding thousands of residents who choose this as a mode of transport every day,” said a senior MCG official.Last month, GMDA-MCG had opened the city’s first cycle track between Huda City Centre (HCC) and Subhash Chowk on Sohna Road. During a Raahgiri event, Singh had announced that the MCG will be building two cycle tracks from HCC towards Galleria Market and Vyapar Kendra, respectively, within the month.MCG also has plans for building a cycle track along St Thomas Marg, between Genpact Chowk on Golf Course Road and Kanhai traffic signal.Coincidentally, on Thursday, the GMDA also issued a tweet stating that according to their survey, 57% of citizens would cycle to work. As per a GMDA study, 12-15% of residents use cycle as a daily mode of transport on Gurugram roads every day.“Despite being a state highway, Gurgaon-Faridabad Road has a sizeable number of cyclists riding along the stretch. Hence, building cycle tracks is of great importance on this stretch as it will firstly ensure safe passage for thousands of cyclists and pedestrians, and secondly, also promote and provide an opportunity for others to use non-motorised transport for commuting,” said Sarika Panda Bhatt, co-founder of Raahgiri foundation, a body promoting non-motorised transport.Raahgiri is working alongside the MCG and GMDA as a consultant for setting up cycle tracks across the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-plans-cycle-track-along-gurgaon-faridabad-road/story-d4kcIXA4jcYOAqcoLWPGUJ.html
12-11-2020||Gurugram||28-year-old held with 20kg marijuana||Police on Wednesday night arrested a 28-year-old man allegedly possessing 20kg of marijuana from Farukhnagar area. Police identified the suspect as Manoj Kumar of Gurugram’s Sadhrana and said he had been peddling drugs for at least 18 months in the national capital region (NCR). Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (ACP) crime, said, “The suspect had purchased the narcotics from a Nuh-based supplier and paid ₹75,000 per kg for the consignment. His plan was to sell it in small packets at 10 times the cost and had finalised deals with other peddlers in the city and in Delhi. We are checking his criminal record.” The suspect was produced before a district court that sent him to 14-day judicial custody, said police. During questioning, Sangwan said, he revealed the names of his associates and told police that his brother, Kuldeep Singh, was arrested on June 26 in possession of 112kg of marijuana. “He started smuggling marijuana after his brother’s arrest and has traded more than ₹20 lakh in the last two months. The drugs are smuggled from Odisha,” he said. A case was registered against him under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act at Farukhnagar police station. In October, police had arrested three men in alleged possession of 107 kilograms of marijuana (ganja), estimated to be valued at least ₹20 lakh from Nuh based peddlers. Earlier this week, six men were arrested with 40 kilograms of marijuana in two separate cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/28-year-old-held-with-20kg-marijuana/story-ZwTVy84WEUPD80GSymJs2M.html
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER to finally grant Diwali bonus to non-faculty staffers||The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) will grant Diwali bonus to its 5,000-odd eligible employees on an ad hoc basis, the institute stated on Thursday evening. Miffed not being given a Diwali bonus, members of the non-faculty union had decided to hold a protest on the day of the festival (November 14) at the rally ground in Sector 25.The health ministry, in a recent communication, directed the institute to desist from paying the non-productivity linked bonus till the finance ministry’s nod.However, the institute ordered that on the analogy of AIIMS Delhi, the employees will be given bonuses however if the government disallows the same, the amount paid will be recovered from the employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-to-grant-diwali-bonus-to-non-faculty-staff/story-9o863yf0annFQ8w4pXEfCJ.html
12-11-2020||City||Himachal logs record 765 fresh Covid cases, six deaths||Himachal Pradesh recorded record 765 fresh Covid-19 infections on Thursday, taking the state’s tally to 28,183. This is the highest single day spike in the state since the virus outbreak on March 20.Death toll mounted to 405 with six more patients succumbing to the virus.Of the new cases, 162 were reported in Shimla, 114 in Mandi, 113 in Kullu, 103 in Kangra, 63 in Kinnaur, 49 in Solan, 36 in Bilaspur, 31 in Chamba, 28 in Lahaul-Spiti, 25 in Hamirpur, 22 in Una, and 19 in Sirmaur.Three fatalities occurred in Shimla, two in Mandi and one patient died in Hamirpur. State has 6,165 active cases and recoveries have reached 21,585 with 199 people having cured today. Mandi is the worst hit district with 4,308 cases and is followed by Solan with 4,007 cases, Shimla 3,887, Kangra 3,738, Sirmaur 2,412, Kullu 2,291, Una 1,758, Bilaspur 1,571, Hamirpur 1,501, Chamba 1,492, Kinnaur 610, and Lahaul-Spiti 608 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-logs-record-765-fresh-covid-cases-six-deaths/story-GW7f1LDlrTAewtxCbNDXQO.html
12-11-2020||Mumbai||Land deal with Anvay Naik: BJP’s Kirit Somaiya continues attack; Shiv Sena refutes claims||Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former MP Kirit Somaiya on Thursday continued to raise more questions in connection with purchase of the 9.35-acre land jointly by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s wife Rashmi and Sena leader Ravindra Waikar’s wife Manisha from interior designer Anvay Naik six years ago. Somaiya asked whether the political families had any business relations with Naik, who died by suicide with his mother in 2018. The Maharashtra Police recently reopened the case, leading to the arrest of Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami and two others on charges of abetting the suicide by allegedly not repaying his money. Rubbishing the claims, Waikar said the facts presented by Somaiya were already shown in his election affidavits and income-tax returns and there was no link between the deal and the reopening of the Naik suicide case. “It is just an attempt to make an issue out of nothing,” he said. Somaiya, who on Wednesday produced the documents of the deal in nine land parcels, presented copies of 7x12 extracts for 21 plots on Thursday. “The joint deal between Thackerays and Waikars proves they have business relations…There should not be any air of suspicion against the chief minister of Maharashtra and hence they should clarify. Secondly, why did Thackeray not make the deal public while reopening the Anvay Naik suicide case. Most importantly, why was the land deal not mentioned in the probe by Raigad police, when the suicide had relation with the financial crunch Naiks faced,” he asked, adding he was going to reveal more information related to the deal in the coming days. Also read: BJP demands probe into land deal between Thackerays, Naiks; Shiv Sena rubbishes claimsIn his election affidavit filed during Assembly polls in October last year, Waikar had disclosed the ownership in the name of his wife. According to the affidavit, the 9.35-acre land in Kolai village in Murud tehsil in Raigad was purchased on March 21, 2014 for ₹2.18 crore. The land owned with 50% ownership by his wife (and remaining by Rashmi Thackeray) appreciated to ₹4.35 crore in 2019. Although Somaiya has claimed to have furnished 21 land records, the affidavit has the mention of 30 land records. CM Thackeray’s affidavit filed in May this year for the legislative Council elections has similar details about the land owned by Rashmi Thackeray. A spokesperson for the Thackerays said Sena leader Waikar will speak on the issue. “Somaiya has been trying to misguide people. Whether nine records are produced or 21, the land size (9.35 acres) remains the same. We did not buy it from 21 sellers, but only from Anvay Naik. Somaiya has no business asking about the relation between Thackerays and us. Uddhavji is our party chief and head of the family and there was nothing wrong in purchasing the land jointly. Anvay had come to me through my secretary for the sale of the land. Neither me nor Thackerays knew him before it and the question of having any business relations does not arise,” he said. Waikar said they are ready to face any inquiry in the deal and Somaiya was targeting the Sena because they ensured that he did not get a ticket in the Lok Sabha elections last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/land-deal-with-anvay-naik-bjp-s-kirit-somaiya-continues-attack-shiv-sena-refutes-claims/story-BSS9AmQw15hFWkWskHrlZK.html
12-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai sees dip in daily Covid-19 tests ahead of Diwali: BMC data||Ahead of Diwali, the number of Covid-19 tests being conducted in the city has gone down. According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)’s data, 1.11 lakh tests were conducted in the first 10 days of November, compared to 1.41 lakh tests in the corresponding period in October. The city reported 7,274 cases from November 1 to 10, compared to 19,656 cases in the first 10 days of October. With a similar number (1.11 lakh) of tests in the first 10 days of September, the city had reported 16,168 cases. The positivity rate for the first 10 days was 6.54% in November, 13.91% in October and 14.30% in September.BMC has been conducting tests for Covid-19 since February 3, and the first case was detected on March 11. Mumbai became the first city in the country to liberalise testing guidelines starting July 7, to allow all citizens to get tested, irrespective of symptoms. However, as the festivities neared, BMC said it planned to conduct 20,000 to 24,000 daily tests. BMC has, since November 1, also started free testing centres at 244 locations in the city, wherein citizens can walk in daily between 10am and 12noon to test for free. However, the number has gone down to between 8,000 and 13,000 tests daily, down from around 13,000 to 15,000 tests daily in October. Of the total daily tests, the ratio of testing using rapid antigen kits is around 40%. Also read: Second Covid-19 peak in Mumbai to be less severe comparatively, says TIFRDr Kedar Toraskar, a member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force, said, “November has been better compared with other months, but we will have to continue testing. Our suggestion is that the number of testing should not go down but remain the same, if not increase.”On the other hand, Dr Shashank Joshi, another member of state’s Covid-19 task force, said, “The testing has increased in the past few months. But there are two probable reasons why the number may be going down – people are treating for Covid-19 without testing, which is not a good thing. Secondly, as cases are going down, people are not getting tested, assuming Covid-19 is gone. We need to continue with Covid-appropriate behaviour because cases may have gone down but Covid-19 is not gone.” The one lakh-test mark was crossed on May 6, three lakh on June 24, four lakh on July 14, five lakh on July 29, 10 lakh on September 20, and 11 lakh on September 27. The overall tests remained 11.15 lakh, as of September and the positivity rate stood at 18.15%. Until November 10, 16.48 lakh tests have been conducted and the overall positivity rate is 16.12%. Daksha Shah, executive health officer of BMC, said, “The effort from the administration is maximum. However, owing to Diwali, many with mild symptoms or asymptomatic patients don’t want to get tested. In the coming days, the daily testing figure will go up.” On Thursday, the city reported 858 cases taking the tally to 2,67,606. Nineteen deaths were reported taking the toll to 10,525. Further, 2,41,214 patients have been discharged post Covid-19 treatment in Mumbai. The city’s discharge rate is 90.13%. There are 15,117 active cases in Mumbai and fatality rate is of 3.93%. One hotspot that has shown signs of drastic improvement – Dharavi – recorded only two new Covid-19 cases on Thursday. Dharavi’s tally is 3,608, of which 3,246 patients have been discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-sees-dip-in-daily-covid-19-tests-ahead-of-diwali-bmc-data/story-PrlsTvaZIWsn6eAmewzPzI.html
12-11-2020||City||Himachal CM lays foundation stones of projects worth Rs 113 crore in Chamba||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur inaugurated and laid foundation stones of developmental projects worth Rs 113.45 crore in Dalhousie assembly segment of Chamba district on Thursday.The chief minister inaugurated Bassa to Nadal road constructed at a cost of Rs 8.58 crore under PMGSY, link road from Samah to Hadila, stage-II built at a cost of Rs 2.86 crore, link road from Jawnas to Bhasua built at a cost of Rs 7.01 crore.He also inaugurated a three double lane bridge on Bathri-Sundla-Langera road constructed at a cumulative cost of Rs 10 crores.A helipad at Kundi (Salooni) constructed at a cost of Rs 1 crore was also inaugurated.Addressing a public meeting at Banikhet, the CM said that the state government was ensuring that the pace of development goes uninterrupted irrespective of the fact whether the constituency has elected MLA of the ruling party or of opposition.He said that the Dalhousie area has immense tourism potential and the government was ensuring that this potential was fully harnessed.Thakur said that Rs.140 crore public works schemes were being implemented in the constituency which shows that the government was committed to providing better connectivity in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-cm-lays-foundation-stones-of-projects-worth-rs-113-crore-in-chamba/story-TFRw3SniT3oXTyQOcqCabM.html
12-11-2020||City||Himachal Congress protests against rising inflation||Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) on Thursday staged a protest in Shimla against rising inflation and has demanded the state government to withdraw its “anti-people” policies.HPCC also carried out a rally from its headquarters to DC office, Shimla and raised slogans against the state and Union government.During the protest, HPCC president Kuldeep Singh Rathore said that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government at the Centre and state do not care about the common people as rising inflation and “anti-people” policies have completely ruined the country’s economy.Criticising the BJP government, Rathore said, “Farmers of the country are protesting against the farm law but none is being heard. The government is attacking the farmers by promoting profiteering and hoarding.”Rathore said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has back-stabbed the farmers just for the benefits of corporate houses and industrialists for whom he is working and has damaged the agriculture sector too.“By hiking the rates of LPG, electric water charges, the government has further increased the financial burden on the people. The government should withdraw the hike in the prices in order to provide much-needed relief to the people” he added.“If the government fails to control the inflation and withdraw the hiked prices, the Congress will intensify its movement,” said Rathore.After the protest, HPCC also submitted a memorandum to the governor through Shimla deputy commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-congress-protests-against-rising-inflation/story-UlTrQ8OXbb5gpAv6yCDp8M.html
12-11-2020||City||Mercury dips in Pune to single digits||Pune: The city on Thursday morning saw mercury dip to single digits as the weather department recorded minimum temperature at 9.8 degrees Celsius. The temperature is lowest since 2010 in Pune city as on November 12. In 2016, the city had recorded 9.9 degrees Celsius on the same date. Chandrapur and Parbhani recorded coolest cities in the state during the last two days. On Thursday, Pune was the coldest. Nashik was second coldest in the state with 10.4 degrees Celsius and Jalgaon was third with 10.7 degrees Celsius. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), a cold wave like situation continues in the state. The weather department has forecasted temperature to rise in the in city from Diwali (November 14). “As minimum temperatures in other cities of the state are increasing, same will happen to Pune as well,” said Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather department, IMD Pune. Minimum temperature of Mahabaleshwar recorded on Thursday was 13.4 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mercury-dips-in-pune-to-single-digits/story-zFREfIAPwq9NkfUu8zwdVN.html
12-11-2020||City||CPI(M) demands to set up experts’ panel to deal with Covid in Himachal||The state committee of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) has expressed serious concern over the spike in the number of Covid-19 fatalities and cases in Himachal Pradesh for the last few days and demanded the government set up a task force to deal with the situation.“The state government should work on a war strategy to deal with it, strengthen the healthcare facilities in the state, set up a task force consisting of experts in the relevant fields, mainly in medicine, virology and management,” said Sanjay Chauhan, former mayor, and CPI(M)’s state secretariat member.He said that the government must recruit doctors, nursing staff, lab technicians, pharmacists and other paramedical staff, and immediately build basic facilities and infrastructure.“The government should also issue orders to private hospitals and labs for free Covid-19 tests and treatment and make efforts to stop its spread by providing adequate resources. For the last six days, more than 600 people have tested positive for coronavirus and the number of deaths has also increased,” said Chauhan.He added that with the rapid increase in the infection, the healthcare facilities in the state have also started to collapse as Covid wards in IGMC and DDU, Shimla was full to capacity.In an all-party meeting presided over by the chief minister on March 21, Chauhan said that CPI (M) had explicitly warned the government that the pandemic could create a catastrophic situation. To tackle the situation, his party had suggested recruiting doctors and build infrastructure. He alleged that the government did not take it the suggestions seriously.He claimed that the government has collected more than Rs 84 crores from the public in the name of Covid and of this, it has spent only around Rs 25 crores.“This has clearly exposed the government’s preparedness to deal with the virus,” he said.“The government should immediately call an all-party meeting and work to tackle the terrible situation arising due to the pandemic. If it fails to act, the party will launch a stir,” said Chauhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cpi-m-demands-to-set-up-experts-panel-to-deal-with-covid-in-himachal/story-IzH4YsTm3uro2AinFDRSCL.html
12-11-2020||City||After HP govt shuts down schools, workers now demand closure of Anganwadi centres||After the state government ordered the closure of schools from November 11 to 25, Centre of Indian Trade Union (CITU) and workers have demanded to close down Anganwadi centres in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The union has strongly condemned the government’s double stance in terms of schools and Anganwadi centres.State president of Anganwadi union Neelam Jaswal said that it was the right decision to close government schools and on the same lines, the Anganwadi centres should also be closed.“Life and safety of Anganwadi workers and assistants working on nominal honorarium are being continuously put at stake in a health emergency like coronavirus. It has become clear from this that the government has no respect for Anganwadi workers who take every scheme of the government to the ground,” she said while adding that no decision has been taken regarding Anganwadi centres.She has also demanded that Anganwadi workers and assistants should be given security leave in view of the pandemic.“During the first wave of the pandemic, these activists and assistants, while in the field, had literally obeyed every order of the government and proved themselves to be true Covid warriors. Now, in the second wave too, workers serving in Anganwadi centres have been left alone to fight the virus. The government should also issue an order to close the Anganwadi centers in time for the safety of workers,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-hp-govt-shuts-down-schools-workers-now-demand-closure-of-anganwadi-centres/story-m0EsLpQDVzBNXM0QwZw1KL.html
12-11-2020||City||Newly-elected Leh councillors meet Union minister Jitendra Singh||Newly-elected councillors of Leh Autonomous Hill Development Council (LAHDC), accompanied by the new chief executive councillor (CEC), Tashi Gyalson, and member of Parliament Jamyang Tsering Namgyal, on Thursday called on Union minister Jitendra Singh in Delhi and held a luncheon meeting with him. In the meeting lasting for one-and-half hour, Jitendra Singh referred to Prime Minister Modi’s speech last evening after the declaration of election results in Bihar and other states and quoted the PM as saying that from Ladakh down south up to Karnataka, people have reposed their faith in the government’s agenda of development.While addressing the delegation, Singh said these elections assume special significance since this was the first electoral exercise after Ladakh became Union territory and in spite of the negative propaganda by the opposition parties, people of Ladakh have once again reposed unflinching faith in Prime Minister. He said Modi gave the highest priority to Ladakh and other hitherto neglected regions including North East and Island territories. Jitendra Singh informed that the Union ministry of science and technology is planning to set up a regional centre of CSIR (Council of Scientific and Industrial Research) in Ladakh. He said that the Modi government had granted Ladakh a university, a medical college and an engineering college. Speaking about the connectivity issue of the region, Singh said that with the opening of Atal Tunnel (also known as Rohtang Tunnel) and the under-construction Zoji La Tunnel the all-weather connectivity with this peripheral region will give a big economic and security boost to the region. And this became a reality only under the able leadership and unflinching will of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The Union minister also referred to the Rs 50-crore special development package for Ladakh and said this was for the first time that any Central government had been so liberal in funding the various projects for the region. He said this will be the first of its kind roadmap devoted exclusively to the Ladakh region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/newly-elected-leh-councillors-meet-union-minister-jitendra-singh/story-Cvu2p8O3XpVqWrK4sf2RhL.html
12-11-2020||Delhi||Gautam Gambhir inaugurates first-of-its-kind giant air purifier in Delhi’s Gandhi Nagar market||East Delhi MP Gautam Gambhir inaugurated on Thursday a first-of-its-kind giant air purifier in Gandhi Nagar market, touted as Asia’s largest readymade garment and textile hub.The 12-feet-tall air purifier will cover an area of 1,000 square metres and deliver 2 lakh cubic metre of clean air every day, according to a statement from his office.The Gautam Gambhir Foundation has funded the purifier. Delhi BJP president Aadesh Gupta was also present at the inauguration event.In January, Gambhir had inaugurated a first-of-its-kind smog tower in Lajpat Nagar’s Central Market as a pilot project.Following positive response from people in that area, Gambhir decided to install more air purifiers in markets across East Delhi, the statement said.Also Read | Delhi’s air quality improves, may deteriorate again over Diwali weekendIn terms of technology, the new purifiers are more advanced and have additional features like high mast lights, it said.“I know that these air purifiers will not solve the problem completely but something has to be done. These air purifiers will have a major impact on people living in nearby areas,” Gambhir was quoted as saying in the statement.“I don’t believe that getting yourself advertised on every traffic signal is the solution to such a major problem which affects each and every Delhiite especially our elders,” he said.The East Delhi MP also questioned the banning of firecrackers only a few days before major festivals.“Why don’t they ban crackers throughout the year when they know the air quality of the city is so bad. Why ban them only before festivals,” he said.“They first gave licenses to traders for traditional and green crackers and then banned them as an ad hoc measure. This led to tremendous losses to the shopkeepers and traders in time of the pandemic. They should have made their policy clear from the very beginning,” Gambhir said.On November 5, the Delhi government banned the sale and use of all types of firecrackers in the city from November 7 to November 30.On Monday, the National Green Tribunal also imposed a total ban on sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in the NCR from November 9 midnight to November 30 midnight, saying “celebration by crackers is for happiness and not to celebrate deaths and diseases”.Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai had on Wednesday appealed to opposition to desist from making statements that provoke people against the ban on firecrackers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/gautam-gambhir-inaugurates-first-of-its-kind-giant-air-purifier-in-delhi-s-gandhi-nagar-market/story-ieERXDQtWBvXGcUYN6NSjL.html
12-11-2020||City||Minor girl abducted in Jammu district rescued, accused held||Police on Thursday rescued a minor girl and arrested her kidnapper from RS Pura sector of Jammu district. “We received a written complaint on Wednesday at Bari Brahmana police station from a resident of Palli village, who claimed that his 14-year-old daughter went missing on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday from their house,” said a police officer. All efforts of the family members to trace the girl proved futile. Police registered a case under Section 363 of the IPC at Bari Brahmana police station and launched searches to trace the girl, he added. The girl was rescued from RS Pura and her kidnapper identified as Sukhwinder Singh of Gharana in RS Pura was arrested. The girl has been reunited with her family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/minor-girl-abducted-in-jammu-district-rescued-accused-held/story-3Z8bATq7E2ltbWBokhMAoO.html
12-11-2020||City||Congress joins PAGD bandwagon for J&K district development council polls||In the run-up to district development council polls, the Jammu and Kashmir Congress attended a marathon meeting with the National Conference (NC) and People’s Democratic Party (PDP)—the two key constituents of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD)— here on Wednesday. The meeting lasted for over five hours at the residence of NC provincial president and close confidante of the Abdullahs—Devender Singh Rana.The Congress deliberated upon devising a strategy and pick common candidates for the ensuing district development council polls to brighten their poll prospects.Besides Devender Singh Rana, the meeting was attended by PDP general secretary and former MLC Surinder Choudhary and Congress spokesperson and former MLC Ravinder Sharma.“It was conveyed to Farooq Abdullah who is the chairperson of PAGD, by the Congress high command that the party wants to support like-minded secular parties like NC to strengthen the secular fabric of J&K and for the welfare of people of the Union territory and Ladakh,” said Devender Singh Rana.“In continuation of the communication of Congress high command received through J&K Congress president GA Mir, a meeting was held to chalk out a strategy to implement this on the ground because the time is less and there are some aberrations which have to be worked out,” he added.Rana added, “We had detailed discussion with Congress chief spokesperson Ravinder Sharma and senior PDP leader Surinder Choudhary. We have tried to iron out certain issues. This is very preliminary because this is the first stage and the working modalities are work in progress at the moment.”Rana informed that the common candidates will be worked out for the DDC polls and that it was not a day’s work.Congress spokesperson Ravinder Sharma said, “We have started an adjustment process with the like-minded secular parties like NC and other political parties to ensure the victory of our candidates. We have discussed their suitability and there will be a broader formation wherein common candidates will be fielded.”PDP’s Choudhary said, “This alliance is not for elections only but to fight for the rights and issues of businessmen, transporters, casual labourers, daily wagers and traders”.He said that nothing was finalised about the candidates and for that more meetings will take place.Meanwhile, another round of PAGD meet that began around 10 am on Thursday was still on at Rana’s residence.He informed that the constituents were still deliberating upon candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/congress-joins-pagd-bandwagon-for-j-k-district-development-council-polls/story-ZeGTURuTjQXDUreQ2Vp4oN.html
12-11-2020||City||J&K Panchayat Conference merges with Apni Party||Shafiq Mir, president of Jammu and Kashmir Panchayat Conference—an apex body of panchayats—along with the members of his association on Thursday joined Apni Party.Mir was earlier associated with the Congress, however, he had parted ways from the party and also met top leaders of the Union government after he formed the panchayat conference.While announcing the merger of All Jammu and Kashmir Panchayat Conference with Apni Party, Shafiq Mir said that the unique socio-economic and political agenda and the vision of its leadership distinguish Apni Party from the rest of regional political parties.“Apni Party is the only party capable of addressing the challenges faced by the people of Jammu and Kashmir in the prevailing political circumstances,” he said adding that the regional political parties in the Union territory have been doing emotive politics for decades and have never allowed the strengthening of the grassroots level democracy for their narrow political considerations.“Those political parties that were so far averse to the idea of holding panchayat elections in J&K during its first and second tiers have now realised that they will be rendered irrelevant if they don’t participate in the elections to the third tier of Panchayat Raj. So they have jumped into the fray,” Mir said.Altaf Bukhari president of Apni Party said with the joining of a leader who has worked very hard for the mitigation of public grievances through the forum of Panchayat Raj is a good omen for the party.He said that Apni Party has believed in peoples’ empowerment and this political goal can be archived only by strengthening the Panchayat Raj institutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-panchayat-conference-merges-with-apni-party/story-IDrw1cnUI4jA61TXQKrYEJ.html
12-11-2020||City||Housing societies in Pune say no to Diwali crackers to check Covid spread||Pune: A number of residential societies in and around Pune and Wagholi are looking forward to celebrate a smokeless and eco-friendly Diwali this year. The harmful effects of crackers to those suffering from respiratory ailments and possible rise in Covid cases have made them celebrate the festival without fireworks. The management of housing societies have also decided to keep a vigil on those who flout the safety steps by bursting firecrackers. The public notice put up at Windsor Avenue in Wanowrie reads: “Dear Windsorites. Please be informed that PMC has totally banned bursting of firecrackers in public areas and urge the citizens to strictly avoid bursting them at home too as the firecracker smoke is highly toxic and dangerous to Covid patients, whose lungs have been affected. With due concern for our own Covid affected and survived members, as well as concern for our senior residents, we request that this year we at Windsor Avenue celebrate a firecracker-free Diwali. We request parents to please sensitise their children about the perils of firecrackers not only on the Covid patients, but also on the environment.” Windsor’s former president Maithily Manakwad said, “Every year we need to celebrate a cracker-free, smoke-free and noise-free Diwali. In fact, every festival should be celebrated in an ecofriendly manner consciously choosing the well-being of earth.” Nikunj Sahu, chairman, Rose Parade Society at NIBM society said, “We had forwarded a notice to our members through social media ten days back and again issued a similar notice. The notice asks residents to not burst crackers and ban it completely in the larger interests of citizens’ health.” Daljit Goraya, secretary, Ganga Kingston Society said, “The cracker pollution would cause severe inconvenience to patients who are undergoing treatment at homes. Even the National Green Tribunal has recommended ban on cracker bursting.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/housing-societies-in-pune-say-no-to-diwali-crackers-to-check-covid-spread/story-PtAR3HksnKVj1WIp8YvEPO.html
12-11-2020||City||Pune district reports 584 Covid positive cases, 15 deaths on Thursday||Pune: Pune district has reported 584 fresh positive cases and 15 Covid-related deaths on Thursday, as per the state health department. This puts the progressive positive count at 3,40,607. Of these, 3,17,744 have recovered, 7,117 is the death toll and 15,713 are active cases. Pune municipal corporation (PMC) reported 233 fresh positives on Thursday, taking the case total to 1,7,4884 with seven deaths in the last 24 hours. The death toll now stands at 4,089. Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation reported 158 fresh positives taking the total Covid-19 cases to 85,990 with two deaths in the last 24 hours putting the death toll at 1,191. Pune rural reported 193 fresh positives taking its total Covid-19 cases to 79,733 with six deaths in last 24 hours putting the death toll at 1,837||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-district-reports-584-covid-positive-cases-15-deaths-on-thursday/story-z5xhIk92MhbsLdhlMqyN3I.html
12-11-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad: Plan to provide relief from traffic congestion fails to take off||Ghaziabad: Even as Ghaziabad suffers high pollution levels and traffic congestions due to festival rush, the district administration is yet to put in place its proposed “car-free zone” plan for 17 traffic hot spots. The traffic police said that they have not received any directions to decongest the hot spots. Commuters said that most of the major roads and markets in the district were packed to capacity with traffic. “I reached Navyug Market from Noida’s Sector 63 in over an hour through NH-9 and Vijay Nagar Link Road. There is a major traffic on NH-9, Meerut Road and also in old city markets. If there was any plan to regulate traffic, it has almost failed to give relief,” said Sachin Soni, a resident of Kavi Nagar. In the wake of rising pollution, the UP Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) had last month identified 17 hot spots which suffer heavy traffic congestion leading to air pollution. The identified hot spots are ABES cut, Vijay Nagar crossing, Tigri cut, Santosh Medical crossing, Lal Kuan flyover, Atma Ram steel crossing near Vijay Nagar, Ghanta Ghar, Meerut crossing, Raj Nagar Extension crossing, Sihani Chungi, Old vegetable market, Sahibabad-Seemapuri crossing, Bhopra crossing, Site IV industrial area at Sahibabad, Loni crossing, Tila Morh crossing and Tronica City. In a press statement issued recently, the Ghaziabad administration said that they will be making up the 17 hot spots as “car-free zones” and also mentioned that their initiative was appreciated by the Union environment minister. When HT sought the “car free zone” plan from district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey, he said that he has come up with three-pronged strategy. The administration has also planned common parking near 34 major markets, wherever possible. “We cannot restrict all the 17 hot spots. So, we have come up with three-pronged strategy. In areas of busy markets, we have identified spots for common parking and from there visitors can walk. So, we have come up with parking at four such places. At places where traffic cannot be stopped at all, we have decided to deploy more traffic police and civil defense personnel,” Pandey said. He further said that in other areas, the administration has requested residents for restricted movement. “This may include measures like provision of online shopping or home delivery of items. High-rises can depute one person to take up purchases of their items. Further, instead of many people going out, few can go to markets and can even resort to car-pooling. So, in this manner we can surely reduce traffic congestion,” the DM added. However, Ramanand Kushwaha, superintendent of police (traffic), said that the traffic police department has not received any direction for the hot spots. “There is no traffic diversion at the hot spots as we have not received any directions so far. The common parking has come up at two places -- Nehru Yuva Kendra adjacent to Ambedkar Road and at Ghanta Ghar Ramlila Ground. These areas have big markets around them,” Kushwaha said while adding that areas in Indirapuram and Sahibabad do not need common parking. He also said that the “car-free” zone plan is being chalked out for Raj Nagar District Centre (RDC). “There is already a vehicle-free zone at RDC and we are planning to increase it till the Diwali festival. At other points in the city, we have deployed additional personnel to maintain smooth flow of traffic,” he said.Due to festive rush, the online traffic status at 5pm on Thursday showed that there were traffic snarls at major roads that included CISF Road and Chijarsi near Indirapuram; Vijay Nagar cut, ABES cut and Lal Kuan on NH-9; Ghanta Ghar, Chaudhary Morh, Meerut Crossing, Arthala, Mohan Nagar and Shyam Park, among others on GT Road. “Due to Dhanteras, there is almost two to three times traffic on roads. The situation becomes worse with roadside parking. Everyone is parking vehicles wherever they find space. Major affected roads are the ones of CISF Road, Kala Patthar Road, Mangal Bazar, Orange County road and also near Jaipuria Mall,” said Pradeep Gupta, convener of Vyapari Ekta Samiti – Indirapuram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-plan-to-provide-relief-from-traffic-congestion-fails-to-take-off/story-aPynxXMEBFyPJCUaczb6JL.html
12-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi launches free e-vehicle service for transporting Covid-19 patients||Electric vehicles can now be hailed by non-critical coronavirus (Covid-19) patients in Delhi for transporting them to and from healthcare facilities, said the state government on Thursday while launching an app ‘Jeevan Seva’ for the same. Those who test positive will be shared a link through SMS or a QR code for downloading the app. Launched in collaboration with EVERA, the electric vehicles will be used as an ambulance to transfer patients to any healthcare facility for free. At the launch of the app, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said, “We are launching the Jeevan Seva app today to facilitate safe travel for Covid patients in home isolation. The service can be used for health check-ups, transfer for admission to a hospital, or purchasing health amenities. With this app, you will get access to an e-vehicle which will provide for free pick up and drop services. Each vehicle will be properly sanitised after every ride.”Once the app is downloaded, patients can book a cab after registering through OTP, by entering their pick up and drop location. The nearest cab will automatically be dispatched to serve. The service will be available 24*7.The trained drivers will comply with new safety guidelines such as wearing PPE kits and being well equipped with sanitizers. The cabin will be insulated as well. The process of booking the e-vehicle, calling the driver etc will be through the app, and the complete digital interface will mean a touch-free convenient drive for patients.Like any cab service, the app will capture the pick-up location of the person allowing the drivers to reach them quickly. Other than that, the GPS tracking will also allow supervisors to monitor the situation.The service will also free up the ambulances for the more critical cases. Co-founder and CEO of Prakriti E-mobility Nimish Trivedi said, “The Jeevan Seva app is the first ever initiative to help Covid patients to reach healthcare facilities in EV cabs while taking care of the patients and planet with its zero emission cabs. We are pleased to work with the Delhi government to launch this great initiative and hope that it will help us in fighting the ongoing pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-launches-free-e-vehicle-service-for-transporting-covid-19-patients/story-uIK1uaLDUtWYf0NxbjsZQI.html
12-11-2020||City||Five mobile phones recovered from two jail inmates||Special checking led to the recovery of five mobile phones from two inmates at the Ludhiana Central Jail on Wednesday night.Assistant jail superintendent Naginder Singh said the phones were recovered from inmates Joga Singh and Pawan Kumar. The duo has been booked under Section 52 A (1) of the Prisons Act at the Division Number 7 police station.ASI Hardial Singh said they will bring the accused on production warrant for questioning on how they managed to smuggle the mobile phones inside the prison.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-mobile-phones-recovered-from-two-jail-inmates/story-099a4nlJNY1S9ceNlBXoJJ.html
12-11-2020||City||Ludhiana couple booked for availing of ₹6.5-lakh loans on fake documents||Police are on the lookout for a couple that secured loans amounting to Rs 6.5 lakh using fake Aadhaar cards and other documents.The accused have been identified as Kabir Rai and Roshni Devi of Ambedkar Nagar.Kuljit Singh, manager at Bajaj Finance company, complained to the police that they had been receiving correspondence from people that they were receiving messages and phone calls from their firm to clear loans, even though had not applied for any.On investigating, they discovered that a couple had availed of the said loans using documents of other people. So, he lodged a police complaint on August 22, 2019. ASI Sunil Kumar, who is investigating the case, said an FIR under Sections 419, 420, 465, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code had been lodged after a probe, adding that the accused will be arrested soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-couple-booked-for-availing-of-6-5-lakh-loans-on-fake-documents/story-eC7pa7YaVCCnamkDcaPZ8K.html
12-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi: PM2.5 levels on Diwali will be lowest in 4 years if no crackers burnt, says SAFAR||The PM2.5 concentration in Delhi on Diwali is likely to be the “lowest” in the last four years if no firecrackers are burnt, a central government agency said on Thursday.The Ministry of Earth Sciences’ air quality monitor, SAFAR, said pollution levels in Delhi during the Diwali period are likely to remain in the higher end of the “very poor” category in the absence of emissions due to fireworks.“Under ‘zero-firecracker’ scenario, the level of PM2.5 is likely to be the lowest in the past four years as not so calm surface winds in Delhi will help in dispersion (of pollutants),” it said.PM2.5 is particulate matter which is about three per cent the diameter of a human hair and can lead to premature deaths from heart and lung diseases.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.SAFAR said stubble burning-induced impact on AQI is expected to increase from “negligible to moderate” in the next two days.A spike in PM2.5 in the early hours of November 15 is likely in case of fire-related emissions, it said.Also read: Deficient rain may have added to pollution spike“The transport-level winds are now north-westerly and will have high potential to transport biomass plume in the next three days, but the expected moderate surface winds in Delhi will not allow rapid accumulation of pollutants for a longer period,” it said.However, the air quality is expected to remain in the higher end of the “very poor” category and the lower end of “severe” category on Diwali night.SAFAR said moderate easterly boundary layer winds are likely on November 15 and November 16. Isolated rainfall under the influence of a fresh Western Disturbance is also expected by November 16.“These two factors will help in reducing the impact of any additional emissions and biomass plume,” it said.On November 5, the Delhi government banned the sale and use of all types of firecrackers in the city from November 7 to November 30.On Monday, the National Green Tribunal also imposed a total ban on sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in the NCR from November 9 midnight to November 30 midnight, saying “celebration by crackers is for happiness and not to celebrate deaths and diseases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-pm2-5-levels-on-diwali-will-be-lowest-in-4-years-if-no-crackers-burnt-says-safar/story-Ipgr4ps26f05OS0JU9cMYK.html
12-11-2020||City||301 cartons of illicit liquor seized in Ludhiana, man held||The anti-smuggling wing of the Ludhiana police commissionerate arrested a man after recovering 301 cartons of illicit liquor from his possession on Wednesday.The accused has been identified as Kulwinder Singh of Galwaddi village. His accomplices, Jagdeep Singh of Chanarbal village, Sanjay Mehra and Harpreet Singh of Sarpanch Colony, and Jagwant Singh of Jugiana managed to escape.ASI Rajesh Kumar said Kulwinder was arrested near Kohara following a tip-off. He, along with his aides, was going to Kohara from Jamalpur in a pick-up truck when the vehicle was stopped for checking. On searching the truck, police recovered 301 cartons of illicit liquor.While police arrested Kulwinder, the other accused managed to escape.A case has been registered under Sections 61, 78, 1 and 14 of the Excise Act and Section 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/301-cartons-of-illicit-liquor-seized-in-ludhiana-man-held/story-4pOWBUZ0jDp0dD9z7sYo0I.html
12-11-2020||Delhi||NDMC announces rebate in property tax bills||The New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) on Thursday announced a 10% rebate in the Property Tax Bills paid before December 31 and a 5% rebate for payment till January 31, 2021.“The civic body has already authenticated the assessment list for the year 2020-21 to determine the tax liability on property tax owners in NDMC Area in a public notice issued on November 5. Consequent to this exercise, the property tax bills are being sent to all the property owners and it is expected that these will be received by all assesses by November 20,” a senior civic body official said. Also read: India expands stimulus to 15 per cent of economy as recession loomsThe NDMC has also clarified that some of the assessees who have challenged the Bye-Laws, 2009 (Unit Area Method) in Delhi High Court, their rateable value was required to be re-fixed with effect from April 1, 2010, as per the decision of the Supreme Court and in most of the cases this exercise has been completed. “However, there are still few cases pending for assessment on account of non-availability of desired information from such assessees and there may be chances that bills are dispatched to such assessees on the basis of earlier rateable value as the bills are computer-generated. In such type of cases, assessees are requested to kindly ignore the Rateable Value indicated on the bill and make the payment of tax as per their own self-assessment on actual rent basis if the property is on rent or on the basis of old Rateable Value till the new assessment is finalised,” the official added. The NDMC would also organise camps in consultation with Resident Welfare Associations in their colonies during next month to facilitate senior citizens for payment of tax in view of Covid-19 situation in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ndmc-announces-rebate-in-property-tax-bills/story-IRc3slOQ5Pb06PwS1GEEuN.html
12-11-2020||Patna||Manjhi elected HAM legislature party leader but won’t accept ministerial berth||Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi was on Thursday elected the leader of its four-member legislature party.All the four newly elected MLAs met at Manjhi’s residence where they elected the former chief minister the leader of the legislature group.They were all felicitated by pary leaders and workers present there following the party’s best-ever peerformance in an assembly election. Manjhi was the lone HAM MLA in the outgoing assembly.Later, talking to reporters Manjhi advised the newly elected lawmakers of the Congress to join the NDA for the progress of the state.“Nitish Kumar’s development plans are not much different from those of the Congress. Moreover, he has kept away from many issues that are not in the interest of the state. So, you can join us in the NDA and contribute to the development of the state,” Manjhi said.He was apparently hinting at Kumar distancing himself from contentious issues like Ram temple in Ayodhya and instant triple talaq.Also read | ‘Public is with us, it’s win for Grand Alliance’: Tejashwi Yadav in first comments after Bihar poll resultsManjhi had started his political career with the Congress in 1980. He later shifted to the RJD and then to JD (U). He quit the JD(U) after he was forced to step down to pave the way for the return of Nitish Kumar as the chief minister and later formed the Hindustani Awam Morcha.Kumar had stepped down as the chief minister in 2014 after taking moral responsibility for JD(U)’s abysmal performance in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, when only two of its candidates won, and installed Manjhi as the CM. When Kumar wanted the chair back, a defiant Manjhi initially refused but gave in to pressure.Kumar facilitated his return to the NDA just before the assembly elections to counterbalance another Dalit leader Chirag Paswan, who walked out of the ruling alliance in Bihar and went to the hustings alone.Manjhi’s party was given seven seats to contest from the JD(U)’s quota of 122, and the party did well winning four.The HAM leader said he will not become a minister in the new government headed by Nitish Kumar after having been the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/manjhi-elected-ham-legislature-party-leader-but-won-t-accept-ministerial-berth/story-Ilezod11utLvzefju6SLiK.html
12-11-2020||City||Civil Lines resident loses ₹1 lakh to online fraud||Fraudsters stole Rs 1.05 lakh from the bank account of a Civil Lines resident after sending him a weblink on his phone.On a complaint by the victim, Pramod Shah, the Division Number 8 police have identified five accused as Rahul of Ludhiana, Dinesh Bhai of Rajkot, Azifa Bibi of Bengal, Santosh Kantilal of Ahmad Nagar of Maharashtra and Nayum of Karnataka.Shah told the police that on April 30, he had received a call from a man, who introduced himself as Rahul. He was told that he had received Rs 3,000 as cashback on the mobile app, Phone Pe. For getting the cashback, he needed to click on a weblink sent to his mobile phone.Finding the matter suspicious, Shah disconnected the call. However, his son clicked on the weblink. Minutes later, Rs 1.05 lakh were withdrawn from his bank account synced with the mobile app. Therefore, he filed a police complaint on May 5. ASI Avinash Rai, who is investigating the case, said a case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code had been registered against the accused. Efforts are on to arrest the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/civil-lines-resident-loses-1-lakh-to-online-fraud/story-ygNX77zwCfiCOEgfdb84kK.html
12-11-2020||City||Pollution in Ghaggar: NGT orders three states, UT to submit report by January 31||Jalandhar The National Green Tribunal (NGT) is upset with the three states of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and UT Chandigarh over their failure to implement the recommendations of the executive panel headed by justice Pritam Pal (retd) to control water pollution in Ghaggar river. The NGT also directed the chief secretaries of respective states and UT to hold a meeting within one month on the recommendations of the executing committee for meaningful prompt action and fixing accountability for the erring officers. The NGT has ordered that the four chief secretaries must meet at least once in a month to take stock of the situation, while the first such meeting may be held on or before November 30 and action must be taken and compliance report is to be submitted to the executive panel by Jan 31, 2021, while the committee will submit its consolidated report, and its own recommendations on or before Feb 28 next year. The NGT has fixed the next hearing on March 16, 2021. The NGT observed that HP, Haryana, Punjab and UT Chandigarh continue to contribute to water pollution, which is a criminal offence. It is a breach of public trust under public trust doctrine. “Water pollution is a serious threat to the health of the citizens as well as other living beings who consume the water and also to the food safety for growth of which the water is used for irrigation,” reads the order. The NGT added that if the state finds that they are unable to manage the sewage directly, there is no bar to other options being explored but there cannot be any justification not to comply with the mandate of law and protecting the health of the citizens in accordance with the constitutional mandate. “No action is being taken against the erring officers. It gives an impression that there is the collapse of Environmental rule of law. Who is to pay the cost of damage to the environment and public health of a large number of unidentified citizens and other living creatures? Is such cost being calculated? How officers responsible for damage by their inaction or otherwise are being dealt with. Should the state be held liable vicariously for such failure and failure to punish the guilty,” reads the order. NGT added that it had passing repeated orders and as many as six reports have been submitted by a monitoring committee headed by a former high court judge and a former chief secretary, clearly recording failure of the state authorities but the higher authorities are also conveniently ignoring their responsibility. Advocates for the authorities only maintain silence before this tribunal. “If the state itself fails in implementing the law, it is nothing but the breakdown of the system itself. Is this Tribunal to just remain a silent spectator for such gross failure or hold the highest authorities accountable by directing their prosecution for their criminal failure and indirectly being party to the crime against the law of the land? How the law of the land is to be meaningfully enforced? We expect answers to these questions from the states,” NGT warned.The monitoring panel gave recommendations for controlling pollution in Ghaggar river to pollution control bodies of the respective states and UT to upgrade the Sewage Treatment Plants in towns on the banks of Ghaggar river or install new STPs, besides it also recommended stopping untreated wastewater flowing into the river along with taking action against identified polluters, law violators and officers responsible for the failure for vigorous monitoring. The Ghaggar river originates from Himachal and passes through Haryana and Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pollution-in-ghaggar-ngt-orders-three-states-ut-to-submit-report-by-january-31/story-wwDGDDylEPlkt2TrT7Xm6K.html
12-11-2020||Delhi||Heart flown to Delhi from Jaipur saves life of 45-year-old||Doctors at Delhi’s Max Super Speciality Hospital, Saket, performed a life-saving heart transplant surgery on a 45-year-old man from Meerut after getting the organ of a 16-year-old boy from Jaipur, Rajasthan.The heart transplant was performed on Wednesday night.The teenager suffered fatal head injuries in a road accident in Jaipur, and even after sustained efforts to revive the patient, treating doctors at Jaipur’s SMS Hospital declared him brain dead.Following counseling, the family agreed to donate his organs.The harvested heart was flown to Delhi by a chartered flight that landed at Terminal 3 around 7.50 pm on Wednesday.A green corridor had already been created between SMS hospital and the airport at Jaipur, and then between the IGI international airport and Max Super Speciality Hospital at Saket in Delhi.From the Delhi airport, the donor heart was transported to the hospital in an ambulance through the 18.3 km stretch in 17 minutes, which ensured that the retrieved heart was transplanted within the critical 4-hour chest-to-chest period.Dr Kewal Krishan, director, heart transplant and left ventricular assist devices, Max Super Speciality Hospital, led the team of doctors who carried out the heart transplant.The recipient had been waiting for an organ for transplantation for the four months. He had been suffering from a condition called dilated cardiomyopathy due to which only 20% of his heart was functioning.The condition causes the heart to dilate reducing its pumping activity and inability to pump adequate blood to the body resulting in chest pain and breathlessness, reducing the ability to do routine life activities and can even lead to multiple organ dysfunction at a later stage.“The patient had a heart attack in January this year wherein two of his vessels were blocked, one was working only 10% due to which stenting had to be done and the second was working 30%. In June, the complaint increased, he experienced breathlessness even while resting and had fluid retention in legs. Investigations revealed that the patient had Dilated Cardiomyopathy (DCMP),” said Dr Krishan.The patient had a reduced heart function and ejection fraction- 15-20% (ejection fraction of normal heart is 55–60%).The Cardiac Transplant Team from Max flew down to SMS Hospital, and retrieved the organ around 6.20pm.The police and traffic authorities immediately created a green corridor for transfer of the harvested heart in both the cities, ensuring safe transport of the heart within the stipulated time.Apart from the heart, the family also donated the kidneys, and liver of the 16-year-old.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/heart-flown-to-delhi-from-jaipur-saves-life-of-45-year-old/story-8Zn3VKJ8pGPGS8VesDsyOK.html
12-11-2020||City||Covid-19: Tripura’s sero survey reveals 33.98% people have antibodies||A sero survey conducted in Tripura found 33.98% of respondents, who took part in the exercise, have developed antibodies against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Altogether, 4,776 people took part in the survey from all eight districts in the north-eastern border state, including 1,238 from West Tripura district alone. In the West Tripura district, 41.76% of the respondents have developed Covid-19 antibodies -- the highest in the state.The district-wise break-up of the respondents, who have developed antibodies against the viral outbreak, is: Sepahijala (41.40%), followed by Gomati (40.50%), Dhalai (25.36%), Khowai (39.53%), South Tripura (37.06%) and North Tripura (22.09%). Also Read: As Covid-19 pandemic rages, global daily deaths surpass peak levels from AprilThe antibody tests are conducted periodically to assess extent of the spread of any disease. “According to the sero survey, the public in North and South Tripura districts have developed lower antibody levels. The West Tripura district has the highest antibody positivity rate in the state,” said state minister for law, Ratan Lal Nath. The present trend suggests that Tripura is comparatively better placed than other states in the north-eastern region such as Meghalaya, Manipur and Mizoram as far as Covid-19 outbreak is concerned. The authorities have managed to compile 99.45% of the database of the state government’s frontline employees, who are battling the Covid-19 pandemic, and another 98.73% staff in private healthcare institutions, as per the Centre’s directive, according to the government. The state government has made wearing of face masks mandatory in public places under the Tripura Epidemic Disease Covid-19 Regulations, 2020 amid a spike in fresh cases of the viral outbreak. A first-time violation of not wearing a face mask in public places will attract a fine of Rs 200 and Rs 400 for the repeat offence.The state government had started a drive to create awareness about wearing of face masks in public places in September and collected around Rs 99 lakh as fine from the violators to date. In September, a three-member Central medical team during their visit to Tripura had observed that social distancing norms and mandatory wearing of face masks in public places were being violated with impunity by a majority of the people.So far, Tripura has recorded 31,706 Covid-19 cases and 356 deaths related to the viral outbreak. Another two Covid-19 patients had died by suicide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-tripura-s-sero-survey-reveals-33-98-people-have-antibodies/story-WxiY2pmkTwHJHEwG4Wl29O.html
12-11-2020||Pune||Temperature continues to drop in Pune||The minimum temperature continues to drop in the city as it was recorded at 10.6 degrees Celsius on Wednesday.On the second consecutive day, Pune recorded the third lowest temperature in the state which was cooler than Mahabaleshwar (12.2 degree Celsius). Parbhani was coldest in the state with 9.9 degree Celsius followed by Yavatmal which saw a temperature of 9.5 degree Celsius.Pune witnessed the coldest November 11 morning since 2017.“The temperature has gone down in most of the places in Maharashtra. Although it is not exactly a cold wave, we can say it is near to cold wave conditions in the state,” said Anupam Kashyapi, head of the weather department, IMD Pune.According to the definition of cold wave for plains temperature should be below 10 degree Celsius and departure should be -4 ½ degree or less. Such a situation is not recorded across the state.The temperature in the city is expected to rise gradually in coming days with wind patterns changing.“The wind pattern will be changing from northerly to easterly due to which temperature which has fallen will see a gradual rise. The minimum temperature in Maharashtra is expected to be near 12-14 degrees Celsius while in Konkan and Goa it will be 18-20 degrees Celsius, Marathwada near to 13-15 degrees Celsius while Vidarbha is expected to have temperature between 12-14 degrees Celsius,” said KashyapiHowever, on Diwali day (November 14), the temperature is expected to rise.“The chill which people are experiencing currently will not be felt the same during Diwali and Bhai Dooj (November 16),” added Kashyapi. Coldest cities in Maharashtra, November 11City; Minimum temperature in degrees Celsius (Departure from Normal)Pune 10.6 (-4.7)Nashik 10.6 (-3.5)Jalgaon 11.6 (-4.1)Parbani 9.9 (-7.5)Chandrapur 11.8 (-5.6)Gondia 11.4 (-6.0)Yavatmal 9.5||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/temperature-continues-to-drop-in-pune/story-KdrJAWDWnk0biMxEzfptZM.html
12-11-2020||Pune||BJP candidate Sangram Deshmukh files nomination for Pune graduate assembly constituency||PUNE The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has expressed confidence to win the Pune graduate assembly constituency after its candidate Sangram Deshmukh filed the nomination form in the presence of Chandrakant Patil, the party’ state unit president on Wednesday. Patil said, “Pune graduate constituency has always been dominated by the BJP. Except one time, it was always represented by BJP and I myself represented it for two terms.” Deshmukh said, “All the BJP candidates and I would ensure to resolve the problems of graduate people.” MP Girish Bapat, BJP city unit president Jagdish Mulik, mayor Murlidhar Mohol, former minister Harshwardhan Patil and former MP Ranjitsingh Mohite Patil were present while filing the nomination form at the district collector’s office. Meanwhile, the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) candidate Rupali Patil filed the nomination form on Tuesday. At least 37 forms have been received for graduate constituency, while for teachers constituency 16 nomination forms have been submitted. The last date for filing nomination form is November 12. Biennial election to five graduates’ and teachers’ constituencies of the Maharashtra Legislative Council will be held on December 1. The Pune graduates’ constituency was earlier represented by Maharashtra BJP president Chandrakant Patil who was elected to the Assembly from Kothrud last year. With agency inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/bjp-candidate-sangram-deshmukh-files-nomination-for-pune-graduate-assembly-constituency/story-udqLZ73w1hnHz4Sy0g2MhL.html
12-11-2020||Pune||Percentage of people with Covid antibodies shows upward surge: Pune lab||PUNE The number of people who have developed Covid-19 antibodies is showing an upward surge in the city and more people are coming forward to carry out tests, according to Suburban Diagnostics Centre. The private lab conducted 916 Covid-19 antibody tests between August and November 2020. As many as 177 tests were done in August, 455 in September, 261 in October and 23 were done till November 10. “The highest percentage of people to have built antibodies for Covid-19 was seen in October, which was 54.40 per cent, followed by 52.17 per cent in November, 45.71 per cent in September and in August it was 37.28 per cent,” said Dr Abhishek Shivankar, deputy general manager, customer excellence, Suburban Diagnostics Centre Pune. “People are now keen to undergo Covid-19 antibody tests and are visiting the lab for getting tested. Various industries like IT, real estate and manufacturing units are approaching us for Covid-19 antibody test,” he said. Two other private labs in the city refused to comment on the status of Covid-19 antibody tests. “It is good that more and more people are developing Covid-19 antibodies, but one cannot relax as how long these antibodies continue to remain in one’s body varies. So people need to take precautionary measures,” said Dr Pavan Salve, additional health and medical officer, Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC). As of Tuesday, Pune city reported 187 new Covid cases taking the total count to 174,433 and zero deaths taking the death toll to 4,073.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/percentage-of-people-with-covid-antibodies-showing-upward-surge-pune-lab/story-cGBOf9GBwUSBUv2qukHX1J.html
12-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: PMLA court rejects Deepak Kochhar’s bail plea||A special court, constituted under the Prevention of Money Laundering (PMLA) Act, 2002, on Thursday refused to grant bail to Deepak Kochhar, the husband of former ICICI Bank managing director (MD) Chanda Kochhar, in connection with a money laundering case.Earlier this week, Deepak Kochhar had moved a bail plea on two grounds. The first ground was failure of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to submit a charge sheet within the stipulated time frame of 90 days. The second ground was on the merits of the case and claiming his innocence. The court on Thursday heard arguments from Deepak Kochhar’s lawyers -- Vijay Aggrawal, Rahul Aggrawal and Ashul Aggrawal -- and the ED counsel, Hiten Venegaokar and Sunil Gonsalves.Also Read: Chanda Kochhar, 2 others named in ED’s money laundering chargesheetDeepak Kochhar’s lawyers pointed out that the charge sheet was yet to be filed even though the stipulated 90-day time frame had expired. The prosecution contended that the agency submitted a charge sheet before the registrar of the court two days before the stipulated 90-day deadline expired. The charge sheet contains voluminous documents that are kept in five trunks, pending scrutiny. The special court heard the arguments and rejected Deepak Kochhar’s bail plea on the ED’s failure to file the charge sheet within the stipulated 90-day deadline.The court will hear the plea on the merits of the case on November 23 after the Diwali vacation gets over.The ED took up the money laundering probe after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had registered a case of corruption against the Kochhars over three years ago. The CBI had initiated the inquiry in 2017 against the couple after a whistleblower had alleged that ICICI Bank sanctioned credit facility of about Rs 3,250 crore to various corporate entities, which were in contravention to banking rules and policies. The CBI had filed a first information report (FIR) in January, 2019, where it alleged that six high-value loans worth Rs 1,875 crore were disbursed by ICICI Bank to Videocon Industries Limited (VIL) between 2009 and 2011. It was alleged that in 2009 the credit facility to VIL was extended in contravention of rules and policies by the sanction committee, which included Chanda as one of its members. A loan of Rs 300 crore was disbursed to M/s Videocon International Electronics Limited, a part of Videocon group of companies, on September 7, 2009. An amount of Rs 64 crore — out of the loan of Rs 300 crore -- was allegedly transferred to M/s NuPower Renewables Pvt Ltd (NRPL) by VIL on September 8, 2009. The ED, which investigated the allegations, claimed that VIL transferred the money to NRPL via Supreme Energy Private Limited (SEPL), which was later acquired by Pinnacle Energy, a trust owned by the Kochhar family. The agency claimed that NRPL was owned, controlled and managed by Deepak Kochhar. “The loan funds travelled from VIL to NRPL through SEPL, but two intermediary companies were brought in for the purpose of layering. The proceeds of the crime (Rs 64 crore) were utilised by NRPL to purchase properties,” the ED had claimed in its remand application while seeking Deepak Kochhar’s custody.“A residential property -- an apartment at CCI Chambers in Mumbai -- was purchased for Rs 5.25 crore on February 19, 1996 by Credential Finance Limited (CFL). CFL was a company, where VIL had substantial interest along with the Kochhars and the latter’s family members. CFL defaulted in repayment of a loan of Rs 4.7 crore availed from the State Bank of India (SBI) and for which the apartment was placed as collateral. VIL paid off the dues in 2009. Later, the ownership of the apartment was transferred to M/s Quality Appliances Pvt Ltd (QAPL), now known as M/s Quality Techno Advisors Pvt Ltd (QTAPL), a Videocon group company from CFL. On November 26, 2016, total shareholding of QTAPL was acquired by Quality advisors -- a family trust of Deepak Kochhar set up by Chanda’s mother -- for a nominal sum of Rs 11 lakh,” the agency further claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-pmla-court-rejects-deepak-kochhar-s-bail-plea/story-K3OHqseBOiqzmXrCj8Hn7H.html
12-11-2020||Pune||Pune dist reports 573 fresh Covid-19 cases, 16 deaths in 24 hours||PUNE The state health department reported 573 fresh Covid-19 cases and 16 deaths in 24 hours on Wednesday in Pune district. The district has reported 3.40 lakh cases out of which 3.16 lakh have recovered, 7,135 have been reported dead and 16,103 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or are in home isolation. Pune city reported 218 new cases taking the total count to 174,651 and nine deaths taking the death toll to 4,082, while Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 126 new cases taking the final count to 85,832 and two deaths with 1,189 as death toll. Pune rural reported 229 new cases taking the final count to 79,540 and five deaths taking the death toll to 1,831, according to the state health department. The state health department reported that 9,164 patients were discharged on Saturday taking the final count to over 15.97 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 92.23%. Also, 4,907 new cases in the state were reported on Monday taking the total to over 17.31 lakh. In addition, 125 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state taking the death toll to 46,508. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.63%. Out of 96,00,328 laboratory samples, 17,31,833 have been tested positive (18.04%) for COVID19 until today. Currently,9,41,118 people are in home quarantine and 6,551 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-dist-reports-573-fresh-covid-19-cases-16-deaths-in-24-hours/story-CJVem2xqWTknFDDF4WSH4I.html
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||NRI quota seats in Punjab medical colleges go abegging due to high fee||Only 40 students have applied for the 337 under-graduate medical and dental courses this year under the non-resident Indian (NRI) quota in Punjab in the first round of online counselling due to high tuition fee. Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot, on Thursday displayed the provisional merit list of candidates for admission to MBBS and BDS courses in the state’s 24 colleges under the NRI quota. “We have received only 40 applications for the first round of counselling. Seven candidates are children of NRIs, who originally belong to Punjab, while 33 are children of NRIs from other states,” says university registrar Dr Ruhee Dugg. “The reason for the low number of students opting for NRI quota MBBS and BDS seats is the high tuition fee. Students also have to account for other expenses during the five-year course, making it an expensive proposition,” says BFUHS vice-chancellor Dr Raj Bahadur. MAIN SOURCE OF REVENUE FOR COLLEGES NRI quota seats are the main source of revenue for medical and dental colleges. A full course fee for an NRI quota MBBS seat is US$1.1 lakh (₹82 lakh) in all private and government medical colleges of the state. The fee for NRI quota BDS seat is US$44,000 (₹32.8lakh). According to the hiked fee structure this year, students of the government medical colleges of Amritsar, Patiala and Faridkot will pay Rs 7.8 lakh fee for MBBS, while students of Dayanand Medical College (DMC), Ludhiana; Adesh Medical University, Bathinda; and Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences, Jalandhar; will pay Rs 18.5 lakh for government quota seats and Rs 47.7 lakh for management quota seats. Sri Guru Ram Das University of Health Sciences, Amritsar, will charge Rs 47.7 lakh from both open merit and minority quota students. The fee for BDS courses in government colleges is Rs 3.9 lakh, while students in private colleges will pay Rs 7.6 lakh under the government quota and Rs 10.3 lakh under the management quota. SIMILAR TREND OVER THE YEARS Last year, of the 316 MBBS and BDS seats under the quota, 279 seats remained vacant after all rounds of counselling. In the 2018-19 session, 287 of the 309 NRI quota MBBS and BDS seats in the state had remained vacant. The seats were later merged into the general category. Nine medical colleges in Punjab offer 161 NRI quota MBBS seats. The number of BDS seats reserved for the NRI candidates in 15 dental colleges in the state is 176. The result of the first round of counselling for NRI quota seats will be declared on November 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nri-quota-seats-in-punjab-medical-colleges-go-abegging-due-to-high-fee/story-8HmRe5f2O0IMupCMWVF9bL.html
12-11-2020||Pune||Covid-19 triggers health infra boost in PMC||PUNE The Covid-19 pandemic has improved the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC’s) health infrastructure with increase in number of ventilators from zero to 71 in civic body-run hospitals, including maternity hospitals and state’s only infection control hospital, Naidu hospital. Naidu hospital which is still the state’s only permanent infection control hospital had no ventilator until March 2020, but now has ten ventilators. It was also the first hospital in Maharashtra to isolate and treat Covid-19 patients. Currently, there are 71 ventilators at hospitals which the PMC controls which include the ventilators that the civic body received under the PM Cares funds and also the ones at the jumbo facility at College of Engineering Pune, ground. The 71 include the 10 at Naidu hospital, 10 at Dalvi Hospital, 15 at dedicated Covid-19 hospital at Baner, 30 at the COEP jumbo facility and six which the civic body got under PM Cares funds and are currently at Sassoon General hospital, but will be returned as and when required by the civic body. Dr Anjali Sabne, health officer incharge, civic hospitals, said, “It is true that we got these ventilators in a very short period. We also got hundreds of doctors on board even if they are on a contractual basis and also filled in all the crucial posts during the pandemic.” Dr Abhiijit More, health activist and state co-convenor for the NGO Jan Arogya Abhiyan, said, “The civic body was not at all prepared for this pandemic in terms of health infrastructure and now due to the pandemic they were rather forced to do it which is not a good thing. However, PMC’s Kamala Nehru still does not have an ICU. All this despite the fact that Pune had witnessed a serious swine flu pandemic in 2009 and the civic body failed to learn any lessons from it.” Chetan Tupe, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) MLA, said, “When we were in power in PMC, we had purchased the best of ventilators which were never put to use by the administration. They were left packed at Kamala Nehru hospital for years and later donated to Sassoon hospital by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). It is not true that we did not get any machinery, but the problem was that the civic body did not get any expert doctors to operate the ventilators, which is why they could not be used and this problem persists.” Health infra boost in PMC (Figures as of November 2020) 10 at Dalvi hospital 10 at Naidu hospital 30 at COEP jumbo hospital 15 at Baner DCH 6 at Sassoon General Hospital (PMC got under PM Cares funds) 71 total ventilators||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-19-triggers-health-infra-boost-in-pmc/story-U8cf2sKgqan3myGdWbeV6L.html
12-11-2020||Pune||Pune doc booked for allegedly molesting nurse during night shift in Wakad hospital||A doctor was booked for alleged sexual harassment of a nurse working at the same hospital.The incident took place at 11:30pm on November 7 when the two were on night shift at the maternity home located at Dange chowk in Wakad.While the complainant is a 34-year-old woman, the accused was identified as a 40-year-old man who resides at the hospital premises.“The accused has disappeared after coming to know of the FIR. We were unable to find him at the hospital,” said sub-inspector Sangita Goday of Wakad police station who is investigating the case.The complainant told the police that the doctor pulled her into the consulting room, shut the door and tried to molest her, according to the police. The woman rescued herself and rushed out of the room.“She was disturbed and very scared. Her colleagues gave her to courage to approach the police. So, she finally came forward on Tuesday,” said Goday.A case under Sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and 354(b) (assault or use of criminal force to woman with intent to disrobe) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Wakad police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-doc-booked-for-allegedly-molesting-nurse-during-night-shift-in-wakad-hospital/story-kOJZzH5uVFLiY6VT5iJ76N.html
12-11-2020||Pune||Pune’s jumbo facility sees rise in critical patients||PUNE With the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) giving up private hospital beds as per the state government’s decision, the city’s largest dedicated Covid-19 jumbo facility at College of Engineering Pune (COEP) ground is witnessing a slight increase in critical patients. The patients are being diverted to the jumbo facility instead of being sent to private hospitals under the PMC health scheme, and a few of them are coming to the centre at a critical stage which may have led to a slight rise in the critical cases, say doctors. The civic body now intends to keep all Covid-19 patients at one place. As of Wednesday, the facility has 22 patients on ventilators and ten in the intensive care unit (ICU) without ventilators. The November 6 figure was 19 patients on ventilators and 14 in ICU without ventilators. The jumbo facility has 600 beds, including 435 oxygen beds, 135 ICU beds without ventilators and 30 ventilators. Dr Shreyansh Kapale, director, Medbros, the agency which runs the facility, said, “It is true that we are witnessing a slight rise in critical cases which could be because those from private hospitals are being diverted to the facility, but we are also seeing a few cases wherein patients are coming late to the hospital and then end up in a critical situation.” PMC which runs the facility is paying the agency to provide manpower and services to Covid-19 patients. As per the contract, the civic body has to pay for at least 50 per cent of the beds reserved irrespective of whether they are occupied or not. Another civic official from the health department on condition of anonymity said, “We have to pay private hospitals under the PMC’s urban poor health scheme and also to the jumbo facility agency which will only put an additional financial burden on the civic body. The civic body aims to concentrate all Covid-19 patients at one place for which the COEP jumbo centre would be a primary option.” Rubal Agarwal, additional municipal commissioner, said, “It is true and worrying that we are seeing a rise in the number of critical patients at the jumbo facility. People are not following safety norms. We might see a spike in the number of cases too eventually since people are seen crowding streets and markets.” Increase in critical patients at jumbo facility As of November 11 22 patients on ventilator support 10 in ICU on oxygen support As on November 6 19 patients on ventilator support 14 in ICU on oxygen support||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-s-jumbo-facility-sees-rise-in-critical-patients/story-eZOS0LvKTqywtoHzQWyK0H.html
12-11-2020||Pune||23-year-old Pune youth murdered in Dattawadi||A 23-year-old youth was murdered by two unidentified men at Dattawadi, on the wee hours of Tuesday.The incident took place on a road near Ambil Odha (stream) area of Dattawadi when the victim identified as Raju Bhalchandra Yashwad was returning home. He was accosted by two youths who stopped him on the road and attacked him with sharp weapons.The local residents present on the spot informed the police after which the night patrol team arrived on the scene and took the victim to Sassoon Hospital in an emergency ambulance.He died while undergoing treatment in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of the government hospital, said police.Police inspector Ram Rajmane said that a case related to murder has been lodged against two unidentified accused and investigation is underway. “We are recording the statement of people who were present at the spot during the incident and will soon arrest the culprits,” he said.A case under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) 302 (murder) has been lodged against two accused at Dattawadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/23-year-old-pune-youth-murdered-in-dattawadi/story-08chJGM9ssrubIFAdIiCiK.html
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||Southall Punjab-origin man sentenced for wrong visa advice||Southall-based Balvinder Singh Madan, who pleaded guilty to providing unregulated immigration advice to people in offices in north-west London between October 2017 and April 2018, has been given community sentence of 80 hours of unpaid work and fined. Madan, 40, was sentenced at the Westminster Magistrates Court after admitting to one count of the criminal offence at an earlier court appearance, officials said on Thursday. Apart from the community sentence and prosecution costs, he must pay £600 (Rs 59,007) compensation to the victim and a £85 (Rs 8,365) victim surcharge. The Office of the Immigration Services Commissioner (OISC) was contacted by the victim who made a complaint after she paid £600 for inadequate advice and negligent service that led to her leave to remain application being rejected by the Home Office. Investigations showed that Madan did not possess the relevant authorisation, training or qualifications. Immigration commissioner John Tuckett said of the conviction, “Mr Madan allowed the complainant to put her trust and future in him. This was a serious offence given the amount of money involved and the impact on the applicant.” The OISC is an independent public body that regulates the provision of immigration advice and services in the UK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/southall-punjab-origin-man-sentenced-for-wrong-visa-advice/story-6i2iEMSs9jrjHcrjyhgz8K.html
12-11-2020||Kolkata||Bengal: Anti-electrocution cells to be constituted to protect elephants||The West Bengal government has decided to constitute multi-departmental anti-electrocution cells to protect wild elephants in the state, officials said on Thursday.The decision in this regard was taken during a recent meeting in north Bengal between officials of the Power and Forest Departments, they said.The cells will comprise officials of the Forest Directorate, the West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (WBSEDCL), district administration and police, besides local panchayat members, they said.“The cells will formulate preventive and mitigation strategies and monitor measures to prevent setting up of illegal electric fences.“During the meeting, it was also decided to identify and raise the height of sagging high-tension lines and cover certain electric poles near elephant corridors with barbed wires to prevent the pachyderms from leaning against them,” Chief Wildlife Warden V K Yadav said.Necessary vehicular support will be provided to the cells by the Forest Department or the WBSEDCL and each cell will have its own WhatsApp group for better coordination, he said.The Forest Department will identify corridors frequented by the elephant and the WBSEDCL will insulate the low-tension lines passing through such corridors with aerial bunched cables, Yadav said.The department will also set up electric fences with “low-voltage pulsating current” to prevent the elephants from wandering into human settlements, he said.Also Read: No pre-final tests for West Bengal class 10th, 12th students: Mamata BanerjeeThe WBSEDCL will thoroughly check why the circuit breakers for the high-tension feeder lines did not trip after elephants came in contact with them in the past, another official said.The tea garden managements may not be encouraging the setting up of illegal electric fences but there are several such fences near labour colonies that cause electrocution of the elephants, he said.The Forest Department will identify tea gardens adjacent to elephant corridors and the cells will ensure that the managements of the estates erect only low-voltage fences, the official said.As per the department, 25 elephants have died due to electrocution in north Bengal in the last five years, of which nine incidents took place this year.“The principal cause of deaths of elephants was found to be unauthorised extension of low-tension domestic power lines on the periphery of the forests and the use of electric fences,” Yadav said.Copies of the recommendations made at the meeting have been forwarded to the top state officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-anti-electrocution-cells-to-be-constituted-to-protect-elephants/story-9wu3ULLDhHdWtLz9O0UpDM.html
12-11-2020||City||Goa CM defends controversial infra projects again, disregards Kejriwal’s advice||Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday again defended three controversial infrastructure projects in his state that have had environmentalists up in arms while telling his Delhi counterpart, Arvind Kejriwal that he did not need his advice on the matter.The two leaders exchanged sharp words on the issue for a second day on Twitter on Thursday.There have been midnight protests against the double-tracking of a railway line from Goa to Karnataka as well as a highway expansion and a proposed power transmission line project that will pass through Goa’s oldest wildlife sanctuary, the Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary in Mollem and Mollem National Park.Also Read: ‘Worry about Delhi first’: Goa CM Pramod Sawant’s advice to Arvind KejriwalThe projects will cost 170 hectares of forest land and around 55,000 trees. Activists fear the projects will destroy the sanctuary and the pristine Western Ghats ecosystem that it was designed to protect. They say the railway track was being doubled to expand the coal-carrying capacity from Goa’s Mormugao Port to north Karnataka. The railways and Sawant have allayed the fears saying nothing like this was being planned. “Doubling of Railway tracks is a nation building exercise. There is no threat to Mollem [Wildlife Sanctuary] & we will ensure it remains that way. We will not allow Goa to become [a] coal hub. Knowing your expertise in creating Center vs State issues, we will skip your advice,” Sawant said in a tweet.Kejriwal responded saying Sawant should listen to Goa’s people. “@DrPramodPSawant ji, you don’t need to listen to my advice but please listen to the voices of Goans. Shouldn’t Goans have some say in their own state? Is Central diktat more important than Goan voices?”Kejriwal earlier suggested the Centre was “forcing this project on Goa”, which prompted Sawant’s response.“Dear CM @ArvindKejriwal ji, we are making sure that there is no pollution issue in Goa and our Govt will ensure that our state remains pollution free. I am sure the people of Delhi also want the same in their beautiful state,” Sawant said.Dear CM @ArvindKejriwal ji, we are making sure that there is no pollution issue in Goa and our Govt will ensure that our state remains pollution free. I am sure the people of Delhi also want the same in their beautiful state. https://t.co/tUHU2wqmdVKejriwal earlier said Goans were opposing the railway double-tracking project. “Kindly hear their voice n #savemollem as they are lungs of Goa. I understand [the] Centre is forcing this project on Goa. Pl stand wid (with) Goans, say NO 2 centre n save Goa from becoming coal hub.”Kejriwal said it is not about Delhi’s pollution vs Goa’s. “Both Delhi and Goa are dear to me. We are all one country. We all have to work together to ensure there is no pollution in both Delhi and Goa,” said Kejriwal.Sawant was earlier quoted as saying that Kejriwal should look after his own state.On Wednesday, Sawant separately said the highest amount of coal was handled in 2017 when 14 million tons of coal was imported, which has since come down to around 9-10 million tons. “I have discussed this with the Union shipping minister that it should be further reduced. We will not cross those high levels again,” Sawant said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/goa-cm-defends-controversial-infra-projects-again-disregards-kejriwal-s-advice/story-DP6e0xXxYQdnD90OEQyszK.html
12-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi high court vacates stay on reservation of 80% ICU beds for Covid-19 patients||The Delhi high court on Thursday vacated the stay imposed by a single judge on the reservation of 80% Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds in 33 private hospitals in the national capital. “In view of the present situation and the spiralling situation that has radically changed in the last three months, the order of September 22, passed by the single judge, is vacated,” the court said.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government issued an order on September 12 asking 33 private hospitals in the city to reserve 80% ICU beds for Covid-19 patients. This order was stayed by the HC on September 22 on a petition by the Association of Healthcare Providers. Later, on October 9, a division bench of the court took up an appeal by the Delhi government, refusing to vacate the stay while adjourning the matter to November 27. The AAP government approached the apex court against these two orders of September 22 and October 9. The Supreme Court has refused to interfere with the HC order staying the AAP government’s instruction to private hospitals in the city to reserve beds. The high court also asked the state government as to what exercise it has carried out in reserving 80% ICU beds in 33 private hospitals, while stating that a September 12 notification to that effect is “outdated” and that “the situation on the ground is much more critical”.Also Read: Explain reason behind reserving 80% ICU beds for Covid-19 patients: HC to Delhi govt“What is the rationale behind selecting these 33 hospitals? What is the density exercise that you have conducted? Is it a random selection? What is the density exposure and how many of the hospitals have been reserved in the Central district of the city with the fourth sero survey report showing increase in the cases? How have the beds been divided?,” a bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad sought to know from additional solicitor general (ASG) Sanjay Jain, who represented the Delhi government. ASG Jain submitted that three factors had been taken into account while choosing the 33 hospitals. He said they had the largest chunk of ICU beds (a total of 2,217). He said that the remaining 82 private hospitals in the city had 1,051 ICU beds, and they had also been told to reserve about 20%-40% of their ICU beds for Covid-19 patients.Jain contended that the 33 hospitals were also chosen because they were popular among residents, and were better equipped to segregate Covid and non-Covid patients as well as increase the number of ICU beds if required.He said that while there are 20 ambulances available to ferry patients to the Radha Soami Beas Satsang facility, 60 more ambulances are being offered by the Delhi government to transport patients from home to hospitals and from one hospital to another.However, appearing for the Association of Healthcare Providers, senior advocate Maninder Singh and advocate Sanyam Khetarpal said that the 33 private hospitals had already reserved 67% of their ICU beds for Covid patients. Singh said 50-55% of the ICU beds were required for non-Covid patients, including new ones and those already under treatment at these private hospitals.After hearing the submissions, the court said that no citizen with a health emergency should be made to run from pillar to post if there is a bed available in a hospital. It said that the Delhi government must feel the pulse of the city to cope with the situation, given that there has been a sea change in the ground reality since the September 12 order was passed.On Wednesday, the government informed the high court that around one in four of the 15,000 people tested in the latest serological survey in the capital showed prevalence of antibodies against Sars-Cov-2, indicating that the proportion of people with antibodies has remained largely unchanged from the previous round of the exercise. The court also asked the Delhi government as to whether there are nodal officers appointed to coordinate with the management of these private hospitals to check the availability of the beds.ASG Jain submitted that there are 33 nodal officers assigned to each hospital and there is one nodal officer per district. All of them collectively report to the special secretary, health, Delhi government, to look into the availability of beds.Following this, the court vacated the stay imposed by a single judge on the reservation of ICU beds on September 22 while stating that since the network of nodal officers is already in place, they can coordinate and change the order according to the situation.The bench asked the Delhi government to file an additional affidavit before the single judge and changed the date of the next hearing to November 26 from November 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-high-court-vacates-stay-on-reservation-of-80-icu-beds-for-covid-19-patients/story-oc1H5rrYQzeD6DfECJDc2K.html
12-11-2020||Delhi||Dhanteras 2020: Shaadi shopping, silver steal the show||Silver jewellery, trinkets, coins, minimalist designs, surge in demand of solitaire, this Dhanteras is all about these and trending among Delhiites. As the denizens gear up to celebrate Dhanteras, also known as Dhantrayodashi, wherein Goddess Lakshmi, along with Lord Kubera who is the God of wealth, jewellers in the city share what’s trending among the Delhi-NCR folks, as some even opt for wedding shopping amid the corona scare. Silver steals the showWhile it is considered auspicious to buy gold and other precious metals on Dhanteras, Silver is shining brighter in the market than the yellow metal. “Chandni Chowk has the best, and often the cheapest rates for metals in the market. Still demand for Gold is restricted to people who are looking to invest in wedding jewellery. For Dhanteras, Silver is reigning supreme; keeping with the tradition, people are coming to purchase silver utensils, hathdi and murtis,” says Naresh Bansal, who runs Bansal and Sons, a jewellery store in Chandni Chowk. Coins tinkleLoss of jobs, and less income made people dip deep into their savings during the pandemic. “People invest in precious metal from their savings. Ab savings nahi hain toh log kya hi lenge,” opines Shashank Bharadwaj, who runs Bhagwati Jewellery store in West Delhi and says mere 20% of his customers are opting to come to the store. He says silver, and occasionally gold coins, have found new takers. “Earlier people would purchase jewellery, but coins are very popular this time since they let people celebrate Dhanteras without burning a hole in their pocket,” adds Bharadwaj.Delicate is not just classy but affordable tooRaj Kumar, owner of Mayur Jewellers in Janakpuri tells us buyers are showing a keen interest in trendy silver jewellery since Gold is not within everyone’s reach. “We don’t see a lot of visitors to the store these days, and the ones who are coming, wish to purchase small, delicate silver trinkets like anklets, small pendants and earrings. We have a good variety of it too. Gold ke daam toh aasmaan chhu rahe hain, toh ab silver hi bik raha hai,” he adds. Shopping because there’s shaadi in the familyGaurav Nagi, director, Nagi Jeweller, Lajwanti Garden, says, “Bahut saari shaadiyan hai. There are pot of weddings happening and people are buying gold jewellery for that purpose. Jinke ghar do saal saal ke baad bhi shaadiya hain woh bhi abhi purshase kar rahe hain ki aage aur nah bad jaaye. Silver mein interest kam hain. Gold mein bridal jewellery zyada chal rahi hain jaise ki bangles, necklace, earrings.”Salespersons call up customers to get leadsA sales representative from Carat Lane, a jewellery store in Gurugram, says, “Earlier they used to be more walk-ins. Now, we call customers and get leads. Our business and sales have been good. Compared to last year, it is still good. In terms of designs, we are pushing for solitaire since the gold rate is very high!”Surge in demand of solitairesWith the gradual scaling up of the market, and with the festive season, the sentiment has completely changed, says Ageerika Hari, founder and chief designer, Vaitaanika-Inspire the jewel in you, Santushti Complex, Chanakyapuri. “The spend in jewellery has marginally increased, and a lot of people are actually showing interest in minimal designs over big chunky jewellery. What is selling right now is meenakari, diamond, rose gold, functional jewellery and silver jewellery. Post the reopening of the market, we saw huge interest in silver jewellery specially neckpieces and earrings and a combination of silver and diamond for rings. Also, the demand of solitaires has increased. We’ve seen women and men with set ideas of what they want in solitaire and what carat and what cut, and with serious buying and clear ideas it helps us jewellers to provide them with the best possible rings and sets,” she says. Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dhanteras-2020-shaadi-shopping-silver-steal-the-show/story-iF1j0FJ7HBVwHAM06yBjMO.html
12-11-2020||Delhi||Explain reason behind reserving 80% ICU beds for Covid-19 patients: HC to Delhi govt||The Delhi high court on Thursday asked the state government as to what exercise it has carried out in reserving 80% Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds in 33 private hospitals, while stating that a September 12 notification to that effect is “outdated” and that “the situation on the ground is much more critical”. “What is the rationale behind selecting these 33 hospitals? What is the density exercise that you have conducted? Is it a random selection? What is the density exposure and how many of the hospitals have been reserved in the Central district of the city with the fourth sero survey report showing increase in the cases? How have the beds been divided?,” a bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad sought to know from additional solicitor general (ASG) Sanjay Jain, who represented the Delhi government. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government issued an order on September 12 asking 33 private hospitals in the city to reserve 80% ICU beds for Covid-19 patients. This order was stayed by the HC on September 22 on a petition by the Association of Healthcare Providers. Later, on October 9, a division bench of the court took up an appeal by the Delhi government, refusing to vacate the stay while adjourning the matter to November 27. The AAP government approached the apex court against these two orders of September 22 and October 9. The Supreme Court has refused to interfere with the HC order staying the AAP government’s instruction to private hospitals in the city to reserve beds. Also Read: Nearly 48,000 new Covid-19 cases, 550 deaths push India’s tally to 86.8 lakh; active cases below 5 lakhASG Jain, along with additional standing counsel Sanjoy Ghose, submitted they agree that the situation was different in September and one could have said that the government’s notification was “premature” then. But now the situation warrants more ICU beds with the increasing number of cases in the city, they argued. “Empower me (Delhi government) today to address the dynamic situation…We will take steps to complete the deficiency,” ASG Jain submitted. On Wednesday, the government informed the high court that around one in four of the 15,000 people tested in the latest serological survey in the capital showed prevalence of antibodies against Sars-Cov-2, indicating that the proportion of people with antibodies has remained largely unchanged from the previous round of the exercise. On a specific query from the court on Thursday, ASG Jain said 2,000 beds are currently functional in the Radha Soami Beas Satsang out of the 10,000 beds there because people are not willing to go there. The court sought to know as to which of the areas are most affected in the national capital and whether economically weaker patients are being diverted to the Radha Soami Beas Satsang facility from government hospitals due to the non-availability of beds. Radha Soami Beas Satsang is a Covid Care Centre for mild and asymptomatic patients operated by the Delhi government and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police. “Have you set up helpdesks outside (government) hospitals? You say that you are running an ambulance facility. But how many patients…have been ferried and sent to the Radha Soami Beas Satsang facility (due to non-availability bed in government hospitals),” the court asked. ASG Jain said steps are being taken and the government will soon write to the lieutenant governor to conduct an immediate meeting with the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Monday. To this, the court said, “If you were conscious, you would have taken the steps. You are acting because you were prodded and pushed to do so. You are not aware of the situation which is the reason why you have opened everything under the sun.” The court would hear the matter later during the course of the day for the Delhi government to obtain instructions on the queries posed by them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-high-court-asks-govt-for-rationale-behind-reserving-80-icu-beds-for-covid-19-patients/story-HbfeKUVRGucCzh7hN6Vv8K.html
12-11-2020||Election:||‘You dream of becoming CM after getting 40 seats’: RJD’s Manoj Jha taunts Nitish Kumar||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Manoj Jha on Thursday took a swipe at Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar saying the Janata Dal (United) president “dreams” of retaining the chief ministerial post despite winning “only 40” seats in Bihar assembly elections held in late October and early November.“Public is indeed the master but see the condition they’ve placed you in. You (Nitish Kumar) dream of becoming CM after getting 40 seats. If you analyse mandate, it’s decisively against you. If you still get the post, only God knows how long will this illusion last,” Jha was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Click here for complete Bihar assembly election 2020Jha’s remark comes as the chief minister’s party, which contested in alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as paert of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), secured only 43 seats. The BJP on the other hand managed to win 74 of the 110 assembly constituencies it contested.Speaking about the electoral win, BJP leader and Bihar’s deputy chief minister Sushil Modi said that very few people get the chance to become chief minister for a fourth term and thanked the people for supporting the NDA alliance. “I thank the people of Bihar that they expressed their faith in NDA for the fourth time. It’s not ordinary. In Indian politics there are very few CMs whom people trusted for the fourth time,” he said.In all, NDA partners - BJP, JD(U), Vikassheel Insaan Party, and Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) - together won 125 seats of the 243 assembly constituencies whereas the RJD-led Grand Alliance failed to cross the majority mark of 122 seats as it won on 110 seats. Tejashwi Yadav’s RJD, however, emerged as the single-largest party securing 75 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/you-dream-of-becoming-cm-after-getting-40-seats-rjd-s-manoj-jha-taunts-nitish-kumar/story-75F2Zu1xcmVl3TAXeswAUK.html
12-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai court adjourns Arnab’s pre-arrest bail hearing in cop assault case||A sessions court in Mumbai on Thursday adjourned the hearing of Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and his wife Samyabrata Ray’s anticipatory bail plea in connection with a case registered against them for allegedly assaulting police officers. The assault case was filed after a police team arrested Goswami on November 4 for allegedly abetting an interior designer’s suicide in 2018.The couple’s lawyer, Shyam Kalyankar, said they sought adjournment of arguments in the sessions court as they wanted to study the Supreme Court’s order granting Goswami bail in the abetment case on Wednesday. “If his arrest is declared illegal, then we have a better case.”Also Read: In TV studio after release from jail, Arnab Goswami dares Uddhav ThackerayKalyankar said their basic contention is that no case is made out against Goswami as the arrest was illegal. “We are relying on the video recorded to put forth our contentions.”The prosecution also filed a reply before the court, opposing Goswami’s bail plea. It said it shows that Goswami has no fear of the law and may influence witnesses in the case if he is granted protection.A woman officer on November 4 lodged a complaint against Goswami, Ray, their son, an unidentified man, and a woman under Indian Penal Code’s sections including the ones pertaining to assault to deter public servants from discharging their duties, intentional insult to provoke breach of peace and criminal intimidation.Goswami has rejected the charges saying they just protested against his “illegal arrest”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-court-adjourns-arnab-s-pre-arrest-bail-hearing-in-cop-assault-case/story-NWjopUZAslNJB4JzdHaEEL.html
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||Asked to clarify stand on Kashmir, J&K High Court Bar Association cancels election, forms ad hoc body||The Jammu and Kashmir High Court Bar Association has cancelled its elections and formed an ad hoc body to run its affairs after the government barred it from going ahead with the polls. The Srinagar district administration on Monday ordered that no elections would be allowed till the Bar clarified its stand on whether it considers Kashmir a dispute or an integral part of India and also provided details of its registration. After a meeting on Wednesday, the Bar formed a 21-member ad hoc committee with senior member Nazir Ahmad Ronga as its chairman and put the poll process on hold. The committee comprised the candidates, former elected members and the election body. “It is hereby notified that post constitution of the ad hoc committee, the notification for conduct of elections stands recalled,” the Bar said in a statement signed by its election commission secretary Mudasir Gulzar Vakil. NOT A DISPUTE, EXPLANATION SOUGHT The body, which started its election process in September after the release of its incumbent president Mian Abdul Qayoom, who was detained following the revocation of J&K’s special status, deferred the voting scheduled on Tuesday after Srinagar district magistrate Shahid Choudhary asked it to first clarify its position for advocating the “peaceful settlement of the Kashmir dispute”. “You are required to explain your position on the subject since it’s not in consonance with the Constitution of India, whereby J&K is an integral part of the country and not a dispute, and also in conflict with the Advocates’ Act,1961, which governs the subject,” Choudhary said, seeking an explanation from the association on November 9. STAND CONFORMS WITH CONSTITUTION : ASSOCIATION The bar body says that its stand is two decades old and in conformity with the Constitution. Association chief election officer Manzoor Ahmed Dar said the district magistrate has no jurisdiction or authority to prevent elections and the Bar body will file appropriate responses to the communication. “The Bar constitution provides for seeking a peaceful resolution of the Kashmir issue, which was incorporated more than two decades ago,” he said. “In our view, it is in conformity with the Constitution of India and is also in conformity with the stand taken by the Bar association before the Supreme Court in proceedings related to abrogation of Articles 370 and 35-A,” he said. The Bar has tasked a senior advocate and a constitutional expert to file an appropriate response to the district magistrate. “A committee headed by senior advocate Zafar Ahmad Shah will look into the issues raised by the district administration on November 9,” the Bar statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/asked-to-clarify-stand-on-kashmir-j-k-high-court-bar-association-cancels-election-forms-ad-hoc-body/story-KuWdILZVKesMJ50Q3wTBOI.html
12-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Byculla Zoo could reopen in the next 2 months||Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) authorities are discussing the precautionary measures that are needed to be enforced before reopening Veermata Jijabai Bhonsale Udyan, also known as the Byculla Zoo, in the next couple of months amid the Maharashtra government’s plans to gradually ease lockdown restrictions, which were enforced in the end of March in a bid to contain the spread of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. The state government has allowed reopening of shops, malls, multiplexes, and theatres in the past few months as it seeks to boost commercial activities that have been roiled because of the contagion.Similarly, efforts are in progress to reopen the zoo while complying with social distancing norms.Also Read: Mumbai: BMC forms squads to monitor Covid-19 guidelines violations around Diwali“We have started discussing the measures that need to be put in place before the zoo can be reopened. We are yet to reach a consensus, when the zoo cane be reopened, as a timeline will depend on the Covid-19 situation in Mumbai after the ongoing festive season gets over. Perhaps, the end of December can be a possibility. At present, all of Mumbai is open. It is up to the state government to take a call, when the zoo is ready to be thrown open to the public again,” said a BMC official. Precautionary measures include markings on the ground outside animal enclosures and before ticket counters in a bid to ensure that the visitors comply with social distancing norms. A public address system (PA) system will be in place for announcements to avoid overcrowding and notices and posters will be put up at various locations within the zoo premises to make the visitors aware about the viral outbreak. The BMC authorities are also constructing an aviary as part of their second phase of the zoo’s expansion plan. The aviary will house over 100 species of birds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-byculla-zoo-could-reopen-in-the-next-2-months/story-5EPw7ROYqbFflnKtGcnvKM.html
12-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai citizen group submits plan for easing traffic woes to BMC||Citizen group Jaagrut Mulundkars has surveyed one of the busiest junctions in the Mumbai suburb of Mulund and has submitted an action plan to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) and the traffic police on how to ease traffic woes in the area.Chetan Bordawekar, a member of the group, said, “The junction always faces traffic snarls. Many times, ambulances are stuck in traffic.”Also Read: Mumbai: BMC forms squads to monitor Covid-19 guidelines violations around DiwaliSome of the suggestions include odd-even parking from the Paanch Rasta junction to the Ambaji Dham mandir so as to allow more space for traffic flow. Currently, vehicles are parked on both sides of the road restricting space. The group has also proposed clearly marked zebra crossings to safeguard pedestrians and relocation of a divider to make way for more vehicles.“We have submitted our report and are waiting for a response from the officials. Post this, we are also looking at studying some of the internal roads in Mulund to enable better traffic movement,” Bordawekar said.A BMC official said they are studying the plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-citizen-group-submits-plan-for-easing-traffic-woes-to-bmc/story-paC40ej0Z6keSe3gIPdkwI.html
12-11-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan government, Gurjar leaders reach consensus on Day 11 of stir||A consensus was reached on the six contentious points between the representatives of the agitating Gurjar community and the Ashok Gehlot-led Rajasthan government on Wednesday following a day-long meeting that was held between 2pm and 9.30pm. Wednesday was the 11th day of the Gurjar agitation. State minister for energy BD Kalla and Gurjar leader, Colonel Kirori Singh Bainsla, thrashed out the differences at CM Gehlot’s official residence in Jaipur. Gurjar delegates said they would take a decision on calling off the agitation from the protest site at Pilupura in Bayana in Bharatpur district. Also Read: Rajasthan Governor asks varsities to develop courses in specialised knowledge areasVijay Bainsla, a Gurjar leader, said a consensus has been reached with the state government regarding the community’s long-pending demands. Gurjars had blocked the Delhi-Mumbai rail route at Pilupura and the Hindaun-Bayana road, which led to diversion and cancellation of trains and disruption of vehicular traffic, respectively. The Gurjar Aarakshan Sangarsh Samiti has been demanding the community’s inclusion in the Schedule IX of the Constitution and a 5% reservation in the Most Backward Classes (MBCs) category for state government jobs.The six-point pact includes providing compensation and jobs to the next of kin of three Gurjars who had died during the agitation, a quote for the community in the state government vacancies, holding quarterly meetings on the withdrawal of earlier cases against the community members; and constituting a committee for the ongoing recruitment process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-government-gurjar-leaders-reach-consensus-on-day-11-of-stir/story-axN6cJmU3cNyH7gUwc2ffP.html
12-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: BMC forms squads to monitor Covid-19 guidelines violations around Diwali||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) authorities have formed squads in each of the civic body’s wards to monitor violations related to the use of firecrackers and ensure that coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-related protocols are not violated before and on the day of Diwali, which will be celebrated on Saturday (November 14).The BMC has decided to monitor areas, where air pollution is on the rise during this period, and divert the squads to check the source of poor air quality index (AQI), officials said.Earlier this week, the Maharashtra government advised the public to celebrate a firecracker-free Diwali this year because of the dual impact of pollution woes and the Covid-19 outbreak. The BMC on Monday banned bursting of firecrackers in public and private places in Mumbai except on the day of Diwali. Also Read: Don’t step out, celebrate Diwali from homes: Maharashtra CM Uddhav ThackerayFirecrackers can be burst on the festive occasion in residential areas and housing complexes. Revellers are allowed to burst only two variants of firecrackers such as sparklers and flower pots.The BMC has taken the call on a ban on firecrackers following due deliberations.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner (AMC), BMC, said: “We have analysed the crowding pattern of Mumbai, and classified areas with high population density around markets and public places, where there can be a possibility of a large gathering and the predicted timing of that congregation. For example, Dadar market is likely to have more people during early morning, while Marine Drive may have more public in the evening. This information was shared with Mumbai Police. We have formed various teams in a bid to mobilise them in a ward to educate and motivate the public about following three Covid-19-related precautionary measures such as wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and using hand sanitisers. Any violation will attract a fine of Rs 200.” Kakani said that the civic body authorities had increased their workforce because of the festive season. “We have roped in officers and field staff from the licencing, insecticide and sanitation departments. We have deployed around 100 employees per ward, who are part of the newly formed squads. Besides, Mumbai Police personnel will also support us. In some of the wards, we have requested the police authorities to allow BMC employee to sit in their mobile police vans during patrolling,” he said.BMC authorities have also requested the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), which comes under the Union Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES), to share a daily air pollution report before and on the day of Diwali. “This will help us understand the air pollution spike in specific locations. We are in possession of the previous years’ data, which can be used for a compare and contrast,” Kakani added. Mumbai Police and civic body authorities would patrol across the city in a bid to ensure a ban on firecrackers, the BMC’s AMC said.“The use of firecrackers within the stipulated time frame in some residential areas and gated communities cannot be ruled out. However, we will invoke the provisions of the Bombay Police Act, 1951 and the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), 1973 and impose a fine against firecracker-related violations.Our aim is to make the public aware,” he said.“We will crackdown on the illegal sale of firecrackers at markets since only green crackers are allowed to be sold. The squads will check the illegal sale of firecrackers and their composition,” said Tanaji Kamble, spokesperson, BMC.HT has reported that an analysis of the chemical composition of green crackers, which are sold in Mumbai, has shown the presence of banned ingredients such as barium nitrate. Awaaz Foundation, a Mumbai-based non-governmental organisation (NGO), has conducted the analysis. In October 2018, the Supreme Court (SC) had banned the manufacture of traditional polluting firecrackers and the use of barium nitrate while directing the Centre to develop green crackers, which have 30% lower emissions of toxic gases, by using a new chemical composition. “Distribution and sale of firecrackers is licenced by the arms and ammunition department of the Mumbai Police and the BMC,” said Sumaira Abdulali, the head of the Awaaz Foundation.“These authorities are empowered to keep a tab on whether firecracker distributors are complying with the strict norms such as safety. Chemical composition of firecrackers, including green crackers, is required to be displayed on boxes,” she said.Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) authorities have washed their hands off on the ban on firecrackers. They maintained that their job was to monitor noise and air pollution, not use of firecrackers. MPCB would be recording noise across 10 locations in Mumbai. “The National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) was tasked with the job of coming with a new formula for green crackers while the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO) is responsible for giving green certification to these crackers. The SC order has been presumably complied with by both these bodies. However, Mumbai district magistrate is the licencing authority, while the BMC and Mumbai Police are the enforcement authority. Our mandate (MPCB) is related to keeping noise levels in check,” said Sudhir Srivastava, chairman, MPCB.The district administration said Mumbai Police and BMC were the enforcement authorities under the Disaster Management Act, 2005; Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897; Explosives Act,1884; and violations of these rules would attract both a jail term and a fine..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-bmc-forms-squads-to-monitor-covid-19-guidelines-violations-around-diwali/story-9oAaeyXhEZbXQBZEl830gI.html
12-11-2020||Jaipur||Gurjars in Rajasthan called off agitation over reservation after ‘agreement’ with CM||Gurjar community in Rajasthan has called off their agitation over reservation on Thursday morning after signing an agreement with chief minister Ashok Gehlot. After an 11-day long stalemate, the community leader Kirori Singh Bainsla met chief minister Ashok Gehlot on November 11 demanding reservation in jobs and education. They have signed an agreement with the government.“We came to an agreement with the government last night, the community agrees with the settlement. We are vacating tracks, reinstalled all clips (on railway track) that were taken out. Gangman is checking the line, train service will resume soon. Agitation called off,” said Gurjar leader Vijay Bainsla.Gurjar agitators were seen repairing fishplates, that they had damaged, on a railway track in Bharatpur where they were protesting with their demand for reservation. Rajasthan government on October 26, 2018, passed a bill that increased the Other Backward Classes (OBC) quota from 21 percent to 26 percent. In December 2018, the Rajasthan government also approved one percent reservation for Gujjars and four other backward castes (OBCs). These communities are getting one percent separate reservation under the legal limit of 50 percent reservation meant for the most-backward category in addition to OBC reservation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/gurjars-in-rajasthan-called-off-agitation-over-reservation-after-agreement-with-cm/story-lehy64MCkMyDdEwp6GvJeJ.html
12-11-2020||Lucknow||Diwali cheer: No power tarrif hike, slabs unchanged in Uttar Pradesh||In a major respite for consumers in Uttar Pradesh, the UP state electricity regulator has rejected the demand of the UP Power Corporation Limited (UPPCL) to hike the power tariff in the state this fiscal year. This comes amidst the festival season and is sure to bring cheer to the people of Uttar Pradesh.The UPPCL had sent a proposal for slab changes in electricity rates to increase the price of electricity. But the proposal was rejected by the Commission in its order on Wednesday in which it said that there would be no hike in power tariffs; rejected the proposal of different power distribution companies for a marginal hike in tariffs.According to reports, UPPCL had secretly sent the proposal to the Electricity Regulatory Commission. The proposal was sent to 53 of 80 slabs of electricity rates. The proposal was to create three slabs for urban domestic except BPL. There were two slabs proposed for commercial, small and medium industries. A change in the slab of electricity rates may increase the electricity rate by 3 to 4 per cent. The price of electricity increases with the change in a slab of electricity rates. Read more | Uttar Pradesh govt to launch website for first-ever virtual Deepotsav in AyodhyaThe Consumers Council said that the proposal to change the slab should only be considered when there is a 16 per cent reduction in electricity rates. The council wrote in its resolution that the rise of electricity consumers in the tariff order of 2019-20 and in the troupe by 2017-18, about Rs 13337 crore is going out on the power companies and this amount has to be given to the consumers. The amount has now increased by 13 per cent to about Rs. 14782 crore, which is given to consumers, and the electricity rate will be reduced by about 25 per cent.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/diwali-cheer-no-power-tarrif-hike-slabs-unchanged-in-uttar-pradesh/story-HZKyRMNnMhV0Anp3KHagIJ.html
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||3 of teacher’s family found dead in Haryana’s Tohana town||Three members of a family were found dead under mysterious circumstances at their rented accommodation in Fatehabad district’s Tohana town on Wednesday night. Police said a 32-year-old science teacher and her one-and-a-half-year-old daughter were found dead in a room with cloth stuffed in the mouth, while her 35-year-old husband was found hanging from the ceiling fan in the storeroom. “The incident came to light when the teacher’s colleagues called up the house owner in the evening as she had not been taking calls since 8am on Wednesday. The teacher used to accompany her colleagues in a car to a government school in a village in Fatehabad. The house owner broke open the door around 7.30pm and found the bodies,” Tohana Sadar police station in-charge Surender Kumar said. The family belonged to a village in Bhiwani district and had been staying in Tohana for the past three months after the woman teacher was transferred. The police are investigating if the teacher’s husband killed her and the toddler before hanging himself. “We are probing whether the family was facing any financial hurdles and ascertaining what the husband did for a living. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem,” Kumar said. A case was registered under Section 174 of the Criminal Procedure Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/3-of-teacher-s-family-found-dead-in-haryana-s-tohana-town/story-sdTaPxQ8mohBnIcxbeBbmI.html
12-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi man, who lost his job in Saudi Arabia, arrested for snatching||A 32-year-old man, who lost his job in Saudi Arabia and returned to India, was arrested in connection with a snatching he allegedly perpetrated at a vegetable shop in south Delhi’s Abul Fazal area in Jamia Nagar last week, the police said. The stolen cellphone was recovered from his possession. The police identified him by his first name Salman, and said he was a resident of Shaheen Bagh. “Salman was in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, and worked as a private driver for six years, between 2011 and 2017. As he lost the job and could not find another, Salman returned to India. He started working as Gramin Sewa driver in Delhi but lost that job as well. Since he had no means to earn his livelihood, he resorted to crime,” said deputy commissioner of police (southeast) RP Meena. Also Read: HT Spot Check: Crowds trample Covid-19 norms in Delhi’s marketsOn November 5, DCP Meena said, Salman entered a vegetable shop in Abul Fazal and snatched the smartphone of the shop owner, Ehtasham. A case of snatching was registered on Ehtasham’s complaint and the footage of the CCTV cameras installed in the vicinity of the crime spot was scanned. The suspect was seen in the CCTV camera footage. His identity was established through the local human intelligence network. On Tuesday night, the suspect (Salman) was caught with the stolen mobile phone from Kalindi Kunj area. Salman’s antecedents were verified but he was not found involved in any crime in the past, said the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-man-who-lost-his-job-in-saudi-arabia-arrested-for-snatching/story-5aG48t21QVzhFNLB6U9KPK.html
12-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality improves, may deteriorate again over Diwali weekend||Showing an improvement from the previous day, Delhi’s air quality dropped to the higher end of the “poor” category on Thursday morning. According to the Central Pollution Control Board data, the air quality index (AQI) reading at 6am stood at 299. On Wednesday, the average 24-hour AQI reading was 344. The air quality had improved from the “severe” category to the “very poor” zone after six days.Air quality enters the “very poor” category between 301-400 mark and crosses over to the “severe” zone after exceeding 400. “Severe” air quality can cause health impacts among healthy people and significant distress among those with existing health conditions.Scientists from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) credited the improvement in air quality to change in wind direction and improved speed.Also Read: ‘Red light on, Gaadi off’ campaign in Delhi extended till Nov 30Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said from Tuesday afternoon, the wind direction over Delhi changed from north-westerly -- from the direction of agrarian states of Punjab and Haryana bringing in smoke from farm fires -- to easterly.“Because of the wind direction change, we did not have stubble-burning smoke adding to the local sources and deteriorating the air quality on Wednesday. The average wind speed was 12kmph, which was enough to disperse the accumulated pollutants,” Srivastava said.He said on Thursday, too, the wind direction will remain easterly and there is a possibility of the AQI improving further into the better end of the “very poor” zone. But this respite will be short-lived as on the Diwali weekend (November 14), wind will slow down and change direction back to north-westerly.Meanwhile, IMD has predicted a misty morning for Thursday with a mainly clear sky during the day. The minimum temperature at around 6.10am was 11.8 degrees Celsius and maximum temperature is predicted to be 29 degrees Celsius.On Wednesday, the minimum temperature had dropped to 11.4 degrees Celsius, which was three degrees below normal and the maximum temperature was recorded at 29.9 degrees Celsius, which was one degree above normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-air-quality-improves-likely-to-deteriorate-again-over-diwali-weekend/story-RK0EfXlLgqe8j7CniipNxH.html
12-11-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: In search of lost time||He’s looking like an emissary from a different world — partly because of his dress. Sitting on a sidewalk in central Delhi’s Connaught Place, grey-haired Jagdamba Prasad is attired in a cotton dhoti and a khadi jacket. Looking around him, at men dressed in pants and shirts, he mutters, “I have never worn these kind of clothes.” Not that the elderly man is dismissive of western dressing, but “I have always been in dhotis and kurtas,” he explains, adding that his sons though have taken up “pant-bush shirt.”In his late 70s, Mr Prasad is visiting the city from his village near Ayodhya, in UP. His sons live in the suburbs. He himself is not new to Delhi. “I spent 50 years of my life here, as a paan seller.”He left for his village a decade ago, but still feels a strong connection to the city because of his friends. “One sells clothes here, and one runs a paan stall as I used to.”The gentleman talks of how he never wandered around Delhi during the many decades he spent here. But now, in the city for a medical treatment, he is strolling about and “spotting places that were once familiar to me.”Earlier in the day, for instance, he walked past a hotel outside which he used to sell paan “until I was kicked out from that spot during the Emergency (in late 1970s).”Reflecting on his Delhi years, Mr Prasad confesses that his time in the city was superior to his present life in the village. “Money brings happiness, and in Delhi I was earning well.” While in the village, in farming, “either your crop gets ruined by too much rains, or by unexpected hailstorms.”The idea of him returning permanently to the city is not viable though, “because you can’t start all over again at my age.” He shall take the bus back to the village in a happy mood, he says. Showing the label on the collar of his jacket, he says, “it’s new. I got it just days ago, from Khadi Bhandar in Connaught Place.”He now gets up and crosses a zebra crossing, heading to Janpath. He wants to see if the building outside which he used to set up his stall for a time still exists or not.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-in-search-of-lost-time/story-bV8ycSY4bGeFzjI1p8ULBJ.html
12-11-2020||Delhi||HT Spot Check: Crowds trample Covid-19 norms in Delhi’s markets||Despite new Covid-19 infections in the Capital spiralling, and experts urging people to avoid crowding, markets have swelled during the festive season. HT is conducting spot checks in different parts of the city to check whether social distancing norms and mask hygiene are being followed, and questioning the authorities about why they are being unable to put measures in place, and how they plan to address the problem. Need we remind you, the coronavirus disease has already infected over 450,000 people in the city, and taken more than 7,000 lives.What association saysSanjay Bhargava, president of Chandni Chowk traders’ association: “Although there is space on the main road, the by-lanes are extremely crowded. We have asked the district administration to remove encroachments from pavements. The administration is taking measures, but the problem is the high number of shoppers.”Nagrendra Tripathi, additional district magistrate (Central): “We have set up eight incident command posts, with six to eight civil defence volunteers, to urge people to maintain social distancing. We are issuing fines for violations and are issuing about 500 fines daily in the district.”DCP (North) Anto Alphonse: “We are working to ensure that there is no crowding. Our beat officers have placed barricades at different points to restrict random movement of shoppers and vehicles. We have banned the loading and unloading of goods during the day to avoid jams. All encroachments are being removed daily.” Ashok Randhawa, president, Sarojini Nagar mini market traders’ association: There has been a surge in the number of illegal hawkers. A senior district official, requesting anonymity: “All illegal vendors and hawkers have been removed from the market. We set up a test facility in the market two weeks ago.”DCP (south-west) Ingit Pratap Singh: “Apart from the local police, paramilitary staff are also present to ensure no crowding in the market. We issued 120 fines for violations on Tuesday.”Ashwani Marwah, general secretary of the traders’ association of Lajpat Nagar: “We have told shopkeepers not to allow customers without masks. The government should cap the number of visitors.”Viswendra, DM (south-east): “We have deployed teams to check violations. We are conducting awareness campaigns .” DCP (south-east) RP Meena: “There are over 40 personnel in the market during business hours. We also have 20 volunteers from the traders’ association to patrol the markets.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ht-spot-check-crowds-trample-covid-19-norms-in-delhi-s-markets/story-qgXBMSTSycAEqbsTAYShfK.html
12-11-2020||Delhi||Laxmi puja at Akshardham: Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said that he and his cabinet ministers will perform Laxmi puja at Akshardham temple on Diwali evening.The event will be telecast live on some TV channels from 7.39 pm on Saturday, he said.“This Diwali, let’s pray together. Join us from your homes,” said Kejriwal in a short video posted on social media.The plan was first announced by the CM last week, days before the Delhi government imposed a blanket ban on all kinds of firecrackers in the light of the air pollution and the health crisis caused by a spike in Covid-19 cases. Last year, the Delhi government had organised a cultural event in Connaught Place to encourage people to participate in community celebration of Diwali and discourage burning of fire crackers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/laxmi-puja-at-akshardham-arvind-kejriwal/story-TXfaYyABs2kxixVrcxd57L.html
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||Won’t resume trains in Punjab with conditions, says railways||The impasse between the Centre and Punjab over resumption of train services continues with the railway ministry claiming that the state government has agreed to a ‘conditional resumption’ wherein only good trains will be allowed. The ministry said it will not resume any trains until the state government gives complete assurance of no interference along the tracks.”Even though the tracks have been cleared more or less we have been told some protestors are still loitering around. This is very unsafe and we can’t run trains till complete assurance is given of no interference. There are about 20 such locations where we have been informed of presence of some protestors...It would lead to unacceptable implications,” a senior official said. Trains have been suspended in the state for over a month from September 25 due to the agitation over farm bills, cleared by the Centre during the monsoon session of Parliament. Punjab is also facing critical shortage of coal stock across power plants leading to massive power cuts due to the prolonged suspension of goods trains by the railways. “Railways is ready to immediately resume both passenger and goods trains at the same time . However, assurance of safety of its operations and track clearance is being sought for resumption of services for both passenger and goods trains . It was being indicated that tracks were open for goods train only and not for passenger trains,” a railway ministry spokesperson said. Cooperation minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, however, said the railways were just making flimsy excuses to continue with the suspension of rail services to Punjab. “All train tracks in the state are clear, but they are still not resuming the trains because the Modi government wants to punish the farmers and the state government for opposition the farm laws. The farmers are exercising their democratic right by holding peaceful protests. The state government has repeatedly given assurance of security to railways, but they have not budged,” said Randhawa who is a part of the three-member panel of cabinet ministers holding talks with the protesting farmers. A joint team of state government officials and the director general of the Railway Protection Force was formed to review the situation in the state. Amid tussle between the Centre and the Punjab state government over allowing the passage of trains in the state, the Indian Railways has claimed losses of nearly Rs 1,200 crore in freight revenue with more than 2,225 goods trains suspended and 1,350 passenger trains cancelled and diverted till last week. According to railways’ data, nearly 70 trains are affected per day, in total 1,373 passenger trains have had to be cancelled and diverted leading to losses of Rs 45 crore due to cancellation of the passenger trains. Punjab farmers, meanwhile, have been invited to Delhi on November 13 to meet senior ministers in a bid to end the ongoing impasse between them and the railways, and restore train services in the state. The meeting is expected to take place between a delegation of the protesting farmers and defence minister Rajnath Singh, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and railways minister Piyush Goyal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/won-t-resume-trains-in-punjab-with-conditions-says-railways/story-6fs3eDzleE15Rq5GZhMqxL.html
12-11-2020||Delhi||Deficient rain may have added to pollution spike||Acute dryness of the ground due to almost nil rainfall in the northern India plains could have contributed to the spike in air pollution in the region, experts said, even as weather men predict dry weather will continue for the next fortnight.Data from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) shows that Delhi, Haryana, Punjab and Western Uttar Pradesh, the areas worst hit by air pollution, have not received any rainfall since October 1, 2020, when the monsoon officially withdrew from northern India.Even Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand, which usually receive good rainfall in the post-winter months, have rainfall deficiency of 78% to 99%. The higher reaches of these states received some snowfall in the last week of October and November.But the northern plains have not seen substantial rainfall since the last week of August. In September, the rain deficiency in the region hovered between 80% and 92%, resulting in below normal monsoon rains , forcing farmers to harvest their crops early. Experts attribute two reasons for the huge rainfall deficiency.First, said D S Pai, senior scientist at IMD, Pune, is the impact of La Nina, (little girl), a weather phenomenon in the Pacific Ocean. “La Nina brings good rain during monsoon but has opposite impact in the post monsoon period as it can prevent formation of cyclonic conditions in Bay of Bengal, which can reduce rains. And, we seeing La Nina impact in post monsoon period,” he said. La Nina has cooling impact on the sea surface in the Pacific unlike El Nino, which has a warming impact.Second, said IMD director general M Mohapatra, there were fewer western disturbances, caused by storm originating in the Mediterranean region that brings rain and in winter months snow to the north-western parts of India, this year.“We have not witnessed any major western disturbance so far ,” Mohapatra said.While the dry weather conditions have led to drought-like conditions in northern Indian plains, it has also contributed to a spike in air pollution because of the earth being drier. Particulate matter air pollution is driven by dust and dry weather conditions mean more dust that can be carried by the winds. “Moisture in the air and ground absorbs pollutants,” said a scientist with the Indian Institute of Technology, who was not willing to be named as he is part of a Central government environment committee. “In dry conditions, the surface dust from agriculture fields, alongside roads and semi-arid areas in Rajasthan is getting carried with the westerly winds and is contributing to smog like conditions in northern Indian cities.”Air pollution in the National Capital Region and nearby areas had been in the severe zone for the past six days with slight improvement on Wednesday with higher wind speed. Northern Indian cities and towns have experienced high levels of air pollution since the last week of October. The dry weather has also meant more forest fires in Himachal and Uttarakhand . Close to 250 forest fires have been reported from the two states, official said. Forest fires are generally reported from February to June, with a peak in May and June, the two warmest months in the Indian sub-continent. Maan Singh, nodal officer for forest fires in the Uttarkhand state forest department, said, “With the hilly regions not receiving any rainfall since mid September, forests have become dry and are prone to fire. Almost 100 incidents of forest fires have been reported since October 1.” A Himachal forest official said the state has reported about 150 such incidents.The long dry spell has also delayed sowing of winter crops in the region.Rakesh Takait, president of Bharatiya Kisan Union, a farmer group, said weather conditions are not conducive for sowing of crops in non-irrigated agriculture fields in of Punjab, Haryana and western UP. “Most farmers are waiting for a good shower to sow the winter wheat crop,” he said.Vijay Sastri, Uttarakhand spokesperson for Bharat Kisan Union, said, “The sowing season for winter crops starts from November in the hilly regions, but this year, due to lack of rainfall the farmers are still waiting. Farmers are also worried as no rains would mean poor harvest of horticulture crops.”  IMD has predicted sparse rainfall and snow in higher reaches of western Himalayas on November 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/deficient-rain-may-have-added-to-pollution-spike/story-D1efBmUPoBZuffMX1JzoLN.html
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||Supplier, aide held with 2.2kg opium in Mohali||The Crime Investigation Agency (CIA) of Mohali police arrested two drug suppliers with 2.2 kg afeem on Wednesday.The accused were identified as Virsa Singh, 63, and Gurjit Singh, alias Ghola, 57, both hailing from Kharar. Police said Gurjit is the sarpanch of his village in Kharar, while Virsa was, more than a decade ago, booked for smuggling of precious metals.Virsa Singh was held with 2.2kg afeem on a tip-off while he was coming to Mohali in a Toyota Innova bearing a Haryana registration number. The police had set up a naka at the Kharar light point and had stopped Virsa for checking.The accused was on his way to Mohali to supply the drugs to his regular customers. The vehicle was impounded. Later on his disclosure, his accomplice Gurjit Singh was also arrested.Both were produced before a court on Wednesday and sent to judicial custody.A case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act was registered in Kharar city police station.Zirakpur man held in Chandigarh with 15 gm heroin Arvinder Singh (22) of Shivalik Vihar in Zirakpur was arrested on Wednesday near the Parking Poultry Farm at Industrial Area, Phase-1, by the Chandigarh police operations cell as he tried to turn his car and flee after spotting a police naka. About 12 gm heroin was recovered after he was frisked. A case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985, was registered at the Industrial Area police station. Singh will be produced in court on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/supplier-aide-held-with-2-2kg-opium-in-mohali/story-0yBk44RHCkPAW9iYXSK3fM.html
12-11-2020||City||Four arrested with 12kg marijuana in two cases in Panchkula||Four persons were arrested with 12 kilogram marijuana in two separate cases, the police said on Wednesday.In the first case, a 43-year-old man identified as Ramu of Tohana in Haryana was arrested by the police on November 10 under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, and sent to one-day police remand on Wednesday.As per information shared by the police, on August 31, a man named Biru had been arrested with marijuana weighing 10 kilogram at a naka.Biru had told the police he was a resident of a slum in Pinjore and had revealed the name of his supplier. Police said, “Ramu is the supplier who supplied 10 kilogram marijuana. He used to get the supply from Nalagarh in Himachal Pradesh and would sell it in the areas of Kalka, Pinjore and some parts of the city.”In the second case, the detective staff of Panchkula police arrested three persons with 2.35 kilogram marijuana.The accused were identified as Ramchandra, Gurmeet Singh and Dileep Singh, all hailing from Rihod village near Barwala.As per information, the police were on patrolling duty on Panchkula-Shahjadpur highway when three youth walking on the highway changed their direction on spotting the police party.They were checked on suspicion and marijuana was recovered from them. A case was registered under the NDPS Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-arrested-with-12kg-marijuana-in-two-cases-in-panchkula/story-QAFgp0XPJYLBbjdUmgcCPP.html
12-11-2020||Health:||New sero survey shows 1 in 4 exposed to Covid-19 in Delhi||Around one in four of the 15,000 people tested in the latest serological survey in the capital showed prevalence of antibodies against Sars-Cov-2, the government informed the Delhi high court on Wednesday, indicating that the proportion of people with antibodies has remained largely unchanged from the previous round of the exercise.The report also showed that a large proportion (43.5%) of people who had previously been diagnosed with Covid-19 remained sero-negative, a statistic that independent experts said underlined how such surveys were underestimating how many people had been exposed. WATCH | Covid update: Sputnik-V 92% effective; Pfizer challenge; Delhi HC on surgeAuthors of the report, however, said it was because antibodies take time to develop after contracting an infection and that they remain detectable only for a limited period. Researchers caution that absence of antibodies in infected people cannot be conclusive evidence that they are unprotected from the disease. Covid-19: What you need to know todayEqually, it isn’t clear how long and how strong a protection against Covid-19 such antibodies can offer. The prevalence of the antibodies among those sampled in the fourth round of the sero survey has gone up by minuscule 0.4 percentage points in a month-and-a half – from 25.1% in the first week of September to 25.5% in the third week of October. The authors of the study attributed the lack of an increase of sero-prevalence to “fewer infections reported in August” and “disappearing” antibodies.The findings of the October round of sero-prevalence survey report were submitted during the hearing in the Delhi high court on a plea seeking more aggressive testing in Delhi. During the hearing, the court censured the government for relaxing norms for public movement at a time when infections have “spiralled alarmingly”. The court asked the government to put in place a policy on controlling the “mind-boggling” rate of new cases. “No household has been left untouched,” a bench of justice Hima Kohli and justice Subramonium Prasad said.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage“The rates in the city are mind-boggling. The number of deaths is in double figures every day. What’s with the Delhi government allowing all the un-lockdown when the cases are skyrocketing? Why have you opened everything? What are the strategies that you are following?” the court said.“Today, Delhi is beating the whole state of Maharashtra and Kerala hands down in Covid-19 infections. When the numbers are decreasing in all the states, then why numbers are rising only in your state? Either there is no control or there is lack of control,” the bench said.The seven-day average of daily new cases in Delhi has touched 7,148, and the Union territory has seen an average of 75 Covid-19 deaths a day over the past week. Delhi currently accounts for the most daily cases in the country. And there are no Covid-19 beds available in private hospitals. In June-end , 22.6% of the 21,000 people sampled had antibodies. This proportion shot to 29.1% among the 15,000 people sampled in August, and then dropped to 25.1% among the 17,000 people sampled in September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/health/new-sero-survey-shows-1-in-4-exposed-to-covid-19-in-delhi/story-FQL0ysy1o2k07khqs1u7QJ.html
12-11-2020||City||Realtor ends life in Zirakpur, kin allege police inaction||A 34-year-old man consumed a poisonous substance and ended his life in Baltana village in Zirakpur, the police said on Wednesday.The victim was rushed to Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32, where he died during treatment on Wednesday. The police said the deceased used to work as a property dealer.The victim’s brother said that his brother had consumed poison on November 5 and was admitted to GMCH-32.The police found a suicide note in which the victim has named a few property dealers blaming them for his death. The victim has alleged in the note of being harassed owing to a financial transaction of ₹2.5 lakh.The family, however, have alleged that the police have done nothing so far. In-charge of Baltana police post Kulwant Singh said they had asked the family to handover the handwritten documents of the deceased so that the handwriting of the note could be matched.The police have also sought details of accounts through which financial transactions were done, but so far the family had not handed over any of those details, he added. The family on the other hand denied being asked for any details, accusing police of inaction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/realtor-ends-life-in-zirakpur-kin-allege-police-inaction/story-AiOyRkkoHFhwtg4zHdcEAI.html
12-11-2020||City||Ease of doing business in Mohali: Business first portal to ensure NOCs to bizmen in 15 days||The district administration on Wednesday issued the first no-objection certificate (NOC) under the Punjab Right to Business Act, 2020, at the District Administrative Complex in Sector 76, Mohali.Additional deputy commissioner (ADC) Ashika Jain issued the first NOC to entrepreneur Shamsher Singh Sandhu under the project named Lodestone and Infra Developers for setting up stores for agri-related products.Highlighting the features of the Act, DC Dayalan said, “Under this Act, all the NOCs related to setting up a new enterprise will be completed within 15 days after submitting an application on the business first portal. All formalities and NOCs related to the new business/startups will be awarded through this single-window in a stipulated time.”Dayalan added that the department of industries and commerce had taken the new initiative to promote business in the state besides providing ease of doing business with the required approvals.ADC Jain said the first NOC from all the departments had been given to the entrepreneur within 10 days from the date of application through a single-window business first portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ease-of-doing-business-in-mohali-business-first-portal-to-ensure-nocs-to-bizmen-in-15-days/story-QYX7DdofYOhxsZQWvxeD5J.html
12-11-2020||City||34% attendance in Haryana govt schools in just a week||Haryana’s government schools recorded 34% attendance on Wednesday, just a week after these reopened for students of Classes 9 to 12.Schools in Mahendergarh and Rewari districts saw the most encouraging response with an attendance of 49% and 46% respectively. At 23%, Gurugram had the lowest attendance in the state, officials of the school education department said. Mahendergarh district education officer (DEO) Sunil Dutt said, “Teachers in the district have been approaching parents to convince them to allow their wards to attend school. We are following all safety protocols. I have asked the school heads to keep at least 200 face masks at the entry to provide it to students who come without masks.”Students happy to be backMeanwhile, students were thrilled to be finally back to school after a long hiatus. Anjali Singh, a Class 12 student, said, “We were facing a lot of troubles in online classes so we are happy that the school has reopened. Many students were unable to be attend online classes as they did not have access to phone or internet.”When the HT team visited the government senior secondary school at Kheri Asadh village, on Rohtak-Delhi road, most students were seen sitting in close proximity to each other, in violation of distancing norms. The team also noticed that students in most schools were not provided coloured masks and badges, that were to be used to divide students into groups for distancing.At the Government Senior Secondary School (for girls), Bohar village, students said that they are being allowed entry only after proper thermal screening. Tanu Nandal, a student of this school, said, “There is thermal scanning at gates and we observe distancing in the classroom. We carry our own water bottles and tiffins. Only one student is allowed to go to the bathroom at a time.”Manju, a teacher at the Bohar school, said of the 154 students of Classes 9 to 12 in the school, 104 attended classes on Wednesday. “A few parents have not consented to send their wards to school. Meanwhile all teachers in our school have undergone a Covid test.” She added that the education department has not provided them funds for masks or sanitisers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/34-attendance-in-haryana-govt-schools-in-just-a-week/story-AY7XFHGzOksPC8WTO84nXK.html
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana’s efforts at saving girl child firmly on track||Haryana’s flagship “save the girl child” programme appears to be firmly on track despite a temporary setback when the sex ratio at birth (SRB) dipped to 914 in July, raising worry that touts offering gender detection services had become active again. As per the latest data of the ‘Beti Bachao, Beto Padhao’ programme, which chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar himself monitors, the cumulative sex ratio at birth (SRB) rose from 914 in July to 919 in October. This raised hopes about the state hitting last year’s annual SRB figure of 923, which is so far the highest.Last year, the state’s cumulative SRB till October was 920 when 2, 01, 030 female and 2, 18, 393 male children were born. This year, till October, the state saw births of 2, 07, 927 female against 2, 26, 359 male children. Haryana’s annual SRB in 2011 was 833 while it rose to 876 in 2015, and further improved to 900 in 2016. The annual SRB remained static at 914 in 2017 and 2018, and jumped to 923 in 2019. As per the 2011 census, the child sex ratio (CSR) of Haryana (children below six years) was 834 females for every 1,000 males, while the national CSR was 918.According to Dr Rakesh Gupta, IAS, and nodal officer for ‘Beti Bachao Beti Padhao’ campaign, there was a lull during the lockdown period, but later reports started pouring in that touts involved in sex determination activities were once again on the prowl. “We kept our fingers crossed during the lockdown, but from July onwards, we increased our surveillance and went after the touts,” he said. Sirsa has best SRBSo far, Sirsa is best performing district with an SRB of 947 (till October), while Jhajjar with an SRB of 880 is the first from the bottom. Among the districts with the lowest SRB (up to October) are Charkhi Dadri (885), Karnal (898), Mahendergarh (901), Jind (905), Rohtak (906), Palwal (909), Rewari (912), Gurugram (913), Faridabad and Yamunanagar (914 each). As per the data, Ambala district’s SRB up to October 2019 was 951 and this year during the same period it dipped to 919. On the other hand, Bhiwani district improved from 894 SRB last year till October to 923 during the corresponding period this year. Experts involved in this programme say that SRB fluctuates every month and the real picture emerges in December when the data of 12 months is calculated. Dr Gupta claims that “more than 28,000 girls have been saved in the wombs” ever since the campaign was launched in 2014. “We are confident that the SRB this year will be the same as last year. The analysis of the data every year points towards a rise in the SRB from October to March,” says Dr Gupta, pointing out how the health department teams while battling Covid-19 kept chasing the touts. Touts booked In five months between June and October this year, as many as 47 first information reports (FIRs) were registered under the PNDT (Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques) and MTP (Medical Termination of Pregnancy) Acts, as per the official data. In the first 10 months this year, 65 FIRs were registered against 61 FIRs during the corresponding months last year. In October, as many as 11 FIRs were lodged while in September, the number of FIRs was 17. In August, there were 10 FIRs, six in July and three in June in which over 2, 000 accused had been arrested. And a sizable number of the FIRs, Dr Gupta said, were lodged after the inter-state raids. A total 802 FIRs stand registered (450 under PNDT, 352 under MTP) till October since May 2015. Among the total FIRs include over 200 inter-state raids that includes the maximum of over 90 raids conducted in Uttar Pradesh, near 50 in Delhi, and over 40 in Punjab. Within Haryana, the highest 61 FIRs have been lodged in Sonepat and the lowest four in Charkhi Dadi in the past five years. “We register the FIRs only after the tout receives money from the decoy (a woman) after the sex determination test. We have nabbed the accused, who include repeat offenders, carrying the portable ultrasound machines of the size of a laptop,” said a key official of the programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-s-efforts-at-saving-girl-child-firmly-on-track/story-kqpoUqjCjpTv7SMJsKgwdO.html
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||Civil engineer held with unlicensed pistol in Chandigarh||The crime branch of Chandigarh Police on Wednesday arrested a resident of Sector 27 for possessing an unlicensed weapon.The man arrested was identified as Vivek Rana, alias Sunny, 28, who is a civil engineer. He was arrested at a naka near Satsang Bhawan on the dividing road of Sector 27C/27D.The police had found Rana’s photos floating on social media brandishing weapons and had been on a lookout for him.The police recovered a country-made pistol along with two live cartridges from his possession. A case under the Arms Act was registered at the police station in Sector 26.The Chandigarh Police have heightened checking of illegal weapons in the city in view of the recent spate of shootings: as many as five incidents were reported last month alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/civil-engineer-held-with-unlicensed-pistol-in-chandigarh/story-ksOU1WiuX2FAcBsQPKJkAN.html
12-11-2020||City||Yogeshwar fought valiantly, more ground work needed: Dushyant||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Wednesday said the BJP-JJP alliance candidate Yogeshwar Dutt had fought valiantly but the alliance could not get votes as per their expectations. He said efforts will be made to improve the party’s performance in future. “We were expecting over 60,000 votes, but we need to work more on the ground-level to register a historic win in future”, Dushyant said. On whether JJP’s votes were transferred to the BJP candidate, he said, “I cannot comment on that but our candidate got over 50,000 votes because of the joint efforts of both parties”.He said this was not the first byelection, in which a ruling party candidate had been defeated as the Congress candidate was defeated in the 2009 Ellenabad byelection.On the implementation of quota in the private sector, he said industries need not worry as it was the government’s duty to provide skilled workers to industries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/yogeshwar-fought-valiantly-more-ground-work-needed-dushyant/story-X9VFOAjZIUiIg7EHcXlF7L.html
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||21 Haryana districts ban firecrackers||With three days to go for Diwali, district administrations issued fresh directions banning sale and bursting of crackers in all districts where air quality was categorised ‘poor’ or worse in November last year. As many as 21 districts of the state fit the bill. Ban has been imposed in 14 districts of the national capital region (NCR), including Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Faridabad, Gurugram, Jhajjar, Jind, Karnal, Mahendergarh, Nuh, Palwal, Paniat, Rewari, Rohtak and Sonepat. The ban will remain effect from November 9 midnight to November 30.The district administrations of seven other districts, including Ambala, Fatehabad, Hisar, Kaithal, Kurukshetra, Sirsa and Yamunanagar, have also imposed a ban on sale and bursting of fire crackers as the air quality of these districts was measured ‘poor’ to ‘severe’ on the air quality index (AQI) last year. Only Panchkula passed muster as its air quality was classified ‘moderate’ last November. The order has led to rampant confusion as the AQI of only district headquarters is measured and the state pollution control board does not have reports on the AQI of small towns and villages. On being asked how towns without Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Stations (CAAQMS) were taking a call on the ban, Haryana State Pollution Control Board member secretary S Narayanan said, “We have CAAQMS in all district headquarters. As we don’t have CAAQMS in all towns, the air quality of district headquarters will represent the entire district”.All Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) regional officers have been directed to initiate special drives to contain air pollution to prevent the Covid situation from aggravating.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/21-haryana-districts-ban-firecrackers/story-vvqqkudzZEVHYg8XCP3dBM.html
12-11-2020||Mumbai||SC grants bail to Arnab amidconcerns over prompt hearing||The Supreme Court on Wednesday ordered the release of Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami in a judgement that sought to protect the liberty of individuals, although both the promptness with which it heard the case, and the judgement itself came in for criticism. The court ordered the release of Goswami and two others in an abetment to suicide case dating back to May 2018, allowing the accused to be released from jail on execution of personal bond of Rs 50,000. The order came on separate appeals filed by the three accused against a Bombay high court order of November 9 refusing them interim bail.Watch: Arnab Goswami leaves from jail after getting bail from Supreme CourtGoswami was lodged at Taloja prison in Navi Mumbai after his arrest on November 4. The trio are accused in an abetment to suicide case filed in May 2018 by the wife of architect Anvay Naik who died by suicide that year and left a suicide note naming Goswami, Niteesh Sarda, and Farooq Sheikh, whose companies owed him money for services rendered. The apex bench said in its short order (following a long hearing): “We are of the view that the high court was in error of rejecting the application for grant of interim bail.” “We accordingly order and direct that Arnab Manoranjan Goswami, Feroz Mohammad Shaikh and Neetish Sarda shall be released on interim bail, subject to each of them executing a personal bond in the amount of Rs 50,000 to be executed before the Jail Superintendent. They are, however, directed to cooperate in the investigation and shall not make any attempt to interfere with the ongoing investigation or with the witnesses,” the court said.Senior advocate Harish Salve appearing for Goswami sought to paint a picture that his client was being targeted by the state . The bench of justices DY Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee were of the view that a person, whosoever it be, cannot be targeted by state and that constitutional courts are duty-bound to protect the liberty of citizens.“We are dealing with a person’s liberty. Across the country, if this court is not to interfere today, we are treading on a path of destruction of liberty....you may dislike a person’s ideology and challenge it but if this is what our States will do to nail persons, we have to put across this message to all high courts to preserve the liberty of citizens,” the bench said. The top court noted with anguish that in case after case coming before them, high courts are not exercising their jurisdiction.However, activists and lawyers said the same benchmark isn’t being applied to other cases. Advocate Sunil Fernandes said, “Very recently on October 29, the Supreme Court refused to grant interim bail on medical grounds to 81-year old Telugu poet and writer Varavara Rao, who is an accused in the Elgar Parishad case. Repeated bail pleas filed by him over the past 22 months have not resulted in any positive order from either the Bombay high court or the Supreme Court. Similar is the situation with regard to social activist Sudha Bhardwaj, another co-accused in the same case who is in jail since August 28, 2018.”Congress leader Milind Deora tweeted, “Henceforth, I hope the principle that bail is the rule & jail an exception applies to media trials & all urgent pleas — regardless of the accused’s background or profile,” Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti said while she agrees with the Supreme Court’s views on right to liberty, it has been selective when it comes to Kashmiris. “Agree with SCs outrage on right to liberty. But sadly this outrage has been selective as there are hundreds of Kashmiris & journalists languishing in jails on baseless charges. Forget court ruling they didn’t even get a hearing. Why no sense of urgency for their liberty?” Mufti wrote on Twitter.The prompt listing of the case, filed on Tuesday, also came in for criticism with Dushyant Dave, the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) president, writing to secretary general of the top court lodging a “strong protest” on “selective listing” of Goswami’s interim bail plea.“While thousands of citizens remain in jails, languishing for long periods while their matters filed before the Supreme Court are not getting listed for weeks and months, it is, to say the least, deeply disturbing as to how and why every time Goswami approaches the Supreme Court, his matter gets listed instantly,” Dave wrote on Tuesday.During Wednesday’s hearing, the bench also commented on the first information report (FIR) involved in the case, which, some experts said, weakens it (the FIR) . The court said, “in a matter of this nature where some amount is already paid and the person commits suicide due to financial stress will you hold the head of the company for abetment to suicide. In most companies work orders are given out as a labour contract... Will it not be travesty of justice to deny bail to such a person when his quashing petition is pending?”The court observed that the Bombay high court gave no findings on whether prima facie offence was made out . Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for the Maharashtra government, pointed out that the investigation of the case is not before this bench, and that the Bombay high court order of November 9 allowed the accused to approach trial judge for bail which is to be heard on November 12. Sibal said: “In 99 out of 100 cases concerning personal liberty, I am on the other side.” Justice Chandrachud said: “All the more reason that what we do today will define what we will do in those 99 cases.”However, Sibal also added: “A Kerala journalist was arrested by Uttar Pradesh Police when he was going to Hathras to report. We came to this court under Article 32. The court said go to lower court. Petition posted after four weeks. Such things are also happening.” His reference was to Siddique Kappan, who was arrested on his way to Hathras to meet the family of the 19-year-old Dalit woman who died after being allegedly gang-raped in the district..The UP Police had arrested Kappan along with three others,claiming that they had links with Popular Front of India and its affiliate in Mathura.Appearing for Maharashtra Police and the investigating officer, senior advocate Amit Desai argued that the high court could not be blamed for not granting bail as it was hearing a habeas corpus petition. The HC noted that remedy of bail will be taken up by sessions judge on November 12 while posting the prayer for quashing FIR for consideration on December 10.The other accused represented by senior advocates Mukul Rohatgi and Gopal Shankarnarayanan argued that the three persons named in the suicide note are unconnected and if this is the standard adopted, heads of all companies, even ministers will be in jail if employees and government servants die by suicide due to unpaid dues.Goswami on Wednesday evening walked out the Taloja jail in adjoining Raigad district, hours after the Supreme Court granted him interim bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sc-grants-bail-to-arnab-amidconcerns-over-prompt-hearing/story-xaT3QCNMqSLYV7GKnEKBWL.html
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||‘Cong not contesting under PAGD’s umbrella but with like-minded secular parties’||While NC president Farooq Abdullah and PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti claim that the Congress was on board with the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) in the ensuing DDC polls, Congress president Ghulam Ahmad Mir on Wednesday said the ‘party will align with like-minded secular parties like National Conference.’Mir said, “The Gupkar Alliance and DDC elections are different. As far as the Congress is concerned, we are aligning with like-minded secular parties. including the National Conference,” he said, adding that since an alliance may be required at district units and local level, the merit of candidates will be weighed.“At some places we may need to support like-minded parties and at others places they will support us. We are not contesting under the umbrella of PAGD but with like-minded secular parties. The ambit of like-minded secular parties is broader than PAGD,” he said.Meanwhile, Jammu and Kashmir Congress on Wednesday continued with its signature campaign against new land laws and agrarian laws. Former ministers Raman Bhalla and Yogesh Sawhney led the signature in Jammu west constituency on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cong-not-contesting-under-pagd-s-umbrella-but-with-like-minded-secular-parties/story-16cvRp2XGMUVMXqyYBycpK.html
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||All party meet for DDC polls: Parties accuse EC of kowtowing to BJP||Jammu and Kashmir state election commissioner KK Sharma on Wednesday had to face the ire of the Opposition during an all-party meet when the latter expressed their concerns over security and accused poll officials of kowtowing to the BJP. Dissatisfied over arrangements and alleging favouritism, the Panthers Party staged a walk out. In the run-up to district development council polls and panchayat and ULB bypolls, Sharma had held an all-party meet that was attended by the National Conference (NC), Congress, People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Panthers Party, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and BJP. Panthers Party chairperson and former minister Harsh Dev Singh said, “I walked out of the meet because they have not made any arrangements for the polls. Their returning officers don’t know, which documents are required and nomination forms have not been posted on the official website despite Thursday being the last date. At many places returning officers are demanding character certificates, which are not required in these elections.” Flagging security concerns, Singh said, “I have received threats from the Hizbul Mujahideen and BJP but they have withdrawn my security. This is true for other party leaders as well. In the meantime, mere BJP workers have been assigned 10 security personnel each.” PDP’s former MLC and general secretary Surinder Choudhary also raised serious objections over the entire was being conducted. “It appears the elections are being held for a single party. The authorities are not coordinating with other leaders.Security arrangements are almost negligible in Kashmir where numerous threats have been issued . Election material has also not been supplied to other parties nor were we consulted while announcing election dates,” he told the state election commissioner. Former Congress MLC and spokesperson Ravinder Sharma said, “Security is a major concern for all of us. It has been given to BJP only. Therefore, the election commission should intervene in the matter.” Jammu and Kashmir chief electoral officer HK Singh said apprehensions related to security of contesting candidates and political parties will be taken up with the government. “The lieutenant governor has been personally according top priority to these elections and security of candidates and political parties is being taken seriously.We shall also relay their apprehensions to the DGP and home secretary,” said Singh. “Wherever nomination forms could not be downloaded, candidates can approach their respective returning officers,” he said and denied allegations of favouritism as well. “Election authorities are an independent entity and question of favouring anyone does not arise at all. The election commission cannot be influenced,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/all-party-meet-for-ddc-polls-parties-accuse-ec-of-kowtowing-to-bjp/story-MAqIuJjprJeUeoyGtIPXKN.html
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||Shanta bats for Bharat Ratna for Dalai Lama||Former Union minister and veteran BJP leader Shanta Kumar has written to the Prime Minister asking him to consider conferring the Bharat Ratna, India’s highest civilian award, on Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama. He also said that India should raise the issue of Tibet at the United Nations. “India should act on these two suggestions as soon as possible as the international scenario is favourable. The Dalai Lama is the most respected and revered spiritual leader in the world who calls India his Guru. India will also be honoured by honouring him,” Shanta wrote, noting that the 85-year-old spiritual had already received the Nobel Peace Prize and had been honoured by many countries.The senior leader said, “The massacre of Tibet, which prorogated Mahatma Buddha’s message of peace to the world, was the biggest tragedy of the 21st century. The Congress government committed a sin in allowing China to take over Tibet. Had India raised the question of Tibet in the United Nations, Tibet would have gotten strong support from the international community, especially the United States, and India would never have shared teh border with China.” “China poses a threat to the whole world and India faces the biggest threat as there have already been infiltration bids in Ladakh. Today, China is alone due to the Covid outbreak. We have got an opportunity to rectify the mistake committed in 1950. This is a greatest opportunity to isolate China internationally,” Shanta wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/shanta-bats-for-bharat-ratna-for-dalai-lama/story-ihtWbZjEn4LFswnWKybROI.html
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal’s recovery rate drops to 79%||Five people succumbed to Covid and 193 more people tested positive for the virus in the state on Wednesday. The state’s recovery rate has dropped to 79% from 85% in October.The state’s death toll mounted to 395 while the total infections stand at 27,001. Of the new cases, 71 were reported in Mandi, 28 in Una, 25 in Solan, 22 in Kullu, 19 in Shimla, 10 in Bilaspur, seven in Sirmaur, five in Lahaul-Spiti, four in Kinnaur, and two in Kangra. Two fatalities each were reported in Shimla and Mandi while one patient died in Kangra. The fatality rate in the state is 1.5%.There are 5,220 active cases in the state while 21,358 people have recovered so far. Nearly, 5,000 people have been infected in November, a jump of 22%.Mandi is the worst-hit district with 4,199 cases. It is followed by Solan with 3,942 cases and Shimla with 3,626 infections.Kangra has reported 3,553 cases so far, Sirmaur, 2,378; Kullu, 2,123; Una 1,721; Bilaspur 1,526; Hamirpur 1,465; Chamba 1,422; Kinnaur 547; and Lahaul-Spiti 541.Himachal actor succumbs to Covid  Harish Banchata, a film and television actor from Himachal Pradesh, died due to Covid-related complications on Tuesday. Born in Shantha village in Chaupal tehsil of Shimla, the 48-year-old actor was admitted to Government Hospital, Rohru, after he complained of high fever. He was referred to Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital, Shimla, for further treatment. He tested positive for Covid on Monday and succumbed to the disease the next day. His body was taken his ancestral village and cremated as per protocol.Harish had been working as an actor in Mumbai for around 18 years. His repertoire includes the film Bajrangi Bhaijaan, where he played the role of a policeman, CID and Crime Patrol. He is survived by his daughter, a Class-9 student.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-s-recovery-rate-drops-to-79/story-Oxs9mjnoaH8JiCXnllcZ4J.html
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||J&K’s Covid counts crosses 1 lakh-mark||Around eight months after the first Covid case was reported in the Union Territory, Jammu and Kashmir’s Covid tally crossed the one lakh-mark on Wednesday. The UT recorded nine deaths and 507 fresh coronavirus infections, taking the Covid count to 100,351 and death toll to 1,558. Officials said 326 people had tested positive in Kashmir and 181 in Jammu. Four persons succumbed to the disease in Jammu and five in Kashmir.Despite the tally breaching the 1 lakh-mark, government officials maintain the figures are not ‘particulary worrying’. Jammu and Kashmir commissioner secretary health Atul Duloo said, “Our mortality rate is 1.55% and positivity rate is 3.9%, while the country’s positivity rate is 7.2%,” he said. The total number of tests conducted in the UT has crossed 25.51 lakh. Duloo said, “Testing in the UT is double the national average. In J&K, the doubling rate of positive cases in last seven days stood at 130.1, which is less than national average of 142.6 days.”So far, 93,313 people have recovered from the disease in the UT while 5,480 are still active. The recovery rate has reached 92.9%. A total of 1,034 people have succumbed to the disease in Kashmir and 524 in Jammu. So far, 80 people have lost their lives in November.Dr Qazi Haroon Qazi Haroon, officer on special duty for Covid mitigation in Kashmir, said, “J&K is in a better position as the graph of positive patients is on the decline. The seasonal flu season will add to our miseries but so far things are well under control.”Dr Shafkat Khan, former nodal officer for Covid in J&K, said, “In terms of recovery rate, J&K seems to be in a far better position than other states. It is, however, difficult to predict whether there is another wave in the offing. The government seems have come a long way in augmenting the infrastructure and required logistics and is geared up for any such eventuality. It now entirely depends on precautions taken by the people till a vaccine is available.”However, many doctors say the situation in the UT could be far worse as many patients were recuperating at home. “I know many people who receive treatment at home as they do not want to go to hospitals and Covid centres. However, the situation is better than what it was four to five months ago. Today, we know many things about the disease,” said a senior consultant, who did not wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/j-k-s-covid-counts-crosses-1-lakh-mark/story-2RaxSt9dpug2ZtbCYkjIHM.html
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||J&K to receive season’s first heavy snowfall over next 2 days: Weatherman||The meteorological department has predicted heavy snowfall over the next couple of days, which has put the J&K administration on high alert.As per the weatherman, the UT is likely to receive the season’s first snowfall on Friday. The meteorological department also issued a weather advisory to J&K’s top officials.“An active western disturbance (WD) is likely to effect the UTs of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh from November 13 to 15. The system is likely to cause heavy rain and snow mainly in the upper reaches of Kashmir which may lead temporary disruption in air and surface transportation on the Jammu-Srinagar and Srinagar-Leh national highways,” said an advisory issued by MeT department.MeT officials said there could be dip in day temperature and increase in the night temperature.Following the advisory, the officials have decided to close traffic on all the routes, which could receive heavy snowfall. The government has already setup control rooms in Srinagar and other districts to monitor the situation. Last year the snowfall had caused disruption in the day-to-day lives and break down of the government services, especially electricity. Last year the Kashmir had witnessed the first heavy snowfall in the month of November, which had caused heavy damage to the apple growers. This time, the horticulture department has also issued an advisory to fruit growers and farmers.This year, the summer in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) was unusually dry. The western disturbance brought negligible precipitation and rainfall between July and October (monsoon) was 35% below normal. The Valley mostly owes its precipitation to the western disturbance — winds blowing from the Mediterranean Sea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/j-k-to-receive-season-s-first-heavy-snowfall-over-next-2-days-weatherman/story-QExJxjDZVvCDTEooLLmbqI.html
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||Class-10 exams commence in J&K amid Covid safety measures||The annual board examination for Class-10, conducted by the Jammu and Kashmir State Board of School Education, commenced on Wednesday, with Covid safety measures in place, officials said. As many as 74, 858 students appeared in the exam from Kashmir valley while another 32,000 sat for the exam in the winter zones of Jammu. The authorities took care to seat students in keeping with the social distancing norms, in view of the pandemic, and also ensured the availability of hand sanitisers and temperature measuring devices at the centres. “The first paper was of mathematics and it went off smoothly. We had told all heads of institutions and superintendents of exam centers to strictly follow the Covid guidelines,” said Aijaz Ahmad, the board joint secretary (examinations), Kashmir. This year, the administration had substantially increased the number of centres to ensure distancing. “Out of the total 75,063 students who had registered for the exam, 74,858 appeared today. They were adjusted in 814 exam centres,” said Ahmad. In the winter zones of Jammu, around 32,000 students sat for the paper. “The students were made to sit in 331 centres. This year the number of centres was more owing to Covid,” said joint secretary (exam) of Jammu zone, Altaf Hussain. “Another 5,740 students of summer zones in Jammu appeared in Class 12 exams,” he said. The board examinations for Class 12 are also starting from Thursday in Kashmir. “Some 58, 514 students are expected to appear for the first paper at 625 centers,” said Ahmad. This year, the education authorities have given a 40% relaxation in the syllabus. “The students have to attempt questions worth 60% of the marks for which 100% weightage will be given. The relaxation has been provided as normal schooling suffered this year due to the pandemic and we could only rely on online classes,” said Ahmad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/class-10-exams-commence-in-j-k-amid-covid-safety-measures/story-02x1les7xHEolBYmJZd0UL.html
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||Gridlocks dampening festive spirit in Ludhiana||Heavy traffic jams have dampened the festive spirit in the city. Gridlocks can be seen at main and inner market roads at all times of the day now, leaving residents a harried lot.At places like Jagraon Bridge, Ludhiana-Ferozepur Road, Pakhowal Road, Link Road near bus stand, Gill Road and Southern Bypass, serpentine queues have become a common sight.The ongoing work of the national highway on Ferozpur Road has only added to the chaos. Also, due to a number of vendors setting up stalls on the roads in front of shops, the congestion has only increased. At many places, the Ludhiana traffic police have abjectly failed to take stock of the situation. They are seen struggling to manage the burgeoning traffic with no concrete plan in place. Madhur Mahindra, public relation officer of Canaught Place Market Association, Ghumar Mandi, said: “As festival season is on, the number of vehicles and visitors have increased. Police are towing away wrongly parked vehicles, but no efforts are being made to streamline the flow of traffic.”Surinder Kumar, a shopkeeper in Chaura Bazaar, said that despite surging Covid cases, people are not following safety protocols like maintaining social distancing.Jaspreet Singh, a resident of Sham Nagar, said city roads have become congested due to construction of the flyover. “The government should speed up ongoing construction work of flyovers in the city. It takes one hour to travel from Cheema Chowk to Samrala Chowk by car now due to traffic jams,” he said.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, traffic), Gurdev Singh, said 28 teams have been formed at police-station level who take rounds of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gridlocks-dampening-festive-spirit-in-ludhiana/story-hwWEFBirbt1ZxbDlgwnKgM.html
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||Ban goes bust as Punjab BJP workers burst crackers in Chandigarh||Celebrating the party’s win in the Bihar elections, Bharatiya Janata Party workers on Wednesday burst crackers outside the Punjab BJP office in Sector 37, in violation of the ban imposed by the Chandigarh administration.While the party’s senior leader justified it by stating the Punjab BJP workers were just following Punjab’s rules, the Chandigarh administration and police even failed to take note. “There is no ban on crackers in Punjab. Punjab ke worker ne Punjab ke anushasan ka palan kiya hai,” said Dinesh Kumar Sharma, BJP organisation general secretary for Punjab and Chandigarh. When questioned that the violation took place in Chandigarh, Sharma reasoned that when the celebrations took place at the Chandigarh BJP office on Tuesday, the local party workers had followed the rules and did not burst crackers.The authorities, meanwhile, were caught napping, even as a trader was booked for selling firecrackers in Manimajra.“I am not aware of it, and will get it checked,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police, Chandigarh. “I have checked with the station house officer concerned, but we have not received any complaint,” said Shruti Arora, assistant superintendent of police (ASP, South).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ban-goes-bust-as-punjab-bjp-workers-burst-crackers-in-chandigarh/story-PJVO7U1JWi3RP0A59gcB7M.html
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||Cracker ban: HC denies relief to dealers in Chandigarh||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday denied any respite to Chandigarh Cracker Dealers Association, which had challenged the UT administration’s decision to ban the sale and bursting of crackers in the city.Refusing to intervene in the matter, the high court bench of chief justice RS Jha and justice Arun Palli told the dealers to approach the administration instead with a representation of their grievance. The administration last week, after conducting draw of lots for allotment of 96 licences for the sale of firecrackers in the city, had decided to impose a blanket ban instead. The decision was taken to keep a check on the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic due to possible health complications arising from pollution caused by crackers.Cracker dealers had told court that pollution level (air quality index) in Chandigarh is less than 150, while in the adjacent Panchkula it is almost double, at 250. Despite this, the Haryana government has not imposed a blanket ban on firecrackers, and there is no such move in Mohali too. The dealers had sought quashing of the UT administration’s decision, or as an alternative, directions to pay compensation in lieu of losses suffered by them. The court was also apprised of the draw of lots conducted last week, and “when purchases were made by the traders, the UT in an arbitrary manner banned sale and bursting of crackers”. “The high court has asked the association to approach the Chandigarh administration with a representation. The decision on the representation is to be taken in a timebound manner,” said advocate BS Jaswal, who appeared for the dealers. The detailed order is yet to be released.Manimajra trader booked for selling firecrackersAfter invoking the Disaster Management Act, Chandigarh Police have registered the first case under it against a shopkeeper found selling firecrackers in ManimajraWhile carrying out checking in markets and various localities of the city, police found Shankar Singh of Gobindpura in Manimajra selling firecrackers at his shop on Tuesday, in violation of the ban imposed by the Chandigarh administration. He was arrested, but later released on bail. A case has been registered under Sections 188 (non-compliance of public order) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 51B of the Disaster Management Act 2005 at the Manimajra police station. Though the offence is bailable, action under the Disaster Management Act is much stricter than under Section 188 of the IPC, which carries a maximum jail term of only three months. Section 51 of the Act provides for a jail term of two years in case anyone gets hurt and one year for mere violation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cracker-ban-hc-denies-relief-to-dealers-in-chandigarh/story-LXzpjagIfIGljcXvQquoyJ.html
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||Throwing caution to the wind, residents throng markets in Ludhiana||Despite surging Covid cases, residents are thronging markets in the city ahead of Diwali. At many places, safety protocols including social distancing and wearing masks are being ignored.Brimming with activity, overcrowded shops and showrooms are a common sight at all major markets in Ludhiana. At markets in old city including Chaura Bazaar, Kesar Ganj Road and Shahpur Road, heavy rush is witnessed from morning till late in the evening. Shoppers can be seen buying a variety of Diwali-related items including electronic lights, dry fruits, decorative items and sweets. Due to haphazard parking and encroachments, gridlocks are a common occurrence in the area and on connecting roads. Due to high footfall, parking in the old city markets remains a huge struggle.During a visit at 12.30 pm, traffic jams were witnessed on the roads near electronic market, and many four-wheelers were stuck for half an hour. Due to congested roads and two-wheelers parked on road sides, there is barely any space left to walk. Social distancing has also gone for a toss and shoppers were seen without masks.At one time, at least four to five customers are seen buying items from shops selling electronic items, wedding apparels, cosmetics, garments and crockery. Sushil Kumar, a shopkeeper dealing in electronic items, said, “I have been in the business for the last 20 years. Now, customers prefer to buy made in India lights and many are not ready to purchase Chinese products. Sales have picked up since last Sunday and we except to be able to clear the stock by Diwali.” The situation was no different at the Kesar Ganj Road market, which is a hub of wholesale dealers of dry fruits.At 1pm, customers were seen visiting the shops in large numbers and purchasing almonds, cashews, walnut and raisins, mostly as gifts for family and friends. There are over 35 to 40 shops in the market which deal in dry fruits and are visited by customers from all over the district. Manu Malik, a wholesale dealer of dry fruits, said, “People are buying dry fruits, but amid the pandemic, they have limited their purchases. Till last year, majority of the customers bought items in bulk, but this time, they are buying smaller amounts.” A similar situation was witnessed at other markets in the city including Ghumar Mandi, which is known for wedding apparels, cosmetics, artificial jewellery, kitchen utensils, electronics and footwear. After 3 pm, massive rush can be seen at the market. From clothes to electronics and decorative items to utensils, everything was in huge demand. Shoppers were seen struggling to park their vehicles. Amrita Mahajan, a customer, said, “Parking is always difficulty in absence of proper space. I had to buy decoration material and gifts for my relatives. First, it took me 15 minutes to find space to park my vehicle, and more than an hour to purchase the items as the shop was crowded. Nobody was following proper Covid safety protocols.” While majority of the shopkeepers said sales had picked up before Karva Chauth, even three days before Diwali, customers are purchasing only the essential items required to celebrate the festival. Pawan Batra, president of Ghumar Mandi Market Association, said, “Customers are visiting markets but with limited resources. People have cut down on buying luxury items and prefer purchasing essential items only. The pandemic has affected business heavily and every shopkeeper is expecting that sales will pick up by Diwali. Parking is also an issue here and there is a need to come up with parking lots at the entry and exit points of the market for convenience of shoppers.”Kipps Market in Sarabha Nagar, which is popular for its restaurants, food joints and bakery shops, receives high footfall in the evening. Customers are seen parking vehicles near residential areas when the parking lot in the market is full. Customers were seen purchasing cakes, chocolates and other gift items. At other markets in Model Town area, Pakhowal Road and Jawahar Nagar, the shopkeepers have decked up their shops and heavy footfall was seen after 2 pm. Shortage of parking space makes shopping a task, but people still prefer purchasing decorative items, gifts, electronics and cakes from these markets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/throwing-caution-to-the-wind-residents-throng-markets-in-ludhiana/story-ZWv6ZoLJSfTl5C5SJDQDlM.html
12-11-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 Why have you not written for trials of homoeopathic medicines, asks Delhi HC||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court on Wednesday sought to know from the Delhi government why it had not written to the Central Council for Research in homeopathy (CCRH) for carrying out clinical trials of homoeopathic medicines for prevention and cure of Covid-19 despite requests from two doctors.A bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad was hearing a plea by two homeopathic doctors, one based in Kerala and the other in West Bengal, seeking directions to the ministry and CCRH to allow doctors to treat Covid-19 by dispensing homeopathic medicines as supplement to allopathic ones if so desired by the patients.“Why are you resisting it? Obtain instructions on why you (Delhi government) have not written to CCRH,” a bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad impleading Delhi government as a party in the case.The court issued notice to the Delhi government, which was accepted by advocate Jawahar Raja, appearing for the Delhi government.Appearing for the Ayush Ministry and Central Council for Research in Homoeopathy (CCRH), the counsels told the court that the Delhi government should be made a party in the case as the state government has to first clear the way for the clinical trial.In their plea filed through advocate Suvidutt MS, the doctors have also sought directions to the ministry and CCRH to carry out clinical trials on three sets of homeopathic medicines for treating Covid-19 infection.Appearing for the petitioner, advocate J Sai Deepak, told the court that his clients had written to the states of Delhi, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, West Bengal and Kerala, which account for the maximum number of Covid-19 cases, for carrying out the clinical trial, but they haven’t received any response.They said that they were informed in June by CCRH that the state governments have to approach it for clinical trials and it cannot go to the states. Subsequently, they wrote to the Delhi government in June itself to approach CCRH for clinical trials, however, no steps have been taken by it till date, the plea said.The matter would be now heard on November 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-why-have-you-not-written-for-trials-of-homoeopathic-medicines-asks-delhi-hc/story-j3FDMhWDjfRgjEZp5IQjAJ.html
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity’s daily Covid inches towards 300 again||With residents lowering their guard amid the festive season, the number of Covid-19 cases being reported from across the tricity is inching towards 300 once again.As many as 281 people tested positive for the deadly virus on Wednesday. Mohali district led with 119 cases, followed by 95 in Chandigarh and 67 in Panchkula.Three deaths were also reported, two from Chandigarh and one from Mohali.In Chandigarh, the infection tally has risen to 15,434, and active cases to 958 (6.2%). The toll has reached 243, with the death of a 73-year-old man from Sector 18 and a 52-year-old woman from Dhanas. Meanwhile, 57 patients were discharged, pushing the count of cured patients to 14,233 (92.2%). Amid stepped-up testing, 1,356 samples have been collected in the past 24 hours.Mohali has reported 13,179 cases so far, and 822 (6.2%) remain active. Among 119 fresh cases in the district, 114 were reported from Mohali city alone.While 12,106 (91.9%) patients have recovered, including 71 discharged on Wednesday, 251 have succumbed to the virus.Panchkula district reported no casualty for sixth consecutive day while 67 people tested positive on Wednesday.As many as 53 cases were reported from Panchkula city alone. The total has reached 7,711, of which 7,126 (92.4%) patients have recovered and 117 have died, leaving 468 (6.1%) cases still active.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-tricity-s-daily-covid-inches-towards-300-again/story-HFfdK9Pto8FDDnW0awZsYM.html
12-11-2020||Delhi||After LSR suicide, DU’s struggling students open up about financial stress of digital divide||The death by suicide of a second-year undergraduate student of Lady Shri Ram (LSR) College last week after her struggle to continue classes online has brought out into the open the impact of the Covid-19 crisis on several students in top colleges struggling bridge the digital divide.Students and teachers across Delhi University’s campuses on Wednesday pointed to hardships arising from the Covid-19 pandemic, forcing bright students from the economically weaker sections to seek financial assistance to either pay their fees or get access to online education.A final-year BSc (Mathematics) student at a DU college, and a resident of Uttar Pradesh’s Badaun district, said she has barely been able to attend class this academic session.“My father, who works as a sweeper in a factory, managed to get me a phone when I got admission into DU two years ago. The phone has become the only mode of education for me and three of my siblings. I can’t attend classes regularly because my siblings also use the same phone. This is my final year and I am extremely stressed about studies,” she told HT, asking not to be named. According to a survey conducted by the Left-affiliated All India Students Association (AISA) in May, around 42% students across DU were not able to access online classes amid the pandemic due to a lack of devices, poor internet connectivity, and inadequate finances, among other reasons. The undergraduate student from LSR, who died by suicide on November 3 in Telangana, was among the students who had responded to a student-led survey in the college in September, saying she did not even have a laptop to attend her classes.  Apart from the stress of catching up on her online classes, her parents said the student was stressed when the college announced that second-year residents would have to vacate the hostel because of a college policy introduced in 2019. Unnimaya R, general secretary of the LSR students’ union, said the college’s revised hostel policy, as per which only first year students can use the hostel accommodation from this year,  would affect around 120 students — of whom 50% belong to marginalised backgrounds.Students across campuses related with the hardships faced by the undergraduate student.DU colleges charge different annual fees ranging between Rs 4,500 to Rs50,000. Some minority colleges, including St Stephens and SGTB Khalsa, also have higher fee structures. A second-year BA (political science) student at a prominent college in DU’s North Campus college said: “My father runs a small salon in Uttam Nagar. He remained out of work for months due to the lockdown. His income is minimal even now. He is struggling to even pay the rent of his shop. My brother had also lost his job. It was not possible for my family to pay the annual fees of Rs12,000 this year. I had filled the fee concession request in my college, but it is taking time to process.”A 22-year-old MA (social work) student at DU, requesting anonymity, said her parents were not supportive of her decision to opt for further studies in 2019 after her graduation. “The Covid-19 crisis caused us to lose our only source of income and my family had to take loans to survive. There is no way they can support my education. It was impossible for me to submit my semester fee of around Rs13,000,” she said. A group of students from St. Stephen’s College independently initiated a fund-raising event on Monday and have so far received requests from over 150 students across colleges seeking assistance to pay their fees and to acquire devices to attend digital classes. The MA student mentioned above is one of them.Officials across DU colleges said they have been receiving distress calls and emails from students requesting fee waivers, scholarships, free laptops, and devices. Anju Shrivastava, principal of Hindu College, said they have received more than the usual number of requests seeking financial assistance this time. “Every year, we invite applications offering financial assistance to students. This year, we received 300 requests, which are more than the usual number. Many students expressed difficulty in paying the fee as their parents had lost jobs during the Covid-19 lockdown and the college responded to these requests,” she said.Miranda House principal Bijayalaxmi Nanda said her college has received 181 requests from students asking for fee waivers. “Our teachers and other interested donors will contribute to the Principal’s Fund for Needy Students, which will be used to help students. This is why we decided to extend the deadline for fee submission, so students could get the time needed for necessary assistance,” she said,.Jaswinder Singh, principal of SGTB Khalsa College, said they have received around 200 such requests. “We have divided the fees into two or three instalments for students according to their convenience,” he said. Experts said that efforts have to be made by faculty members and institutes instead of expecting your students to come forward and ask for help in order to avoid such incidents in the future. Educationist and former Dean of the Faculty of Education at DU Anita Rampal said that going forward, colleges have to find ways to help students in need. “Due to the Covid-19 crisis, more and more students are in need of financial assistance. Educational institutions have to be more proactive in checking in with their students and getting in touch with alumni and sponsors to help them for at least a year because students will be at the risk of being pushed out of the system due to the economic crisis arising out of Covid-19.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/lsr-student-suicide-online-push-leaves-many-students-behind/story-VSKnVtgsjMFT0ExRMTBz4K.html
12-11-2020||Delhi||Gangster on Delhi police’s most-wanted list nabbed after shoot-out||The Delhi Police arrested a gangster who featured on their “most-wanted” list on Wednesday morning, after a brief shoot-out that left him with a bullet wound on his leg. With the arrest of 38-year-old Hashim, the police said all “major” gangsters of the trans-Yamuna region are behind bars. Earlier in September, Hashim’s alleged friend-turned-foe, Abdul Nasir,had ended up in police net. The special cell, which nabbed Hashim, said they had received inputs last month that the suspect was planning a series of killings. “On Wednesday, we got to know that he would be visiting his girlfriend in Shahdara. So, we laid a trap outside the house,” said Pramod Kushwaha, deputy commissioner of police (special cell). Around 5.45 am, as Hashim emerged from the house and readied to ride away on his motorcycle, the police said they made a move on him and asked him to surrender, but he responded by firing at them. “He fired three rounds at us and we shot back five times. He was injured in his left leg and hospitalised,” said the DCP. The police team escaped unhurt. The police said they later learnt that the woman he was meeting was “one of his two-three wives”. One among top 10 men wanted by the Delhi Police, Hashim carried a reward of Rs 5 lakh from the police force. Kushwaha said Hashim belongs to Aligarh in UP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/gangster-on-delhi-police-s-most-wanted-list-nabbed-after-shoot-out/story-JMOr0cQpTAW0l0DYeGRc4K.html
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||Manisha Chaudhary appointed Chandigarh SSP, traffic||Manisha Chaudhary has been appointed Chandigarh’s first woman senior superintendent of police, traffic and security.The ministry of home affairs approved her appointment on inter-cadre deputation from Haryana to AGMUT (Arunachal Pradesh-Goa-Mizoram-Union Territories) for three years. She is likely to join office after Diwali. A 2011-batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer, she is presently serving as the SP, Panipat. The Haryana government had sent a panel of three IPS officers — Surinder Pal Singh (2010 batch), Virender Kumar (2011 batch), besides Chaudhary. The administration had sent all three names to the MHA, but recommended Chaudhary for the post. Shashank Anand, who was holding the post of DIG (security and traffic), was relieved from his duties on July 30 and transferred back to his parent cadre. Currently, SP (headquarters) Manoj Meena is holding the additional charge of SSP (traffic).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/manisha-chaudhary-appointed-chandigarh-ssp-traffic/story-dkzCSrDOB48gIf7t06dOwJ.html
12-11-2020||Delhi||Cases in Delhi continue alarming rise: 8,593 new infections reported||In yet another worrying sign for Delhi, the number of daily new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the capital touched another peak, with over 8,000 cases being recorded in a single day for the first time on Wednesday. The city is in the throes of a third wave of the disease, with cases rising by the day, and more hospitalisations taking place, with the Delhi high court stepping in and asking the state government for a plan to fight the virus.Delhi reported 8,593 cases as per Wednesday’s Delhi government health bulletin. However, the day also saw the highest daily test count, as well as the most RT-PCR tests conducted on a single day in the city. While a total of 64,121 tests were conducted, 19,304 of these were of the more reliable RT-PCR variety.The city also recorded 85 deaths due to the infection, the highest number of single-day deaths since June 16 when Delhi added 437 deaths to its total toll while reconciling old data. So far, 459,975 people have been infected in the Capital and 7,228 of them have died. The city saw a surge in the number of cases over the fortnight, recording over 5,000 cases each day except on a Sunday. On average, 6,898 cases were reported each day during the last seven days, compared to 5,536 the week before, and 3,941 the week before that. A committee headed by NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul had earlier predicted that Delhi could see around 15,000 cases a day during the winters. Covid update: Sputnik-V 92% effective; Pfizer challenge; Delhi HC on surge “When you compare the number of cases to the numbers during previous surge, you have to see that the government is testing a lot of people now. Yesterday, over 59,000 people were tested; only 17 to 18,000 people were being tested during previous peaks. I feel that the number of cases will likely go down in the next few days,” said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain. “Apart from people being out and about during the festive season, the pollution levels have also been high. And, now there is enough evidence to show that pollution can not only lead to severe Covid-19, but also increase in transmission of the infection,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head of the department of microbiology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). She said small get-togethers with relatives during the festive season could potentially accelerate the transmission of the virus, as people are not as careful with following preventive measures when they are with family members. Despite the rising number of cases, the results of the fourth round of Delhi’s serological survey shows that there was an increase of just 0.4% between early September and mid-October in the proportion of people that had antibodies against the infection. “An increase of 0.4% means that four cases were reported for 1,000 population translating to 4,000 cases per million population during the one-and-a-half months,” said Dr T Jacob John, former head of the department of virology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. Along with the number of cases, the city also saw a spike in the number of deaths over the last week, recording over 80 deaths a day twice. The number of deaths is inching close to the highest 101, during the June-July surge in cases, when treatment protocols were still being decided. On average, 75 people died of the infection each day during the last seven days, as compared to 44 the week before. The case fatality rate (CFR) — the proportion of the people who die among those who test positive — remained at 1.57%. “The biggest reason for death due to Covid-19 is a drop in oxygen saturation. So, we have asked our centres to test the oxygen level of the patients undergoing COvid-19 test so that even if they do not feel other symptoms they can receive timely treatment,” said Jain on Wednesday during a press briefing. The doctors have previously warned about “happy hypoxia” associated with Covid-19 where the patient’s oxygen levels drop without any apparent breathing difficulty. Another concern that the government is facing is the shortage of ICU beds. With over 5,000 cases being reported over the fortnight, hospitals are filling up fast. As on Tuesday, 8,497 persons with the infection were admitted to hospitals. Almost 52% of the total 16,500 beds earmarked for the treatment of Covid-19 in the government and private hospitals in the city are occupied. And, 85% of the intensive care unit beds – with and without ventilators – are occupied. The government on Wednesday wrote to the centre to add 1,000 beds and 300 ICU beds in its hospitals. “We have written to the Centre to increase 1,000 Covid-19 beds and 300 ICU beds in its hospitals. We have also approached the Supreme Court to challenge the high court decision on reserving ICU beds in big private hospitals,” said Jain. The Delhi government in September had directed 33 big private hospitals to reserve 80% of their total ICU beds for the treatment of Covid-19. The matter was challenged by a hospital association in the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/cases-soar-8-593-new-infections-in-capital/story-wENlydL0Jd9N4020D3rYWO.html
12-11-2020||Delhi||‘Why are you opening up everything?’: HC slams govt||The high court on Wednesday criticised the Delhi government for relaxing norms for almost everything, including public movement and gatherings, and wanted to know how the administration would handle the “alarming” rise in Covid-19 cases in the capital.Stating that the number of those infected is “mind boggling”, the court asked the government to submit a policy, if any, on controlling the rising cases. Delhi on Wednesday reported 8,593 cases. A bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad questioned the government’s unlocking strategy, including allowing 200 people to gather at weddings, permitting public transport at full capacity, lack of social distancing and violation of mask rules. Click here for complete coronavirus coverageThe court remarked that no household in the city had remain “untouched” by the virus and took note of the fourth sero survey report that indicated one in every four persons in Delhi had been infected by Covid-19.“The rates are mind-boggling. The number of deaths is in double figures every day . What’s with the Delhi government allowing all the unlockdown when cases are skyrocketing? Why have you opened everything? What are the strategies that you are following?“You (Delhi) have seen the heights which no other state in the country has seen. Today, Delhi is beating the whole state of Maharashtra and Kerala hands down in Covid-19 infections. When the numbers are decreasing in all the states, then why are numbers rising only in your state? Either there is no control or there is lack of control,” the bench said, coming down on the Delhi government represented by additional standing counsel Satyakam.“We will present a detailed report to the court on actions being taken to control the current Corona situation. All the actions taken so far have been under the guidelines issued by Centre and after consultation with various experts. In future too, the Delhi government will not be found wanting in case we have to take any action based on directions of the court or as suggested by experts,” the Delhi government said in a statement on the court’s remarks. The court said even the petitioner, advocate Rakesh Malhotra, had been infected and had to run from pillar to post to get a bed and later had to settle for a friend’s nursing home after his oxygen level dipped. Malhotra, who wanted tests to be ramped in the city, appeared through video from the hospital“There are children, elderly people at everyone’s house and there is no household left in Delhi which hasn’t been touched by the virus. When other states are locking up, either partial or in the weekend, what we see is the swarming streets of Delhi and the government has decided to throw its winds open and has allowed all gatherings,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/why-are-you-opening-up-everything-delhi-hc-slams-aap-govt/story-p6xDV71oLLLghovRCKBYlJ.html
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||Burglars strike at locked house in Chandigarh||Burglars targeted locked house of a property dealer in Sector 21 and fled with jewellery, electronic items and other valuables, Chandigarh Police said on Wednesday.Suspected to be two in number, the burglars are suspected to have committed the crime in the wee hours. Police were informed around 8am, after a neighbour, who waters the house owner’s plants in his absence, spotted broken locks of the gate. Police said house owner Navdeep Singh went to the US with his parents for their treatment last week, while his wife, Geetika,had gone to Karnal. Geetika told police that her gold chain, a pair of earrings, two LED televisions, 15 pairs of shoes and cosmetics were missing from the house. Police have registered a case under Section 380 (Theft in dwelling house) and 454 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking in order to commit offence) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/burglars-strike-at-locked-house-in-chandigarh/story-B4GrCVRI624J91lkERM3YM.html
12-11-2020||Delhi||Kejriwal asks health min for Covid beds in city’s central govt hospitals||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has requested union health minister Harsh Vardhan to issue directions to provide at least 1,092 additional beds in central government hospitals in the city, citing official projections that show a “shortage” of around 4,900 beds, in the light of the ongoing spike in Covid-19 cases in the Capital, a senior government official said. Kejriwal sent a letter – a copy of which HT has seen – to the Union minister on Saturday. The letter said, “At present, Delhi has a total bed capacity of 15,713 for treating Covid-19 patients. This capacity includes ICU and non-ICU beds provided by Central Government hospitals, which have been of great help in tiding over the first and second surges during the months of June and September, 2020, respectively. However, the shortfall of around 4,900 beds, as per the projection of the Report-III of the Empowered Group-l, will have to be met by augmentation in both the central government and state government (hospitals).” Click here for complete coronavirus coverageAt present, there are 16,525 Covid beds across all hospitals in Delhi, of which 8,550 are occupied. There are 3,350 ICU beds, of which 2,838 are occupied, government records showed. Delhi on Wednesday reported 8,593 new cases and 85 deaths of the infectious disease, as per the state government’s daily health bulletin.The letter said, “As per information obtained from different central government hospitals in Delhi, it has been observed that a capacity augmentation of around 1092 beds has been proposed by central hospitals.” Central government hospitals with Covid-19 wards in Delhi includes AIIMS, Safdarjung Hospital and Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital. “I request you to issue necessary directions to the authorities concerned to ensure the above steps to provide at least 1,092 additional beds, including 300 ICU beds, with manpower, are taken on priority to ensure all requisite medical facilities are made available to the public for fighting this Covid-19 pandemic,” the CM’s letter said. HT had reported on November 1 that the Delhi government has planned to add 4,891 more dedicated beds to be able to handle up to 12,000 daily cases of Covid-19. The planned escalation includes 1,558 additional beds in Delhi government hospitals, 1,092 additional beds in central hospitals and 2,241 extra beds in private hospitals. Since then, around 400 more Covid-19 general beds and 110 Covid-19 ICU beds have been added in Delhi government hospitals. The Union health minister was not available for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kejriwal-asks-health-min-for-covid-beds-in-city-s-central-govt-hospitals/story-L37fEMQwNAUbytoAN2o3RO.html
12-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi Riots: High court stays trial in conspiracy case after cops’ plea||The Delhi high court has stayed the trial in the conspiracy case related to the north-east Delhi riots after the police filed a plea challenging a city court’s order directing them to supply physical copies of the charge sheet to all the 15 accused.Issuing notice to the accused, Justice Suresh Kait said in his order on November 10, “Till further order, trial is stayed. However, the trial court is at liberty to decide any application whatsoever kind.” The matter has been posted for further hearing on December 15.In its plea filed through special public prosecutor (SPP) Amit Prasad, the Delhi police special cell challenged the legality and validity of the orders passed on September 21 and October 21 by additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat. Police said the document runs over 17,500 pages and the direction was passed in a “mechanical manner”.The court had on October 9 directed police to file fresh copies of the chargesheet after it was informed they “had inadvertently” put a document in it, containing details of some of the protected witnesses and its copies were supplied to the accused booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.It had directed the police to file fresh copies, redacting details of the protected witnesses and supply it to the 15 persons charge sheeted in the case and their counsel.On October 21, the court was informed by the investigating officer (IO) that he submitted 16 new pen drives containing the redacted version and accompanying documents. However, the court said both hard and soft copies of the fresh charge sheet should be given.The judge said it was not impressed with the IO’s submission, who had sought 15 days to get funds from the Delhi government to take out hard copies. The judge had directed the police to supply the documents at the earliest.Challenging these orders, the police said the mandate of law under section 207 of CrPC is to provide “copy” of each of the report/ statements/ document subject to reasonable exception. They said the law does not specify supply of “hard copy” or “soft copy” nor does it draw any distinction between them.The police had on September 16 filed a charge sheet against the 15 accused -- Pinjra Tod members and JNU students Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal, Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha, Gulfisha Khatoon, former Congress Councillor Ishrat Jahan, Jamia Coordination Committee members Safoora Zargar, Meeran Haider, Shafa-Ur-Rehman, suspended AAP Councillor Tahir Hussain, activist Khalid Saifi, Shadab Ahmed, Tasleem Ahmed, Salim Malik, Mohd Salim Khan and Athar Khan -- for allegedly being part of a larger conspiracy in the riots.Communal violence had broken out in north-east Delhi on February 24 left 53 people dead and 607 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-riots-high-court-stays-trial-in-conspiracy-case-after-cops-plea/story-PrmGpRZvF8IsQIdY4cnRiL.html
12-11-2020||Noida||72-year-old burnt alive; grandson critical after high tension electricity wire snapped in Loni||Ghaziabad: A 72-year-old man was burnt alive while his 20-year-old grandson suffered critical burns when a live 11kv electricity wire fell over the duo at Prem Nagar locality in Ghaziabad’s Loni on Wednesday afternoon. The police said that the young man suffered critical injuries during the incident and was rushed to Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi. The police said that the incident took place around 3.30pm when a transformer exploded and a live high-tension wire got snapped. The victims, Vijay Kant Jha and his grandson Raju Kumar, were standing near their shop while another person, identified as Anil Kumar, was also nearby. “There was some malfunction to the electricity transformer placed roadside and it exploded as a result and heated oil also gushed out. In the process, the 11kv wire also got snapped and fell over the three persons. The victims suffered burns and injuries as a result of the incident,” said Yadvendra Kumar, executive engineer of Paschimanchal Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Limited. “We have a provision of compensation which will be put in place once we get detailed report,” he added. The incident spot was on a road connecting Prem Nagar and Naipura localities in Loni. Soon after the incident, locals prepared videos of the incident in which shocking pictures of the burning body of the deceased could be seen. A huge crowd gathered around the incident site but they were moved away by the police. Locals said that the deceased’s grandson suffered about 80% burn injuries in the incident. “The third victim was discharged from hospital as he suffered minor injuries. The old man died at the spot while the 20-year-old was rushed to Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi in a very critical state. We are waiting for any complaints from the family and will register an appropriate FIR once we get the complaint,” said Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, superintendent of police (rural).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/72-year-old-burnt-alive-grandson-critical-after-high-tension-electricity-wire-snapped-in-loni/story-XF3HkfL0q9NVHmLTxyJnUM.html
12-11-2020||Delhi||Fix timelines for 24x7 water supply project: Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday reviewed the government’s 24x7 water supply and augmentation plan to ensure all neighbourhoods are connected with water supply in the coming years. In the meeting, Kejriwal told officials of the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) that time frames would have to be fixed for all the projects. “This has to be ensured to provide relief to the people and prevent unnecessary expenditure of money. I will review the ongoing projects on 24x7 water supply across Delhi around the 15th of every month. The DJB officials will inform me about the monthly progress of work through presentations, including the progress of laying of sewer lines and rainwater harvesting projects,” Kejriwal said. DJB officials said Delhi will need about 1500 MGD water by 2031. “Efforts to provide water supply pipelines in Delhi’s colonies are continuing at a fast pace. So far, out of 1799 (colonies), pipelines have been laid in 1,622 colonies. In the next six months, these colonies will have a clean water supply from pipelines. Besides, water pipelines will reach the remaining 113 colonies by March 2022,” a statement issued by the government read. A total of 580 unauthorised and authorised colonies have been included in the water project, out of which 517 colonies have been connected with the pipeline network. The DJB said the remaining colonies will be connected by December 2021. “There are a total of 1799 colonies in Delhi. Out of these, 260 colonies are in East Delhi, out of which 256 colonies have been connected with a water network,” DJB stated. DJB chairperson Satyendar Jain cautioned officials against repeatedly digging arterial roads across the city in the name of repair work, to avoid any kind of inconvenience to public. “We should lay a proper sewer system wherever road construction is happening so that we do not end up digging up roads again and again,” Jain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/fix-timelines-for-24x7-water-supply-project-kejriwal/story-3nohxG4LaRMXUh2FxVTJAJ.html
12-11-2020||City||Delhi govt presents EV policy at UN climate forum||New Delhi: The Delhi government on Wednesday presented its electric vehicle (EV) policy in a United Nations climate change forum.“Delhi government presents its vision on Electric Vehicles at the prestigious UNFCCC ‘Race to Zero Dialogue: Launching the global race to zero-emission mobility’ held today. Delhi was chosen among three state governments globally as role models for governments leading the way on EVs, along with California, USA, and the state of Navarra, Spain,” the government said in a statement.Jasmine Shah, the vice-chairperson of the of Dialogue and Development Commission of Delhi, said: “The world can learn from five key pillars of Delhi government’s EV strategy – targeted financial incentives, non-financial incentives, enabling charging infrastructure, raising public awareness and building a green economy. The transition to EVs may look very daunting for large cities and states, but Delhi has shown that with political will, an attitude to learn from successes and failures of cities and countries around the world, and a goal-oriented approach, this is possible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-presents-ev-policy-at-un-climate-forum/story-1AreEZuHjuWzFKEStBVAeO.html
12-11-2020||Delhi||Chhath Puja banned in public places in Delhi||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has prohibited people from celebrating Chhath Puja in public places this year in light of the spike in Covid-19 cases in the national capital.Chhath Puja will begin on November 20. Every year, on Chhath, massive crowds, mostly those from Poorvanchal, congregate on the banks of Yamuna, and the roads along the embankment areas and open spaces to worship the setting and rising sun. The government usually make arrangements to facilitate the worshippers by deploying medical teams and security personnel, and installing lights, changing rooms, toilets, etc.This year, between October 28 and November 8, the government had floated more than 20 tenders for Chhath Puja arrangements in areas of Haathi Ghat ITO, Sarai Kale Khan, Old Railway Bridge in Geeta Colony, both sides of Hindol Canal, Dhobi Ghat in Ganesh Nagar, Talab Chowk Park in Mandawli, Qudsia Ghat, Yamuna Bazar Ghat, Yamuna Ghat Wazirabad, Pusta Gamri, Shiv Vihar and Gokalpur.These tenders now stand cancelled, said a Delhi government spokesperson. “In view of the persistent rise in Covid-19 cases in Delhi in the recent days, it has been decided that Chhath Pooja celebrations will not be allowed in public places and people may be advised to celebrate the festival at homes,” the DDMA, chaired by lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal, said in an order on Tuesday.All district magistrates and district deputy commissioners of police and others authorities have been told to ensure strict compliance of the order.In October, Durga Puja and Dussehra too were low-key affairs. Although the DDMA had allowed limited gatherings on paper, as the Covid-19 situation at that juncture was relatively better, the district administration and police did not issue permission to organisers and asked others to impose restrictions on access to venues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/chhath-puja-banned-in-public-places-in-delhi/story-dqkTR6iVIWfOxgGBnKK40O.html
12-11-2020||Delhi||After 6 days, air improves to very poor||On Wednesday, Delhi finally took a deep breath and not choke -- thanks to improved wind speeds and a change in the wind direction, carrying pollutants away from the national capital.The air quality index (AQI), as recorded by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), on Wednesday rose to the ”very poor” category with a reading of 344, after a staying put in the “severe” zone for six days. On a scale of 0 to 500, any reading between 300 and 400 is deemed very poor, while those above 400 are considered severe. The AQI had touched 476 on Tuesday, in the upper reaches of severe zone. The CPCB, however, directed the stone crushers and hot mix plants to remain closed till November 17, to prevent any further deterioration in air quality. Scientists from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) credited the improvement in air quality to change in wind direction and improved speed. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said from Tuesday afternoon, the wind direction over Delhi changed from north-westerly -- blows from the agrarian states of Punjab and Haryana bringing in smoke from farm fires -- to easterly. “Because of the wind direction change, we did not have stubble burning smoke adding to the local sources and deteriorating the air quality on Wednesday. The average wind speed was 12kmph, which was enough to disperse the accumulated pollutants,” Srivastava said. He said on Thursday, too, the wind direction will remain easterly and there is a possibility of the AQI improving further into the better end of very poor zone. But this respite will be short-lived as on the Diwali weekend (November 14), wind will slow down and change direction back to north-westerly. As the city inched into the severe-plus zone on Tuesday evening, with no clarity on the enforcement of measures under the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap), the Commission on Air Quality Management in NCR and adjoining areas decided the task of implementing Grap be temporarily given to CPCB until the newly constituted commission develops a mechanism for Grap implementation. There was confusion among agencies after Centre issued an ordinance on October 29 to set up the new centralised agency with sweeping powers to monitor and act against sources of air pollution across five north Indian states. “After the Commission was formed, we did not have the legal mandate to hold meetings or enforce Grap. The Commission gave us the responsibility only yesterday and so we couldn’t take any measures on our own over the past few days,” a senior CPCB official said. Experts also expressed concerns over this lack of coordination among agencies at such a crucial time. “Pollution control and abatement has for long been caught up in legal and institutional jugglery. The current air pollution crisis is an outcome of inaction and regulatory failure. The new Commission has not just inherited the legacy of the problem but also the regulatory framework, in the form of laws and action plans. What needs to be recognised is that even today, big economic decisions are at odds with environment measures. This includes pushing for large real estate projects, continued support for private transport or legal subsidies for coal power stations,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher, Centre for Policy Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/after-six-days-of-severe-air-delhi-breathes-a-little-easy/story-xq1YEzFTgYHJu8vr6pNU1O.html
12-11-2020||Delhi||BJP instigating people to burst firecrackers, alleges Gopal Rai||Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Wednesday requested the opposition to join the government’s fight against pollution, saying unless the people of Delhi and political parties join hands, any action taken will not yield results. Addressing the media, Rai said, “We want to appeal to the opposition to support us in fighting pollution. I also want to appeal to the people to light lamps and not firecrackers; this fight is nothing without the support of the people.” “The two crore people of Delhi have to contribute and play their part to fight pollution. Our small contribution can create a big impact,” he said. Targeting the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Rai alleged while the government had implemented a ban on firecrackers till November 30, which was later upheld by the National Green Tribunal (NGT), BJP leaders have been making statements to instigate the people of Delhi. “Instead of supporting the government on this step to prevent the rise in pollution ahead of Diwali, BJP leaders are instigating people, especially youngsters. The BJP or the Centre has done nothing to control pollution in Delhi. I request the BJP to at least not provoke people and negate the efforts being made by the Delhi government,” said Rai. Reacting to the minister’s allegations, BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said their leaders have said nothing to encourage people to burn crackers. “The allegation that BJP leaders are encouraging people to violate the cracker ban is a blatant lie. All we have said is that because the Delhi government had issued licences for the sale of green crackers (less polluting), hundreds of traders had invested in these and a sudden ban would make them suffer heavy losses. So, the Delhi government should partially compensate them,” Kapoor said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rai-says-bjp-instigating-people-to-burn-crackers/story-BUyCggesc7UoCLauKRPKgJ.html
12-11-2020||City||Mohali MC seals 6 industrial units for not paying property tax||The municipal corporation sealed six more industrial units in the city for not clearing property tax dues amounting to Rs 8 lakh, despite repeated notices.The MC team sealed plot numbers D-161, C 102 A/15, and F-86 in Industrial Area, Phase 7 and 15 and 294 in Industrial Area, Phase 9, in Mohali.“Ownes of units located on plot numbers D-161 and F-86 A in Phase 7 handed over cheques to the MC team on spot,” said MC property inspector Avtar Singh Kalsia. The civic body had issued notices to tax defaulters under sections 137 and 138 of the Punjab Municipal Corporation Act and given them a 10-day window to clear the dues. The civic body is now in the process of identifying more property tax defaulters, who will be sent notices. Strict action will follow in cases of default.So far, MC had sealed 16 industrial units. It has prepared a list of 7,050 commercial, industrial and residential properties in Mohali that owe Rs 5 crore property tax to the civic body for the 2019-20 fiscal year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-mc-seals-6-industrial-units-for-not-paying-property-tax/story-aJdJ0wfkAlM8YMiXIQ4VbK.html
12-11-2020||Delhi||Metro to give real-time info on waiting time||To prevent crowding at its stations, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) will, from Thursday, give commuters real-time information about the average waiting time at some of its busiest stations.This is aimed to helping commuters plan their journey and ensure social distancing inside stations and on trains.DMRC will put up information on its social media accounts about stations where the average waiting time is beyond 20 minutes during peak hours. The stations selected for giving out real-time information are: Chandni Chowk, Chawri Bazaar, Patel Chowk, Rajiv Chowk, Central Secretariat, Huda City Centre, Lal Quila, Barakhambha Road, JLN Stadium and Saket. Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communication, DMRC said, “The operations staff deployed at these stations will continuously monitor the crowd at these stations during peak hours and assess the waiting time. The same will be conveyed to commuters if it goes beyond 20 minutes, through DMRC’s official social media handles/pages. In case of any fluctuations in traffic/crowd, the waiting time will be modified accordingly.”The Delhi Metro officials said these stations have been selected based on the rush observed during peak hours since the Metro resumed operations in September after a gap of 169 days.Dayal said, “Commuters are being permitted into Metro stations only after adhering to prescribed Covid-related norms. The number of passengers in the trains has also been restricted, to ensure social distancing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/metro-to-give-real-time-info-on-waiting-time/story-paN1zvtrbNGRgsZSi3dvaM.html
12-11-2020||Delhi||HC says unhappy with delay in Chandni Chowk revamp||The Delhi high court on Wednesday expressed its displeasure with various authorities, including the Delhi government’s public works department (PWD) and the Shahjahanabad Redevelopment Corporation (SRDC), handling the revamp work of the Chandni Chowk area, for their failure to address the delay in completing the work on time. A bench of justice Hima Kohli and justice Subramonium Prasad was hearing a bunch of pleas in connection with the redevelopment of the Chandni Chowk area, including a suo motu petition initiated by the court on the basis of news reports that the project has been derailed. The redevelopment project was supposed to have been completed by May this year but was delayed because of the Covid-19 pandemic.On Wednesday, advocate Naushad Ahmed Khan, additional standing counsel of the Delhi government, representing the PWD, told the court that he had filed a status report a day before but it has not been taken on record. As per that report, work was delayed because of encroachments, including a temple, in Chandni Chowk.He told the court that the main stretch of the market has been completed and only certain intersections remain to be finished while adding that work would be completed by December 31. He urged the court that even the North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NrDMC) should be made a party to the case.Following this, the court directed the civic body to be impleaded as a party while also asking all local bodies, including the Delhi Jal Board (DJB), Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) and the Delhi traffic police to file their respective status reports, indicating the work pending at their ends.The PWD, DJB, DUSIB, traffic police and the SRDC refused comment on the matter.The court also noted, “Though notices were issued to several authorities, not even one of them have filed their status reports much less coming prepared to the court with instructions”.It also rejected a plea by Delhi Gurdwara Sikh Management Committee (DSGMC) to allow parking near the Sis Ganj Gurdwara for devotees, while stating that if a policy has been put in place by the government, then it cannot be changed for anyone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-angry-over-delay-in-chandni-chowk-redevelopment/story-bjHMkKfAVueBSSKyCEY4LP.html
12-11-2020||Delhi||Nearly 1,770 kg of crackers seized; 11 more arrested for fireworks ban violations||Continuing its crackdown on the illegal sale and use of firecrackers, the Delhi Police on Wednesday said it has seized nearly 1,770 kilos of firecrackers, registered 14 more cases and arrested 11 persons for violating the Delhi government’s and the National Green Tribunal (NGT)’s ban on the sale and use of all kinds of firecrackers in Delhi-NCR till November 30. With the 14 fresh cases, the total number of such cases registered since November 7 has risen to 39, while 32 persons have been arrested; two of them for bursting crackers. In total, 2,794 kg crackers have been seized so far, the police statement said, although it did not specify whether these included the green ( less-polluting) firecrackers.On November 5, the Delhi government, in a bid to check the rising pollution levels, announced a complete ban on the sale and use of fireworks, including “green varieties”, till November 30. The next day, environment minister Gopal Rai said bursting or selling crackers may attract fines of up to ₹1 lakh. The NGT also imposed a complete ban on the sale and use of crackers in Delhi-NCR on Monday (November 9). On November 10, the Delhi Police came up with an action plan to implement the ban, including suspension of cracker sale licences, constituting \teams to intensify patrolling, and asking schools to encourage children not to burst crackers.Among the 14 cases reported between Tuesday and Wednesday, 12 were related to cracker sales in west, north-east, outer-north, north-west, Rohini, outer and Dwarka areas, while two were registered in north-west and east districts for using fireworks. Ten persons have been arrested for selling crackers, while one has been arrested from north-west Delhi’s Ashok Vihar for bursting crackers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/1-770-kilos-of-crackers-seized-11-held-for-ban-violation/story-xEGGWNx8GJviw1J4tRpuFK.html
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Engineering College starts centenary lecture series||Punjab Engineering College (PEC) on Wednesday, started its centenary lecture series. The first lecture was delivered by professor Raj Reddy from Carnegie Mellon University, USA.The institute started its centenary celebrations on November 9. Professor Raj Reddy delivered a lecture on ‘Future of education: National Education Policy 2020, post covid consequences and options’. During the lecture, he highlighted facts and challenges related to the NEP, 2020. He said, “This significant change in the policy is a much-needed upgrade to support self-paced learning and a flexible curriculum to facilitate the growth of soft skills.”Dr Divya Bansal, dean alumni, corporate and international relations at PEC, introduced the centenary lecture series. She said that the institute had invited famous personalities to share their inspiring stories from across various fields in the centenary lecture series.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-engineering-college-starts-centenary-lecture-series/story-uhm0XHj6mhADqDIsolLjsJ.html
12-11-2020||Pune||11-month-old killed in rickshaw accident in Pune||A 11-month-old child was killed after the auto-rickshaw in which he was travelling met with an accident at a turn in Katraj on Monday evening.The child was travelling with his mother while his maternal uncle was driving the vehicle that met with an accident near the starting point of Katraj ghat, according to the police.The child was identified as Kartik Avinash Parve while his mother was identified as Shailaja Avinash Parve, both residents of Bhekrainagar in Hadapsar, Pune.The rickshaw driver was identified as Vikas Vijay Jadhav (25), a resident of Manjri Budrukh, Hadapsar, according to the police.The three were in the rickshaw driven by Jadhav around 4pm on Monday and Jadhav was speeding, according to the police.The speeding rickshaw driver lost control at the turn and rammed into a divider. While the adults escaped with minor injuries, the child sustained a head injury and was killed, according to the police. Assistant police inspector MS Deshmukh is investigating the case.A case under Sections 279 and 304(a) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 184 and 119/177 of Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Bharti Vidyapeeth police station against the man.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/11-month-old-killed-in-rickshaw-accident/story-ub7opMinsYjMfLXfndVzpI.html
12-11-2020||Pune||Pune police extern criminal from city limits for two years||The city police have externed notorious criminal Nilesh Ghaiwal outside the city limits for a period of two years. The order was issued by Zone III in an order dated November 9. Ghaiwal who is a post-graduate in Commerce was earlier part of the Gajanan Marne gang and later broke off to form his own gang. Ghaiwal was booked for several offences, including murder, extortion and criminal conspiracy. The Pune police had earlier booked the Ghaiwal gang under the stringent Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA). He was acquitted in several of the cases against him. Ghaiwal was finally granted bail by Bombay High Court in October 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-police-extern-criminal-from-city-limits-for-two-years/story-GLZIqcacccbG7JROYN1d9N.html
12-11-2020||Pune||Pune passengers seek more Shivshahi buses to tackle Diwali rush||With only two days to go for Diwali, the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) is planning to increase the number of buses plying across the state. Passengers travelling to their hometowns and villages for Diwali are facing difficulties, as 166 Shivshahi buses from the MSRTC Pune division are not running. One service provider’s contract has ended while three other contractors have refused to give their buses; as a result 166 Shivshahi buses which are on contract are not running.Many are planning to travel to their hometowns and villages, and one of the major mode of transport is MSRTC buses. This year, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the state public transport utility was closed for more than five months and resumed from August 21. With the festive season now, buses have been increased by the Pune division of MSRTC. MSRTC has also geared up to ply maximum number of buses on various routes across the state and more than 350 extra buses have been sent from Pune. These buses include red ST buses, green and white striped Asiad buses, Shivneri air conditioned buses and the Shivshahi buses. There is a large demand for Shivshahi buses but the transport utility is facing shortage.“We are working round the clock to give service to passengers. For the last six to seven months the service was hit due to Covid-19 lockdown and there was hardly any revenue generation. Now is the time to run a maximum fleet of buses and get many passengers,” said Ramakant Gaikwad, MSRTC Pune divisional controller.Talking about shortage of Shivshahi buses, he said, “There are less number of Shivshahi buses as we are not taking contract buses to go on routes first. We are sending our buses first so that revenue is generated and later on if needed contract buses will be taken. But overall response to our bus service is satisfactory as of now. We aim to get maximum number of buses on routes during the Diwali festival.”Passengers are demanding more MSRTC buses since private buses are charging exorbitant fares in light of Diwali. Sangram Danve, a passenger at Swargate ST stand said, “I want to go to Nagpur to my home, but private buses are demanding Rs 4,000 as bus fare. And when I come to the ST stand there are less number of buses and all seats are already reserved. We want Shivshahi buses on long routes so that people can travel safely in affordable fares.”Special women squad to check illegal agents inside ST standsA special women squad has been deployed by MSRTC to check illegal agents inside the ST stand trying to lure away passengers. The squad will be monitoring for agents on the premises of the ST stand. “At all our major ST stands we have formed four women squads which will look out for illegal agents harassing or taking away passengers from our premises. Legal action will be taken against the offenders.” said Gaikwad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-passengers-seek-more-shivshahi-buses-to-tackle-diwali-rush/story-8S7Gw5tg6QYXlTrJr2n7wL.html
12-11-2020||Election:||When Joe Biden received a letter from his relatives living in Nagpur since 1873||During his maiden visit to India in 2013, US President-elect Joe Biden had mentioned that he has distant relatives living in Mumbai. In 2015 in Washington, he reiterated that after becoming a Senator in 1972, he had received a letter from one of the Bidens in India and learned that his “great, great, great, great, great grandfather” George Biden was a captain in the East India Trading company and after retirement, decided to settle in India and married an Indian woman.Now that 77-year-old Democrat leader Biden is set to take oath as the 46th US President in January 2021 along with vice president-elect Kamala Harris who is the first South Asian woman to become the vice president of USA, everyone is interested to know about Biden’s distant relatives in India. The letter that Biden had received in 1972 was written by Nagpur-based Leslie Biden, whose grandchildren stay in Nagpur, and claim that their family has been living there since 1873. Leslie Biden was based in Nagpur and was the manager of the Bharat Lodge and Hostel, and Bharat Cafe in Nagpur, before he died in 1983. While reading the ‘Illustrated Weekly of India’ weekly issue of March 28-April 4, 1981, Leslie came across an article about the then US senator Joe Biden and decided to write a letter to the senator.“Leslie got in touch with Joe Biden through a letter sent on April 15, 1981. Joe Biden replied to Leslie through a letter dated May 30, 1981, said he was pleased after getting the letter from India and also discussed about the Bidens’ genealogy,” Leslie’s granddaughter Sonia Biden Francis, a Nagpur- based psychologist, told PTI.She added that Joe Biden’s victory in the US presidential election has made ‘Bidens in Nagpur and everywhere’ elated. Leslie Biden’s descendants live in Nagpur, Mumbai, the US, Australia and New Zealand.Read more | America is back, Biden tells world leadersSonia Biden’s elder brother Ian Biden, a former seafarer in the merchant navy, who also stays in Nagpur, said Leslie and Joe Biden shared information regarding a common ancestor John Biden and his wife Anne Beaumont.“Leslie and Joe Biden thanked each other for corresponding and committed to continue corresponding with each other. However, Leslie Biden’s health worsened and he died in 1983 at Nagpur. Leslie’s wife was unable to pursue the family tree further,” said Leslie’s granddaughter Rowena, who also lives in Nagpur.The Biden family showed the letters that they claimed were part of the correspondence between Leslie and Joe Biden. Asked if the ‘other Bidens’ would attend Joe Biden’s inauguration in January, the family members said they are extending their best wishes to the President-elect Joe Biden.So, it is not only Tamil Nadu’s daughter Kamala Harris with her love for dosas who has Indian roots. The President-elect Joe Biden has roots in India too, in the ‘orange city’.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/us-presidential-election/when-joe-biden-received-a-letter-from-his-relative-living-in-nagpur-since-1873/story-L1gH08XlbHy7hZxxwkjDLI.html
12-11-2020||Mumbai||For first time in 8 years, Maharashtra pollution board calls off annual pre-Diwali firecracker noise, smoke testing exercise||Even as there has been no reduction in availability of firecrackers in markets this year, the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) has decided not to go ahead with its annual pre-Diwali exercise to monitor noise and amount of smoke in firecrackers in 2020. The pollution control body, cited the National Green Tribunal (NGT) order published on Monday, that allowed cities like Mumbai with ‘moderate’ air quality (during November 2019) to allow the use of green crackers during major festivals this year and within a specific time-frame during each festival when fireworks could be used by citizens. MPCB with anti-noise campaigners Awaaz Foundation have been jointly conducting the firecracker testing study that calculates noise levels and for the past few years have also been detecting the quantity of smoke emitted by firecrackers sold in markets. Those fireworks violating noise norms or emitting large amounts of smoke are recommended to be banned by MPCB to the controller of explosives, Nagpur, Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation. The monitoring study has been undertaken since 2005 on a biannual basis, but from 2012 onwards it was being done annually. The testing was annually done in an open ground in Rashtriya Chemical and Fertiliser (RCF) colony, Chembur. “It will not be possible to conduct the exercise this close to Diwali as by the time we send the recommendations, it would be time for the festival,” said SC Kollur, chief scientist, MPCB, adding that the firecracker testing this year was originally scheduled on November 5, but had to be cancelled in light of orders anticipated from NGT. “Also, the NGT order clearly indicates the availability of voluminous data for noise and smoke levels with the Central Pollution Control Board,” said Kollur. Awaaz Foundation said the exercise had been successful resulting in a reduction in noise levels of firecrackers from over 140dB to 126dB (close to the noise norms) and better enforcement of noise rules over the years. “It is disappointing that the testing will not be conducted this year for the first time in eight years. It has created public awareness and policy change,” said Sumaira Abdulali, convener, Awaaz Foundation adding, that since firecrackers, which are still permitted for manufacture are used at other times of the year and all over the country, the results of the test extend beyond Diwali. “I hope the test will be held immediately after Diwali and will help inform how future celebrations are conducted until such time as manufacture of all crackers except green crackers are completely banned,” she said. Last year, three firecrackers were recommended to be banned by MPCB, including a pack of 16 sky shots (crackling delight from Ajanta Fireworks) which recorded 126 decibels (dB) (as loud as a thunderclap). A series of crackers (5,000 series) called Celebration Akira 5000 recorded 121.3dB, while a 1,000 series from Guru Fireworks recorded 113.6 dB. The testing last year also recorded noise levels from a green cracker (108.3 dB against the safe limit of 125 dB). Green crackers have 30% less emissions than traditional ones with no barium nitrate, a metal oxide that increases both air and noise pollution. The permissible limit for single crackers is 125dB, a series of crackers (ladi), has limits between 90 dB and 110dB depending upon the number of crackers put together. A PESO official said they would have to check whether the recommendations had been incorporated in their annual report. “However, such exercises create awareness and deterrence against the use of such noisy crackers. We are also able to differentiate between those banned crackers that used to be manufactured in China versus those made in Sivakasi, Tamil Nadu,” the official said. Meanwhile, Kollur added that MPCB will however monitor noise across all 27 municipal corporations at 158 locations in Maharashtra before and after Diwali, including 10 locations in Mumbai, during the Diwali period. “Guidelines based on the NGT order and air quality classification of cities and towns in Maharashtra will be shared with urban local bodies and state departments. They can decide on a restricted time frame for bursting crackers within their jurisdiction during Diwali and other festivals this year,” he said. FIRECRACKER TESTING RESULTS OVER THE YEARS In 2019: Three firecrackers were recommended to be banned by MPCB including a sky-shot (rocket), two series crackers (5000 series and 1000 series) all of which violated noise norms. In 2018: Two firecrackers, both series crackers (1000 series) were recommended to be banned for violating noise norms. In 2017: Two crackers - a single cracker (dyno bomb) and a series of crackers (10000 series) - violated noise norms and the state pollution control recommended banning both. There was also a rise in air pollution levels with dust and smoke from various rockets, bombs and new firecrackers being sold in the market. In 2016: The noisiest firecrackers was the 1000 series at 116.2dB and noise levels from single crackers (thread bombs, atom bomb, double knotted bomb) was highest for ‘thriller bomb’ (atom bomb) at a maximum decibel of 99.9 dB. In 2015: The noisiest series crackers were measured at 117 dB and single crackers were as loud as 113 dB (thunderbolt atom bomb). In 2012: 25 firecrackers were tested and all of them breached permissible noise limits. (Source: MPCB and Awaaz Foundation)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/for-first-time-in-8-years-maharashtra-pollution-board-calls-off-annual-pre-diwali-firecracker-noise-smoke-testing-exercise/story-1aKL8GlFcegqdN7goHBrxO.html
12-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai teachers get schooled in Covid-19 preventive measures to keep students safe||As the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) gears up to reopen schools in the city, it is training its teachers under a new scheme, Safe Shala, based on the recommendations approved by the community medicine department of Lokmanya Tilak General Hospital, also known as Sion hospital. The recommendations, running into 70 pages, are prepared by a student of Class 11 students from Singapore International School, Mumbai, for safety of students, once the state government gives directives to restart schools amid the pandemic. Since October 17, Sion hospital has started to train some teachers to sensitise them about the safety guidelines. As per the education department, 144 teachers from civic schools will be given training as master trainers who will be responsible to train other staffers from their schools. “Our community medicine department has taken the initiative. We have already started training civic teachers. We will also send these recommendations to private schools, but we are yet to decide if we will make it compulsory for private teachers to attend the workshops,” said Dr Mohan Joshi, dean, Sion hospital. The documents available with HT list out several recommendations, including checking health status of school bus drivers before staring pickups; screening children for symptoms before sending them to schools; cleaning restrooms every three-four hours, disinfecting classrooms and commonly touched surfaces such as lift, microphones. In case of secondary students, schools have to form a committee on public health; social studies should focus on the history of pandemics and vaccines; develop good health behaviours like social distancing; increase ventilation in classrooms where AC is not recommended; start staggered canteen timings for hostels; change in menu in hostel canteens to ensure raw and food from outside isn’t served. The letter written by Dr Seema S Bansode- Gokhe, head of the department of community medicine, Sion hospital, states: “We have found that Shivank (Master Shivank Menon) has diligently followed the guidelines of the WHO, government of India and ICMR while preparing the manual. It is recommended to all government and non-government schools may be interested to use it…” “These rules will be implemented in all civic-run schools. We have sent requests to private schools so if they want, they can participate in the workshops,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. “This is the first set of guidelines for schools but there might be additional changes, once we take the final decision of opening up schools,” Joshi added. Arundhati Chavan, president of the Parents Teachers Association, said more than private schools, the civic and government-run schools will struggle more in implementing the rules. “Private schools have budgetary provisions, so they can implement the rules with proper sanitation. What about civic-run schools? There is a need for separate guidelines for such schools,” she said. In the city, 13,285 children below 19 years have been infected with Covid-19. Of these, 45 have succumbed to the infection. “Due to better immunity, children are less vulnerable to acquiring the infection. But we have to be careful,” said Dr Sanjay Pattiwar, public health expert, adding, “Firstly, the state has to be patient before deciding on opening up schools. Secondly, we need strict guidelines to be followed in schools.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-teachers-get-schooled-in-covid-19-preventive-measures-to-keep-students-safe/story-fnCsveQfNPGL0abVp6rmIP.html
