13-11-2020||Gurugram||Children’s Day celebrations go virtual||Students and teachers across city schools celebrated Children’s Day this year virtually due to the Covid-19 pandemic restrictions. From dance preparations to plays, a plethora of activities was live-streamed by teachers for students on Friday — a day before Children’s Day on Saturday, November 14. City schools decided to hold early celebrations this year as the day coincides with Diwali, when all schools are shut. Routinely, schools celebrate Children’s Day with functions, where teachers present skits and ensemble performances or take students on outings. This year, however, teachers tried to replicate the activities virtually. Schools across the country closed in March in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, following which most institutes decided to take the online route for imparting lessons. Both classes and celebration of important days, such as Teachers’ Day and Children’s Day, have gone online since then. Last year, schools had to call off Children’s Day celebrations after they were asked to shut down on account of air pollution and heavy smog. This year, schools decided to mark the day virtually through online activities such as plays, special assemblies and interactive sessions with teachers. Teachers said that while virtual celebrations seemed odd until last year, rising environmental and health concerns had compelled them to embrace virtual celebrations. Anshu Arora, school principal, Amity International School, Sector 43, said that Covid-19 had caused a big change in the ways of engaging with students, who, in turn, are also getting used to virtual festivities. “We may not be in the same physical space but are connected digitally. In fact, this was a more one-on-one experience. Students were also appreciating the creativity of the teachers amid the changed circumstances,” said Arora. She added that it had been nine months into the pandemic and virtual celebrations have helped to motivate children who have been missing school. The school organised a digital celebration for Children’s Day spread over two days. “My teachers and I recorded videos for the whole school. Besides the videos, teachers of different grades came online and regaled students with different activities. They sang songs, poems and skits. It was a vibrant experience,” said Arora. At Kunskapsskolan International, teachers organised virtual parties for students for younger grades that saw the participation from parents, while senior students took part in online games and quizzes. “For younger students, we had a game party. Even the parents were involved in such celebrations. For grades 2 and above, teachers had planned other activities such as quizzes,” said Ramanjit Khinda, school headmistress. Yash Handa, a student at KR Mangalam World School, South City-1, said that while the nature of celebrations had changed due to pandemic restrictions, online platforms were used by teachers to make the day special for students. “This year, we marked Children’s Day virtually. Our teachers prepared videos, one-act plays, interactive sessions that were shared with us online. It’s definitely not the same as regular celebrations but our teachers went out of their way to use technology and do the best they could in the times of pandemic,” said Handa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/children-s-day-celebrations-go-virtual/story-U7ettcHOkacjaOLqDPhFlN.html
13-11-2020||Gurugram||Realtors hopeful tax rebate on circle rate differential will revive market||Developers and real estate experts in Gurugram said on Friday the union finance ministry’s decision not to impose additional tax liability on buyers and sellers where the differential between market price and circle rate is up to 20% will help in reviving the realty sector. The developers said this decision will help in making houses cheaper, reduce registration charges and help buyers in under-construction projects as GST will also get reduced. The move is likely to boost market sentiment as till now, buyers and sellers had to pay an income tax penalty if the difference in market and circle rates is more than 10% due to which there was reluctance to transact in property. Circle rate is the rate at which property transaction is registered by the revenue department. It is fixed by the state government. Realtors said not only in Gurugram but in many markets across the country, the market value of property had gone down almost 20 to 30% and there was reluctance to transact in real estate because of the income tax for a property differential over 10%. Under the new regime, there will be no penalty if price differential is up to 20% for properties up to Rs 2 crore. “The differential of up to 20% in collector rate and market rate allowed for primary residential transactions of up to Rs 2 crore without income tax penalty will make home buying more attractive. Developers will be able to liquidate their unsold inventory at up to 20% below circle rate. Home buyers will enjoy triple benefit of reduced property price, lower GST and less registration charges,” said Vinod Behl, a city-based real estate expert.Realtors said property prices are stagnant in the city and across India and developers were working on thin margins due to which there was no flexibility regarding price. “The decision will allow us to reduce prices or offer tax benefits to buyers, which earlier was not possible. The announcements regarding price differential or funding boost for real estate sector will help in reviving realty,” said Pravin Jain, chairman, Naredco, Haryana. Prashant Solomon, managing director, Chintels, and spokesperson, CREDAI, NCR, said they have been asking the government to increase the permissible difference between market price and circle rate for quite long. “This move will help reduce the inventory lying with builders without any liability and reduce the pressure on home buyers,” he said. Rajat Goel, joint managing director, MRG Developers, said tax relief on residential units priced up to Rs 2 crore is a great step as most of the housing units fall under this price category. “Owing to this, homebuyers will surely be able to take a decision of purchasing their own house,” said Goel.Overall, the stakeholders were of the opinion that the realty market in the city could see a revival in the next six months as more end-users could enter the market to buy houses enthused by this announcement .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/realtors-hopeful-tax-rebate-on-circle-rate-differential-will-revive-market/story-ERPeJmPltSlVE6e7SRitXL.html
13-11-2020||Gurugram||Health department told to increase ICU beds for Covid patients||Keeping in mind the consistent upward trend of Covid-19 cases in Gurugram and fast occupancy of hospital beds, the district health department has been told to urgently increase intensive care unit beds (ICU) reserved for coronavirus patients. The department will prepare a micro-plan to tackle the current Covid-19 situation as directed by Niti Aayog on Friday in a meeting held with officials of the Delhi-NCR region regarding a record spike in Covid-19 cases. On Friday, Gurugram recorded 797 new infections, taking the tally to 38,368. Out of these, 6,219 are active cases currently in home isolation or in hospital. At least 31,910 people have recovered and 239 have succumbed to the illness, with three deaths in the last 24 hours. With cases growing at a weekly positivity rate (the percentage of positives out of the total samples tested in a day) of nearly 18%, the transmission of SARS-CoV-2 virus has accelerated. The hospitalisation data shows that on Friday, 744 beds out of 1,975 reserved for Covid-19 patients in different hospitals were occupied, including 408 patients from Gurugram and the remaining from Delhi, parts of Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and other states. Data also shows 70% of the allocated intensive care unit beds (260) were also occupied. “Niti Aayog has suggested a set of urgent actions to be taken, including immediate increase of ICU and overall beds. The decision will be taken after Diwali, with a notification likely to be issued next week on increased bed capacity,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, who attended the meeting along with other district administration officials. Yadav did not mention the increase in reserved bed capacity. Currently, it is 35% in 42 hospitals. Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, health department, said, “The decision will be taken as per the local needs. Since the numbers vary across districts, there is no blanket order as of now.” The district health department will work on the micro strategy to focus on other urgent steps such as strengthening surveillance of home-isolated patients. “Even asymptomatic or those with mild symptoms have to follow strict isolation measures to prevent entire family from getting positive. The plan is to enforce strict quarantine of contacts, increase testing, mobilising doctors and nurses and enforcement of standard operating procedures in containment zones,” Yadav said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/health-department-told-to-increase-icu-beds-for-covid-patients/story-I54VlPo4NARvJX96ktxz2J.html
13-11-2020||Gurugram||Man arrested from Chennai for murdering live-in partner||Four days after a woman’s partially decomposed body was recovered from a house in Sector 5, the police arrested her live-in-partner from Chennai on Friday. He was taken on police remand after being produced before the district court, said the police. According to the police, they had received a call on November 10 about a woman’s decomposed body lying in a house in Ashok Vihar in Sector 5. The police said the woman was identified as Nancy (35). Her live-in partner was found to be missing and, despite repeated attempts, he could not be contacted. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said the house from where the body was recovered belonged to an officer of Haryana Police, who had given it on rent. “The first floor of the house was rented out to a couple who used to run a street food stall in the area. They had introduced themselves as husband and wife. It was found during investigation that they were not married and had met four years ago through a common friend,” he said. On the morning of November 10, the house owner visited the building and found that the main gate was locked. He called the tenants on the phone but neither of them answered. After waiting for half an hour, he jumped across the gate and informed the police when he noticed foul smell emanating from the building. Sukhpal Singh, the owner, said that he informed the police control room and the Sector 5 police station regarding the foul smell and waited for them to arrive. Sangwan said a team of officials reached the building, broke open the door and found a woman lying dead on a bed. “Forensic experts, dog squad, and finger print experts were called on to the spot. A crime team also visited the spot and started investigation,” he said. The body was sent for post-mortem investigation and the autopsy revealed that she had been strangulated to death, said the police. The police said they suspected the live-in-partner as he was the only one who was missing and had switched off his mobile phone possibly to evade arrest. Sangwan said, based on technical surveillance, the police traced the location of the accused in Chennai and a team was sent to nab him. “After killing his partner, he went to New Delhi railway station and boarded a train for Chennai. His friends lived there. He too used to work there earlier. As such, he contacted them and asked them for possible job opportunities,” he said. The police said the suspect was identified as Bharat Thapa of Nepal, who lived in Gurugram for the last two years and had set up a stall with the deceased in Sector 5 area. They used to sell momos. During the investigation, it was revealed that the couple often landed in a tiff and were often spotted abusing and fighting with each other. On the day of the incident, they had an argument over some issues and the accused strangulated her to death. Fearing arrest, he locked the gate from outside and went to Delhi to board a train to Chennai, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/man-arrested-from-chennai-for-murdering-live-in-partner/story-kvI7nOCDE3MD4NJckT80eP.html
13-11-2020||Gurugram||City air deteriorates to ‘very poor’, likely to worsen over the weekend||Air quality in the city deteriorated on Friday, clocking in a “very poor” reading of 334 (up from Thursday’s “poor” reading of 293) on the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) air quality index (AQI) bulletin. Pollution levels are expected to rise over the weekend and may improve after the passage of a western disturbance, causing rain over parts of north India after November 15, as per official forecast. After a recent spate of “severe” air, pollution levels in Gurugram improved considerably over Tuesday and Wednesday. “This was thanks to easterly winds of up to 12kmph, which helped disperse some of the pollutants. However, these gains were lost on Friday, when winds started blowing from the west once again, at a slower pace, about 6 to 8kmph,” said Sachin Panwar, a city-based independent air quality scientist. Experts also said that air quality is predicted to deteriorate from Diwali night on November 14. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) and the head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “With this change in wind direction and velocity, more pollutants will accumulate over Delhi-NCR. However, we may also witness a spell of rain after November 15, which will improve conditions.” Around this time, temperature is also expected to reduce by at least 4°C as a result of the rain, he added.The level of ultrafine particulate matter, PM2.5 — the city’s primary pollutant — was 316ug/3 on Friday, up from 241.12 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m³) on Thursday, as per the CPCB’s air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan in Sector 11. A similar increase in concentration was observed across all four air quality monitoring stations in Gurugram, with Sector 51 remaining the most polluted, with an average 24 PM2.5 reading of 351ug/m3. According to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, “The air quality is likely to deteriorate and remain in upper end of very poor to severe category on 14.11.2020. The air quality is likely to improve and remain in severe to very poor on 15.11.2020. The significant improvement in air quality is likely from 16.11.2020 under the influence of a Western Disturbance.” As per the CPCB’s central control room for air quality management, Gurugram is expected to clock in an AQI between 330 and 360 (very poor) over the weekend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/city-air-deteriorates-to-very-poor-likely-to-worsen-over-the-weekend/story-klv7gqFJD5ZA2E9eiJSJZM.html
13-11-2020||Gurugram||Real estate developers asked to expedite transfer of land for EWS projects||The department of town and country planning(DTCP) has issued directions to 26 developers in the city, asking them to explain the status of transfer of land for economically weaker section (EWS) housing projects to the state housing board, so that these can be developed and apartments allotted to the applicants. The department issued the directions after a review of the existing EWS projects. The department observed that only a handful of developers had handed over the EWS project land to the state housing board so far. As per the rules, developers are required to transfer the land meant for EWS projects to the housing board within six months after getting environmental clearance for their realty projects. While the transfer of project takes place through DTCP, the developers have to arrange for water, power, roads, sewage and other basic infrastructure before handing over the project land to the DTCP. Sanjeev Mann, senior town planner, said that 26 developers have been issued notices to explain the status of their EWS projects in the next 15 days. “The EWS projects are important as a large number of people under this category want basic housing. Many of these projects are delayed because land has not been transferred. Therefore, land needs to be handed over at the earliest,” said Mann. The completion of EWS housing projects is important because the state government has planned to auction houses for EWS category across the state, said officials. On Thursday, the Haryana government also announced the e-auction of 579 flats in Panchkula, Hisar, Gurugram, and Faridabad on November 18, 2020, in a bid to implement chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s vision of providing houses to all the people in the state. After this, 7,312 flats will be e-auctioned for EWS / BPL category people, followed by the auctioning of 84 commercial sites.Anshaj Singh, chief administrator, Housing Board of Haryana, said that the board will be e-auctioning flats constructed by the housing boards of Ambala, Hisar, Faridabad, Panchkula, Sirsa, Sonipat, Gurugram, Bahadurgarh, Nagal Sothian (Himshikha), Matlauda, Bhiwani, Kurukshetra, Panipat, Rohtak, Jhajjar, Kaithal, Rewari, and Dharuhera. He said that detailed information about the auctions is available on the board’s website.He further said that the registration for the flats meant to be e-auctioned on November 18, 2020 has started from October 1, 2020 and will continue till 4pm on November 17, 2020. A registration fee of ₹1,000 will be charged from applicants of the general category while the registration for EWS/BPL category will be waived off, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/real-estate-developers-asked-to-expedite-transfer-of-land-for-ews-projects/story-eOf6Nqb4pmZFYFiRMcEy2N.html
13-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra farmers to write letters to PM Modi over import, export policies||Farmers of more than 23 districts in the state will write letters to Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi to protest against the central government policies over the import and export policies of the agriculture produce. The farmers will post the letters by resorting to the street in processions at tehsil level on November 16.Farmers outfit All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS), which has organised the protest, said thousands of farmers from across the state will write letters to the PM.The organisation has said that the central government has, on one hand imposed an export ban, and on the other has been importing agriculture produce in large quantities. The organisation, affiliated to left parties, has said that the policies have been crippling the farmers and agriculture sector.“After onion was excluded from the list of the essential goods recently, the export was banned and import was opened up by relaxing fumigation, quarantine protocol of Covid-19 pandemic. Over 60,000 tonnes of onions were imported, of which 25,000 tonnes arrived before Diwali. The procedure of the import of 10 lakh tonnes of potatoes under TRQ (tariff rate quota) has begun by reducing import duty up to 10%. Around 30,000-tonne potatoes are being imported from Bhutan. The agreement with Mozambique for the import of 2 lakh tonnes of tur per year has been given an extension, while a proposal is ready for the import of 2.5 lakh tonnes of udad from Myanmar. This has been resulting in the fall in the procurement prices of the agriculture produce in the country hitting the farmers very badly,” the statement issued by AIKS stated.Ajit Nawale, state general secretary of AIKS, said that the Modi government was safeguarding the interest of the industrialists with its anti-farmer policies. “While passing the three farm laws in September, the central government boasted about its efforts to set farmers free from the clutches of the middlemen and have been talking about doubling farmers income. But in reality, the central policies are ruining the farmers and agriculture. Now they have proposed a bill to bring electricity charges for farmers as par with that of the industrialists. These are nothing but the attempts of crushing the farmers. The government is not giving any assurance about the minimum support price and at the same time its import and export policies result in the drastic fall in the procurement prices,” Nawale said.District units of the AIKS have organised to avail postcards for the farmers to make sure that the farmers were able to write a letter to the PM. “At least 45,000 letters will be posted on November 16. There would be other demands related to the laws, use of technology, policies related to the eco-sensitive zones and transfer of land to the tillers, will be raised in ‘letter to PM’. We know that it hardly matters to the PM, but we want to bring awareness among the farmers about the policies that are directly hurting their interests,” said Nawale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-farmers-to-write-letters-to-pm-modi-over-import-export-policies/story-67IJwdpJKZYUq3iBxtsNUK.html
13-11-2020||Gurugram||World Diabetes Day: Almost half of Covid deaths suffered from diabetes in Haryana||On World Diabetes Day, which falls on November 14, data from Haryana’s Covid-19 bulletins are telling -- almost 48% of the 1,900 people who died had diabetes as a co-morbidity factor, and about 1 in 8 of those who died had only diabetes.Diabetes can be categorised into type-1 (occurs when there is insufficient production of insulin, which controls blood sugar) and type-2 (inefficient processing of insulin). It is considered to be a lifestyle disease that is caused by, among other things, lack of exercise. “Apart from these people suffering from these two, there are also those who do not yet know that they have the disease. Covid-19 shows severe symptoms in all three ,” said Dr. Atul Luthra, additional director, diabetes and endocrinology, Fortis Hospital, Gurugram. “Several studies done in the last six months to evaluate effects of the Sars-CoV-2 virus (which causes Covid-19) on diabetic patients show that it has an adverse outcome. There is a higher chance of hospitalisation, intensive care requirement and multi-organ failure. Those having uncontrolled diabetes are largely at risk considering the high mortality.” According to Luthra, although proper medication can help a diabetic Covid-19 patient to recover just like any other patient, they would require higher dose of medicines after treatment to keep complications at bay.“Despite the rising burden of diabetes, awareness about risk factors, timely disease detection and effective management remains low. Lack of routine check-ups and inadequate understanding of symptoms implies that many people keep living with the undetected disease for years,” said Dr Shankar Narang, COO, Paras Healthcare. “A cross-sectional study conducted jointly by several organizations including the Public Health Foundation of India in 2019 estimated that almost 47% of Indians with diabetes do not know they have the condition. This makes it almost half the total diabetic population. This highly dangerous situation.”The key factors that increase fatality among Covid-19 patients with diabetes are defects in T-cell immunity, baseline high levels of cytokines and comorbidities such as obesity, coronary heart disease, hypertension and chronic kidney disease, among others.Dr. Yatin Mehta, chairman, Institute of Critical Care, Medanta Hospital, who has published a paper on Covid-19 causing complications in case of pre-existing diabetes, said that due to coronavirus disease, sugar level can go out of control even in patients having undiagnosed diabetes. “It leads to something we call diabetic ketoacidosis, a severe form of diabetes. Our study found it in a significant number of Covid-19 patients. Therefore, chances of mortality are always higher,” said Mehta. “Covid-19 can also lead to pancreatitis which can possibly make a patient diabetic even if he/she is not diabetic before the infection. It can happen on its own.”Doctors advice people to maintain a healthy lifestyle, daily exercise and proper medication to keep the disease in check.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/world-diabetes-day-almost-half-of-covid-deaths-suffered-from-diabetes-in-haryana/story-q4zxQ2xInj6ezz1i4yd07L.html
13-11-2020||Gurugram||Police crackdown on cracker sale, 360 kg recovered after multiple raids||Twenty people from different places in Gurugram were arrested for allegedly selling crackers despite the ban on sale and bursting of crackers of any kind in the city, said police on Friday. City police commissioner KK Rao said that they have alerted their informers and deployed police personnel in plainclothes across the city in a massive crackdown on cracker sale. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) earlier this month had ordered zero tolerance on such activities this month in the national capital region (NCR) in view of the deteriorating air quality.“We had prepared a list of shopkeepers who used to sell crackers and were history sheeters. Our teams are deployed at all suspected locations and are keeping an eye on the same and bursting crackers including residential areas. Although it is the festive season, violators will not be spared,” said Rao. He said the station house officers of 40 police stations have contacted the resident welfare association members and shopkeepers to ensure no illegal activity is carried out in their area. Police arrested shopkeepers from Sector 40, Sector 10, Sector 56, Sohna Road, Pataudi, Sohna , Badshahpur, Golf Course Road and Sadar market between Thursday and Friday, for storing and selling firecrackers. They seized 360kg of the banned items. Police booked the suspects under section 9B of the Explosive Act at respective police stations, said police. The crackers seized were packed for delivery to shopkeepers in posh areas and had already taken advance from them, said police.“We are also seeking the records of storage of crackers in shops and godowns everyday and the teams are visiting them twice. They have been informed any mismatch found in the stock, legal action will be taken against them,” said Rao. A total of nine teams with 230 personnel are deployed in Sadar market where most of the known cracker shops are located. Since Thursday, special teams are conducting surprise checks in markets and residential areas to enforce the ban. Similar arrangements were made in rural areas as well, said police. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police said that the teams have recovered crackers which were mislabelled as green crackers that are said to cut down emission by a third. “The shopkeepers had kept the stock to sell before Diwali and make good profits as it was banned and not easily available in any open market,” he said. Police control room vans and motorbikes are taking rounds across the city to see if anyone is bursting crackers. Police said they have intensified checking at all the borders and major intersections to control the traffic movements and are checking all suspected vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/police-crackdown-on-cracker-sale-360-kg-recovered-after-multiple-raids/story-8tZNgrVrD0xiD4IbXDAyXN.html
13-11-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC restrains mother from evicting constable son from Thane flat||The Bombay high court (HC) recently refused to allow a woman from executing an eviction order against her son passed by a sub-divisional officer (SDO) under the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act. The order had authorised the woman to evict her son and his family so that she could live peacefully with her daughter at her Thane home. While observing that the SDO had failed to consider that the woman was getting a pension of ₹10,000 and her son had a liability of repaying a loan which he had taken for repair of the house in question, the HC passed the restraining order on the mother. A single bench of justice Nitin Sambre, after hearing the petition of the son and his wife, was informed by advocate Shubham Misar that the petitioner was employed with the police department as a constable after his father’s demise in 1991. The constable’s father had acquired two flats, and after his demise, one of the flats was transferred to the petitioner. In 1992, the constable’s mother’s name was entered into the property card of both flats. It was further submitted that the constable was living with his mother, three sisters and his own family in one of the two flats till 2015. He later moved into the second flat after spending around ₹8 lakh on repairs. However, one of his three sisters was insisting on selling the flat he occupied, and hence he sought an interim stay against the eviction order issued by the SDO in January. The SDO had also ordered him to pay maintenance of ₹10,000 per month to his mother. The constable, while pointing to the lacunae in the SDO’s order, stated that though his mother was receiving a pension of ₹15,000 and his sister who stayed with their mother was also earning, the SDO had failed to take note of the same and had put the burden of maintenance on him. In light of this and the fact that he would be left without a roof over his head, the constable sought direction from the court to set aside the SDO order. The constable further submitted that in view of the order of the HC full bench restraining eviction, dispossession and demolition during the pandemic situation, the mother should be restrained from executing the eviction order. After hearing the submissions of the constable, the bench observed that the SDO order did not deal with the contentions raised by the constable. Granting interim relief, the bench said, “In view of the above, respondents [the mother and SDO] are restrained from executing the order impugned against the petitioner.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-restrains-mother-from-evicting-constable-son-from-thane-flat/story-R6WlrOJ5vXM5PdZZ4jDByN.html
13-11-2020||Noida||11 persons injured as two buses collided in Dadri||Greater Noida: Eleven passengers were injured when two UP roadways buses collided on National Highway 91 in Dadri due to poor visibility on Thursday morning. One bus was going to Bareilly while the second was on route to Shikohabad depot in Firozabad. Rajveer Singh Chauhan, SHO Dadri police station, said the accident happened at about 11:45 pm when the first bus driver suddenly applied brakes and the second bus hit it from behind near Anandpur Mor. “Both the buses belonged to UP Roadways and they were moving in the same direction. The buses had passengers going from Noida to their native places in Western UP. It appeared the second bus driver could not spot the bus moving ahead due to fog, which led to the collision,” Chauhan said. Police said that 11 passengers – eight male and three females – of both buses were injured in the accident. The passengers informed the police and a team from the Dadri police station soon reached the spot. The police team rushed the victims to a private hospital. “The victims received minor injuries in the accident. They were discharged after treatment. The drivers and conductors of both the buses fled the spot after the accident,” he said. Police removed the buses from the accident spot and cleared the road. They arranged another bus and sent the commuters to their destination. Most of the passengers were workers in Noida and Greater Noida who were returning home for Diwali. Police said they have not received any complaint in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/11-persons-injured-as-two-buses-collided-in-dadri/story-kb8oQhVsGuxURojx6FAjsO.html
13-11-2020||Noida||Staff officer of Gautam Buddha University’s vice chancellor booked over ‘forged’ PhD degree||Noida: The officiating registrar of Gautam Buddha University (GBU) has filed a complaint against the varsity’s staff officer, for allegedly submitting a forged PhD certificate for job and promotion. The staff officer was attached to the VC’s officeThe Ecotech 1 police on Thursday registered a case against the officer under sections of cheating and using as genuine a forged document on the directions of district and sessions court Surajpur. SN Tiwari, officiating registrar, in the complaint, stated that the staff officer has been working with the GBU since July 8, 2010. “She had concealed the facts and used forged documents to get the job. She submitted a PhD certificate from CCS University, Meerut. In the CV, submitted to the Gautam Buddha University, she had stated PhD as her qualification. She also uses Dr as a prefix to her name,” he alleged. Tiwari said that someone filed an RTI in the university in 2019 and sought information about the qualification of the staff officer. “We investigated the matter and wrote to the CCS University, Meerut about her PhD certificate. The varsity, in its letter on August 11, 2020, said that the enrolment number of the concerned officer was not found registered in the University. The Gautam Buddha University then suspended her on August 18, 2020,” Tiwari alleged. Tiwari said that he had filed a complaint in the Ecotech I police station but his complaint was not registered. “We then moved the court, which directed the police to register an FIR in this case,” he said. Meanwhile, the staff officer said that the complaint filed against her is personal vendetta of the officiating registrar. “I had complained against the officiating registrar to the vice chancellor over some issues. He has filed a complaint against me over the same issue,” she said, asking not to be identified.She further said that the minimum qualification for staff office was graduation. “I had completed my BA, MA and M.Phil. I had mentioned in the resume that I was pursuing a PhD from Purvanchal University. I quit the PhD programme later due to personal reasons. I have not submitted any forged certificate in the Gautam Buddha University,” she said. Rameshwar Kumar, station house officer, Ecotech I police station, said that based on the complaint, a case has been registered against the staff officer under Section 471 (using as genuine a forged document), Section 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and Section 420 (cheating) of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/staff-officer-of-gautam-buddha-university-s-vice-chancellor-booked-over-forged-phd-degree/story-iy4WbB8JUvFluD9sqY1kAO.html
13-11-2020||Noida||Greater Noida: Tenders for works worth ₹21 crore tenders to be awarded for maintenance of green belt, parks||GREATER NOIDA: The Greater Noida industrial development authority (GNIDA) has said that it is likely to hire contractors to carry out works of a total of ₹21 crore for the maintenance of a green belt, plants on road dividers and city parks, among other public spaces.The authority had in October 2020, floated a tender for these works to select an agency or a contractor that will take care of the maintenance of parks, green belts and other green areas across the city. On Thursday, it selected 23 small agencies, which will carry out works of ₹7.45 crore, and it is likely to select other agencies in the next one month’s time.“The authority awarded contracts of ₹7.45 crore on Thursday out of a total of ₹21 crore, of which tenders are out. The authority is likely to select a contractor and award the work for the remaining budget in future,” said Deep Chandar, additional chief executive officer of the Greater Noida authority.The authority had issued tenders for a total of 44 works of a budget of ₹21 crore. And now it wants to finalise the names of remaining works so that the maintenance of plants, lawns and green belts can be taken care of properly.The works of the ₹7.45 crore budget pertain to maintenance of parks in sector Alpha-I, II, Ecotech 1 and 130 metres wide-road green area, among other works related with maintenance of green zones across the city.The authority’s chief executive officer has also directed the staff to make sure that all contractors, who work for these projects, must display their names, mobile numbers and other details on a board to be put at the park, green belt or other site, where the particular work has been done. Residents can call at these numbers and monitor the work to help in maintaining the quality of the work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/greater-noida-tenders-for-works-worth-21-crore-tenders-to-be-awarded-for-maintenance-of-green-belt-parks/story-5ukAFuc3K3rYRDfApDCfKI.html
13-11-2020||Noida||Noida authority allots 84 plots at Transport Nagar in Sector 69||NOIDA: The Noida authority on Thursday allotted 84 plots in Noida’s Transport Nagar in Sector 69 with an aim to decongest city roads of unauthorised parking by commercial vehicles. The allottees were chosen through a lucky draw.A total of 234 applicants had applied for these plots, which will be used for parking commercial vehicles as well as for setting up shops or offices for transport-related works, said officials.The authority conducted the lucky draw at its Sector 6 administrative office, where Noida transport association office-bearers were present to witness the process. The authority video-graphed the entire event to maintain transparency so that applicants are assured and do not have any issues.“We have allotted a total of 84 plots and completed the scheme meant for transporters. The scheme will help the authority carry out planned development in the city,” said Avinash Tripathi, officer on special duty of the Noida authority.Earlier, on March 13, 2018, the authority had organised a draw of lots at the Indira Gandhi Kala Kendra in Sector 6 for allotting plots in Transport Nagar. Plots were allotted to a total of 412 applicants.“Now we carried out the lucky draw of the remaining 84 plots. The Transport Nagar project will help us in providing adequate space for those who are into the business of transport work,” said Tripathi.The authority had allotted the 412 plots at a rate of Rs 18,180 per square metre. Under the Transport Nagar scheme, the authority has plots of size ranging from 120 square metres to 140 square metres in Sector 69. The scheme is meant for all kinds of transporters, including truck owners and bus operators, officials said.The authority had decided to set up a Transport Nagar in 2009 over 26 acres of land in Sector 69, to put an end to traffic jams and prevent unauthorised parking of commercial vehicles on city roads. The authority was also to build petrol pumps, hotels, food court, space for shops, banks and other public conveniences at the transport hub.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-authority-allots-84-plots-at-transport-nagar-in-sector-69/story-FiZjfCr6bwHHllgjO55LPO.html
13-11-2020||Noida||Noida: Seven arrested in separate cases of loan racket, lottery fraud||Noida: Two persons were arrested from a “fake” call centre for allegedly cheating scores of people on the pretext of loans at cheap rates, in Noida’s Sector 62. The suspects have been identified as Shakti Kumar, 24, a resident of Shakarpur in Delhi and Ankit Kumar, 25, a resident of Pratap Vihar in Ghaziabad. Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida Zone 1, said that the police had received information that some people were operating fake call centres from rented premises in Noida Sector 62. “The police team started conducting searches at different commercial buildings to verify the credentials of staff and owners,” he said.“On Friday, the Sector 58 police conducted a search at a 10th floor apartment in Noida Sector 62. The police found Shakti and Ankit operating from the fictitious call centre. The police seized 21 mobile phones, one laptop, 12 desktops and Rs 3,000 from their possession,” he said.The police interrogated the suspects and found that they had allegedly created a fake website - myindiamoney.com – to cheat people on the pretext of facilitating loans. These suspects allegedly used to trap vulnerable customers and got the victims’ money transferred to their own bank accounts on the pretext of processing fee. The suspect’s two alleged accomplices – Chandan and Priyanka – are absconding.Officers said the suspects had allegedly been operating in Noida for the last one year. They allegedly used to frequently change offices to escape surveillance. The suspects had been operating from their current office for the last one month. Police said that the gang has allegedly cheated over 500 people worth Rs 50 lakh in one year. Police have registered a case against them under Section 420 (cheating) and Sector 406 (criminal breach of trust) of IPC.Meanwhile, Ecotech 3 police arrested five persons in a separate case over lottery fraud. Harish Chander, DCP Noida Central, said that the arrested persons were identified as Ansar and Afzal from Bareilly; Gautam Singh from Khoda in Ghaziabad; Irfan Shah from Pilibhit and Mohsin Dapali from Rampur. Police recovered 26 debit cards, 11 passbooks, seven cheque books, 11 mobile phones, one passport, one diary, one motorcycle and R 36,100 from their possession.Chander said that these suspects were allegedly in touch with a Nigerian national and mastermind, Sam, and operated an online lottery racket. “Police received their movement near Chauganpur roundabout. A police team visited the spot and arrested them. We have launched a search to arrest the mastermind,” he said. Police have registered a case against them under Section 420 (cheating), Section 467 (forgery), and Section 471 (using as genuine a forged document) of IPC. All the suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-seven-arrested-in-separate-cases-of-loan-racket-lottery-fraud/story-iWY9FQV0SFDjoR9zl5DoyO.html
13-11-2020||Noida||Chokhi Haveli - Noida’s version of Delhi haat to open in Sector 33-A||The Noida Authority said that it will open a ‘Chokhi Haveli’, a village-theme based cultural centre at Shilp Haat in sector 33A, where residents can enjoy food, shop, and experience culture.Spread across 10 acres, the campus houses a Shilp Haat and Weavers’ Bhavan. The authority has fixed ₹450 fee for entry for an adult and ₹350 for children.“We welcome all Noida residents to newly designed Chokhi Haveli at Noida Haat. Residents can enjoy essence of an urban village with different activities like live performances, delicious food, puppet shows and other activities,” said Ritu Maheshwari chief executive officer of the Noida authority.“The Chokhi Haveli developed in a vast open space is conceptualized to promote and showcase the traditional Indian village heritage and culture. The place will give a feel of real traditional village culture and hospitality to visitors. It will take young folks back to our roots,” said Rajeev Tyagi general manager of the Noida authority. “Visitor can savour unlimited Rajasthani food and multiple entertainment options such as live performances, light laser shows, kids zone, traditional folk dances, magic shows, face reading and other activities for children.”Authority officials said that cuisines from other Indian states will also be available later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/chokhi-haveli-noida-s-version-of-delhi-haat-to-open-in-sector-33-a/story-NSEWWGPifRJ2dHgC2Eyb5H.html
13-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai reports over 24 cases of Guillain-Barré syndrome which causes paralysis in recovered Covid-19 patients||City neurologists have come together to conduct a study on a rare Covid-19 related neurological complication. More than 24 Covid patients in Mumbai developed paralysis due to Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS), an autoimmune disorder that can be life-threatening without timely treatment. The study hopes to establish a correlation between Covid-19 and GBS. It is being conducted by a team of city-based neurologists and is the first of its kind in India.The aim of the India-specific study is to develop an India-specific database regarding Covid-19 and GBS that will be sent for scientific publication. “There haven’t been many studies on Covid-19-associated GBS in India. Our study will be first-of-its-kind where the sample size will also be large. Along with hospitals, we are also collecting data from nursing homes,” said Dr Megha Dhamne, principal investigator, and consultant, neurology at L H Hiranandani Hospital, Powai. Dr Dhamne is heading the study. She refused to give any additional information as the paper is yet to be published. “GBS is considered the prototype of post-infectious neuropathy that usually develops within two to four weeks after an acute infection. It is mainly observed in the last stage of Covid-19 recovery or among completely recovered patients,” said Dr Pankaj Agarwal, senior consultant, neurology, head of movement disorders clinic, Global Hospital, in Parel. He is part of the team of doctors researching the incidence of GBS among Covid patients. Conventionally, GBS, an auto-immune disorder, is triggered by either respiratory or gastrointestinal viral infections where a patient may go from normal to paralysis in two to three days. The paralysis while reversible if treated early can become permanent if ignored. Symptoms of GBS are similar to those of a stroke with the body’s own immune system attacking its cells instead of protecting them. Afflicted by GBS, nerves of hands and legs are affected, leading to sudden paralysis. In severe cases, breathing may be affected and the patient may require ventilator support. Over the past three months, city doctors have observed an increase in GBS cases among Covid-19 patients. “In August, neurologists received around seven reported GBS cases among Covid-19 patients in Mumbai. By September-end, the number increased to 24, and I am sure many cases haven’t been recorded as yet,” said Dr Agarwal who has treated two such patients as of November 10. While GBS is not an uncommon neurological disease – city doctors said they treat around approximately three cases every month – there appears to be a rise in its incidence among Covid patients. Within five to 10 days of the onset of symptoms of Covid-19, cases of GBS have been identified among some patients. Doctors have recommended regular follow-ups by recovered patients. Among the diagnostic tests that help diagnose GBS are magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain, chest scans, cerebrospinal fluid examination as well as tests for blood inflammatory markers and nerve conduction velocity.“If diagnosed and treated on time with intravenous immunoglobulin or plasmapheresis, life-threatening complications can be averted. Plasmapheresis helps remove antibodies and other potentially injurious factors from the bloodstream,” said Dr Kedar Toraskar who heads up the critical care section at Wockhardt Hospital, in Mumbai Central. He has treated one Covid-19 patient with GBS. “GBS can occur even among children. In a stroke, we generally observe unilateral paralysis, but GBS can affect both sides of the body. This is a rare neurological complication which can lead to respiratory failure and even death,” said Dr Kedar Toraskar. Internationally, the incidence of GBS suggests the possibility of a correlation with Covid-19. In June, the United States of America (USA) reported its first case of GBS related to Covid-19. On November 9, Indiana University reported the country’s first pediatric case of GBS in an eight-year-old boy with Covid-19, in the American Academy of Paediatrics. Recently, a study published in the Journal of Neurology, Neurosurgery and Psychiatry found higher-than-expected numbers of GBS cases during the Covid-19 outbreak in northern Italy and a high frequency of GBS among Covid-19 patients. ‘I thought I would not be able to walk again’Madhavi Dhariya, a 49-year-old resident of Mahad in Raigad, contracted Covid-19 in August. Three weeks after recovery, she complained of excruciating back pain. Within a few days one side of her face had suffered paralysis and she was referred to Global Hospital in Mumbai on October 17. “The patient came to me in a wheelchair. She had severe back pain which made me suspect GBS,” said Dr Agarwal. On October 26, she was discharged from hospital and is currently undergoing physiotherapy. “I thought I would not be able to walk due to the weakness in my legs,” said Dhariya. ‘Couldn’t move hands, both legs were frozen’Mahalaxmi resident Jyotsna Maru, a 38-year-old Bharatanatyam dancer, started complaining of numbness in her hands and face in August. She did not show other conventional symptoms of Covid-19 but tested positive and was admitted to Wockhardt Hospital on August 13. Soon, her condition started deteriorating and she became completely paralysed. “I couldn’t move my hands to drink water and my legs were completely frozen,” said Maru, who was worried she wouldn’t be able to dance again. Maru was diagnosed with GBS and doctors immediately began treatment. She was discharged on August 29 and is currently undergoing physiotherapy. “I will take around five months to start dancing again, but I am happy that I am not bedridden,” said Maru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-reports-over-24-cases-of-guillain-barre-syndrome-which-causes-paralysis-in-recovered-covid-19-patients/story-pYR4gA49lYJQSKbTXMWlLM.html
13-11-2020||City||Delhi riots: Court seeks action taken report on complaint against 22 persons||New Delhi: A Delhi court has sought an action taken report (ATR) from the police on a complaint seeking lodging of an FIR against 22 persons, including a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA, for their alleged involvement in the north-east Delhi riots that left 53 dead and around 400 injured.Metropolitan Magistrate Rakesh Kumar Rampuri directed the station house officer (SHO) of the Khajuri Khas police station to file the ATR on the complaint by December 10.The court was hearing the complaint filed by a man named Mohd Mumtaj through advocate Mehmood Pracha, alleging 22 persons were part of the mob that attacked people and vandalised properties.The court said in its November 11 order that Mumtaj’s counsel has said the complainant had approached the police for getting his case lodged. “The SHO concerned is directed to file an action taken report on the complaint of the present applicant (Mumtaj) on the next date of hearing,” it said.The complaint alleged Mumtaj was at his shop on February 23 when he saw a mob of 100-150 people, armed with sticks and stones, coming towards the market. The mob allegedly vandalised his shop, looted it and set it on fire, the complaint said adding, the mob shouted inflammatory slogans and threatened to kill everyone.According to the complaint, the mob allegedly looted several shops, hurled petrol bombs at houses in his area. Mumtaj alleged that BJP MLA Mohan Singh Bisht from Karawal Nagar, along with his driver and another person, had reached the spot on February 24 , after which people started shouting slogans. Mumtaj accused the MLA of leading the mob. In response to the allegations and the complaint filed by the man in court, Bisht said, “I vehemently deny these allegations. I was not even there (crime scene) The complaint is false and motivated. I know nothing about the cases as I was not even there.” The Delhi unit of the BJP had earlier denied allegations that their leaders had instigated the riots. A senior Delhi police officer, who did not wish to be named, said, “We will have to check our records. Police have registered around 700 cases so far and arrested more than 2,000 persons. Police have conducted a fair probe and the case developments are being monitored by the courts. If the court has asked for an action taken report, then we will definitely check our records(related to this case) and submit it before the court.” Delhi Police have in the past denied allegations of impartial probe or that they did not register cases filed against some political leaders. Police maintained they have registered more than 700 cases related to the FIRs, and have arrested people from both communities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-riots-court-seeks-action-taken-report-on-complaint-against-22-persons/story-GNODRZrJ6fIZav8tazCwMN.html
13-11-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad man arrested for assaulting traffic cop in Noida||A 25-year-old man was arrested for allegedly assaulting a traffic constable in Chijarsi village in Noida on Thursday evening. The suspect was identified as Pramod, a resident of Vijay Nagar in Ghaziabad. Jitendra Deekhit, SHO Phase III police station, said, “Traffic constable Pradeep Verma was talking to autorickshaw drivers and checking their vehicles’ documents at around 8pm in the village when a man named Promod and another person arrived and started making a video of the policeman on his mobile phone.” When Verma enquired as to why he was doing so, Pramod allegedly assaulted him. “Pramod manhandled the policeman, tore his uniform and also assaulted him. When they were informed, police personnel from Phase III arrived and apprehended the suspect, while the other man managed to escapes,” he said. Other people in the area also captured the incident on their phone and circulated the video on social media. A case against the suspect was registered under sections 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty) and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) of the Indian Penal Code. “The suspect was produced in court and sent to judicial custody. We have launched a search to arrest the absconding person,” Deekhit said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-man-arrested-for-assaulting-traffic-cop-in-noida/story-w5qbVzNPtyIzmX0KBel47L.html
13-11-2020||Noida||Pollution board inspects industrial areas, finds violations||Noida: In a bid to control local emissions, officials of the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) conducted a surprise inspection at several industries and industrial areas, during which they found violations such as garbage burning. According to officials, open waste and garbage burning – mostly in industrial areas under UP State Industrial Development Authority (UPSIDA) – continues unabated. The UPPCB team on Friday compiled a report naming eight such random inspections done a day earlier, during which violations were found at four spots, all falling under UPSIDA. “Out of eight spots that we inspected, four industries were found using safe and permitted fuel for combustion. However, violations were found in UPSIDA area, where waste was being burnt at two factories, whereas un-burnt and semi-burnt pile of garbage was spotted at two other locations within site-C under UPSIDA,” said Archna Dwivedi, regional officer, UPPCB, Greater Noida. She added that the fire was doused and the source of the waste was traced, based on which an environment compensation of ₹25,000 each was recommended against the two factories and a notice was sent to UPSIDA to manage their waste. “We had been instigating the UPSIDA for at least two years to make a proper waste management scheme. The incidents of garbage or waste burning that leads to local emissions, thereby dropping the air quality of the region, happens because UPSIDA doesn’t have a garbage disposal system,” added Dwivedi. Managed and controlled by the UPSIDA for past 15 years, the industrial area that has about 4,000 industries registered with them in Greater Noida in Gautam Budh Nagar. “We are under process of selecting an agency to collect and manage the solid waste from our sites. The selection process will be completed soon,” said Anil Kuma Sharma, regional manager, UPSIDA, Greater Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/pollution-board-inspects-industrial-areas-finds-violations/story-pCsboujMVo9gsqgvd7WOUL.html
13-11-2020||Noida||This year’s pre-Diwali pollution levels worst since 2018 in Noida, G Noida and Ghaziabad||Every winter, air quality in the national capital region (NCR) plummets with unfavourable weather, stubble burning and pollution from local sources. This gets worse around Diwali with people bursting crackers, unmindful of the emissions they commit. Central pollution control board’s (CPCB’s) air quality data of the 14 days prior to the festival suggests that, since 2018, this year has been especially bad for the cities of Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad.According to the data, the average AQI during this period this year was: Ghaziabad 400, Greater Noida 390 and Noida 378, all in the “very poor” category . Last year, the three cities’ average AQI ranged from 267 to 284 when Diwali fell on October 27. In 2018, this was between 330 to 357 when the festival fell on November 7.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe.”  “The pre-Diwali pollution levels have been on higher side this year as the instances of stubble burning started early in October and the monsoon this year also retreated early. Further, we also had unfavourable meteorological conditions which combined with local pollutants added to higher pollution levels,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of the UP-pollution control board. He added that although the date on which Diwali fell in each year was different, it would not be significant as the weather played an important role in determining pollution levels and was more or less similar every year. Severe daysThis year also saw the highest number of “severe” days-- six-- in the fortnight before Diwali in the three cities. In 2019, there were none, while in 2018 there were five for Ghaziabad, one for Greater Noida and three for Noida. “The pollution levels year after year have persisted and threatening to go higher side. Post-Diwali period will be litmus test for ban on use and sale of fire-crackers. If the pollution level continues to be high, the authorities will have to face a lot of questions. The ‘good’ and ‘satisfactory’ days of are only observed when there is rain. Otherwise, ‘poor’ and ‘very poor’ categories have become a norm,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist. According to official statistics of the Consortium for Research on Agroecosystem Monitoring and Modelling from Space Laboratory, the three states of Punjab, Haryana and UP have contributed 80007 instances of crop residue burning during the period October 1 to November 12 with share of Punjab alone at 91.26% with 73020 instances. The total counts were 54671 during the same period in 2019 and 60759 in 2018 with Punjab’s share being 46211 (84.52%) and 49387 (81.28%), respectively. “This year we are also conducting sampling of contribution of metals in air which are generally released through bursting of crackers. This sampling will help us assess reduction due to ban on fire-crackers. This sampling will go on for about 10 days,” said a scientist from UP pollution control board. However, the Diwali day is predicted to remain under “very poor” to “severe” quality on Saturday. The three cities remained under “poor” category AQI on Diwali day in 2018 while the AQI went worse to “very poor” category on Diwali day in 2019. According to Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi from the Ministry of Earth Sciences, the air quality will remain in upper end of “very poor” to “severe” quality on November 14, the day of Diwali, and it is likely to remain similar on November 15 as well. “The significant improvement in air quality is likely from November 16 under the influence of a western disturbance, isolated rainfall over plains of northwest India and adjoining central India is likely on November 15,” the forecast, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/this-year-s-pre-diwali-pollution-levels-worst-since-2018-in-noida-g-noida-and-ghaziabad/story-c1vMB1DeB9i738SxLw4z0O.html
13-11-2020||Noida||Slight slip in air quality on Diwali’s eve||Noida: The air quality of Noida and Greater Noida settled in the ‘very poor’ category on the eve of Diwali as the weather conditions changed with the winds now carrying smoke from neighbouring states. On Friday morning, the wind direction changed from easterly to north-westerly, with smoke coming from neighbouring Punjab and Haryana, leading a hike in the share of PM2.5 levels and deteriorating the air quality. According to weather analysts, the air quality could slip further on Diwali, as the wind speed is likely to fall further but the direction will remain the same -- north-westerly. “The wind direction changed from easterly to north-westerly around 9.30am in the region in Friday due to which the ventilation of the pollutants stopped. The NW winds came at a speed of maximum 8 kmph. On Diwali, the wind speed will drop to 5 kmph, due to which the pollution could rise further,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, India Meteorological Department (IMD). Srivastava said due to a approaching western disturbance, the day after Diwali may see light to moderate rainfall after which the wind speed will catch-up to 15 kmph, leading to better ventilation of the pollutants. According to the system of air quality and weather forecasting and research (SAFAR), the current wind directions are not good for the region. “The stubble burning-induced impact in AQI is expected to increase from negligible to moderate for the next two days. Although the level of PM2.5 is predicted to be at the edge of very poor to severe, it is expected to be much better as compared to the past four years around the Diwali period with 0% firecracker emission scenario. The biomass plume transport-level winds have become north-westerly by early Nov 13 and forecast to continue until November 14, which is not good and predicted to have high potential to transport biomass plume in the next 2 days to Delhi and surrounding regions,” said the SAFAR repot on Friday. Meanwhile, the air quality index (AQI) of Noida, on a scale of 0 to 500, was 337 against 305 a day earlier. The AQI of Greater Noida was 336 against 327 a day earlier, while the AQI for Ghaziabad was 382 against 328 a day earlier. The average PM2.5 for Noida increased to 206.62 microgrammes per cubic metres from 180.62 microgrammes per cubic metres a day earlier. The PM10 for Noida dropped to 308.89 against 342.17 units a day earlier. For Greater Noida, the PM2.5 was 186.85 units against 180.63 units a day earlier. The PM10 for Greater Noida was recorded at 416.51 units against 385.57 units a day earlier. “Combustion is a major source for PM2.5, while dust is for PM10,” said Shambhavi Shukla, program officer, air pollution, Centre for Science and Environment (CSE).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/slight-slip-in-air-quality-on-diwali-s-eve/story-lwemtZBgZxr7DEPHiT2FXP.html
13-11-2020||Delhi||Traffic snarls in Delhi on Dhanteras||Snarls dogged several parts of the national capital on Friday, a day ahead of Diwali, with traffic police officers saying vehicular traffic went up 50% as compared to usual.Most of these jams, the traffic police said, were reported near Metro stations and popular markets, forcing them to deploy their entire traffic staff on the streets, unlike regular days when around 75% officers are out.Taj Hassan, special commissioner of Delhi Traffic Police, said he estimated the vehicular increase on the city’s roads to be almost 50% on Thursday and Friday. He added that the traffic situation on Friday, when Dhanteras was celebrated, was marginally better than Thursday and commuters should expect relatively lesser traffic on Saturday. Delhi Metro services to be available till 10pm on DiwaliThe officer said that traffic police personnel were deployed at all choke points and insisted that the vehicular movement was slow rather than completely chock-a-block. However, some commuters complained that police personnel were missing from several bottlenecked stretches and that several traffic signals were not working. Ankur Singh tweeted the traffic police to complain about such a situation in Dwarka Mod, where he said neither was the traffic signal was functioning, nor were police officers around.A 26-year-old resident of South Delhi’s CR Park, who did not wish to be named, said it took him over 25 minutes to cross the Lala Lajpat Rai Road stretch from Moolchand till Oberoi Hotel, on his way to office in Connaught Place.“It usually takes me no more than 10-12 minutes to cross that stretch. Initially, I thought the traffic was due to police barricades usually placed near the Lajpat Nagar Metro station, but that was not the case on Friday,” he said.Commuters also complained about people parking their cars on the roadsides near popular markets and shopkeepers spreading out on the roads to do the festive business.This year’s pre-Diwali pollution levels worst since 2018 in Noida, G Noida and Ghaziabad“Festivities can’t mean parking on roads,”Pradeep Sachdeva, a Twitter user who was stuck in a jam between Madhuban Chowk and Netaji Subhash Place, wrote to the traffic police. The traffic police said that they received most calls of traffic jams from places such as Barapulla Flyover, Aurobindo Marg, Sarita Vihar, Chhatarapur, Keshavpuram, Shakarpur, Dwarka Mod, etc“The next bad traffic situation we are preparing for is during Chhath (on November 20). But since there are a lot of restrictions due to Covid-19, hopefully there will be less jams,” said Hassan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/traffic-snarls-in-delhi-on-dhanteras/story-ks65zXNMcrQI4XmY0JWTjJ.html
13-11-2020||City||Govt school kids turn teachers for a day, take ‘happiness classes’||HTC New Delhi: On the eve of Children’s Day, students of Delhi government schools turned teachers during a special happiness class held on Friday morning attended by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia. The event began with students leading a session of mindfulness, followed by storytelling session. Though the classes were conducted in an online mode, the education minister discussed the impact of happiness classes on the well-being of children, especially during the Covid-19 pandemic. Happiness Class is a new and unique curriculum launched by the state government in 2018 to develop self-awareness and mindfulness among students. In April, the government had announced online happiness classes for students to cope with the stress induced by the Covid-19 crisis. “...Our students have now become teachers of the happiness curriculum, by engaging their family members, and even their friends, spreading the message of the class in their own unique way,” Sisodia said. Students shared their experience of attending happiness classes during the pandemic. Harshita Rawat, who studies in a government school in West Vinod Nagar, said the online happiness classes taught her that eventually the phase of staying home would end and she would meet her friends. “We slowly learnt how to let go of any stress, or anxiety, we were holding in. The stories that we engage with in our classes teach us how to develop a more positive outlook in life,” said another student Gurmeet Dhanjal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-school-kids-turn-teachers-for-a-day-take-happiness-classes/story-IQL17X9IGfTh2EFaT2EncI.html
13-11-2020||City||Unidentified man found dead with face smashed in Ludhiana||An unidentified man’s body was found near railway lines, Sidhwan Canal on Thursday. The victim’s throat had been slit and, his face crushed to conceal his identity.Some passers-by noticed the body and informed the police on Thursday evening. The police took the body to the civil hospital for postmortem. No identification proof or mobile phone was found on the person. The police made announcements in surrounding areas for the identification of the victim.ASI Sukhdeep Singh, in charge, Atam Nagar police post, said that the victim appeared to be of around 45 years of age. According to the preliminary investigation, the assailants had murdered him by slitting his throat using a sharp-edged weapon and damaged his face with stones.The ASI added that the victim was wearing grey trousers, a grey-blue t-shirt, and grey slippers and had ‘Om’ inked on his right hand.A murder case, under Section 302 (punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), was lodged against the accused. The police have also scanned missing complaints of all police stations for the identification of the victim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/unidentified-man-found-dead-with-face-smashed-in-ludhiana/story-dSdYhkpIjYorV71C3FVAMI.html
13-11-2020||Chandigarh||Female cyclist, biker killed in hit-and-run mishaps in Mohali||A female cyclist and a motorcyclist were killed in separate accidents in Mohali on Thursday late evening. The deceased were identified as Meenu Chauhan, alias Payal, 25, a resident of Sohana village, Mohali; and Hitesh, 23, of Panchkula.According to the police, Payal, who worked at Bestech Towers, Sector 65, was returning home on her bicycle. As she reached the near Sector 69/ 70 T-Point, a motorcycle hit her from behind and drove off. Payal sustained severe head injuries in the accident and was rushed to a private hospital by passers-by. She was later referred to PGIMER, Chandigarh, where she succumbed to her injuries on Thursday night.The deceased is survived by her two children, aged eight and six. Her husband had died a few years ago.Sub-inspector (SI) Bhupinder Singh said, “The post-mortem examination was conducted and the body was handed over to the deceased’s neighbours in Sohana. We will approach the Mohali administration to shift her children to an orphanage.”He added that the motorcyclist will be arrested soon as his address was traced.In another accident, Hitesh was killed after a speeding Maruti Alto hit his motorcycle near PCA stadium in Phase 9 and sped away. Hitesh was rushed to Fortis hospital in Phase 8 with grievous head injury, but was declared brought dead. SI Jagir Singh said the car driver will be nabbed soon with the help of the vehicle number. The body was handed over to the family after autopsy. The deceased worked at a private firm, the SI added.Separate cases have been registered at the Phase 8 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/female-cyclist-biker-killed-in-hit-and-run-mishaps-in-mohali/story-qk32nAq1rE4cwfWSdliEEJ.html
13-11-2020||City||Woman kidnaps children of Ludhiana family that provided shelter, food||A woman kidnapped two children of a couple who provided her shelter and food for six days. The Sahnewal police have lodged an FIR against the accused woman.Complainant Ramesh Singh of Jugiana village of Sahnewal said that he and his wife had found the 40-year-old woman in a miserable condition near Giaspura six days ago. The woman had told them that she had no place to live and no food to eat. They took woman to their home and provided her food and shelter for six days.He alleged that the woman had kidnapped his six-year-old son Sunny and three-year-old daughter Jasmin from their home on November 11, when he along with his wife was away for work.They had left their children with the woman at home when they left for work. In the evening when they came back they were shocked to find the woman and their children gone.He suspected that the woman had kidnapped his children and filed a complaint with the police.Assistant sub-inspector of police (ASI) Bhupinder Singh, who is investigation the case, said that a case under Section 346 (wrongful confinement in secret) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) had been lodged against the unidentified woman. The family did not know the name and the whereabouts of the woman. The assistant sub-inspector added that the family had no pictures of the woman and their children therefore the police will get the woman’s sketch made to be able to identify and nab her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-kidnaps-children-of-ludhiana-family-that-provided-shelter-food/story-JyKigoFruUoorWS5W0cw9I.html
13-11-2020||City||Festive fervour: Rampant encroachment leads to chaos in Ludhiana, MC looks other way||The municipal corporation’s anti-encroachment staff looked the other way as roadside shop owners at all the shopping destinations of the city encroached upon the roads a day before Diwali.Chaura Bazar, Karimpura Chowk, and Field Gunj area witnessed heavy rush on Friday.Shopkeepers, stall owners, and street vendors encroached upon the roads to display their goods and, ultimately led to huge traffic jams in the interior parts of the city. Areas around Dandi Swami Chowk, Ghumar Mandi, Jawahar Nagar Market, and Model Town also witnessed similar scenes as shopkeepers kept benches on the roads to display their commodities.City residents were irked by the chaotic situation.“Visit any place in the city and, you will find a traffic jam owing to the encroachments by the shopkeepers. The sweetshop owners as well as the crockery shopkeepers displayed their goods outside their establishments to attract customers at Rani Jhansi Road and Sham Singh Road near HIG Flats,” said Munish Dogra, a resident of Durgapuri in Haibowal.The residents also complained that not only did the shopkeepers encroach upon the roads but also occupied the parking space.“Little do they know that by encroaching upon the roads, they are losing customers instead of attracting them. If customers will not find parking space then how will they shop,” questioned Kiran Punni, a resident of Model Gram.On the other hand, a shopkeeper in Ghumar Mandi, while justifying the encroachments, said, “Covid has impacted the businesses badly. Many establishments had to be closed while several others were on the verge of shutting down therefore we have put all our goods on display and expect to revive from losses this season.”Recently the MC officials had taken a tough stance against encroachments in the city and had written to the police department seeking registration of FIRs against defaulters.MC secretary Neeraj Jain said some relaxation was given to the shopkeepers keeping in view the losses they had incurred due to Covid.“However, strictness will be maintained soon after Diwali celebrations are over and no encroachments of any kind will be allowed,” said Jain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/festive-fervour-rampant-encroachment-leads-to-chaos-in-ludhiana-mc-looks-other-way/story-nP5oJIYmpY0YGbFVygpQdO.html
13-11-2020||City||Ludhiana resident booked for submitting fake documents for renewal of passport||The Daresi Police on Friday booked a New Shivpuri resident for furnishing forged documents while applying for renewal of passport. The FIR was lodged following a complaint of the regional passport officer, Chandigarh. During the investigation, the accused, identified as Ajay Singhania, 42, told police that he wanted to go to New Zealand on a work visa and, a travel agent has asked him to furnish a fake school certificate with a different date of birth to obtain the visa. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Jaswinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said that the accused had availed a passport from regional passport officer, Chandigarh in October 2007, which had expired in 2017. In the documents used for making the passport, his date of birth was stated as September 24, 1978, and place of birth as Ludhiana. In 2017, the accused had applied for the renewal of his passport. In the documents submitted then, he had stated his date of birth as January 24, 1980, and place of birth as Jalandhar. The ASI added that an FIR, under sections 420, 465, 467, 468, 471 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 12 of the Passport Act, had been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-resident-booked-for-submitting-fake-documents-for-renewal-of-passport/story-3FOrdJYcCOYZZwbCVizteN.html
13-11-2020||Chandigarh||Noise pollution during Diwali harmful for animals: Ludhiana vet varsity Experts||Dr lRK Sharma, head, veterinary animal husbandry department and extension education, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, said dogs are very sensitive to the high-pitched and loud noises produced while bursting crackers during Diwali. He said the noise makes them restless and in some cases they show signs of anxiety or stress. Dr Sharma added that the auditory pain threshold in dogs is approximately 95 decibels, which is much lesser than the 130 decibels of humans. He added that firecrackers usually produce sound levels of 190 decibels and some dogs may develop a permanent fear of loud noises or suffer from epilepsy or other nervous problems because of this.Stray dogs may get seriously injured because of accidents while bursting crackers and poisonous gases and harmful particulate matter may lead to severe lung oedema, he added. Dr SS Randhawa, head, veterinary Hospital, GADVASU, said that to protect the canines, we must celebrate a green Diwali and keep our pets indoors.He added that the emergency veterinary doctor will be available during the day and at night on Diwali at GADVASU’s Teaching Veterinary Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/noise-pollution-during-diwali-harmful-for-animals-ludhiana-vet-varsity-experts/story-YI3LVLQMGNArM3YgOCoUOP.html
13-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro services to be available till 10pm on Diwali||The last service from terminal stations of all Delhi Metro lines will be at 10pm on Saturday on account of Diwali, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation said.“On account of the Diwali festival, the last metro train service on November 14 will start at 10 pm from terminal stations of all metro lines,” the DMRC said in a statement.On regular days, these service are available till 11pm from terminal stations.These stations, include Shaheed Sthal - New Bus Adda, Rithala, Samaypur Badli, Huda City Centre, Noida Electronic City, Dwarka Sector-21, Vaishali, Kirti Nagar, Inderlok, Mundka, Kashmere Gate, Raja Nahar Singh (Ballabhgarh), Majlis Park, Shiv Vihar, Botanical Garden, Janakpuri (W), and New Dellhi and Dwarka Sec-21 stations of the Airport Express Line.The metro train services will run as usual for rest of the day on Saturday from 6am onwards on all lines, and from 4:45am on the Airport Express Line, the DMRC said.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-metro-services-to-be-available-till-10pm-on-diwali/story-ZkfSGvtPqdb21NGjlx0bZK.html
13-11-2020||Chandigarh||40 garbage compactors to be set-up in Ludhiana: Mayor||Complying with the guidelines of National Green Tribunal (NGT) and solid waste management rules, a total of 40 garbage compactors are being set-up in Ludhiana to make the city garbage free.Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu on Friday inaugurated the first portable compactor transfer station at Block-J of Sarabha Nagar. Municipal commissioner Pradeep Sabharwal, councillor Mamta Ashu, joint commissioner Swati Tiwana and secretary-cum-zonal commissioner of Zone-C, Neeraj Jain, were present on the occasion.Sandhu said that a total of 40 compactors will be set-up. As many as 22 will be set-up in the first phase, five in the second and 13 will be established by the Ludhiana Improvement Trust, he added.The municipal commissioner said that at present, there are some secondary points in Ludhiana including Mushtaq Ganj, Book Bazaar, behind Lord Mahavir Hospital, behind Blind School and civil hospital.He said that the main objective of these compactors is to transfer waste directly from vehicle to vehicle and free the city of secondary points. He said that efforts are being made by LIT to complete the construction of compactors by December 22, 2020. He added that these will help improve the city’s ranking in Swachh Survekshan 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/40-garbage-compactors-to-be-set-up-in-ludhiana-mayor/story-KrYjU23Pj2umHTsfWHcH9O.html
13-11-2020||Chandigarh||Boosting sports infra: 1,185 govt schools in Ludhiana dist to get Rs 68 lakh||The central government has released grants of Rs 68 lakh to 1,185 government schools in the district to boost their sports infrastructure. As many as 994 primary schools will receive Rs 5,000 each to buy sporting goods. The funds can be utilised to purchase equipment such as skipping ropes, softballs, frisbees, plastic bats and balls and footballs. A total of 191 government middle schools will receive Rs 10,000 each. All details of the equipment purchased will be noted down in the stock register. Then, the school principal will send the utility certificate of grants to the DPI elementary office within one month of issue of funds. While purchasing the equipment, the age group of the students must be kept in mind, so that required items can be bought.The district education officers, elementary and secondary, have been directed to ask school heads to utilise this grant as instructed, and if any amount is not used, they can return it to the head office. DEO (elementary), Rajinder Kaur, said: “The primary school head teachers will be instructed to utilise the grants as directed. This will boost the sports infrastructure and students will be able to practice various games as per their area of interest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/boosting-sports-infra-1-185-govt-schools-in-ludhiana-dist-to-get-rs-68-lakh/story-UYQ9wU5xvlFXFw0lEIiLVK.html
13-11-2020||City||Himachal logs 11 Covid deaths, 825 new infections||Himachal Pradesh logged record 825 fresh Covid-19 infections on Friday taking the state’s tally to 29,008, while the death toll mounted to 416 with eleven patients succumbing to the contagion. Of the new cases, record 286 were reported in Mandi, 210 in Shimla, 67 in Kangra, 60 in Bilaspur, 56 in Chamba, 50 in Kullu, 31 in Solan, 27 in Hamirpur, 17 in Una, 10 in Sirmaur, six in Kinnaur and five in Lahaul-Spiti. Three fatalities were reported in Shimla, two in Kullu and one each in Chamba, Kangra, Bilaspur, Hamirpur, and Lahaul-Spiti. State has 6,739 cases while recoveries reached 21,824 as 239 people cured on Friday. Mandi remains the worst hit district with 4,594 cases and is followed by Shimla with 4,097 cases and Solan where 4,038 people have been detected positive till date. Kangra has 3,805 cases, Sirmaur 2,422, Kullu 2,341, Una 1,775, Bilaspur 1,631, Chamba 1,548, Hamirpur 1,528, Kinnaur 616 and Lahaul-Spiti 613. Till date, 4.55 lakh tests have been conducted in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-logs-11-covid-deaths-825-new-infections/story-NGrw5A1R0obClPoX8lTSPK.html
13-11-2020||City||8 deaths, 626 fresh Covid cases in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir recorded eight deaths and 626 fresh coronavirus infections on Friday taking the total Covid count to 1,01,594 and death toll to 1,574.The officials said 429 people tested positive in Kashmir and 197 in Jammu. Four persons succumbed to the disease each in Jammu and Kashmir divisions. Of all cases, 94,375 have so far recovered from the disease in the UT while 5,645 are still active. The recovery rate has reached 92.89%. A total of 1,043 people have succumbed to the disease in Kashmir and 531 in Jammu. So far 96 people have lost their lives to the infection this month. The total number of tests conducted in the UT has crossed 26.03 lakh.In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Baramulla where 158 more people tested positive, followed by Srinagar at 157 cases. In Jammu division, highest number of cases was recorded in Jammu district at 95,followed by 20 in Kishtwar.Srinagar tops the case tally with 21,154 cases and 389 deaths followed by Jammu district with 18,844 cases and 276 deaths.Till date, 7.04 lakh people have been enlisted for observation – 17,063 in home quarantine, 5,645 in isolation, and 41,773 under home surveillance. Besides, 6.38 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/8-deaths-626-fresh-covid-cases-in-j-k/story-pGOdB2tH3wRAVuxMgtkl2N.html
13-11-2020||City||Two sisters dead, two others injured in car accident in Shimla’s Rampur Bushahr||Two sisters were killed while two others sustained injures as a car plunged into a deep gorge in Rampur Bushahr subdivision in Shimla.The deceased were identified as Vidya Bhakti, 22, and Anjali, 18, both residents of Chamada village in Nankhari tehsil of Shimla. The injured aredriver Suraj, 25, of Naya Dharta village in Nirmand tehsil of Kullu, and Indira, 25, of Tangri village in Nankhari tehsil.The accident took place when they were on their way to Chamada village and the driver lost control of the vehicle near Shuni, killing Vidya on the spot, leaving the other three injured.Police rescued the injured and recovered the body. The injured were rushed to Mahatma Gandhi Medical Services Complex, Khaneri, in Rampur Bushahr, where Anjali succumbed to her injuries during treatment. The other two are undergoing treatment. Shimla superintendent of police (SP) Mohit Chawla said police are conducting investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-sisters-dead-two-others-injured-in-car-accident-in-shimla-s-rampur-bushahr/story-x8DfJ9zxHbbjon1iIq84qO.html
13-11-2020||City||Techie robbed of bike in Ludhiana||An engineer of a telecom company was robbed of his motorcycle and bag containing tools by motorcycle-borne miscreant at Sector 32, near Chandigarh Road, on Friday.The victim, Avishesh Kumar, 28, a resident of Dhuri Lines, said he was in Sector 32 for work and was waiting for his colleague when three miscreants on a motorcycle turned up there. They flashed a sharp-edged weapon and threatened him to kill him, the complainant said.Then, they drove away with his motorcycle and bag of tools. After the miscreants left, he informed the police.Assistant sub-inspector Gurmeet Singh, who is investigating the case, said that a case has been registered under Section 379-B of Indian Penal Code (IPC). Police are scanning footage from CCTV cameras installed in the area to identify the accused, the ASI said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/techie-robbed-of-bike-in-ludhiana/story-8QossD7KxHOKAckcGs2AkM.html
13-11-2020||City||Four security personnel killed in ceasefire violation along LoC in north Kashmir||Nine people including four soldiers and a Border Security Force (BSF) officer and four civilians were killed in multiple ceasefire violations by Pakistani troops along the Line of Control (LoC) at Uri, Nowgam, Keran, and Gurez sectors in north Kashmir.The civilians including a woman and a seven-year-old boy were killed in the incident.The Army blamed Pakistan for the ceasefire violation along the LoC and said three soldiers were killed in the unprovoked firing. “Pakistan initiated unprovoked firing along the LoC spread across multiple sectors including Dawar, Keran, Uri and Naugam. Pakistani troops used mortars and other weapons,” said defence spokesperson Col Rajesh Kalia. He said that Pakistan deliberately targeted the civilian areas.“Our troops retaliated strongly causing substantial damage to Pakistan Army’s infrastructure and casualties across the LoC. Several ammunition dumps, fuel dumps and multiple terrorist launch pads have been damaged,” he said.In the Nowgam sector, a BSF officer posted at Atma Complex was killed in the shelling. He has been identified as sub-inspector, Rakesh Dobal.Baramulla SSP Abdul Qayoom said that shelling is still going on in some areas of Uri. “Four civilians were killed in Uri and another four were injured.”The ceasefire violation was reported from sectors starting from Uri to Gurez. All these sectors have witnessed multiple ceasefire violations, this year.Locals in Uri said the Indian and Pakistani soldiers were targetting each other’s pickets at Haji Peer and Kamalkote sectors on the LoC since morning. They said small arms and mortars have been used during the shelling which has spread panic among the villagers residing near the LoC. “This was one of the deadliest shelling in many years in the Uri sector when four civilians were killed in a day. Some shells hit the houses,” said Iqbal Ahmad, a resident of Uri.The situation in the main town Uri was tense as ambulances were sent towards the villages on the LoC to ferry injured civilians.Uri has witnessed over a dozen ceasefire violations in the past six months.The shelling has also been reported from north Kashmir’s Keran and Gurez sectors since morning where the mortars have landed close to the civilian population near Izmerg, Baktore and Tarabal localities which are just a few kilometers away from the LoC.From the past one year, the Gurez sector has also witnessed an increase in ceasefire violations from both sides. The shells and mortars landed on the LoC in all parts of Gurez. Two girls were injured in Baktore and they were referred to Srinagar for treatment.“We were attending an election meeting when the shelling began at around 11 am. The intensity of shelling was heavy and people ran for cover. The markets also got closed and many people took refuge in underground bunkers. Now, the shelling has stopped but people who have underground bunkers have taken shelter in them,” said Zaheer Ahmad, a government official posted in Gurez.Three civilians were also injured in the Tanghdar sector were shelling was reported from many places along the LoC.Defence spokesman Col Rajesh Kalia said that suspicious movement was observed by Indian troops at the forward posts along the LoC in Keran sector on Friday.“The suspected infiltration bid was foiled by alert troops. This was accompanied by the initiation of an unprovoked ceasefire violation by Pakistan along the LoC in the Keran sector by firing mortars and other weapons. A befitting response is being given,” he said.2 porters, 3 children among 7 injured in Pak shelling in PoonchOn the eve of Diwali, two porters and three children among seven civilians were injured in Pakistani shelling along the LoC in Sawjian sector of Poonch district, prompting India to respond in equal measure. Poonch district police chief SSP Ramesh Kumar Angral said, “At around 12.10 pm on Friday Pakistan opened heavy fire in Sawjian sector that left seven people injured. The injured included two porters working with the BSF and two children.”All of them have been admitted to the hospital.All seven injuries were reported from the Sawjian bus depot as shells exploded there.Defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand said, Pakistan started a heavy firing at around 1.45 pm in the Sawjian sector and the Indian Army retaliated befittingly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-security-personnel-killed-in-ceasefire-violation-along-loc-in-north-kashmir/story-Ht6BZt7zQUlZPZyUisBTyH.html
13-11-2020||Kolkata||Actor Soumitra Chatterjee in critical state||Veteran actor Soumitra Chatterjee’s condition deteriorated fast on Friday with his neurological function in its worst state since admission on October 6, doctors treating him at a private hospital in south Kolkata said in the evening. “The situation is not that good. His condition has deteriorated. The neurological condition is the worst since his admission. The GCS count is around five. An EEG examination showed very little activity in the brain. There were no convulsions though. His heartbeat rate was very high but it has now been controlled. His blood pressure was also high. For the first time his oxygen requirement has gone up,” said Dr Arindam Kar, head of the team of doctors treating Chatterjee. “Chatterjee’s kidney functions are not good and he is on dialysis. The coagulation function is the only good part in this entire scenario. But overall it seems that the situation will not be good in the coming 24 hours. For the first time we are expecting an unfavourable outcome. We are giving our best but it seems our best may not be adequate for the recovery of Chatterjee,” said Dr Kar. The 85-year-old actor underwent his first plasmapheresis procedure on Thursday. Late on Thursday night, the doctors said that he was running fever but was stable. Chatterjee, who was infected by the coronavirus, is suffering from Covid encephalopathy. He is in a drowsy state for the past two weeks. Plasmapheresis is a process in which the plasma is separated from the blood cells for two purposes. The plasma is either replaced or treated and injected back into the body. The Dadasaheb Phalke Award winner was hospitalised on October 6 after he tested positive for Covid-19. Chatterjee tested negative on October 14 but his neurological system was affected by Covid encephalopathy. As a result, Chatterjee’s condition drastically deteriorated over the past two weeks. Also Read: Bengal man kills three in their sleep, bystanderOn Thursday night, Dr Kar said that the plasmapheresis went off well but the actor had fever which was the reason for the deterioration in his condition. The fever could be due to the multiple transfusions which are required for plasmapheresis, said the doctor. Earlier this week, the actor’s kidney functions took a toll. He was put on alternated dialysis to improve the renal function. The doctors subsequently decided to go for plasmapheresis and tracheostomy. Also Read: Stones hurled at Bengal BJP chief Ghosh’s convoy; TMC says stagedTracheostomy is a medical procedure that involves creating an opening in the neck to place a tube inside a patient’s windpipe to ease breathing. On November 2, the doctors conducted a vascular surgery and successfully stopped an internal bleeding which was leading to loss of haemoglobin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/actor-soumitra-chatterjee-in-critical-state-doctors-say-recovery-difficult/story-4RGEZ3e02qiUnInvXuiR3I.html
13-11-2020||City||No merger of J&K Panchayat Conference with any political party, clarifies Anil Sharma||President of All Jammu Kashmir Panchayat Conference (AJKPC) Anil Sharma on Friday called Shafiq Mir a self-styled leader and outrightly rejected the latter’s claims of AJKPC’s merger with Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party. Shafiq Mir on Thursday was welcomed into Apni Party by Altaf Bukhari and the former had announced the merger of AJKPC with Apni Party. However, Anil Sharma rejected Mir’s claims that AJKPC has merged with Apni Party. “AJKPC continues to pursue its activities and there is no question of merging the apex body with any political party,” he said at a press conference here. Sharma informed that Shafiq Mir has joined the Apni Party in his individual capacity but All Jammu and Kashmir Panchayat Conference as an organisation has nothing to do with his joining and there is no question of merging the decade-old representative body of elected panches and sarpanches with any of the political party. Sharma also said that AJKPC was a legally registered body having its own constitution and charter. AJKPC also owns trademark rights over the title and no person is allowed to infringe the legal right of this organisation and whosoever was found indulging in violation of this right may have to face legal consequences including civil suit and criminal prosecution, he said. Sharma regretted that Altaf Bukhari was misled and misinformed by Shafiq Mir, a self-styled leader, who sometimes calls himself chairman and convenor of the AJKPC. “Having highest regards for senior political leader Altaf Bukhari, I request him to be careful from individuals who misrepresent and distort facts for petty gains,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-merger-of-j-k-panchayat-conference-with-any-political-party-clarifies-anil-sharma/story-Hfr325Zqad9ixkwEfwvOrL.html
13-11-2020||City||Campaigning for DDC polls in J&K to be a low-key affair||As the campaigning for the district development council elections started after the nomination forms were submitted for phase 1, the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) leadership has decided to keep it a low-key affair.On Thursday, the PAGD released the first list of 27 candidates for DDC polls. All the candidates had filed their nominations, 21 from National Conference, four from the People’s Democratic Party, and two from Peoples Conference.A senior leader of PAGD said that the alliance leadership decided to participate in the polls as they don’t want BJP should benefit from it. “The top leadership of the PAGD has decided to keep these polls a low-key affair and campaigning will also short,” he said adding that the PAGD grassroots workers will try to grab a maximum number of seats.“The top leadership wants to make this alliance one of the strong forces which will fight for the restoration of Article 370 and statehood,” the senior leader said.Meanwhile, on Friday another meeting of PAGD was held at the residence of PDP president Mehbooba Mufti, besides other members of the alliance, the meeting was attended by two senior Congress leaders. Sources said in today’s meeting the leaders discussed the names of candidates for the other phases.Meanwhile, Congress vice-president Ghulam Nabi Monga who participated on behalf of Congress said that his party is part of an alliance and the party will fight BJP on all fronts. “We will contest this election to defeat the divisive forces.”Besides the National Conference and the PDP, the People’s Conference, the CPI(M), and the Awami National Conference are part of the PAGD. The NC and the PDP had stayed away from the panchayat polls in 2018. Peoples Conference, however, participated in the elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/campaigning-for-ddc-polls-in-j-k-to-be-a-low-key-affair/story-FAeuDiQSsyDO9vfsK3vDkO.html
13-11-2020||City||KBC 12’s second crorepati is IPS officer Mohita Sharma||IPS officer Mohita Sharma has emerged as the second crorepati of the Amitabh Bachchan-hosted Kaun Banega Crorepati, Season 12. The 2017-batch police officer is posted in Bari Brahmana, Jammu and Kashmir and is married to an Indian forest service officer.Mohita, 30, attributes her success to her husband, who motivated her to take part in the quiz-show. The episode featuring her big win will air on November 17.Sharma, who hails from Himachal Pradesh’s Kangra said, “My husband Rushal Garg, who tried to get into KBC for the past 20 years, asked me to register on SonyLiv app and the rest is history. It feels great to be a crorepati.” Sharma, however, hasn’t yet decided how to utilise the prize money as she said: “it will be decided with the concurrence of the family.” Sharma’s husband is presently posted as ACF Jammu and is also a member of STF on illegal sand mining. He belongs to Mohali. On Wednesday, Nazia Nasim, an alumnus of the Indian Institute of Mass Communication, took home Rs 1 crore and became the first crorepati of the KBC 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kbc-12-s-second-crorepati-is-ips-officer-mohita-sharma/story-Z8TgTJESzETovfECAIvlpN.html
13-11-2020||City||Social organisation Ikkjutt Jammu forms political party, vows to fight next assembly elections||After months of speculation in the public domain, social organisation Ikkjutt Jammu on Friday finally took the political plunge with the announcement of the creation of a political party with the same name.Addressing media persons here, advocate Ankur Sharma, president of the party along with the newly-formed executive committee of Ikkjutt Jammu, made the announcement. Various documents to be submitted to the Election Commission of India were also displayed in front of the media by general secretary Ashwani Sharma. The constitution of the party which has been adopted a few days ago by the core committee was also unveiled. This was followed by the presentation of the “vision document” of the party to the people of the Jammu region. In his remarks advocate Ankur Sharma reiterated the party’s resolve to metamorphose the otherwise sick economic scenario of the Jammu region. He vowed to continue the fight to weed out all illegal encroachers including Rohingyas and Bangladeshis from Jammu. He urged people to see through the divisive tactics and communal agenda of PAGD which they cunningly apply when they camp in Jammu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/social-organisation-ikkjutt-jammu-forms-political-party-vows-to-fight-next-assembly-elections/story-VsQ80DIMCW8tMPfbgvx4gO.html
13-11-2020||City||Covid dampens spirit of centuries-old tradition of stone-pelting in Himachal’s Dhami village||Even as the phased unlocking of activities to curb the spread of Covid-19 has ticked up the public movement, the 400- year-old tradition of stone-pelting, where residents from different village pelt stones at each other, will be a low-key affair this year in the backdrop of the pandemic.Nearly 40 kilometres from Shimla, Dhami village will organise a stone-pelting fair, where every year, thousands of people from different villages near Dhami gather to celebrate the fair of stone-throwing, however, this year’s celebrations will be a low-key affair due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The historic fair is celebrated on the next day of Diwali. The fair committee in the wake of Covid-19 has decided not to hold the fair. “This year we are breaking off from the tradition for the first time. The annual fair has been cancelled,” said Kanwar Jagdeep Singh, scion of the Dhami royal family.The participants, mostly youth and teenagers, relentlessly hurl stones at each other during the day-long festival. The violent stone pelting continues for more than half an hour at open areas close to the temple dedicated to goddess Bhadra Kali at Dhami. The temple was built by the royal family at Dhami.Ahead of starting the festival, members of the fair committee along with members of the erstwhile royals worshipped the goddess Kali. A large number of people, particularly youth, tourists both domestic and foreigners had gathered at the sports ground to witness the fierce ritual that lasted for about 15 minutes. Stone pelting continues till a tilak of human blood that drip on the ground is smeared on the forehead of the goddess in the village.The locals widely believe that the festival of stone-throwing brings good fortune. The stone-throwing is held between villagers of Jamog and Kateru. “we would perform only customary puja this time, stone-pelting will just be symbolic,” said Kanwar.The legend has it that the practice of stone pelting was introduced after the tradition of human sacrifice that prevailed in the village was stopped. The tradition is continuing from the time of the Satti tradition. One of the queens in Dhami opposed human sacrifice and later evolved this tradition where only villagers participate. People believe that the erstwhile queen of Dhami sacrificed her life to end the practice of human sacrifice and asked people to start a fair in which people of two clans will throw stones at the sky and continue until someone is hit, and the blood of that person would be then offered to the goddess.Another belief is that a woman from Halog village was engaged in the neighboring princely state of Rangaoli. But due to old bitterness, residents of Jamog village poisoned the prince just before the marriage was to be solemnised. The distressed woman burnt herself on the pyre of her fiancé. Angry villagers of Halog and Jamog fought with each other with stones. Being injured in the stone-pelting festival is considered auspicious. In the past many years, the local administration and human right activist have made several attempts to discourage the people from pursuing the tradition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-dampens-spirit-of-centuries-old-tradition-of-stone-pelting-in-himachal-s-dhami-village/story-DDinrCA3uPfMQU0erRixSK.html
13-11-2020||Chandigarh||257 test positive in tricity, two dead in Chandigarh||The tricity reported 257 Covid-19 cases on Friday, with Chandigarh also confirming two deaths, while Mohali and Panchkula had none.Mohali led with 124 cases, followed by Chandigarh with 93 and Panchkula with 40.With 93 new cases and two casualties, Chandigarh’s case tally rose to 15,636 and death toll to 246. The number of active cases, at 1,008, remained above 1,000 for the second consecutive day.The latest fatalities are two men aged, 66 and 60, residents of Sector 21 and Dadumajra. They were both admitted at PGIMER.Another 84 patients were discharged on Friday, increasing the recoveries to 14,381. The number of tests, however, decreased to 803 against the 1,046 on Thursday.Mohali’s case count reached 13,435 with 124 fresh infections. Of these 996 cases remain active – a jump of 81% from the 550 active cases on November 3.The recovery rate also declined in these 10 days from 93.7% to 91%. Among the fresh cases, 89 are from Mohali (urban), nine each from Dera Bassi and Gharuan, four from Kharar, two each from Lalru and Kurali, and one each from Boothgarh and Banur. Also, 27 patients recovered from the virus on Friday, bringing the total recoveries to 12,186. The district has so far recorded 253 Covid deaths. In Panchkula, 40 people tested positive, pushing the case count to 7,823. Of these, 527 patients are still infected, while 7,179 have been discharged and 117 have succumbed to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/257-test-positive-in-tricity-two-dead-in-chandigarh/story-YzZBhV1GkqlolAouDLIRnL.html
13-11-2020||City||Worry about real issues instead of blaming Congress: Kuldeep Rathore to Jai Ram||Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kuldeep Rathore on Friday lashed out at chief minister Jai Ram Thakur over his recent statement in which he said that Himachal Pradesh will soon be coronavirus and Congress free and that he needs to first deal with rising inflation, corruption, drug business and unemployment in the state before thinking about dealing with the Congress party.In a statement issued by him, Rathore said that Jai Ram Thakur should first work on the things for which he was chosen as CM by the people and need not worry about the Congress.Rathore has accused the state government of breaking all records of corruption even during the pandemic.“Jai Ram Thakur is only trying to hide his failures by unnecessarily blaming Congress just to divert people’s attention from the real issues,” he added.Calling BJP a corruption-generating party, Rathore said that the CM does not need to be happy and excited with the Bihar election results as people of the country have now fully understood that how the saffron party has won.Rathore has said that the Jai Ram-led government has no such achievement in the state during its three years tenure which he can celebrate. “Today the economy of the state is going through a bad phase and the government has no plans to revive it. People are suffering due to rising unemployment and inflation in the state, but the state government is busy misleading the people for its own political advantage” said Rathore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/worry-about-real-issues-instead-of-blaming-congress-kuldeep-rathore-to-jai-ram/story-5YLXIAwEaT6OWz0FcVbKEP.html
13-11-2020||City||Chilly Diwali: Met department issues warning of heavy snowfall, rain in HP||Heavy snowfall and rainfall in higher reaches along with thunderstorms in middle and lower hills are very likely to occur on November 14 and 15 as the state meteorological department has issued yellow warnings for five districts— Una, Bilaspur, Hamirpur, Kullu, Chamba and Kangra.Director, state meteorological department Manmohan Singh said snowfall in higher reaches at many places is likely to continue from November 14 to 16 while rainfall may occur in the middle and lower hills of the state on November 14 and 15 after which the weather will remain clear throughout the state till November 19.“Temperatures are also expected to drop during this period,” he added.Weather was mostly dry throughout the state during the last 24 hours and cloudy in many places. No appreciable changes were witnessed in minimum and maximum temperatures as they were normal throughout the state.The minimum temperature in the state’s capital Shimla on Tuesday was 8.9°C, while Kufri, which is 14 kilometres away from Shimla recorded a 7.9°C minimum temperature.Prominent hill stations including Manali, Dharamshala and Dalhousie recorded 2°C, 10.2°C and 9.1°C minimum temperatures respectively.Solan recorded 6.2°C minimum temperature, Bilaspur recorded 9.5°C, Hamirpur 9°C, Nahan 13.9°C and Kalpa, 2.3°C minimum temperature.Una recorded the highest temperature in the state with 29°C maximum temperature while Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district was the coldest place as it recorded minus 1.5°C minimum temperature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chilly-diwali-met-department-issues-warning-of-heavy-snowfall-rain-in-hp/story-vV4TJPNtel9jcjdGtGiqaI.html
13-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra to see another tussle between MVA government and governor BS Koshyari?||Another tussle is likely between the three- party ruling coalition Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) and state governor BS Koshyari, this time over nominating 12 members to the state legislative Council. Of the 78 members of the Upper house of state legislature, 12 are nominated by the governor on the recommendation of the state government. More than a week after the MVA government recommended the 12 names, Koshyari is yet to take a decision. Although the issue is likely to lead to political friction between the state and Koshyari, constitutional experts feel it is binding on the governor to accept the recommendations within reasonable time and has no right to replace them with his choice of names. There was no reaction from Raj Bhavan (governor’s office-cum-residence) on the issue. Each party in the MVA, comprising Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress, has recommended four names. According to the provision in Article 171(5) of the Constitution, people nominated from the quota must possess ‘special knowledge and practical experience’ in literature, science, art, cooperative movement and social service. The Sena has recommended the names of actor Urmila Matondkar, Nitin Bangude Patil, Chandrakant Raghuvanshi and Vijay Karanjkar; NCP has recommended Eknath Khadse, farmers’ leader Raju Shetti, folk singer Anand Shinde, and Yashpal Bhinge. The Congress has recommended the names of Rajni Patil, Muzaffar Hussain, Sachin Sawant and Aniruddha Wankar. Also read: Row between Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and CM Uddhav Thackeray may not end soon“All these names have been recommended with due deliberation in all three ruling parties after ensuring they fit in the given categories. All five categories have been given representation, as each one of them fits into one of the categories. We also studied the precedents and cases from at least five other states. The governor has to approve the names recommended by the government,” said a senior Congress leader. A Sena minister said the three ruling parties would wait for some more time before expressing their views on the issue. “It’s been a week since we sent the names to the governor. We will wait for some more time. In case of CM Uddhav Thackeray, the governor had refused to accept the state cabinet’s recommendation to nominate him to the Upper house and we had to approach Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In this case, we will raise the issue of propriety and precedents if it comes to that,” he said. Not the first timeThe first major friction between the MVA government and governor was witnessed in April, when the latter refused to accept the state cabinet’s recommendation to nominate Thackeray to the Council. Thackeray had to get elected to either of the two houses of legislature within six months of swearing in as the CM. The cabinet recommended Thackeray be nominated to the Council, but Koshyari refused to accept it. It was only after the CM reached out to PM Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah, the election for nine seats was announced. Koshyari also refused to accept state’s decision to not hold examinations for final-year students, met actor Kangana Ranaut who complained to him against BMC’s move to demolish parts of her office, met a retired naval officer who was assaulted by Sena men for circulating a post against CM. He also wrote a strongly worded letter over reopening of temples and questioning CM’s Hindutva credentials. It was the first time in the tussle that Thackeray retorted with strong language.In the current composition of the legislative Council, MVA has majority. It has 31 legislators, while BJP has 22. There are three legislators from smaller parties or outfits and four independents who are divided between ruling and opposition, when it comes to support on the floor of the house. In all, there are 18 vacant berths due to various reasons. Ulhas Bapat, constitutional expert, said the names are expected to be approved by the governor within “reasonable timeframe”. “Applying the doctrine of silence, the reasonable time according to me could be two weeks. The governor has every right to seek explanation or advice on the names recommended as per the provisions in Article 167, but he cannot strike down the names suggested by a government which enjoys a clear majority in the Assembly. In one of the rulings, the SC has clarified that politics is part of the social service, and thus even political names fit into the category of social service,” he said. According to officials from the law and judiciary department, the governor may point at the delay in recommending names by the government if he was asked to approve them immediately. The official said the names were recommended almost five months after the seats fell vacant in June and the governor cannot be expected to take a call immediately. Bapat said the ruling parties will have the legal recourse to move the Supreme Court. “Secondly, they can also write to the President of India.” Also read: Governor BS Koshyari asked Uddhav Thackeray if he had turned secular. He delivers a biting responseShrihari Aney, former advocate general of Maharashtra, said the Upper house exists in perpetuity and the governor is bound by the Constitution to fill certain categories of vacancies. “Leaving these seats vacant indefinitely would amount to failure on his part to perform his Constitutional duty. I don’t know of any precedent where a governor picked his own names, and in the current scenario too, Maharashtra governor is likely to go with the age-old set practice. However, he has the discretion under Article 171(1) read with 171(5) of the Constitution to select his own names. This exercise of discretion can be subject to limited judicial review, and may be challenged if the person he appoints fall outside the prescribed categories, or if his exercise of power is tainted by factual malice,” he said. The governor also has the option of approving the names in batches like was done by then governor of Uttar Pradesh Ram Naik in 2015. “The governor cannot replace the names as the recommendation by the cabinet is binding on him, but he can seek clarification from the government on the proposal. I released the first list of four out of nine recommendations after three months and refused to clear the remaining as there were criminal and income-tax related cases against them. Then chief minister Akhilesh Yadav had to replace the names, which were later approved,” said Naik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/another-flashpoint-between-maharashtra-government-and-governor-bs-koshyari/story-sGLqgEmIQeDHILaimM0p8O.html
13-11-2020||Chandigarh||Mentally unstable youth held for stealing burger from food stall in Chandigarh||A mentally unstable youth was arrested for stealing a burger from an NGO’s food stall in front of Rose Garden in Sector 16 in the wee hours of Thursday.Shankar, 20, told the police that he broke the locks of the kiosk run by Umeed Society to get food as he was hungry. He was booked on a complaint by Braham Parkash of Sharma Estate, Zirakpur, who is the general manager of Umeed Society, Chandigarh. Shankar was sent to judicial custody by a court that was informed by his family, with documents, that he had mental illness. A case under Sections 380 (theft in dwelling house, etc), 457 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night in order to commit offence punishable with imprisonment) and 511 (punishment for attempting to commit offences punishable with imprisonment for life or other imprisonment) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Sector 17 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mentally-unstable-youth-held-for-stealing-burger-from-food-stall-in-chandigarh/story-C4tL3bMvnSRLnwh2NrH2kN.html
13-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi Police puts up pickets, deploys flying squads to execute ban on crackers||From deploying pickets, forming flying squads and putting up posters to making announcements to create awareness among people, the Delhi Police is taking several measures to implement the ban on sale and use of firecrackers in the city this Diwali.Earlier this week, the National Green Tribunal imposed a total ban on sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in the National Capital Region from November 9 midnight to November 30 midnight.The Delhi Police is also taking initiatives to ensure people follow Covid-19 guidelines such as wearing masks and maintaining social distancing norms.Anil Mittal, Additional PRO (Delhi Police), said the focus has been on checking illegal sale and bursting of firecrackers and making sure that the festivities remain peaceful and harmonious. Special teams and flying squads have been formed at the police station and district levels respectively to ensure regular checking.“Pickets have been placed at markets and places with high footfall to sensitise the public about wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. Public Address systems and banners are also being used. ‘Machaans’ have been set up at vantage points to check movements of suspicious and mischievous persons,” he said.The officer said market welfare associations have been roped in to regulate the movement of traffic and shoppers. Door framed metal detectors have been installed at strategic locations in market places. PCR, Prakhar, Emergency Response Vehicle and Quick Reaction Team vans have been directed to work in tandem for effective handling of any law and order situation.“Force has been internally mobilised to enhance police visibility. At the same time, police staff deployed on duty in markets places has been advised to take full precautions while regulating the crowd. Senior officers are closely monitoring the ground arrangements,” he said.Also Read | List of states which have banned firecrackers in DiwaliTo create awareness, the Delhi Police also took to social media to warm the public about the ban on firecrackers and urged them to celebrate a clean and pollution-free Diwali.Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southeast) R P Meena said the priority is to ensure there is no overcrowding at public places, especially in market areas, and Covid-19 guidelines are followed strictly. Any violations will be strictly dealt with.Elaborate arrangements have been put in place in areas such as the Central Market in Lajpat Nagar, Nehru Place and other markets. At Lajpat Nagar, one of the most busiest markets during festivities, extra force have been deployed along with volunteers to ensure social distancing is maintained, people wear masks and sanitisers are kept in shops, the senior police officer said.Anti-sabotage teams have also conducted checks for suspicious activity.Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central) Sanjay Bhatia said, “We have deployed 13 companies -- 10 from our districts and three from outside.” “Shopkeepers in market places have been asked to follow Covid-19 norms. We have told them not to allow too many people inside their shops and ensure the customers maintain social distancing and wear masks. We are also issuing challans to people for not following the social distancing norm,” he said.Deputy Commissioner of Police (north) Anto Alphonse said awareness programs are being carried out via announcements on speakers through police booths and patrolling vehicles.“We have placed barricades which segregate the crowd and helps in maintaining social distance. An anti-encroachment drive was carried out. Designated parking spots have been identified where people can park their vehicles. Challans have been issued,” he said.Alphonse further said there were 403 temples and 30 markets in the north district and a security audit of all them has been conducted.Gatherings were noticed in a one or two temples, and police staff have been deployed there to manage the crowd, the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-police-puts-up-pickets-deploys-flying-squads-to-execute-ban-on-crackers/story-ARs627QHd9SL8dE3SBC5hO.html
13-11-2020||Mumbai||This Mumbai-based NGO got classes on MP3 players for Maharashtra’s rural students||As students from remote parts of Maharashtra struggle to become a part of online learning six months after schools started, a city-based NGO has come up with an easy learning solution for these kids. In the past two months, Chirag Foundation, founded by educationist Pratibha Pai, has successfully piloted the use of solar lamps-cum-MP3 players for learning in the remote hamlet of Bharanapada in Mokhada, Palghar. The NGO, which mainly works to transform villages with the help of solar power, realised that after Covid-19 and the resultant closure of schools, children from remote areas were facing hurdles in online learning. Also read: No school due to Covid-19 pandemic may mean no study for rural students across Maharashtra, warn experts“Initially, we made speakers available to students and content would be played for children in small groups. However, a large section of children who belong to the shepherd community would be out all day and hence found it difficult to assemble in one place. We thus came up with preloaded MP3 players which could be carried anywhere. Students found it very useful as they could listen to content whenever they got the time without requiring a network connection,” said Pai. The NGO now plans to replicate the model in other villages across the state. Shraddha Shringarpure founder of Diganta Swaraj Foundation, a local partner of the NGO which helped with its on-ground implementation, said students have benefitted immensely from the initiative. “We have been able to make learning capsules for students from anganwadi to Class 7 and students are happy with the content. In this village, most people are below the poverty line and cannot afford smartphones. An intervention like this is very crucial to continue the learning of such students,” she said. Also read: ‘Only 57% Maharashtra students have internet connectivity’The NGO, through its initiative Project Chirag, has also made thousands of solar lights available to students across Maharashtra and in other rural parts of the country. Mainly working towards electrification of villages, the foundation has supported 500 villages so far. “Even during the pandemic, we managed to work with 46 villages to help them with various things, ranging from providing lighting solutions to sustainable livelihoods. We think that if villages are made sustainable, people living in rural parts won’t have to migrate to cities and work with meagre incomes. We have thus started creating livelihood opportunities for people in their own villages,” said Pai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/this-mumbai-based-ngo-got-classes-on-mp3-players-for-rural-students/story-y9fR54sCfxRywcVOAFoP9L.html
13-11-2020||Delhi||No cultural celebrations inside Delhi jails this Diwali owing to Covid-19 restrictions||Cultural programmes as part of Diwali celebrations will not be held inside jails in the national capital this year owing to restrictions imposed due to the ongoing Covid-19 situation, officials said. However, candles will be lit inside the jails and inmates will be provided special diets, officials said. The Delhi Prisons comprises of Tihar, Rohini and Mandoli jails. Diwali, a festival of lights, will be celebrated on Saturday. “This year, due to Covid-19 restrictions, no cultural programmes will be organised in jails during the celebrations of Diwali,” Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel said.The jail authorities said the inmates of Central Jail No 4 of Tihar have been painting and decorating earthen diyas. These diyas are usually purchased from outside, painted by the prisoners and later sold through the shops in the jail complex.The candles will be lit inside the jails. The inmates will be given special diets which differs jail wise, a senior official said. According to the latest data shared by the jail administration, 109 inmates have tested positive for Covid-19, out of whom 95 have recovered, two have died and 12 are undergoing treatment. Besides the inmates, of the 266 prison staff who tested positive for the virus, 231 have recovered, while there are 35 active cases at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/no-cultural-celebrations-inside-delhi-jails-this-diwali-owing-to-covid-19-restrictions/story-FY8jVSrzXchMIM3JkU8UPK.html
13-11-2020||City||Of Rs 2 crore fine, only Rs 4.8 lakh recovered: Punjab govt data on farm fires||Fines totalling over Rs 2 crore were imposed on farmers for setting paddy residue on fire, of which only Rs 4.8 lakh have been recovered so far, which is merely 2%, stated the action taken report compiled by the government on November 9.Patiala topped the list in imposing environmental compensation and with most red entries in Khasra Girdawari in cases of stubble burning. While 34 cases have been registered against farmers of Mansa district for setting paddy residue on fire.On the other hand, not a single penny was recovered and no FIR was registered in Bathinda where the most numbers of 3,494 fire incidents were detected by the teams of district administration.Shaheed Bhagat Singh (SBS) Nagar, Nawanshahr, Muktsar, and Tarn Taran followed by Hoshiarpur have topped the list for recovering environmental compensation. While SBS Nagar, which reported the second-lowest (34) farm fire incidents, recovered Rs 1.4 lakh as compensation, followed by Muktsar, which has witnessed 1,503 cases, recovered Rs 1 lakh as fine.Tarn Taran reported 1,560 stubble burning incidents and the administration has recovered Rs 90,000 compensation from farmers, while the authorities in Hoshiarpur, where 277 incidents were reported, have collected Rs 42,500 environmental compensation.A total of 49 cases under Section 39 of the Air (Prevention and Control of Air Pollution) Act 1981 have been registered so far, while 16 were registered in Patiala as many as 10 farmers were booked in Ludhiana.Over 17 cases were registered across the state against combine harvester operators for not abiding by the government guidelines. The cases were registered after receiving reports that many operators were not using the super SMS in order to cut the fuel cost.The action taken report also shows that the visit at 25,322 places, where fields were set on fire, was still pending. Sangrur tops the list with 4,627 places where farm fire incidents were caught by the Punjab Remote Sensing Centre (PRSC) were pending for visit.In Ludhiana, 608 farm fire cases have been recorded in Jagraon Tehsil. While 253 cases were reported in Samrala Tehsil and 208 in Payal tehsil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/of-rs-2-crore-fine-only-rs-4-8-lakh-recovered-punjab-govt-data-on-farm-fires/story-Z4kWcv3glo26V1k97UEXPN.html
13-11-2020||Pune||Man tries to extort money from builder for second time, held||A former football player and coach from the city was arrested by Pune police in a case of extortion of a city builder for the second time on Thursday.According to the police, the complainant has been identified as builder Mahesh Bhadrawati (49), while the accused has been identified as Ambaji Kalyani Shinge (21), a resident of Hingane Mala in Hadapsar.He was remanded to custody till Thursday by a local court, according to the police.On Wednesday morning, Shinge arrived on a motorbike with another unidentified person and accosted the complainant and asked for Rs 5-10 lakh extortion money.“Earlier, in August, he had demanded Rs 35 lakh extortion money from the same builder. The builder had lodged a complaint against him then and Shinge was arrested earlier as well. Now he asked him to settle for less,” said an official close to the investigation.The intent behind demanding extortion money is not clear. Shinge said he is not working on anybody’s behalf, said police.A case under Sections 387 (putting person in fear of death or of grievous hurt, in order to commit extortion), 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace), 506 (criminal intimidation), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) is registered against Shinge at Wanowrie police station.Assistant police inspector Jayant Jadhav of Wanowrie police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/man-tries-to-extort-money-from-builder-for-second-time-held/story-eSV0H7xyCg3vZXzJrxETYL.html
13-11-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM writes to Vice-President for early elections to Panjab University senate||Citing improvement in the state’s Covid situation, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has written to Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu, who is also the chancellor of Panjab University, seeking early elections to the university senate. In a letter to Naidu, Capt Amarinder Singh said that the delay in polling was causing resentment among various constituents of the institution and urged him to advise the Panjab University authorities and the Chandigarh administration to conduct the senate elections on time. The term of the senate ended on October 31. “There is a substantial resentment among the teachers, professionals, technical members, graduates of the university and representatives of constituencies for the senate elections. Besides, there are legislators from the Punjab assembly and ex-officio members, such as the chief minister, education minister, and DPI (colleges) of the state, who represent the Government of Punjab,” Capt Amarinder Singh said, adding it was hence felt that elections should have been held without delay. Noting that the university administration and the Government of India felt that the situation was not conducive to hold elections due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the chief minister said the situation has improved and elections to Parliament, assemblies, and urban and rural local bodies have been held across the nation. The chief minister said that ever since the university was set up, its senate was constituted every four years with the members elected through a democratic process. Over the last six decades, elections were held regularly in August-September, he said, adding that in a situation when the senate is not constituted, the syndicate of the university would also not be constituted as its term ends on December 31, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-cm-writes-to-vice-president-for-early-elections-to-panjab-university-senate/story-cRLpKAtbB9C6gpF0S63LVJ.html
13-11-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Forest department to install CCTV cameras in cages at Nahargarh||The forest department is considering installing CCTV cameras in cages for 24x7 monitoring at Jaipur’s Nahargarh Biological Park following a recommendation by experts from Punjab’s Chhatbir Zoo. The experts were called to Jaipur after the authorities were unable to understand the cause of the death of big cats at the Park.Eight big cats have died at the Park, including due to leptospirosis.Chief wildlife warden Mohan Lal Meena said leptospirosis is a bacterial infection traced to rat urine. He said the disease was reported from the Chhatbir Zoo and then from Jodhpur zoo in 2011.Meena said the experts from Punjab have shared the protocol they used with the Park authorities in dealing with the disease. He added they also recommended CCTV camera monitoring inside the cages to examine the health of lions, especially at night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-forest-department-to-install-cctv-cameras-in-cages-at-nahargarh/story-EBnitH5JUdUfIHwmVpcdaN.html
13-11-2020||Pune||MVA poses big challenge to BJP in Pune graduate constituency||The Maha Vikas Agadi (MVA), on Thursday, nominated Arun Lad and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has filed Amol Pawar’s nomination for the Pune graduate constituency.Earlier, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) filed the nomination of its candidate Sangram Deshmukh, while the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) has nominated Rupali Patil.The election for the graduate constituency and teacher’s legislative council is slated on December 1 for five seats for MLCs in Maharashtra and two are from Pune region.Congress, NCP and Shiv Sena are contesting the graduate constituency election together. Though traditionally Pune’s graduate constituency has been dominated by BJP, the Maha Vikas Agadi is planning to challenge the BJP.Jayanti Patil, state unit president, NCP, said, “ We are hoping for victory. BJP said that the MVA government will not complete it’s tenure but that is just false hope.”Chandrakant Patil, the party’ state unit president, on Wednesday, said, “Pune graduate constituency has always been dominated by the BJP. Except one time, it was always represented by BJP and I myself represented it for two terms.”As the BJP state president Chandrakant Patil has completed his tenure, the post of MLC was vacant from Pune division. A total of five districts come in the graduate and teacher’s constituency. The candidates will be elected from Pune, Kolhapur, Sangli, Satara and Solapur districts.Pune district has the highest number of voters followed by Kolhapur so most political parties will focus to campaign in Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/mva-poses-big-challenge-to-bjp-in-pune-graduate-constituency/story-MZ5itA1XTvVL2jVYerQvMK.html
13-11-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: BJP suspends former minister for seeking suspension of CM Rawat||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has suspended former minister Lakhi Ram Joshi for writing a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat’s removal over corruption charges.State BJP chief Bansidhar Bhagat, who ordered the suspension, said Joshi’s letter amounted to gross indiscipline. “He has also been served a show-cause notice to which he has to reply in seven days. No member of the party; no matter how big can indulge in indiscipline as the discipline is the most important aspect of our party,” he said. “If anyone has any issue, he should raise it before me. I would take it to the proper platform, if needed, but would not tolerate any indiscipline.”Joshi’s letter dated November 11 came to light after Opposition Congress leaders shared it on social media. HT has a copy of the letter.Also Read: Uttarakhand fines firm Rs 15 cr after it fails to account for debris on Char Dham roadThe letter came days after the Uttarakhand high court ordered a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe against Rawat over corruption charges. The Supreme Court later stayed the order for four weeks.Joshi cited the high court order in his letter and said Rawat’s decisions and statements have left the party red-faced since he came to power three years earlier. “The recent high court order on the CBI probe against him further maligned the image of the party.”Joshi accused Rawat of helping some people close to him with their alleged black money when Rs 500 and Rs 1,00 notes were demonetised in 2016. “Considering the corruption allegations which are maligning the image of the party daily, I request you to immediately relieve Rawat from the position of the chief minister to allow a fair probe against him.”Rawat’s media advisor, Ramesh Bhatt, called the allegations against the chief minister completely baseless. “Anyone can make any allegations but that does not prove that the chief minister is indulging in corruption.”Joshi could not be reached for comments immediately.Opposition Congress leader Garima Dasauni said Joshi has echoed them and accused Rawat of “rampant corruption”. “Now this letter from the BJP leader has just proved us right.”Dasauni said in BJP, speaking the truth is indiscipline. “If anyone tries to show the mirror to the leadership, he is shown the door. There is no democracy in the BJP but autocracy.”Earlier, BJP lawmaker Puran Singh Fartyal raised the issue of corruption in the assembly. He was later served a notice and the matter was later said to have been resolved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-bjp-suspends-former-minister-for-seeking-suspension-of-cm-rawat/story-AsHDnDr2yz3dooWIxcAoCN.html
13-11-2020||Lucknow||Covid-19 testing mandatory for those visiting from other states on Diwali||People coming to Lucknow from other states, particulary Delhi and its adjoining areas, for Diwali will have to mandatorily undergo Covid-19 test at bus stands, railway stations and the airport, an official said on Friday.Thirteen teams of the Health Department have been deployed at all bus stands, railway stations and the airport for screening those coming to the state capital for Diwali and contact details of the passengers will also be noted down, Lucknow Chief Medical Officer (CMO) Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar said.All the suspected cases would be tested in their homes, Bhatnagar said, adding that this step was being taken to prevent the spread of coronavirus during the festive season.So far, 66,237 Covid-19 cases and 917 deaths have been recorded in Lucknow.Special precaution is being taken with people coming to the state capital to celebrate Diwali, particulary from Delhi and its adjoining areas, Dr Bhatnagar said, adding that people coming from Mumbai are also on the radar of the Health Department.The Health Department’s teams have been posted at Kaisarbagh, Charbagh, Alambagh, Kamta bus stands, Charbagh, Manak Nagar, Badshah Nagar, City Station ,Aishbagh, Gomti Nagar, Alambagh railway stations as well as Chaudhary Charan Singh International Airport, he said.Screening of the passengers coming from other states started from Friday and would continue till Sunday, the CMO added.The decision to take all necessary precautions in this regard was taken by the district administration keeping in view the sudden rise of Covid-19 cases in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/covid-19-testing-mandatory-for-those-visiting-from-other-states-on-diwali/story-2SZzULjp7ZlEJlh9C2OO0N.html
13-11-2020||Lucknow||3 dead, 2 others hospitalised after consuming spurious liquor in Lucknow||Three people died allegedly after consuming spurious liquor in Banthara area of the state capital while two others were taken seriously ill and admitted to hospital, police said on Friday. Sundar Lal (35), Acche (30) and Rajkumar (32) had consumed alcohol late Thursday evening along with two others, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central) Somen Barma said on Friday. Lal, Achhe and Rajkumar were taken ill and rushed to a nearby hospital where they died in the night, the DCP said. The other two have been admitted to the trauma centre, he said. The post-mortem report would help ascertain if toxic liquor caused the deaths or they died due to overconsumption of alcohol, the police official said. The liquor seller has gone absconding and a search is on for him, the DCP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/3-dead-2-others-hospitalised-after-consuming-spurious-liquor-in-lucknow/story-9aFK7yBmmt8OmYsiuCiTqO.html
13-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality expected to go worse on Diwali: IMD||The Indian Meteorological Department on Friday said that the air quality in Delhi is currently very poor and it is expected to go worse to severe on Diwali, i.e. November 14.“Presently Delhi’s air quality is very poor and is expected to go worse to severe tomorrow. It can be worse if there are additional emissions. AQI will improve after Diwali and there are chances of drizzle and rain on 15th November,” Dr VK Soni, Head, Environment and Research Centre, IMD said.Delhi woke up to “very poor” air quality on Friday morning. The AQI was 328 this morning, while on Thursday the AQI was 314.Delhi’s AQI was ‘severe’ for six days, starting November 6. Due to a change in wind speeds, Delhi’s air quality had marginally improved on Wednesday and Thursday but scientists have warned that respite from severe pollution will be short-lived. The System of Air Quality and weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) under the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, has released a similar forecast for Delhi’s air quality for the Diwali weekend. “The stubble burning induced impact in AQI is expected to increase from negligible to moderate for the next two days,” the SAFAR forecast read.The forecast added that even if residents do not burn any crackers, the PM 2.5 level is still expected to be on the higher-end of ‘very poor’ or the lower-end of ‘severe’ category. However, despite unfavourable weather conditions, the forecast said the AQI is expected to be better this year, as compared to Diwali day and the days after the festival for the past four years.On Thursday, Delhi’s minimum temperature, recorded at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official reading for the city, was 11.6 degree Celsius – two notches below normal. The maximum temperature was 29.2 degree Celsius – one degree above normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-air-quality-expected-to-go-worse-on-diwali-imd/story-puCVtGNGOzXxsGwKb17v8O.html
13-11-2020||Jaipur||Ashok Gehlot cites Rajasthan model, urges PM Modi for mandatory FIR policy across India||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ensure that all states adopt a mandatory FIR registration policy for ‘effective’ maintenance of law and order while emphasising that the high rate of crime registration in Rajasthan didn’t mean the state had a high crime rate. In a letter to PM Narendra Modi, the CM claimed that the state had adopted police reforms for dispensation of speedy justice and for prevention of crime and asserted that other states could also benefit from the ‘effective and sensitive’ system. Gehlot, in the letter, stated that in order to remove complexities in crime registration, Rajasthan in May 2019 had implemented a system of uninterrupted registration of crimes. Under the system, if the crime is not registered at any police station then an FIR can be registered at the office of superintendent of police. The state government, he said, has ensured disciplinary action against police officers for dereliction of duty. The CM also mentioned other initiatives for providing transparent and accountable police administration.Gehlot said encouragement to crime registration in the state is bound to increase the number of registered crimes as seen in the state and acknowledged in the ‘Crime in India-2019’ report, recently published by the national crime records bureau (NCRB). Also Read: Congress leader Sachin Pilot tests positive for Covid-19Gehlot said that some people have mistakenly termed the increase in registration of FIRs in the state as an increase in crime; whereas the NCRB report clearly states that there is a difference between the two.Gehlot also said that according to the NCRB, the increase in crime registration figures may be due to ‘people-centric’ schemes and policies in the state. All the states should make crime registration mandatory and crime data should not be used for political gain, he said. Also Read: WHO to set up Global Centre on Traditional Medicine in India: PM ModiHe argued that making the number of registered crimes a measure of success and failure of the police force reinforces the tendency not to register a crime. Due to this, many types of disorders in the working of the police also arise. He has said that this is not the time to oppose registration, but to strongly support this policy of providing justice to every person. Otherwise, in future, the government of any state of the country will shy away from taking such steps that provide relief to the common man.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/ashok-gehlot-cites-rajasthan-model-urges-pm-modi-for-mandatory-fir-policy-across-india/story-iEDxIbplMY9iACNLm8KaGI.html
13-11-2020||Patna||Will work on eradicating backwardness in Seemanchal: AIMIM||The All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) has pledged to address the backwardness of Bihar’s Seemanchal region, where it won five seats in the just-concluded Bihar assembly polls and registered its best electoral performance outside its stronghold of Hyderabad. “Our only focus is to lift Seemanchal out of backwardness, poverty, illiteracy, and disease,” said Bihar’s AIMIM chief president, Akhtarul Iman, who won the Amour seat. He criticised the established parties for doing nothing to mitigate the miseries of the region’s people.Also Read: Full coverage of Bihar assembly election 2020 AIMIM earlier managed to gain a foothold in the state by winning an assembly bypoll in Kishanganj in 2019.Md Nadeem, an AIMIM leader from Bihar’s Purnia, said they succeeded even as they were stigmatised as vote cutters and all attempts were made to defeat them. “Our campaign will go on in Bihar in general and Seemanchal in particular.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/aimim-to-work-on-eradicating-backwardness-in-bihar-s-seemanchal/story-kc6hlFwOcWSTrK0a74gojP.html
13-11-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Five-month old elephant rescued from well||A five-month-old elephant calf fell into a 5-foot-deep farm well in Lipia village in Jharkhand’s Ramgarh district, around 50km from capital Ranchi early Friday, officials said. The calf struggled in the well for over four hours and was rescued by the village men, who jumped into the well, tied a rope around the calf and pulled the animal out. Forest ranger Amarender Kumar Singh said, “The calf was with a herd of six elephants. The herd was passing through the farm. But, the calf fell into the small well, dug for agricultural purpose in the village, on the way.” He said a team of forest staff was sent to the village with an excavator. However, the calf had already been rescued by then, he said. The mukhiya (village head) of Rakuwa panchayat, under the jurisdiction of which the village is, Suresh Rajak said a 40-year-old man spotted the herd and the struggling calf in the well around 7am when he went out to relieve himself. “He was injured by the herd and has been admitted to a hospital,” Rajak said. The herd damaged the paddy, potato, beans and bottle gourd crops on a large scale in the village, he said. “Despite this, the villagers came out to rescue the calf. We have demanded compensation from the government for the crop loss. ” Jageshwar Mahto, a resident of Lipia village who was part of the rescue team, said, “During the rescue operation, our main challenge was to protect ourselves from the herd of six elephants, which was around 200 metres away from the well. However, some men were brave enough to jump into the well and tie the animal with a rope safely. Then, we all pulled the rope up and rescued the elephant.” He said they released the elephant calf in the forest area where the herd was staying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-five-month-old-elephant-rescued-from-well/story-eBCv7J0Ub2oxpBrQZSV4JK.html
13-11-2020||Chandigarh||With snow, rain forecast, Kashmir awaits date with winged guests||Bird lovers and wildlife experts are eagerly awaiting the snowfall forecast over the weekend to welcome the migratory birds that will flock the wetlands of Kashmir. Owing to the extended dry spell in summer and autumn this year, the water level in the rivers, lakes and wetlands of the Kashmir Valley has been low, affecting the arrival of the avian visitors. “We are expecting the winged guests to arrive in flocks after the rain and snowfall expected between Friday and Sunday. So far, the wetlands of Shalbough, Hokersar and Hygam have few birds because of the low water level,” says Ifshan Dewan, Kashmir’s wildlife warden, wetlands. The weather office has forecast light to moderate snowfall in the plains of Jammu and Kashmir and moderate to heavy snowfall in the higher reaches between November 13 and 15 after months of dry weather in the valley. KASHMIR HOME TO 9 OF 13 WETLANDS IN J&K Kashmir has about 400 water bodies of which the officials and avian watchers observe the birds in 25 big and notified water bodies. The valley is home to nine of the 13 wetlands in Jammu and Kashmir. Shalbough in central Kashmir’s Ganderbal district is the biggest wetland spread over 16 sq km, while Hokersar on the city’s outskirts covers an area of 13.5 sq km and Hygam wetland in north Kashmir is spread across 9 sq km. Dewan said that the Jhelum and the Doodh Ganga rivers feed these wetlands but both have low water levels this year. “There has been no rain since June. The water table is low but we are hopeful that within the next one or two weeks we will see a good arrival of birds,” she said. OCTOBER ARRIVAL DELAYED Traversing continents in flocks, the birds arrive from Europe, Central Asia, China and Japan to spend the winter in the Himalayan valley. Mostly Mallards, Greylag Geese, Pochards, Common tails, Shovellers, Pintails and Gharwals visit the region between October and April. Dewan said necessary plugging of the wetlands has been done in anticipation of the rain. “We have done whatever management intervention was needed. Now we only want this dry spell to end,” she said. In 2018 and 2019, the birds arrived early owing to the early snowfall. Dewan said that thousands of birds have been already started flocking the lakes, particularly Dal Lake. “Birds have made their presence felt in Dal Lake and the Chatlam wetland in Pampore where the water level is good,” she said. ENCROACHMENTS REMOVED Officials say the migratory birds shuttle between wetlands and lakes of Kashmir during their stay. After the onset of militancy, the wetlands witnessed large-scale encroachment and poaching of migratory birds but of late, vigilance has been stepped up and the encroachments have also come down to a large extent. “Last year, around 7 lakh birds had visited the region,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/with-snow-rain-forecast-kashmir-awaits-date-with-winged-guests/story-GKvI5AOxENj7SjouHnDmAM.html
13-11-2020||Kolkata||Bengal man kills three in their sleep, bystander||A man allegedly clubbed three labourers who worked at a licensed country liquor shop to death in their sleep at Jamuria in West Bengal’s West Burdwan district late Thursday night. The family of the accused man owns the shop. He also killed a fourth person, who was a bystander.The man, locals told the police, had been abandoned by his family because he was mentally challenged and was given shelter by the labourers who worked at the shop. He used to sleep inside the premises at night. “The accused man hit the three labourers on their heads with a heavy stick when they were asleep. An elderly man who was passing by saw the incident. The accused chased the old man and killed him too. We are gathering more details,” an officer of the Jamuria police station said on condition of anonymity. “We have arrested the accused. He is making incoherent statements. He has to undergo medical examination. Police cannot ascertain his mental condition,” the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/mentally-challenged-man-in-bengal-kills-three-in-their-sleep-fourth-who-watched/story-QQDwgQQ2IroJnXmzqrOBXJ.html
13-11-2020||Bhopal||Shivraj Chouhan announces 3-tier panels for public monitoring of development projects||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced constitution of Deendayal committees at village, janpad and district levels for public participation in monitoring of development projects, as per the state government’s official communiqué. Chouhan’s announcement came while he released Roadmap-2023 for an Atmanirbhar (self-reliant) Madhya Pradesh in a programme. He said, “A new structure will be created for public participation in the development and monitoring system. Deendayal committees will be constituted at village, Janpad and district levels to ensure public participation and monitoring. Transparency in development works will be increased by extensive use of modern technology in every field.” He added that his government was also focussing on alleviating the farmers’ hardship. “Farming will be made a profitable business by increasing production and productivity in a modern way. A total of Rs 10,000 of Samman Nidhi will be given to farmers every year in the form of PM Samman Nidhi and Mukhya Mantri Samman Nidhi,” Chouhan stated. He said, “Madhya Pradesh is the first state in the country to have released the roadmap for Atmanirbhar Madhya Pradesh following the strategy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Atmanirbhar Bharat. A clear strategy on infrastructure development, health and education, economy and employment and good governance has been chalked out for the roadmap. Ministers will introduce and implement schemes of their departments. Responsibility will be fixed at every level.” Also Read: Will try to fulfil public expectations, says Shivraj Singh Chouhan on by-poll winAmong other things, the roadmap underlines establishment of a road asset management system, promotion of tourism through ‘Buffer mein safar’ campaign, skill development of service providers, 100% domestic working tap connections, preference to locally manufactured materials in purchase of materials and equipment, setting up air-cargo hub for perishable goods at Indore Airport and single portal for service delivery. Also Read: Modi and the politics of welfareOn health services delivery front, some strategies in the roadmap include upgrading of 10,000 sub-health centres and 1,200 primary health centres into wellness centres, establishment of 1,600 ultra-modern maternity centres and establishment of special newborn units at each community health centres, 100% coverage of pregnant women through RCH (reproductive and child health) portal, 100% vaccination of 55 lakh children under 5 years of age, use of tele-medicine and other information and communication technology equipment at 1,200 primary health centres and 10,000 sub-health centres etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/shivraj-chouhan-announces-3-tier-panels-for-public-monitoring-of-development-projects/story-mYg9fQUmXqKKKFYRPBTtqO.html
13-11-2020||Mumbai||Bollywood drugs case: NCB questions actor Arjun Rampal||Actor Arjun Rampal was called to the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) office in south Mumbai on Friday for questioning in connection with a drug-related case. NCB had already questioned Rampal’s partner Gabriella Demetriades.NCB conducted a search at Rampal’s residence in Bandra a few days ago and seized electronics and medicine which are illegal under the NDPS Act. He was then summoned for inquiry and reached the NCB office around 11am Friday, said NCB officials. Demetriades was summoned after she was held responsible for the narcotics and was questioned on Wednesday around six hours. On Thursday, she was called for questioning again and interrogated for around six hours at NCB’s Bellard Estate office.Also Read: Bollywood drugs case: NCB summons Arjun Rampal after searching his house for eight hoursNCB summoned Rampal and Demetriades after they discovered the involvement of Demetriades’ brother Agisilaos Demetriades in drug cases and found that he was in touch with many Bollywood celebrities, said an NCB officer. Agisilaos was arrested on October 17 from a resort at Lonawala where he was staying with his fiance. NCB officials recovered 0.8 grams of a black-coloured sticky substance purported to be charas. The agency also conducted a search at his residence in Khar and recovered Alprazolam tablets. Officials said Agisilaos Demetriades was in constant touch with several drug peddlers who supplied drugs to Rhea Chakraborty’s brother Showik and others persons arrested for their alleged involvement in the death of Sushant Singh Rajput, said NCB officials.Rajput was found dead in his house in June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bollywood-drugs-case-ncb-questions-actor-arjun-rampal/story-oWkMLNzKm8FvHj5L10mZkI.html
13-11-2020||Delhi||More steps coming, Delhi Covid situation should be under control in 7-10 days: Kejriwal||Expressing concern over the spike in Covid-19 cases in the national capital, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Friday that his government is planning to take steps in the coming week to address the issue. He also said the situation is expected to come under control in another seven to ten days.However, he did not elaborate on the options being considered by the government to control the ongoing spike in cases and recorded deaths. The CM also said that pollution is a contributing factor in the spike in the coronavirus disease cases.Senior government officials said the government has asked the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) – which is chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal – to convene a meeting by Tuesday to discuss the course of action.Also read | India records less than 50,000 daily Covid-19 cases for 6th day in a row“The Covid-19 situation in Delhi is concerning. Next week, we will take some more steps to address it. The situation should come under control in 7-10 days,” said Kejriwal in a video press briefing.On Thursday, Delhi recorded 7,053 new Covid-19 cases and 104 deaths in 24 hours – the highest fatalities for a single day yet. So far, 467,028 people in the capital have been diagnosed Covid-19 positive, of which 416,580 have recovered, and 7,332 have died. Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the epidemiology and communicable diseases in the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said, “By the current trends, it looks like cases can go up for at least another three weeks unless the government imposes restrictions on non-essential activities – that can concern market timings, size of gatherings, etc.”In Friday’s press briefing, Kejriwal shared results of an experiment with a bio decomposer – developed by the Pusa Institute – that can be used as an alternative for crop stubble burning. Last month, he had said that the bio decomposer was spread over 2,000 acres of farm lands in Delhi and results of the experiment – based on samples collected from 24 villages – showed that 70%-95% of total crop stubble had been decomposed.“Now, we have a solution. I urge other states, the Central government and the Supreme Court to take note of it. The Delhi government will file a petition along with this report to the Central government’s air quality commission, urging them to issue directions to states to use the bio decomposer,” said Kejriwal, adding that air pollution in Delhi was contributing to the spike in Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/govt-working-on-ways-to-keep-covid-19-situation-in-check-says-delhi-cm-kejriwal/story-uRiTqh9jBjBX20Uw1QVe8J.html
13-11-2020||Bangalore||Noted journalist and writer Ravi Belagere dies of heart attack||Noted journalist and writer Ravi Belagere died after suffering a heart attack in the wee hours Friday.Belagare (62) was rushed to hospital but he did not respond to treatment and passed away, sources said.His mortal remains will be kept at his Prarthana School premises for people and dignitaries to pay their last respects.Belagere was a known name in Karnataka from his popular Kannada tabloid “Hi Bangalore” and more than 70 of his literary works including fiction, translation, storytelling, column writing and biography.He was known for his writings on the crime world and his column ‘Paapigala Lokadalli’, a series on the Bengaluru underworld was very popular.He was a recipient of several awards including the Karnataka Sahitya Academy Award, Rajyothsava award and the Karnataka Media Academy Award for Lifetime achievement among others.Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa condoled Belagere’s death, recalling his works as a journalist and writer.“I pray to the almighty to give courage to his family and fans to bear the loss,” he said in a tweet.Born in Ballari on March 15, 1958, he became a household name with his unique and engaging style of writing.He also had tried his hand in television and the silver screen.His television programme ‘Crime Diary’ became extremely popular because of his unique narration skills and it was one of the very first crime programmes for the Kannada audience.Belagere had done MA in History and Archaeology from Karnataka University.He had also launched “O Manase”, a fortnightly magazine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/noted-journalist-and-writer-ravi-belagere-dies-of-heart-attack/story-Rgpz0bZwJmiY0DSvdC4CBI.html
13-11-2020||Patna||Bihar: Cop arrested for raping woman, threatening to circulate obscene photos of her||Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Somesh Mishra was arrested late Thursday for allegedly raping a woman for over a year and threatening to make her photographs viral. Bhagalpur senior superintendent of police (SSP) Asish Bharti confirmed his arrest from Sahebgaj in Jharkhand. He said the women’s police station of Bhagalpur district had booked the Mishra under sections 376 (rape) and 328 (whoever administers to or causes to be taken by any person any poison or intoxicating) of the Indian Penal Code, besides charges under the Atrocities Act, following a complaint lodged by the woman on March 20. The complainant said that she met Mishra for the first time in New Delhi before his recruitment to the police department. She alleged he called her to a friend’s house where he sexually assaulted her after giving her food laced with sedatives. He also filmed a video of the act and later used it to blackmail her into having sex with him for nearly 18 months. He threatened her, saying that he would circulate the video on social media if she refused to have a physical relationship with him, she said. Also Read: Revenge porn, rape-death threats, online abuse against women on a rise as people fan digital misogyny amid Covid-19The complainant also said that Mishra continued to blackmail her into having physical relations with him even after she got married. “The DSP started harassing her even more than before after her wedding. He even assaulted her, which prompted her to approach the police,” said station house officer (SHO) Rita Kumari of the women’s police station. The SHO said Mishra also went to the city she works in and showed her the obscene pictures that he had taken of her, and threatened to send them to her husband. Upon investigation, the Bhagalpur Police found the allegations to be true and arrested the DSP following an arrest warrant issued by a court concerned. The police headquarters had earlier suspended him while he was training in Bihar police academy, Rajgir, when the matter first came to light.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-cop-arrested-for-raping-woman-threatening-to-circulate-obscene-photos-of-her/story-g5ShPZAj4BpKtu1l4GXgiL.html
13-11-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Purvanchal Peoples Party merges with AAP||The Purvanchal Peoples Party (PPP) merged with the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday. This has given a boost to the AAP’s expansion plan in Uttar Pradesh (UP), AAP leaders said. Sanjay Singh, AAP spokesperson and UP in-charge announced the merger. Janata Dal (United) leader Hussain Wahid, Shiv Sena’s UP spokesman Santosh Dubey and former spokesperson of Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) Rajveer Singh Sachan, along with other party workers, also joined the AAP. “The merger of Purvanchal Peoples Party in AAP will strengthen the party not only in Purvanchal but across the state,” Singh said in a statement on Thursday. Also Read: AAP, BJP spar over delay in paying salaries of civic body employeesAAP MLA from Timarpur assembly constituency, New Delhi, Dilip Pandey was also present on the occasion. “Efforts will be made to contact people of Purvanchal living in other states and make them join the party,” Pandey said. The AAP has decided to contest Panchayat polls in UP and its cadre is reaching out to electorate across the state. In 345 assembly constituencies, the AAP has constituted a 25-member committee. “The party wants to ensure its representative in every village across the state,” AAP leaders said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-purvanchal-peoples-party-merges-with-aap/story-6SMxSTuKfvb97vOykHnZrJ.html
13-11-2020||Lucknow||UP suspends senior IPS after SIT report||The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday suspended former Kanpur deputy inspector general of police Anant Deo after a special investigation team (SIT) pointed to a nexus between the senior official and gangster Vikas Dubey, said senior home department officials. The SIT was formed to probe the July 3 ambush in Bikru village in Kanpur in which eight policemen, headed there to arrest Dubey, were killed. Dubey was shot dead by the police on July 10 when he was allegedly trying to escape while being brought back to Kanpur after his arrest in Ujjain in Rajasthan.Confirming Deo’s suspension, additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said, “Anant Deo has been suspended. The action has been taken on the basis of the SIT report.”A three-member SIT formed to probe the ambush of policemen pointed to a nexus between the police and the slain gangster, officials said. A senior home department official said that the DIG, who is currently posted at Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) in Moradabad, aided Dubey in connivance with former Chaubeypur police station officer Vinay Tiwari. The SIT handed over a 3,500-word report to the state government last week, recommending action against police personnel and administration officials. It submitted 36 recommendations, giving details of the alleged role of some officers and 80 police personnel in the Kanpur episode. However, the government is yet to take any action against these officials. “It came to the fore that policemen used to give tip-offs to Dubey and on the night of the ambush, he was aware that a police team was coming to Bikru,” a senior officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-suspends-senior-ips-after-sit-report/story-aQtK8jnuXBc749830zVf0H.html
13-11-2020||City||Assam journalist killed in hit-and-run case; TV channel alleges murder||Allegations of murder have surfaced following the death of a journalist of an Assamese news channel in a hit-and-run case in Tinsukia district of upper Assam. Parag Bhuyan, the Kakopathar correspondent of Pratidin Time, was critically injured after he was hit by a vehicle near his home on NH-15 on Wednesday around 8.15pm, close to the Kakopathar police station. The 53-year-old, the brother of former minister Jagadish Bhuyan, was initially admitted to a local hospital and later shifted to a private hospital in Dibrugarh where he succumbed to his injuries in Thursday morning. In a statement, Pratidin Time blamed the local police for being slow in pursuing the case and acting only after intervention of chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal. Also Read: Top ULFA militant’s surrender marks end of insurgency in Meghalaya: DGP“The initial lacklustre approach of the police gave us reason to be suspicious about the whole incident and we suspect that the brave journalist was murdered as he had been doing a series of reports exposing illegalities and corruption around Kakopathar. He had received personal threats for these reports,” the statement read. “We suspect it is a planned murder and demand a detailed inquiry into the whole incident and give justice to the family of late Bhuyan and Pratidin Time,” it added. Chief minister Sonowal handed over the probe on Bhuyan’s death to the state’s criminal investigation department (CID) on Thursday evening.In a statement, Sonowal mourned the untimely death of Bhuyan and conveyed his sympathy to the journalist’s family. In a press release issued on Thursday, Assam Police said that two persons, James Murha and Baba Bordoloi, the driver and helper of the vehicle which hit Bhuyan, were nabbed from Namsai in Arunachal Pradesh on Thursday morning. “During interrogation, the driver admitted to having caused the accident due to negligence while returning after unloading tree leaves collected from various areas around Doomdooma,” the police release said. “The driver said that they fled from the scene after the accident as they were afraid that the public might assault them. The vehicle involved in the accident has been seized and further investigation is on,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/assam-journalist-killed-in-hit-and-run-case-tv-channel-alleges-murder/story-sdfuCdFl2Xiq1nM4Vs3ZVL.html
13-11-2020||Kolkata||Stones hurled at Bengal BJP chief Ghosh’s convoy; TMC says staged||The convoy of Bharatiya Janata Party’s West Bengal unit president Dilip Ghosh was attacked at Jaigaon in Alipurduar district on Thursday, party workers said. Stones were hurled at the cars and the leader was shown black flags, the workers said. While nobody was injured, three cars were damaged, they said. A team of officers were able to bring the situation under control.The BJP leader, who was on a three-day visit to north Bengal, accused the ruling Trinamool Congress of orchestrating the attack. “Such attacks are not new to me. Several of my cars were vandalized in the past. The TMC is scared of our growth. It knows that its days are numbered. These attacks cannot stop the BJP,” Ghosh said.“The TMC and their friends are getting desperate as they can sense defeat in the upcoming assembly polls. However such tactics won’t work. People are with us,” Ghosh said. Assembly elections in the state are due early next year.The BJP’s state youth wing president Saumitra Khan said, “We will stage demonstrations in all towns of the state from 4 pm onwards.” Refuting the allegations, district TMC chief Sourav Chakraborty said that Ghosh was trying to foment trouble in north Bengal.TMC leader and urban development minister Firhad Hakim said, “Whoever is involved in the incident will face action. The administration will take steps. I condemn the attack but our party is not involved in this.” “The TMC is not all involved in the incident. The attack was staged because the BJP wants to stay in the limelight. Our party does not believe in violence,” tourism minister Gautam Deb, legislator from the Dabgram-Phulbari constituency in north Bengal, said.Kuntal Banerjee, Alipurduar additional superintendent of police refused to comment on the incident. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar also condemned the attack. “No political leader should face such attacks. This is deplorable,” Dhankhhar told mediapersons.The governor, who is visiting neighbouring Cooch Behar district, said that an atmosphere of political violence and vendetta is prevailing in the state.“There is no sign of abating of political violence. The reason for this is public servants have become political workers,” Dhankhar told reporters.Dhankhar had alleged earlier also that the police and bureaucracy are being politicised in West Bengal and asked public servants not to work as political functionaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/stones-hurled-at-bengal-bjp-chief-ghosh-s-convoy-tmc-says-staged/story-grvfL8ynKiOK6bWYbH0dPL.html
13-11-2020||Bangalore||BS Yediyurappa’s son emerges as new leader||Karnataka chief minister’s son BY Vijayendra has ensured two significant victories in for the Bharatiya Janata Party in the last one year. While the bypoll win of party candidate Narayan Gowda on the KR Pete seat last year was dismissed as a fluke by many analysts, the result in the favor of BJP’s Rajesh Gowda in Sira assembly constituency has pitched Vijayendra as a likely inheritor of BS Yediyurappa’s legacy in the state. Significantly, both KR Pete in Mandya district and Sira in Tumakuru are dominated by the Vokkaligas – the second largest community in the state. The community has tended to vote for the Janata Dal (Secular) and the Congress whenever the JD(S) fell out of favor. The BJP, meanwhile, has been seen as a Lingayat party due to the leadership of CM Yediyurappa. Analysts believe that Vijayendra has his father’s knack of taking people along unlike his elder brother, Shivamogga MP BY Raghavendra, who is perceived to be more reserved. Political Analyst Manjunath said, “While Vijayendra is yet to hold any elected office while Raghavendra has already been an MLA and an MP, it is a fact that it is Vijayendra who has the charisma, a natural political instinct which marks him out as the one most likely to inherit his father’s legacy.”Vijayendra, however, had dismissed any speculation of taking the reigns from his father, saying that the family is united and there is no internal rivalry. The vice president of the party’s state unit has dealt with his share of controversies, with the opposition accusing him of having a major say in the administration even thought he does not hold any post. He has also been accused of corruption, but he dismissed the charges as the “price I pay for being the bridge between the CM and people as well as party workers”.Responding to the growing clamour for him to contest the Basva Kalyan bypoll, Vijaydenra said “will take up any responsibility given by the party”, even as the chief minister dismissed the speculations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/bs-yediyurappa-s-son-emerges-as-new-leader/story-cv083Dsi9AghpuGMT7wNLL.html
13-11-2020||Delhi||HT Spot Check: Not far from the madding crowd||Despite new Covid-19 infections in the Capital spiralling, and experts urging people to avoid crowding, markets have swelled during the festive season. HT is conducting spot checks in different parts of the city to check whether social distancing norms and mask hygiene are being followed, and questioning the authorities about why they are being unable to put measures in place, and how they plan to address the problem. Need we remind you, the coronavirus disease has already infected over 465,000 people in the city, and taken more than 7,000 lives.LAXMI NAGAR MARKETRavinder Yadav, president of Laxmi Nagar market association, said: “Police are issuing fines for not maintaining distance inside the shops, but there is no check on the streets. This is the only time we can do some business. After several requests, we got the entry of four-wheelers inside the market banned.”Arun Kumar Mishra, DM East, said: “We have regulated the entry and exit of vehicles at the market, and they are not allowed in the inner lanes. Strict action is being taken against shops and people who are not adhering to Covid-appropriate behaviour.” Deputy commissioner of police (east) Jasmeet Singh said: “Vehicular movement and presence of street vendors and hawkers on the road are the main causes of overcrowding in the market. We put barricades on the main entry and points of the market to stop the entry of vehicles. Joint teams of police, district administration and MCD officials, along with civil defence volunteers regularly remove and fine street vendors and hawkers. Prosecution for not wearing masks and violating distancing norms has been increased.”Ajay Bajaj, advisor, Karol Bagh Traders’ Federation, said: “Streets are flooded with people, largely due to illegal hawkers. Traffic on Arya Samaj Road has gone up due to the closing of Ajmal Khan Road.”Balram Meena, SDM, Karol Bagh, said: “The administration along with police and municipal staff is conducting daily flag marches urging people to follow social distancing.”DCP (Central) Sanjay Bhatia said: “It is a large market with high footfall. We are doing our best to ensure no crowding.”Devraj Baweja, general secretary, Confederation of Sadar Bazaar Traders Association, said: “The biggest problem was encroachments, which have been removed. We have told all traders not to allow people who are not wearing masks.”Nagendra Tripathi, ADM (Central): “We have set up six incident command posts with 6-8 civil defence volunteers. We have issued close to 200 challans to people who are violating the Covid norms.”DCP (North) Anto Alphonse said: “Vehicle entry is restricted inside. Our officers on the ground are conducting checks and requesting people not to crowd.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ht-spot-check-not-far-from-the-madding-crowd/story-6Ow0cMyGU8Dq1o00Og2DqL.html
13-11-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Blue sky sighting||The sky has lost its blue. The pollution has covered it in a haze. But there is still one place in the city where you can find the most beautiful shade of that lost blue.It’s on the wall of Malik Naan House, in Old Delhi’s Turkman Gate neighbourhood. Founded 40 years ago, the naan and roti making establishment is very small, and looks totally unremarkable from outside, until the gaze falls on the blue wall. Tonight, many plastic bags are hanging on the wall, along with shirts and pants, and even a gamcha — it must all belong to the roti cooks, traditionally known as Naanbai.It’s 7.30 pm, busy hour for the stall as folks from across the neighbourhood are coming up to get tandoori rotis or naans for their dinner. Indeed, the stall is distinguished by one specific additional aspect, apart from its beautiful wall. It retains a link to Delhi’s longtime culinary culture, in which the households would cook their own gravies and subzis but the rotis would be sourced from neighbourhood bakeries. Such businesses, satisfying the need of the neighbourhood residences, have greatly diminished over the years, as more and more home kitchens opt to cook flat rotis on their gas chulha rather than have big thick tandoor-baked breads.Malik Naan House employs about half a dozen men, and all are from Lucknow in UP. The most venerable “kaarigar” (cook) is the one with the responsibility to handle the tandoor. Taufik Khan remarks that even in the days when the air is clear, he and his cooks have no time to look at the blue sky. “There are other important things, like making rotis,” he says, chuckling. The other much younger cooks laugh. The playful Muhammed Sonu, rolling out the dough, picks up his giant wooden rolling pin and holds it like a film star clutching the rifle in the climactic scene of an action film. The customers standing outside clap like single-screen cinema audience.Gesturing towards the wall, Mr Khan clarifies that it isn’t always decked up with so many bags. “Today the boys went for shopping to Matia Mahal,” he says, referring to a nearby bazar. “The bags have their new clothes.... they came straight to work from the shopping, and so hang their purchases on the wall.”The stall will close about an hour later and the cooks will return to the room they share together. “We’ll take all our thaile (bags) to our room, and the wall will become empty.” The clear blue sky shall become clearer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-blue-sky-sighting/story-RiKpL3Yaj8lh3lSqg6tBeM.html
13-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra Governor gifts bamboo lamps made by tribal women to Raj Bhavan staff||Urging citizens to celebrate a safe, eco-friendly and pollution-free Diwali, Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Thursday presented bamboo sky lamps, named as ‘Akash Kandils’, as Diwali gift to all the staff of Raj Bhavan, the Governor’s official residence. The bamboo sky lamps are made by tribal women from Bhalivali, Bot, Durvesh and Goje villages in Palghar district. The gesture will help in promoting rural bamboo products as well, officials from Raj Bhavan said. Koshyari had visited the Bamboo Project run by Vivek Rural Development Centre in Palghar district in February. He had appealed to citizens to buy the bamboo products manufactured by tribal women to support their income and livelihood and had announced that he will make start the initiative by buying these products for Raj Bhavan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-governor-gifts-bamboo-lamps-made-by-tribal-women-to-raj-bhavan-staff/story-85lIIjYesmkEw4VbKjBWtK.html
13-11-2020||Mumbai||Cricketer Krunal Pandya detained at Mumbai airport||Indian cricketer Krunal Pandya was stopped and questioned by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) at the Mumbai international airport on Thursday. DRI sources said based on specific intelligence, the all-rounder and his wife were detained at Terminal-2 of the airport after their return from the United Arab Emirates (UAE) on an Indigo flight around 5pm, following the conclusion of the Indian Premier League (IPL), over suspicion of possessing undisclosed valuables. DRI officers said Pandya had not declared four expensive watches. Customs officers privy to the probe said the watches cost around Rs75 lakh. A senior DRI officer said the case has been handed over to the air intelligence unit of airport customs. Further action will be taken by customs officers. Speaking on the issue, Pandya’s mother Nalini said, “I haven’t heard anything about it. I did not speak to him today.”Under the Customs Act, a passenger can carry items worth Rs50,000 or less as ‘free allowance’ and need not declare it to the customs. However, if a passenger carries an item worth more than Rs50,000, it has be declared to the customs in the red channel area of arrivals and pay around 36% customs duty before exiting the airport. If a passenger is caught with goods worth Rs20 lakh, the customs officers impose a fine. But if a passenger is found carrying goods ranging from Rs20 lakh to Rs1 crore, a fine is imposed on them and they also face arrest. However, in such cases, a passenger can be granted spot bail against cash deposit. But if items above Rs1 crore are not declared, the passenger is arrested and produced before magistrate to seek judicial custody. (Inputs from Vijay Kumar Yadav)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cricketer-krunal-pandya-detained-at-mumbai-airport/story-0bqh0BGLiozYh5IDX0eG2K.html
13-11-2020||Mumbai||Bombay high court upholds Union cabinet committee’s approval for disinvestment of government’s share in BPCL||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday upheld the November 20, 2019, decision of the cabinet committee of economic affairs (CCEA), headed by the prime minister, to grant in-principle approval for disinvestment of government share in Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL) – India’s second-largest public sector oil and gas company. The division bench of justice SC Gupte and justice Madhav Jamdar dismissed separate petitions filed by the Federation of all Maharashtra Petrol Dealers Association, Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (Refinery) Employees Union, Petroleum Employees Union and some individuals, questioning the validity of the in-principle approval. The petitioners primarily contended that the original business and undertaking of BPCL’s predecessor, Burmah Shell – acquired through an Act of parliament and vested in BPCL by a notification in pursuance of that Act – cannot be disinvested without specific legislative approval from the Parliament. Relying on the Supreme Court (SC) judgment for public interest litigation, they argued that as the original acquisition is under an Act of Parliament, it was not legally permissible for the central government to disinvest its shareholding in BPCL without legislative mandate of the Parliament. They also claimed that the Burmah Shell Acquisition Repelling Act does not amount to such parliamentary approval for the disinvestment. Their counsel, senior advocate Navroz Seervai, submitted that an informed parliamentary approval to disinvestment had to precede any strategic disinvestment by the Union of its controlling stake in the company. The HC, however, said that the Apex court judgment did not support the case of the petitioners. The bench said what the SC held was that if an undertaking was acquired through an Act of Parliament, it cannot be disinvested so long as the law remained on statute book. The SC said that for such disinvestment, the law would have to be repealed or suitably amended to enable the Centre to disinvest its controlling stake or change the public character of the company. The HC also said that the parliament had repealed the Burmah Shell Acquisition Act in 2016. “Absent the statute of acquisition, there is no legal impediment for disinvestment by the Union of its controlling stake in BPCL,” said the bench. The HC also noted that the decision had undergone an elaborate process of consideration at the hands of experts and key government functionaries. The court said the policy decision of acquiring Burmah Shell was based on the economic theory and socio-economic policy prevailing at the time. The central government then considered it to be in public interest, the court said, adding that those considerations have made way for new considerations, informed by a new economic theory and socio-economic policy of efficiency improvement and consumer benefit by making of the current oligopoly of petroleum producers and marketers competitive through a private or non-government player. “The present governing dispensation is well within its powers to take such decision,” said the bench, approving the in-principle approval. The HC noted that Niti Aayog identified BPCL as an ideal undertaking for disinvestment. Niti Aayog recommendations were deliberated at the Core Group of Secretaries on Disinvestment (CGD). The CGD, after taking into account various inputs from expert bodies and different ministries, recommended strategic disinvestment in BPCL, and thereafter the CCEA accorded in-principle approval for the disinvestment. “All this can only lead to conclusion that the policy decision is an informed decision; it cannot be termed as an arbitrary or capricious decision; and it does not offend any constitutional or statutory provisions,” HC concluded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-high-court-upholds-union-cabinet-committee-s-approval-for-disinvestment-of-government-s-share-in-bpcl/story-bbwrf0KOEIxFV70IVpXlWO.html
13-11-2020||Delhi||80% pvt ICU beds to be reserved for Covid-19 care||The Delhi high court allowed the state government on Thursday to reserve 80% of intensive care unit (ICU) beds in 33 private hospitals for Covid-19 patients for two weeks, lifting its own legal hold after noting that the coronavirus outbreak was at alarming new levels in the national Capital. The Delhi government first ordered private hospitals to keep ICU beds aside for critical Covid-19 cases in an order on September 12. A group representing some of these establishments challenged the order, resulting in a stay on September 22 by a single-judge bench that criticised the government’s distinction between Covid and non-Covid critical patients. “In view of the present situation and the spiralling situation that has radically changed in the last three months, the order of September 22, passed by the single judge, is vacated,” a bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad said on Thursday.Figures from Delhi government’s hospital resources monitoring showed that as on Thursday morning, a little under 17% of the city’s ICU beds for Covid-19 patients were free. This came a day after the Capital recorded a peak of new cases at 8,593 on Wednesday. On Thursday, new infections were at 7,053 and the city added 104 deaths -- its highest one-day fatality -- since the outbreak began in March. These numbers represent Delhi’s most serious wave of infections yet. In the last week, Delhi added 7,148 cases every day, up from 3,697 in the week ending September 12 when the government first tried to reserve ICU beds for Covid-19 patients. The Delhi government’s legal representatives, additional solicitor general Sanjay Jain and additional standing counsel Sanjoy Ghose, accepted the court’s criticism that the September 12 notification seemed outdated and premature, but pressed on with the request since the situation had now become much more critical.“Empower me (Delhi government) today to address the dynamic situation. Kindly let me enforce for 15 days. We will take steps to complete the deficiency,” the ASG said – a request that was eventually granted. The government representatives faced questions on the preparedness and the timing of its responses on several accounts. “What is the rationale behind selecting these 33 hospitals? What is the density exercise that you have conducted? Is it a random selection? What is the density exposure and how many of the hospitals have been reserved in the Central district of the city with the fourth sero survey report showing increase in the cases? How have the beds been divided,” the judges asked.Responding to these, the ASG said three factors had been taken into account while choosing the 33 hospitals: these had the largest chunk of ICU beds (a total of 2,217), they were popular among residents, and were better equipped to segregate Covid and non-Covid patients as well be able to increase the number of ICU beds if required.Appearing for the Association of Healthcare Providers(India) (AHPI), which challenged the Delhi government order, senior advocate Maninder Singh and advocate Sanyam Khetarpal said the 33 private hospitals already reserved 67% of their ICU beds for Covid patients. Girdhar Gyani, director general of AHPI, said reserving beds creates problem for specialised treatment. “The problem is these are some specialised treatments -- like transplants and complex surgeries -- that do not happen in hospitals other than these 33. Now, it is a fact that more ICU beds are needed and the government could have reserved the same number of ICU beds in 60 other hospitals easily. Treatment for Covid-19 is not that complicated. Now, with these hospitals being forced to reserve the beds, patients who need a liver or kidney transplant might have to travel outside Delhi to avail it,” he said.Gyani hit out at the government, saying there are beds vacant in many government hospitals “because nobody wants to go there”. “The government should be punished for that. Instead, the private players are being punished,” he said.Delhi government representatives did not respond to requests for a comment.The court was also critical of some other aspects of the government’s preparations. “Have you set up helpdesks outside the hospitals? You say that you are running an ambulance facility but how many patients , who are Covid-19 infected, and cannot travel in the public transport, have been ferried and sent to the Radha Soami Beas Satsang facility,” the court asked, referring to one of the city’s largest Covid treatment centres.After hearing the government’s submissions, the court said “no citizen with a health emergency should be made to run from pillar to post if there is a bed available in a hospital”. Before Thursday’s lifting of stay, the matter of reserving beds for Covid-19 patients reached the Supreme Court. On Tuesday, the top court, while refusing to interfere with the Delhi high court’s order, asked the government to again approach the Delhi HC. At the time, ASG Jain had said: “If possible, please understand my predicament. The city is facing an extraordinary situation. Lots of people from other states are coming into Delhi for better health care. A large number of people in the middle class segment in the city prefer to get admitted in private hospitals.” To this, the top court judges said: “We are aware that the situation in city is worsening. Delhi has a problem, sometimes 5,000, sometimes 10,000, this is a fluctuating situation... You can bring this matter to the attention of the high court.” “If the hospitals are overwhelmed and the beds get exhausted, naturally the mortality of the disease will go up. People who are in need of ICU care or oxygen support need it in a timely manner. Also, if we look at Covid-19 cases, most people are preferring to stay in home isolation. These days people also have the oxygen saturation monitors at home. So, chances are those who reach the hospitals are in need of immediate medical attention. If they do not get it, they are likely to die,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head of the department of virology at AIIMS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/80-pvt-icu-beds-to-be-reserved-for-covid-19-care/story-urx0QEHXj8Fxc5QlRFgxOJ.html
13-11-2020||City||Poor sales on Dhanteras dent hopes of utensil traders in Ludhiana||While shopkeepers selling utensils were pinning hopes on Dhanteras to help them tide over their losses due to the pandemic, the festival failed to do much for them.Contrary to the past when shop owners would witness hordes of customers right in the morning, this time, the usual fervour was missing.Till around 4pm, only around 30 customers had visited most of the utensil shops, as compared to over 100 in the pre-Covid times, said shopkeepers.Shops in Ghumar Mandi and Jawahar Nagar had stocked a variety of dinner sets, mugs, glasses and cookware, but their owners said the response remained tardy. Proprietor of New Mittal Bartan Store, Ghumar Mandi, Ashok Mittal said, “I stocked on a gamut of utensils in steel and brass, expecting a high response, but in vain. Hopefully, this will improve with two days to go for Diwali.”“In my 20 years in this trader, I never saw such a lack-lustre response on Dhanteras. The few customers that did turn up, purchased limited articles. If this continues till Diwali, it will be a bummer, as I was expecting to surmount my losses due to the pandemic during the festive season,” said Sunil Kumar, a shopkeer in Jawahar Nagar.“I have added new stock of mugs, glasses and dinner sets, as people prefer them for Diwali gifting, but due to lack of resources, customers are far and few in between. I am worried about my survival if this continues,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/poor-sales-on-dhanteras-dent-hopes-of-utensil-traders-in-ludhiana/story-aWsql56iNK7grMx2HBCjnO.html
13-11-2020||Mumbai||Round 1 of placements in December: Indian Institutes of Technology see surge in offers||With placements at the premier Indian Institutes of Technology less than a month away, students and the institutes are feeling optimistic with the rise in pre-placement offers (PPOs). The first phase of placements are scheduled to begin on December 1 and will last for seven or 15 days, depending on the number of students registered for placements and the companies that have registered to make job offers.So far, 186 students of IIT Bombay (IIT-B) have received PPOs this year, bypassing last year’s total PPOs of 113. “Most PPOs are a direct outcome of summer internships because this is where companies witness the students’ ability first-hand. For most companies, a student’s score doesn’t matter as much as their work ethic and more often than not, students who performed well during internships get job offers before the placement season kicks off,” said a student representative from IIT-B’s placement cell.At IIT Madras (IITM), 172 PPOs have been offered till date, surpassing last year’s total of 170 PPOs. Pre-placement training is an important aspect of preparation for students. Despite limitations imposed by the ongoing pandemic, most IITs managed to conduct virtual training sessions this year. “Even with the lockdown, the student team was able to organise a soft-skill session for students who are participating in placements this year,” said CS Shankar Ram, advisor (training and placement), IITM.PPOs at IIT Roorkee and Hyderabad also rose compared to last year. Vinay Sharma, professor-in-charge of placements at IIT Roorkee, said that as of November 1, students of IIT-Roorkee have received 149 PPOs, which is higher than the 140 PPOs received by the previous batch by the first week of November last year.Similarly, PPOs received by students of IIT-Hyderabad stood at 37 last year but this year, 46 offers have already been received. Students expect these numbers to rise. Fifteen students at IIT-Patna have received PPOs this year, compared to 23 last year.A handful of IITs are currently waiting for more PPOs to be confirmed, especially since this process goes on until a day before the first phase of placements begins on December 1. A spokesperson for the placement cell of IIT Delhi (IIT-D) told HT that the number of PPOs received by the institute as of November 2 was above 135. “PPOs are looking great, despite the prevailing situation [of economic slowdown],” said the spokesperson. Last year, IIT-D had received over 164 PPOs. This year due to the lockdown, placement interviews, group discussions and tests will be conducted online across IITs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/round-1-of-placements-in-december-indian-institutes-of-technology-see-surge-in-offers/story-wjVU6ka1khvx4NM3IJHRkJ.html
13-11-2020||Chandigarh||Protests against farm laws: Haryana farmers to march to Delhi on November 18||Thousands of farmers from the state will march to Delhi on foot in response to national farmer unions’ call and reach the Capital on November 26, said Bharitya Kisan Union president Gurnam Singh Charuni on Thursday.“We will take out a protest march on National Highway 44 from November 18 from Shambu Boarder in Ambala and we will reach Delhi as per the schedule at 10am on November 26,” Charuni said after holding a state-level meeting in Kurukshetra. “We will not clash with the police but will reach Delhi at any cost,” he said. Charuni said they had decided to take out bike rallies in all blocks of the state to invite farmers to the protest.“A seven-member All India Kisan Coordination Committee, comprising several farmer organisations from across the country, will organise the protest ,” said Charuni, who is also a member of the committee. Farmers are demanding withdrawal of the three farm laws enacted by the Centre and have demanded that the government continue to get minimum support price (MSP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/protests-against-farm-laws-haryana-farmers-to-march-to-delhi-on-november-18/story-S6AangL8AlrrTyFKs9zpwL.html
13-11-2020||Chandigarh||Two proclaimed offenders arrested, sent to judicial custody||A couple, which was declared proclaimed offender in 2014, has been arrested, police said on Thursday. The accused are Tapasvi Bhardwaj and his wife Pooja Bhardwaj, both 45 and residents of Sector 49. But presently, they were staying in Kurukshetra, the police said. The accused are directors of Yum Travel Services based in Chandigarh’s Sector 34 and used to deal in booking of air tickets. The accused had reportedly bought tickets from Vikaram Kaushal of Blue Sky Worldwide Travel in Sector 34 and issued a cheque of ₹5 lakh that was dishonoured. A case under Sections 406, 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at the Sector-34 police station on the complaint of Kaushal and five others in February 2008. The police said that they all were victims of forged tickets and dishonoured cheques. Another case was registered on the complaint of Mukhitar Singh and nine other complainants in September 2008. Mukhtiar said he had purchased a ticket from the accused in September 2007 and on reaching Delhi airport the next month, he found that the Thai Airways ticket issued to him was fake. The other complainants had also levelled similar allegations. The duo were declared proclaimed offenders on the complaints of various banks. They were earlier arrested by the economics offences wing, but during pendency of the case, they never appeared before the court and declared PO in February 2014. The accused were on Thursday produced in a court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-proclaimed-offenders-arrested-sent-to-judicial-custody/story-4MtrOTEJ3flX750nbmNoaI.html
13-11-2020||Chandigarh||Gangster Dilpreet arranged weapons used to kill Bishnoi’s aide outside Chandigarh mall: SSP||After initial denial, gangster Dilpreet Singh Dhahan, alias Baba, 28, has admitted to have supplied weapons to eliminate members of the rival Lawrence Bishnoi gang, Chandigarh Police said on Thursday. During his sustained interrogation into the Gurlal Brar murder case, Dilpreet — who was brought to Chandigarh from the Sangrur jail on production warrants on November 6 — reportedly told police that he had procured “a large consignment of arms and ammunition from Madhya Pradesh” before being arrested in a police encounter at Sector 43, Chandigarh, in July 2018.Brar, 26, a close aide of Lawrence Bishnoi and a former student leader, was gunned down by bike-borne men outside a mall in Chandigarh’s Industrial Area past midnight on October 11. Hours after the incident, slain gangster Davinder Bambiha’s group had taken responsibility.After Bambiha’s encounter in 2016, Dilpreet along with Sukhpreet, alias Budha, had been running the gang. With both in jail, their accomplice Gaurav Patial, alias Lucky, is now calling the shots from Armenia.Running an extortion racket in the tricity area, the Bambiha group are at loggerheads with Lawrence Bishnoi and Sampat Nehra gang, both of whom are also lodged in different jails.“The Bishnoi gang had been extorting businessmen, from whom the Bambiha group had been collecting protection money. This pitted the two gangs against each other,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police, Chandigarh, adding that Dilpreet supplied weapons to his gang members to eliminate the rivals and “these were used” for the purpose.Dilpreet, Sukhpreet on same track Both Dilpreet and Sukhpreet, who too has been brought on production warrants, have named Brar’s shooters as Neeraj Gupta, alias Chaska, and Ajay, alias Maan, alias Mani, said Gurmukh Singh, deputy superintendent of police (DSP, east). “Their possible hideouts are being raided. The duo, who belong Jaiton in Faridkot, are also wanted by Punjab Police in many murder cases registered in various districts,” said the DSP. Both Dilpreet and Sukhpreet have reportedly admitted that Brar was killed on the directions of Gaurav Patial and another gang member Vinay Deora. The main motive was to avenge the murder of their associate Lavi Deora, who was allegedly killed by Bishnoi’s gang at a fair in Faridkot’s Kotkapura in 2017, in which Brar had reportedly played an active role. Lavi was Vinay’s younger brother. Sukhpreet was brought to Chandigarh from the Sangrur jail on production warrants, to interrogate him in another case, pertaining to the murder of bouncer-turned-financier Surjit Singh in Sector 38 in March this year. Both Dilpreet and Sukhpreet were produced in court on Thursday. While Dilpreet has been sent to judicial custody, Sukhpreet’s police remand has been extended by a day. More weapons recoveredOn disclosure’s made by Dilpreet, police have recovered four illegal weapons. A .32 bore pistol was recovered from one Gurdeep Singh, alias Deepa, of Raipur village in Ropar, who was arrested at a naka in the Industrial Area on November 9, following information provided by Dilpreet. Police said Gurdeep, who hails from Dilpreet’s adjoining village, is into mining and had taken the weapon from the gangster. Two .32 bore pistols and one countrymade weapon were recovered from near a drain in the Industrial Area, where they had been hidden by Dilpreet, said police. Police said the weapons were kept for further distribution to the gang member, as and when required by them to kill active members of the rival group. Separate FIRs have been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gangster-dilpreet-arranged-weapons-used-to-kill-bishnoi-s-aide-outside-chandigarh-mall-ssp/story-tkKSKNEXdeIDDV2WQl0lhI.html
13-11-2020||Chandigarh||HC allows Karnal farmer to bring produce from UP, but not sell it in APMC mandis||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday allowed a Karnal farmer to bring farm produce from Uttar Pradesh to Haryana or Punjab but stipulated that it could not be sold in Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) mandis. The order was passed by a high court bench of justice Amol Rattan Singh during resumed hearing of the case, which was brought to the high court last week.“The petitioner may bring his produce within the territory of Haryana or Punjab, however, he shall not be entitled to sell his produce at any designated grain market, market yard, market place or any other area notified as principal market or sub-market yard of the market, special market or any other place meant and notified for the sale or purchase of the agricultural produce; under the Haryana Agricultural Produce Markets Act, 1961 and the Punjab Agricultural Produce Markets Act, 1961,” the bench said. The matter has been adjourned till December 9 and a response has been sought from the Centre, Punjab and Haryana.The farmer, Virender Kumar, had approached the high court on November 4, stating that though the Centre’s new agriculture law permits sale of crops in any part of the country, he was not being allowed to bring produce from Uttar Pradesh into Haryana. He had told court that Section 3 of the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, provides absolute freedom to farmers to sell produce anywhere in the country. But he was not being allowed to sell his produce in Haryana.The farmer belongs to Karnal and he had sown paddy on around 75-acre land owned by his family in Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh. He had harvested about 1,650 quintals of paddy from his fields and intended to sell it in Haryana, where the Food Corporation of India and other agencies are purchasing it at a minimum support price of ₹1, 888 per quintal. He could not register himself on the Haryana government’s portal, ‘Meri fasal, mera byora’. When he was bringing around 650 quintals of paddy in four trolleys to sell in Karnal, he was stopped on October 24, stating that produce from UP cannot be sold in the state, he had told the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-allows-karnal-farmer-to-bring-produce-from-up-but-not-sell-it-in-apmc-mandis/story-OiP5aPadMRyFleP7abkNqN.html
13-11-2020||City||Night club sealed in Zirakpur, owner arrested for violating Covid-19 norms||Zirakpur-based Hypnotic night club was sealed and its owner, Davinder Singh, arrested for hosting late night parties and violating the Covid-19 rules, police said on Thursday. Dhakoli station house officer (SHO) Narpinder Singh said, “During night patrolling on Wednesday, we found that the Hypnotic club on Panchkula road in Zirakpur was operating in violation of the norms and parties were being held there till 1am. As per the guidelines, clubs can only remain open till 12am.” He said that no social distancing was being maintained there either and large number of people had gathered at the party. “We even examined the CCTV camera footages of past few nights, only to find that Covid rules were being flouted with impunity. The club has been sealed and we have arrested the owner. A case under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (whoever unlawfully or negligently does any act which is, and which he knows or has reason to believe to be, likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life, shall be punished) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against Davinder Singh. Mohali senior superintendent of police (SSP) Satinder Singh said, “We will not allow any nuisance in our district and will also write to the excise department to inform them about the violations. We will get the bar’s licence suspended.” Last year in September, a case was registered against Hypnotic Lounge Bar for playing loud music and serving liquor past midnight . An FIR was registered against the disco’s manager Anupam Saini under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, but no arrests were made. In wake of the media’s queries, sections 3, 4 and 6 of the Noise Pollution Regulation Act, 2000 were later added to the FIR .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/night-club-sealed-in-zirakpur-owner-arrested-for-violating-covid-19-norms/story-y3Oa1ucKwLtNYqC2MgZ7PL.html
13-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh can host domestic games comfortably amid pandemic, says UTCA official||Having hosted a number of under-19, under-23 and Ranji Trophy matches successfully last season, the UT Cricket Association (UTCA) is keen on organising games in the upcoming domestic season as well, by making a bio-bubble.This was stated by UTCA joint secretary Yuvraj Mahajan, who was invited by the Board of Control of Cricket in India (BCCI) to attend the final of the 13th Indian Premier League (IPL 13) in Dubai on November 10. A meeting in this regard was to be held in Dubai, but was postponed and will now be held post Diwali.Sharing his experience of meeting BCCI chief Sourav Ganguly, secretary Jay Shah and treasurer Arun Dhumal, Mahajan said, “BCCI officials successfully organised IPL 13 creating a bio-bubble, and set an example for others. They are very optimistic about the upcoming domestic season and IPL 13 will give them a boost.”Mahajan thinks Chandigarh is the best bet to provide a bio-bubble for domestic matches as there are more than five grounds here, a lot of hotels and the travelling time is less. “Ganguly was very impressed with Chandigarh’s debut season. He praised and lauded UTCA. We are going to push Chandigarh’s name for hosting domestic matches amid the pandemic. We have the resources and can do it,” said Mahajan.The domestic season was postponed owing to the outbreak. It was earlier slated to get underway in September, but now the BCCI president has said in an interview that it will be held in January 2021.A meeting in the runup to the domestic season will be held after Diwali. Chandigarh had received BCCI affiliation last season and several of its men and women teams had also qualified to the Elite group from the Plate group.Mahajan said he also met officials from the Chhattisgarh Cricket Association, Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association and Punjab Cricket Association and all agreed, he added, on organising practice matches in the coming months among their state teams in Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-can-host-domestic-games-comfortably-amid-pandemic-says-utca-official/story-nnLTPvtz2Q8pMkVA6Vd3CL.html
13-11-2020||Chandigarh||Supplier of weapons to Chandigarh gangs held with 2 pistols, cartridges, heroin||A supplier, who used to arrange weapons for various local gangs, was held with two pistols and six live cartridges, along with 40 gram heroin here, the police said on Thursday.The accused, identified as Vijay Rajpoot, 32, hailing from Ludhiana, was arrested in Sector 17 at a naka that had been set up in wake of the festive season.Upon his arrest, the police recovered two pistols—.30 bore and .32 bore—along with six live cartridges and 40 gram heroin from his possession. However, the police are yet to ascertain to whom were the weapons being supplied in Chandigarh.A case under the Arms Act and the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act was registered against him. Rajpoot will be produced before a court on Friday.During the initial questioning, the accused told the police that he had brought in 18 weapons from Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh that were supplied to different gangsters in Punjab and Haryana.Rajpoot also told the police that he had brought the heroin from Delhi for ₹1,500 per gram, to be sold for ₹5,000 per gram.Name of Bishnoi’s slain member engraved on pistolOne of the weapons recovered from Rajpoot had the name of Ankit Bhadu, a sharpshooter of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang, who was killed in an encounter with the Punjab Police at Zirakpur in February 2019, engraved on it. The engraving read “RIP Ankit Bhadu”.On October 16, the police had arrested one Parveen Kumar, alias Bhima, 31, hailing from Ghilodh Kalan village in Rohtak, Haryana, and had recovered a countrymade weapon bearing the name of the same sharpshooter, Ankit Bhadu.Police had then said that the Bishnoi gang members were all using weapons that had the same engraving in the name of a homage to him. Police are now investigating how he got hold of that particular weapon.Supplied weapons to accused in Sector 9 firingInvestigations have further pointed that Rajpoot had supplied weapons to Sagar Newton, a Ludhiana gangster who was arrested along with his two aides, including a juvenile and Movish Bains, 22, arrested for opening fire outside a nightclub in Sector 9 that had left a TikTok content creator injured on the night of October 11.Sagar had fired at Saurav Gujjar, 25, of Zirakpur after an argument at Eskobar and had even pulled out a .32 bore pistol and tried to shoot at the cops at a naka near the Kaimbwala T-point from where he was arrested. Sagar was overpowered and arrested with the pistol and three live cartridges.Supplied 18 pistols to gang members of jailed gangster RajaRajpoot, in the preliminary investigation, told the police that he had supplied 18 pistols to members of gangster Rajiv Kumar, alias Raja, since January this year. Raja is lodged in Nabha central jail in connection to a murder case.A resident of Mohalla Taajganj, Raja has 33 cases registered against him in different police stations in Punjab, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and other states. Rajpoot had supplied weapons to his gang members and all the deals were done through whatsapp and internet calling apps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/supplier-of-weapons-to-chandigarh-gangs-held-with-2-pistols-cartridges-heroin/story-r5t0zoHil5OZrJzTjb9XaI.html
13-11-2020||Mumbai||ATM cash van driver flees with ₹4.25 crore in Virar near Mumbai||Driver of an ATM cash van carrying nearly ₹4.25 crore fled from Bolinj, Virar on Thursday evening. At the time of going to press, Arnala police and other cops from nearby police stations were at the spot. The accused has been identified as Chembur resident Rohit Babban Aaru, 26.On Thursday around 6.45pm, the cash van with a driver, manager, an armed security guard and a helper reached Bolinj to fill cash at an ATM machine.When the manager, helper and the security guard went inside the ATM centre to deposit the cash, Aaru fled with the van with the cash boxes inside, said senior inspector Mahesh Shetye of Arnala Coastal police station. “According to our estimates, the van was carrying around ₹4.25 crore as it was supposed to deposit cash at various ATM centres as more people are likely to make withdrawals due to Diwali. We will register a case under section 392 (robbery) and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code,” said Shetye.The police have launched a search operation for the cash van and are checking CCTV footages from areas near the ATM centre. Three teams have been formed and nakabandi have been put up towards Mumbai, Ahmedabad as well as Vasai-Bhiwandi routes to nab the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/atm-cash-van-driver-flees-with-4-25-crore-in-virar-near-mumbai/story-HHvJtStgQ6EQZiqZFlwwUL.html
13-11-2020||City||‘Illegal detention’: Protesting advocates demand action against SHO||A day after an advocate, accused of extortion and criminal conspiracy, was detained by the police, members of the district bar association (DBA), along with several other lawyers, staged a sit-in outside the deputy commissioner’s office here on Thursday.This is the second day the advocates have staged a protest on the issue. Earlier, a face-off between the advocates and police was witnessed outside the Ambala Cantonment police station on Wednesday evening, after which the DBA staged a protest.Ramesh Saini, a resident of Laxmi Nagar, had filed a complaint against advocate Kamal Dham and others for extorting money to get a registry done at the tehsil office.The DBA met SP Rajesh Kalia on the issue and demanded quashing of the FIR and action against cops involved in the detention, including station in-charge Vijay Kumar.SP Kalia said the delegation was assured a thorough investigation into the matter.“I’ve given a clear assurance to them that the details and facts of the FIR will be thoroughly probed. They have also asked me to investigate on the illegality in detention along with the role of the station in-charge. I’ve given assurance on this too,” the SP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/illegal-detention-protesting-advocates-demand-action-against-sho/story-s677jg6jMWjYb9X7YjawwO.html
13-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chances of light rain in Chandigarh from November 15||After no rain was witnessed in the city since the end of August, India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials are predicting light rain in the city on Sunday and Monday.Speaking about this, IMD director Surender Paul said, “There is a feeble western disturbance which will be active in the region on Sunday. Coupled with low-level easterly winds there are chances of rain between 10mm to 20 mm on Sunday and Monday. Although it is more likely in western parts of Haryana and northern parts of Punjab, there are chances of rain in Chandigarh as well.”On its effect on the temperature, IMD scientist Shivinder Singh said, “Cloudy weather will start from Friday onwards, so a rise in minimum temperature can be expected for the next 2-3 days. However, there is a chance of snow in Himachal Pradesh and should that happen, the mercury will fall after Monday.”After coming down to 120-130, the air quality index (AQI) in the city also went up to 160 on the continuous ambient air quality monitoring station in Sector 25. Although still in the moderate category, further increases can be expected due to temperature inversion and stubble burning. If there is rain as predicted, however, the AQI is likely to improve and has a chance of going down from the moderate bracket to the satisfactory bracket (between 50 to 100).The maximum temperature in the city fell down from 29.3 degrees on Wednesday to 28.8 degrees on Thursday. Minimum temperature went down from 13.1 degrees on Wednesday to 11.8 degrees on Thursday. In the next three days, the maximum temperature will remain between 28 and 26 degrees while the minimum temperature will remain between 12 and 13 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chances-of-light-rain-in-chandigarh-from-november-15/story-pkXib1lDUM1AadScHy85FN.html
13-11-2020||Chandigarh||2,788 fresh Covid cases, 19 more fatalities reported in Haryana||Haryana on Thursday reported 2,788 fresh novel coronavirus cases taking the infection tally in the state to 1,93,11,1 while 19 more fatalities pushed the death toll to 1,979.Of the fresh fatalities, six were from Hisar, four from Faridabad, three from Gurgaon, two each from Jind and Bhiwani while a death each was reported from Jhajjar and Sirsa, according to the state health department’s daily bulletin.Among districts that reported a big spike in cases were Gurgaon (692), Faridabad (598), Hisar (285), Bhiwani (174) and Rohtak (120).Of the total cases in the state so far, Gurgaon has the maximum 37,585 infections, followed by Faridabad with 30,337 infections, while total fatalities in these two districts, falling in the National Capital Region, are 236 and 270, respectively.The state currently has 18,867 active cases while the recovery rate is 89.21%. 23 patients succumb in PGIMS in 3 days As many as 23 persons have succumbed to Covid at the Post-graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) here in the last three days, taking the total count to 280.Haryana’s nodal officer for Covid, Dr Dhruva Chaudhary said the victims were mostly above the age of 40 and had co-morbidities. “Infections have increased over the last week as people are visiting markets without face masks. Many patients being admitted to PGIMS are already very sick,” he said, adding that the state had reported three cases of re-infection.“As per the Indian Medical Council of research (IMCR) guidelines, a patient will be called re-infected if he or she is found infected again after 90 days of time and the molecular structure of the virus is different,” Dhruva added.PGIMS spokesperson Dr Gajender Singh said people should avoid unnecessary visits to the market because a lot of people were out shopping for Diwali and many were not wearing masks.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-788-fresh-covid-cases-19-more-fatalities-reported-in-haryana/story-GcISqqbUMd0DLN8DQUFztL.html
13-11-2020||Chandigarh||Irregularities in house allotment in Chandigarh Police department: HC to wait for internal probe report||In the case of out-of-turn house allotment in the police department, the Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday kept its decision on ordering FIR on hold, observing that it would wait for the report of the internal investigation being done by the UT administration.The high court was hearing a plea from a cop, Jagjeet Singh, who had demanded a CBI probe, alleging gross misuse of discretionary power by the director general of police in adopting pick-and-choose method when allocating houses to police personnel. The petitioner presented 36 cases in which, according to him, such out-of-turn allotments had been made.The UT administration had told the court that the petitioner had not impleaded all beneficiaries. Further, it was told that an internal inquiry was pending before the home department and the same was likely to be finalised soon.It was also argued that under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, no police officer could conduct an inquiry into any offence allegedly committed by a public servant, where the alleged offence was relatable to any recommendation made or decision taken by such public servant in discharge of his/her official function without the previous approval of the competent authority.The court, while taking note of the fact that an internal probe was underway, observed that it would be just and appropriate to await the final outcome of the pending inquiry and posted the matter for further hearing on December 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/irregularities-in-house-allotment-in-chandigarh-police-department-hc-to-wait-for-internal-probe-report/story-VGVAQlpvQl69rx64LoFqQI.html
13-11-2020||Chandigarh||PU to monitor international students’ attendance in online classes||With Panjab University this year extending its facility of online classes to the international students who have been admitted through Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR), the varsity will also monitor their attendance during the online classes.In a notification issued by the office of PU’s dean international students, the heads of teaching departments and affiliated colleges have been directed to submit the detailed information regarding the confirmation of admission of the international students through ICCR and how many students are attending online classes to the regional director, ICCR, Chandigarh, under intimation to the office of dean international students. They have also been asked to provide the monthly attendance record and periodic record of assignments/progress reports which are to be submitted by the international students. This year, PU allowed the international students admitted through ICCR to take part in online classes as they were not able to travel to India due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The varsity had this year received more than 600 applications from foreign students.PU’s dean international students, Nandita Singh, said, “The scenario is different in 2020 and classes are online. Since these students are not in India, so we have to be sure whether they are attending the classes regularly or not.”“We have told the departments that whenever they will start the classes, they should submit the attendance of these students regularly,” she said.The newly admitted students through ICCR by PU include students from Afghanistan, Iran, Ethiopia, Iraq, and Nepal. According to the information earlier shared by the office of dean international students, around 60 international students had consented for online classes.Proposals for short-term courses receivedMeanwhile, proposals for short-term online courses for international students have come from some departments to the office of the dean international students. PU has planned to offer such online courses to international students during this academic session in an attempt to expand its profile.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-to-monitor-international-students-attendance-in-online-classes/story-4m4IRbhp7Qy4PhJpdwLZVO.html
13-11-2020||City||Festive season drives auto sales in Ludhiana, but dealers still left wanting for more||Notwithstanding the much-needed push given to the automobile sector by the festive season, the ongoing pandemic continues to cast its shadow on the business, as was seen on Dhanteras on Thursday. While two-wheeler sales were down by half as compared to past few years, four-wheelers saw a better response, yet remained limited to around 90% of the expected sales.Sanju Chawla, manager at Honda Pioneer, near Dholewal Chowk, said, “The financial crunch being faced by consumers was taking a toll on the automobile business as well. While earlier, we used to remain busy all day on Dhanteras, we recorded barely half the sales this year.” “Apart from the Covid-19 pandemic, the high cost of BS-VI vehicles as compared to BS-IV vehicles and closure of colleges has also affected the sales, as the younger target group is not buying two-wheelers this year,” he added.The usual festive rush was indeed missing, said Ramesh, manager at Kailash Hero on GT Road near Sherpur Chowk, adding that the middle class was their primary customer base for two-wheelers, but they had called off their purchases due to the outbreak hitting their budgets. On the other hand, four-wheeler dealers reported a better response, saying the festive season had given them a reason to cheer as opposed to the post-lockdown period when the sales had dived severely. “The business is getting back on track gradually due to festivals. Though not a perfect 100%, we still achieved 90% of our sales targets on Thursday,” said Goldy Beri, sales manager at Gulzar Motors Private Limited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/festive-season-drives-auto-sales-in-ludhiana-but-dealers-still-left-wanting-for-more/story-O0cBVHEELNe4ROyP7o8NtL.html
13-11-2020||City||Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja forms consultative panel for Ambala City MC polls||In the run-up to Ambala City municipal corporation polls, the Haryana Congress has approved a consultative committee with five members each for Ambala and Panchkula. The Ambala committee, constituted by Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja comprises former CPS and MLA from Naraingarh Ramkishan Gujjar, Mullana MLA Varun Chaudhary, and Congress leaders Kiran Bala Jain, Harjinder Punia and Tarun Chugh.Mullana MLA Varun said, “The salahkar samiti has been formed as the election schedule announcement can be made anytime soon. The decisive victory in Baroda has given a fresh motivation to party cadre.”A senior party leader here said that they’ve received a feedback that the candidates are interested to contest on the party symbol. However, the official announcement will be made by the high command, he added. “The committee constituted by Seljaji will do a survey and everything, including the symbol point along with probable mayor candidates, will be kept before her and she’ll make the final call,” he further said. The party had a maximum nine councillors in 11 wards with its own mayor Ramesh Mal, who switched over to the BJP before 2019 assembly elections. Now, there are 20 wards under the Ambala City MC. However, Congress is yet to form its organisational structure that is pending since years, unlike the ruling BJP that recently “renovated” its mandal teams in the city under the leadership of newly elected district president Rajesh Batoura. The Haryana Democratic Front (HDF) that completed its first year in politics this week had announced its mayoral candidate — Amisha Chawla — on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-congress-chief-kumari-selja-forms-consultative-panel-for-ambala-city-mc-polls/story-i1zFgjpgHvV3crVqyXV5wM.html
13-11-2020||City||Spurious liquor deaths: Panipat SIT busts racket, 10 held||After eight people lost their lives after consuming spurious liquor in Panipat and Sonepat, the special investigation team of the Panipat police has unearthed a racket involving manufacturing, transportation and sale of illicit liquor and has arrested 10 people, including the mastermind of the operation. Police said Naresh Kumar of Naina Tatarpur village, Sonepat, and his partners Kuldeep Singh of Gajbar village and Mohit of Beholi village, Sonepat, had been manufacturing the liquor in a house in Naina Tatarpur village for the last two months. Police have also arrested Bantu of Rajkheri village, Sandeep of Bilaspur village, Panipat and Mandeep of Naina Tatarpur village, Sonepat, and a woman of Dhansoli village for selling the spurious liquor.The investigation has raised questions over the working of the police and local authorities who were oblivious of the racket until eight people were poisoned. Police officials associated with the investigation, on the condition of anonymity, said most illicit liquor was manufactured in Naina Tatarpur village and was transported to Panipat. It is learnt that most people involved in the racket had earlier been involved in the sale of illicit liquor. After the accused stopped getting cheap illicit liquor six months ago after a crackdown in several districts, they started manufacturing their own liquor in the name of Rasila Santra, the brand name of popular country made liquor of NV Distillery.Officials said the accused manufactured the liquor with extra neutral alcohol (ENA), which made it poisonous. After people died after consuming the liquor,state home minister Anil Vij had formed a special investigation team under ADGP, state narcotic control bureau Shrikant Jadhav. to investigate the deaths.Superintendents of police of Panipat and Sonepat districts had also formed SITs to probe the deaths in their respective districts. Panipat DSP Satish Vats said, “The 10 people arrested were produced before the court and were sent to police remand as the involvement of more people cannot be ruled out.” Earlier, the SIT formed by the Sonepat police also claimed to have unearthed two spurious liquor manufacturing units in Naina Tatarpur village and Kharkhoda town and had arrested 15 people for their alleged involvement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/spurious-liquor-deaths-panipat-sit-busts-racket-10-held/story-8xHnSts0dRnSOJ3bjYCwTJ.html
13-11-2020||City||Online delivery scam: Fourth suspect held with 200 fake sim cards||The Mohali police on Thursday arrested another suspect in connection with the online delivery scam.Three persons have already been caught for duping several delivery men of online shopping platform by replacing the original articles with fake ones. Their fourth accomplice, identified as Pankaj, was nabbed with 200 fake sim cards in his possession.Phase-1 station house officer (SHO) Manphul Singh said, “During the interrogation of the three suspects arrested earlier, we came to know about the role of Pankaj following which he was arrested after a raid was conducted at his residence in Fatehabad. We have recovered 200 sim cards. These sim cards do not require any documentation to register. The suspects used to call from these sim cards and later dispose them of. Further investigation is on and more suspects would be arrested soon.”The police had recovered nine AirPods, a dongle, 54 SIM cards, four soap bars, three watches and four sealed parcels from Ajay Pokhar and Nishant Narang, both residents of Fatehabad, and Naveen Kumar of Dariyapur village.The accused used to place orders for mobile phones online by providing fake addresses. On getting a call from the delivery man, they would call him in an open space and change the parcel with their fake articles already placed inside their vehicle.According to the police, one of them used to engage the delivery man in conversation while others would replace the parcel. They would later return the parcel to the delivery man by saying that they did not have enough money to make payment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/online-delivery-scam-fourth-suspect-held-with-200-fake-sim-cards/story-K7GiuQJ6vM4rRgRNCB2g8O.html
13-11-2020||Chandigarh||Only one Haryana district registers ‘severe’ AQI||Fatehabad was the only city in Haryana to register a ‘severe’ air quality index (AQI) on Thursday, even as nine cities were classified ‘very poor’ and 10 ‘poor’.As per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the AQI of Bahadurgarh, Charkhi Dadri, Dharuhera, Faridabad, Hisar, Jind, Sirsa, Sonepat and Yamunanagar was ‘very poor’, while the AQI of Ambala, Gurugram, Kaithal, Karnal, Kurukshetra, Manesar, Narnaul, Panchkula, Panipat and Rohtak was ‘poor’. AQI between 201 to 300 is classified ‘poor’, 301 to 400 ‘very poor’. It crosses over to the ‘severe’ zone at 401. The AQI of Palwal city has improved, registering ‘moderate’ pollution levels as opposed to ‘poor’ and ‘very poor’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/only-one-haryana-district-registers-severe-aqi/story-CuiANmJLk55TUaYjAmDW5M.html
13-11-2020||Delhi||LSR to extend fee deadline, says will disburse scholarships faster||Days after the death by suicide of a Lady Shri Ram College student, who was reportedly struggling to cope with her online education, the college administration has agreed to some of the demands put forward by students who had gathered to protest outside the campus on Thursday morning, including swift disbursal of scholarships and extension of the deadline for fee payment. The college has also agreed to make available the services of two online counsellors for students, throughout the week.The undergraduate student died by suicide on November 2 in Telangana after being stressed for days as the college had asked second-year hostellers to vacate their rooms by November 10, her parents said. In 2019, the college had introduced a new policy limiting its hostel to first-year students only. This was done to ensure reservation for students from other backward classes (OBC) and economically weaker section (EWS) categories.It has been a longstanding demand of students to revoke that policy and they reiterated the demand on Thursday as well. Students also submitted a memorandum of demands to the college administration and these included distribution of tablets and data packs for online classes; allowing students to pay only tuition fee this year and no other fee components, option to pay fee in instalments and extension of the last date of payment deadline. They have also asked for recording of class lectures and extension of the last date for submission of assignments.They also asked the college to form a committee with student representation to look into issues faced by marginalised students and to introduce more need-based scholarships.Unnimaya P, general secretary of LSR students’ union and a member of Students Federation of India (SFI), said, “The principal has assured us that the administration will ensure swift disbursal of scholarships and provide more scholarships (for needy students). The deadline for fee payment has been extended and the college would consider a fee waiver as well.” She also said the college is also reviewing its hostel policy.“Submission dates for internal assessment have been extended and (the college) will make available the services of two online counsellors throughout the week,” Unnimaya said.LSR principal Suman Sharmas did not respond to repeated requests for comment from HT.Mudra, a member of SFI’s LSR unit, said, “The LSR administration has never heeded the pleas of the student community. The response from the administration now is welcome but there are more demands to be met.”A group of students, affiliated to the All India Students’ Association (AISA), also protested outside the University Grants Commission headquarters on Thursday demanding the disbursal of pending fellowships and fee waiver for students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/lsr-to-extend-fee-deadline-says-will-disburse-scholarships-faster/story-gfhXVIZLyRBZVtGifpFo4L.html
13-11-2020||Mumbai||BJP urges Maharashtra government to challenge acquittal of Mumbai’s Kamala Mills fire accused||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has urged the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to challenge the acquittal of the two accused in the Kamala Mills fire case. BJP’s former Mumbai unit chief and member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) from Bandra Ashish Shelar raised concerns over the acquittal of the owners of the Mills and questioned if this will help other accused to escape scot-free from the case that claimed 14 innocent lives in 2017. Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar said the Mumbai civic body and state government would consider the details of the court order and then plan the future course of legal action.Shelar wrote to Thackeray on Thursday demanding to appeal against the acquittal of accused in the high court. Shelar said that the owners of the Kamala Mills Compound - Ramesh Gowani and Ravi Bhandari have been acquitted by the session court two days ago and this could lead to the acquittal of other ten accused if the case was not properly represented by the police, civic body and the state government.Over 14 people were killed in a massive fire that erupted at 1 Above restaurant and Mojos Bistro pub on December 29, 2017. Twelve people including owners of the Mills were booked holding them responsible. The owners had claimed to be innocent and said that they couldn’t be held responsible for the fire.“Both of them appeared to be prime accused in the fire case. Their acquittal is serious. We had raised questions over the floor space index (FSI) fraud in the Mills compound after the incident. Our government had put the culprits behind the bars, but they have now been acquitted in Thackeray government’s rule. People will raise questions if the government was shielding owners of the restaurants and pubs. To avoid any such blame, the state government should move the upper court challenging the acquittal,” he said.Shelar has said that the panel appointed to probe the fire had stated in the report that the FSI scam had taken place in the Mills compound.He has also demanded to inquire into if the government pleaders failed to argue properly in the case. He has expressed the need to appoint eminent lawyers in the high court to take the case to the logical end.Mayor Kishori Pednekar said that the state government and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will look into the case and move the upper court if the need be.“This is a decision given by the court and one should not politicise it. BMC, state government and their legal departments will look into the court ruling and also check if the case was properly represented in court. Shelar should not play politics into it and take a convenient stand,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bjp-urges-maharashtra-government-to-challenge-acquittal-of-mumbai-s-kamala-mills-fire-accused/story-6qozfbwvvq121P4M0vfSSO.html
13-11-2020||City||This Dhanteras, gold jewellery loses gleam, silver shines in Ludhiana||Even as residents turned up in large numbers to purchase gold and silver jewellery, considered auspicious on the occasion of Dhanteras, jewellers said the response was limited to around 60% as compared to previous years.This, they attributed to the economic crisis due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and the high rates of the precious metals. But, what further dented the sales was confusion among residents about the date of Dhanteras, with some believing it’s on Friday and not Thursday.The fact that the rate of gold (22 carat) dropped by over Rs 2,000 over the last two days to settle at Rs 48,900 for 10 grams didn’t reflect in the sales, which were dominated by silver, available for Rs 64,700/kg.“The footfall is obviously lower this year due to the financial crunch being faced by residents. Customers’ purchase capacity has reduced and there was also some confusion about when Dhanteras actually is, with some saying it is on Friday. So, we may see some sales then,” said Naveen, owner of Star Jewellers on Cemetery Road, near Fountain Chowk.Special festive offers also failed to elicit shopping enthusiasm, as residents stuck to lower quantities.“Despite announcing offers, the response at my store was limited to 60% as compared to previous years, primarily due to high gold prices,” said Karan Arneja, owner of White Dazzle on Char Khamba Road in Model Town.However, Prince Babbar, president of the Ludhiana Swarnkar Sangh (Sarafa Bazar), said, the response may be lower, but was still appreciable, as the jewellery sector was going through a slump since the lockdown.President of the Ludhiana Jewellers’ Association, Anand Sikri said, “The actual response can be gauged after Friday when more customers are expected to turn up.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/this-dhanteras-gold-jewellery-loses-lustre-silver-shines/story-M9D2x83UP9AHGcRn2RvZAJ.html
13-11-2020||Delhi||104 more Covid-19 fatalities in Delhi, highest in a single day||Even as the number of new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the city dipped to 7,053 on Thursday, Delhi recorded the most deaths due to the infection in a single day, amid fears that the city’s medical infrastructure was struggling to keep up with the sharp spike in cases. With 104 deaths, the city’s toll reached 7,332.So far, the most deaths reported in a day was 101 during the June-July surge in cases, when protocols for treatment were still being worked out. The highest number of deaths recorded in the daily health bulletin had been on June 16, when 437 deaths were added to the toll while the city reconciled its fatality data. Despite the increase, Delhi’s case fatality ratio (CFR) – proportion of people who die among those who test positive – remained at 1.57%, slightly higher than the national CFR of 1.47%. The 10-day average disease CFR, however, tipped over 1% — increasing from 0.99% on Wednesday to 1.03% on Thursday. Experts have said the CFR had dropped in the city and across the country as doctors realised non-invasive ventilation worker better than mechanical ventilators and that giving steroids reduced deaths. However, experts said the non-availability of intensive care unit beds (ICU) could increase mortality. “If the hospitals are overwhelmed and the beds get exhausted, naturally the mortality of the disease will go up. People who are in need of ICU care or oxygen support need it in a timely manner,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head of the department of virology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). To mitigate the problem, the Delhi government had increased 500 beds — of which 110 were ICU beds — in eight of its hospitals. The Delhi high court’s decision to allow the government to reserve up to 80% of the total ICU beds in 33 big private hospitals will add several beds to the city’s total 16,609 in the coming days. The Delhi government had on Wednesday also written to the Centre to increase Covid-19 beds by 1,000 and ICU beds by 300 in its hospitals “We still have around 8,000 Covid-19 beds available across hospitals in the city. And, for the treatment of Covid-19 patients we do not need ventilators. But ICU beds are needed to monitor the patients and provide oxygen and non-invasive ventilation,” Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Thursday during a media interaction. To reduce mortality due to the infection, the state government has also ordered all its testing centres to check the patients’ oxygen saturation to prevent deaths from “happy hypoxia”, where a person does not have any apparent breathlessness even as their oxygen saturation drops. “The biggest reason for death due to Covid-19 is a drop in oxygen saturation. So, we have asked our centres to test the oxygen level of the patients undergoing Covid-19 test so that even if they do not feel other symptoms they can receive timely treatment,” Jain had said a day ago. This comes even as the city recorded the highest number of the more accurate RT-PCR tests — 19,752 — on Thursday. The alternate rapid antigen test, which accounted for over 67% of the total tests conducted on Wednesday, are known to throw false negatives. This also reduced the positivity rate to 11.7% on Thursday from 13.40% recorded a day ago. As long as this number is above 8%, the outbreak is believed to be bigger than what the current number of tests can effectively identify. “”The general rule of thumb to check whether testing is adequate is a sustained positivity rate of 5% or less. What are you testing with matters as well? The ICMR testing strategy has to be followed. Anyone outside the containment areas have to be tested using RT PCR which is much more accurate. Another thing we need to see is how many tests are needed for us to find one positive cases. If that number is coming down, then we aren’t testing enough,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology and infectious diseases, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-records-104-covid-19-fatalities-most-in-a-single-day/story-4FUOvqWqFNIqOksKdBu02L.html
13-11-2020||Delhi||Man kills sister-in-law, walks to DCP office with her daughter||An electrician killed his widowed sister-in-law on Tuesday afternoon and walked with the woman’s three-year-old daughter to the office of the deputy commissioner of police to confess and surrender, the police said.The suspect and his sister-in-law were to be married soon, but the woman did not want to stay with her mother-in-law, the police said about the alleged dispute that would trigger frequent quarrels and eventually led to the murder.Ved Prakash Surya, DCP (north-east), whose office premises the suspect visited to confess, said the alleged killer has been arrested and booked for murder.The DCP identified the suspect as 26-year-old Rohit alias Monu, a resident of Karawal Nagar.“Rohit’s older brother had married the victim in 2013. The couple had a six-year-old son and a three-year-old daughter,” the DCP said.But in 2017, Rohit’s brother died by suicide. The DCP said the reason behind the step is not known.After her husband’s death, the woman had moved to her parents’ home with her two children. But in January, Rohit brought the woman and her two children back to his home.“Rohit and his sister-in-law had been living together for the past many months. They planned to get married soon,” the DCP said.But along with them lived Rohit’s mother, which the police said the woman was allegedly not comfortable about. “The victim had been compelling Rohit to either send his mother to live elsewhere or move to a rented home away from her,” the DCP said, quoting the suspect.The police are questioning Rohit’s family and neighbours to find the reason behind the quarrels.Around 2.30 pm on Tuesday, the duo again fought over the same issue at their home in Karawal Nagar.“During the quarrel, Rohit strangled his sister-in-law to death. Her son was at a relative’s home and daughter was playing outside their house,” said the DCP.The suspect locked the house from outside, picked up the little girl and walked to the DCP’s office. “As soon as he confessed to the murder, we alerted the local police,” the DCP said.The suspect accompanied a police team to the crime scene where the victim was found lying dead.The two orphaned children have been handed over to their maternal grandparents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-man-kills-widowed-sister-in-law-walks-to-dcp-office-with-her-daughter-to-confess/story-eQ8CmA96RAFtBzSdaOTyKO.html
13-11-2020||Delhi||A slight breather for Delhi but Diwali may be ‘severe’||Experts on Thursday warned that violations of the ban on firecrackers on Diwali, coupled with slower, north-westerly winds carrying stubble burning smoke, will likely push Delhi’s air pollution back into the ‘severe’ levels it witnessed earlier this week. Scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that even though the city’s air quality index (AQI) improved to the lower range of ‘very poor’ on Thursday, thanks to stronger winds, the situation will likely deteriorate from Friday. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data shows that on Thursday, Delhi’s overall AQI was 314, in the ‘very poor’ category. On Wednesday, the AQI was 344, also very poor. Firecrackers could lead to Mumbai’s worst air pollution post-Diwali in 6 years: SAFARDiwali will be celebrated on Saturday.VK Soni, head of IMD’s environment monitoring research centre, said winds blowing over Delhi will start slowing down from Friday, and their direction will switch to north-westerly, which will increase the contribution of stubble-burning smoke from Punjab and Haryana. “Even though we have forecast that this Diwali is likely to be better compared to the last few years, the weather is expected to be unfavourable. If people in the city burst crackers, then the pollution level could slip to ‘severe’ on Diwali day and a day after,” Soni said. The Capital’s AQI was ‘severe’ for six days, starting November 6. The city got minor relief on Wednesday and Thursday, when the AQI was very poor category after winds shifted direction, blowing in from the east, and carrying minimal smoke from farm fires.Smoke from farm fires contributed to just 3% of Delhi’s PM2.5 (ultrafine particulate matter less than 2.5 micrometres in diameter) levels on Wednesday, the lowest since October 14.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that from Diwali afternoon the wind speed will dip to nearly 6kmph. “From Diwali evening the air quality is likely to start deteriorating. However, from Sunday night the wind direction is expected to change again to easterly and there is also a possibility of light rain,” Srivastava said. The IMD forecast said that wind speeds are likely to improve from Monday. The Union ministry of earth sciences’ air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), also released a similar forecast for Delhi’s air quality for the Diwali weekend. “The stubble burning induced impact in AQI is expected to increase from negligible to moderate for the next two days,” the Safar forecast read. The forecast, however, said that even if residents do not burn any crackers, the PM2.5 level is still expected to be on the higher-end of ‘very poor’ or the lower-end of ‘severe’ category. However, despite unfavourable weather conditions, the forecast said the AQI is expected to be better this year, as compared to Diwali day and the days after the festival for the past four years. “Even a smaller increment in the local additional emission is likely to have significant deterioration impact on November 14 and November 15, and may push the AQI in the severe category,” read the Safar forecast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/weather-likely-to-be-unfavourable-on-diwali-weekend-crackers-to-make-it-worse-warn-imd-and-safar/story-qy4bvcfmfoM6IiWTbzCB7K.html
13-11-2020||Delhi||Man dies in judicial custody a day after assault over bid to steal truck||A 24-year-old man died in judicial custody on Thursday, a day after he was allegedly caught stealing a truck and assaulted by its owner and the public in north-east Delhi’s Kabir Nagar, the police said. His family has alleged that he was tortured at Welcome police station. Deputy commissioner of police (north-east) Ved Prakash Surya denied this. Surya said Mesar was medically examined before being sent him to Mandoli jail. “A judicial inquiry by a metropolitan magistrate has been initiated,” Surya said. On Wednesday, around 2.50am, the DCP said, police were informed that a vehicle thief was caught on the 100 feet road in Kabir Nagar. A team from the Welcome police reached the spot and met one Hira Lal Kamra, who produced Mesar. Kamra told police that he caught Mesar with the help of locals and they assaulted him before informing the police, the DCP said. “Mesar was sent to Jag Pravesh Chandra Hospital where he was examined. A case under sections 379 (theft) and 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) of the IPC was registered,” said Surya. Around midnight, the DCP said, Mesar complained of pain and was admitted to Hedgewar Hospital, where he died. Mesar’s relative Abdul Waseem said he was a cab driver and lived in Pul Prahladpur. “We went to the police station but were not allowed to meet him. We spoke to him over an officer’s phone. He told us that he was in pain. We suspect that he succumbed to injuries caused by police torture,” Waseem said. DCP Surya said, “Mesar was not assaulted by police. We are initiating legal action against the truck owner and others.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-caught-for-theft-dies-in-judicial-custody-family-alleges-torture/story-4HLdxEvsFpqvejKQMD9p6I.html
13-11-2020||Delhi||FB officials stepped in to bend rules: Ex-employee||A former employee of social media company Facebook deposed on Thursday before the Delhi Assembly’s peace and harmony committee, recounting what he said were instances of the company’s top officials intervening to bend content policing rules. The remarks were made by Mark S Luckie, who worked as a manager with Facebook’s Global Influencers department between October 2017 and November 2018 – a stint during which he claimed to be involved with several teams that handle the company’s core functions.“Mr Luckie affirmed that there have been repeated interferences by top officials of Facebook teams, including their policy heads at the instance of the political parties upon the content moderation teams which has caused eventual compromise in the execution of their own community standards… Thus, in turn contributes in disruption of peace and harmony in the society. He also asserted that there would be more peace and a harmonious situation if the Facebook was allowing its content moderators to work freely and true to the guidelines,” said the committee’s chairperson Raghav Chadha in a statement after the deposition.The committee is looking at the possible role Facebook played in fanning the communal violence in north-east Delhi in February that claimed 53 lives. The committee’s scrutiny came following a string of reports from news outlets that accused Facebook executives of bending rules on hate speech and unlawful content in order to protect business and political interests.“Mr Luckie also spoke about the recruitment process of the top heads of the company where he signified that for an extremely important post like that of Public Policy Head, persons having cordial government relations or having special political affiliations and who have strong hold on lobbying within the government are preferred, a practice which in itself casts a shadow of doubt on the ‘politically agnostic management’ stance which Facebook often tries to shields under,” the panel’s statement added. It said that “he (Luckie) also asserted the events like Delhi communal clashes, Myanmar genocide and Sri Lanka Communal violence could have been easily averted had Facebook acted in a more proactive and prompt manner.”Facebook representatives did not respond to requests for comment.Luckie’s deposition is the latest in a string of people who have looked into Facebook’s operations. The committee also summoned Facebook India vice-president and managing director Ajit Mohan, who challenged it in the Supreme Court. The panel told the court that it had summoned Mohan as a “witness”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/facebook-officials-stepped-in-to-bend-rules-former-employee-tells-delhi-house-panel/story-sdLaxDBgON9Fe3H2k6sFwL.html
13-11-2020||Delhi||JNUSU tells Modi varsity’s V-C liable for ‘failures’||The Jawaharlal Nehru Students Union (JNUSU) on Thursday wrote an open letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, asking him to hold the varsity’s vice-chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar accountable for the alleged “failures and mismanagement” during his stint at the university.The JNUSU listed the alleged changes in the administerial and structural functioning of the university ever since Kumar took over as the VC in 2006. According to the letter, fee hike, students being accused of sedition, disappearance of Najeeb Ahmed, a decrease in the number of MPhil and Ph.D. seats, the alleged library fund cut, and “faulty” recruitments are main issues.JNUSU has been calling for a phased return of students to campus. The JNU V-C did not respond to calls and messages sent for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jnusu-writes-open-letter-to-pm-criticises-vc/story-Qv1LLHv2W9khLcbUnRXlcK.html
13-11-2020||Delhi||Teachers to check Covid violations in North MCD areas||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation has prepared a plan to keep a check on Covid-19 violations ahead of Diwali at markets and shopping complexes. The municipal body has roped in teachers and officials from the engineering department to deploy additional monitoring teams in public places. The drive, which will continue till November 17, and the enhanced vigil will cover not just main markets but also shopping areas at ward and local levels.In a circular issued Wednesday, the corporation said that in view of crowding in market places and shopping complexes, teams will stay on the field from 1pm-11pm to enforce Covid-19 guidelines. “These teams will comprise six primary teachers per ward and all the assistant engineers and junior engineers of their respective wards. Apart from them, licensing inspectors, officials from health and malaria departments, and enforcement department will also be part of these vigilance teams. We are short of staff and this is an “all hands on the deck” situation,” a senior official of the north body said, requesting anonymity.The official added that the vigilance teams of this “Diwali Plan” will not only ensure that people are maintaining social distancing and wearing masks, but also educate them about the pandemic and issue fines to violators, be it a shopper or shopkeeper. They will also have to submit an action taken report comprising information on the number of fines issued and the amount collected. Jai Prakash, mayor, North Delhi Municipal Corporation, said the number of coronavirus cases are spiking in the city and due to the festival season the crowd has also increased in markets. “It is an unprecedented scenario where we need to crowd control and ensure their exposure to the virus remains minimal. So special teams have been formed in each zone. Generally, the enforcement related to Covid-19 is handled by the health, malaria and licensing departments, but now we have included teachers and engineers in the vigil so that we can cover the maximum area and fine violators,” Prakash said.However, the decision did not go down well with the teachers’ body in the north municipality.“We don’t support this decision as teachers are already engaged in online classes and are working without salary. Sending them into crowded markets during a pandemic is not fair,” Kuldeep Khatri, president, Shikshak Sangthan Samanvay Samiti, North Corporation, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/north-civic-body-ropes-in-teachers-engineers-to-step-up-covid-vigil-in-markets/story-OqDbtOoeRAVvxOkxWTNK5O.html
13-11-2020||City||121 stubble burning incidents, 60 FIRs in Mohali in one month||Even as the district administration appointed rapid response teams to curb stubble burning, as many as 121 cases have been reported in Mohali in the past one month, up from 82 throughout the season last year. More than half the cases (66) have been reported from the Dera Bassi subdivision, while Kharar accounts for 32 and Mohali for 23 cases.“In the survey, teams found 50% of the total fields are under stubble burning. Till November 12, we have imposed a fine of ₹3 lakh as environmental penalty on 121 farmers found burning stubble in their fields,” said Girish Dayalan, deputy commissioner, Mohali. Last year, fines worth ₹2.55 were imposed.Also, as compared to just eight FIRs registered last year, the Mohali police have booked 59 farmers under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code and one under the air pollution Act in the past one month.The area under paddy cultivation in the district is around 25,800 hectares, which is expected to result in 1.29 lakh quintals of crop residue.Fine for stubble burning on farmland of less than two acres is ₹2,500; for fields of two to five acres, it is ₹5,000; and for over five acres, it is ₹15,000.“We are trying our level best to control stubble burning, but farmers continue to flout rules. Directions have been issued to the revenue department to make red entries in the land records of offenders,” said a senior official of the district administration, not wishing to be named. Red entry means the farmer will not be eligible for any government facility or loan from any bank or institution. As part of efforts to curb stubble burning, rapid response teams were constituted along with appointment of village-level nodal officers to monitor the area under their jurisdiction and report stubble burning. The teams have been trained to use a mobile app, through which they will share on-the-spot action taken. It is mandatory for every official to update the action taken in a stipulated period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/121-stubble-burning-incidents-60-firs-in-mohali-in-one-month/story-Fgwvzm4bbwohuvPR9qaPBK.html
13-11-2020||City||Residents of housing society in Mohali struggle for basic amenities||The residents of Emaar, Sector 108, have been struggling with proper access to basic amenities for the past several months. The residents are facing problems due to bad road conditions, accumulated water in foundations of plots under construction, and poor drainage system. Around 100 families are residing in the locality. PL Garg, who is constructing his house on plot number 197, said, “We have been suffering for the past several months due to the poor drainage system. Despite several complaints to the concerned authorities, no action has been taken so far.” He further said, “Last week, a truck loaded with sand got stuck near our plot as the road/ drainage system caved in due to poor quality of work.” Another resident Daljit Singh said that the internal roads are in bad shape. “They are charging Rs 1,000 per month for maintenance but are not repairing them. I have even written to the chief minister of Punjab to intervene,” he said. The residents alleged that the authorities have left the water drainage system outlet open near the plots as a result of which water gets accumulated between the locality and the railway line. It has become a breeding ground for mosquitoes/insects and may spread diseases like dengue etc., besides emanating foul smell. The spokesperson of Emaar could not be contacted for comments even after repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/residents-of-housing-society-in-mohali-cry-for-basic-amenities/story-FipNyxYVNxobVznJnyHitL.html
13-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Teachers’ union seeks promotion of TGTs||Members of the joint action committee of teachers, Chandigarh, held a meeting on Thursday to discuss the issue of the promotion of trained graduate teachers (TGTs) to lecturers. Speaking about this, union president Bhag Singh Kairon said, “The promotion cases of teachers were announced two years back, yet they still haven’t been promoted even as some of them have started retiring now. The senior secondary classes are being taught by junior basic trained (JBT) and TGTs in most of the schools due to an acute shortage of lecturers. “ Adding to this, chairman Savinder Singh said, “The department is planning to restrict teachers to avail two C-leaves each for November and December, which is highly objectionable. There is strong resentment in the teaching community. Teachers are already overburdened as they are taking online classes as well as offline.” Secretary Ranbir Rana added that if promotion orders of eligible TGTs are not issued within this month, the union will call a general house meeting of teachers in the first week of December to discuss the next course of action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-teachers-union-demands-promotion-of-tgts/story-XXLP2CAFE3O3fXTQE8FczN.html
13-11-2020||Mumbai||Second Covid-19 wave likely in Maharashtra in January-February: Health department advisory||Anticipating a possible second wave of Covid-19 in Maharashtra around January 2021, the state health department has issued an advisory for municipal bodies and district administrations in the state to be prepared for a surge. Maharashtra achieved a peak in infections in September and is now seeing a downward trend in the daily number of cases for four-five weeks. However, with further relaxations on the movement of people, festive season and ongoing winter, there is a fear of a possible surge is cases.In the advisory dated November 11, the department cited the second wave in European nations and said, “Like in European nations, we could face a second wave in January-February…” The advisory called for increased testing up to the capacity of laboratories and also for a firecracker-free Diwali, as it would add to the discomfort of coronavirus patients and those suffering from lung ailments.Also read: Don’t step out, celebrate Diwali from homes: Maharashtra CM Uddhav ThackerayMeanwhile, Maharashtra added 4,496 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday, pushing the tally to 17,36,329. Maharashtra also reported 122 fatalities, taking the toll to 45,682. Of the 122 deaths, 85 occurred within the past 48 hours, while 37 deaths occurred in the past week, a state health department statement said. The active cases in the state stood at 84,627, while the recovery rate improved to 92.44%. Mumbai added 858 new cases on Thursday, taking its tally to 267,606. It also reported 19 deaths, pushing the toll to 10,525.State health minister Rajesh Tope said the health infrastructure was prepared to tackle the surge, but added that the possibility of a second wave is low. Members of the state-appointed Covid-19 task force said the second wave, if it does happen, could hit by December-end. Health experts said aggressive Covid-19 appropriate behaviour was the only way to mitigate it, while continuing aggressive testing tracing and isolation.Tope said people should celebrate Diwali, but while doing so, they must follow all protocol and rules that are in place to contain the spread of Covid-19. “It is not some rocket science — social distancing, masks and sanitising are what people have to follow. I have given instructions [to all district and municipal bodies] to remain prepared. The peak Maharashtra achieved was about 25,000 [cases in a day], even if it [the second wave] goes above that by 10%-20%, we are prepared for it, in terms of doctors, other staff, drugs, hospital beds, ventilators, oxygen etc,” Tope said.The health minister said the possibility of a second wave hitting the state is low. “But since winter has set in, and viruses get a boost in this weather, we have to remain more vigilant and prepared,” he said.Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the Covid-19 task force, said that with the temperature in many parts of Maharashtra going below 10 degrees, with pollution, and further unlocking, Maharashtra is likely to have a second wave. “I am predicting that the second wave will be from December-end to January-end. But everybody has a different prediction model,” he said.The member on the task force added that people have not followed Covid-appropriate behaviour during the festive period. “There is zero masking and zero physical distancing for Diwali shopping across Maharashtra. Secondly, there is crowding and there is a lot of cross migration from villages, towns and cities. More the transportation of people, more would be the spread of the virus. People think Covid has gone, it is irresponsible behaviour. The way Delhi has seen a surge with dropping temperatures, even we can see that. We should not remain off guard.”According to Joshi, the situation in Mumbai has improved, but the risk has not passed for Mumbai. He said that the slum population might have been more exposed to the virus in the first wave, only about 20% of the people living in high-rises have been exposed to the virus, keeping the threat intact.“There is a large exposure of virus in the lower economic strata like slums. Already 70-80% of them are exposed to the virus and whether they have developed some sort of immunity or not we will know in the next by December-end. Most of the Mumbai high-rises, the exposure is 10-20%, the risk for Mumbai still stays. Many people migrate from the north to Mumbai because of the cold wave, we have to remain on guard,” he said.Also read: Mumbai sees dip in daily Covid-19 tests ahead of Diwali: BMC dataThe advisory from the health department has stressed on continuing testing as per the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). “There should not be any negligence in testing. The World Health Organisation (WHO) has stated that 140 tests should be done daily for every 10 lakh people. It is mentioned in our rules as well, and therefore it must be followed,” the advisory stated.Joshi said that state lacks in testing and tracing and only utilises 50% of the testing capacity in the state. “We are still poor at testing and tracing. We are only using 50% of our testing capacity. The other disturbing trend is that people are not testing at all. If they see symptoms, they start treatment. So we do not pick up the true number of cases,” he said.According to public health experts, masks are the only medicine so far to combat the virus. Dr Sanjay Pattiwar, a public health expert said, “People have to wear masks, maintain sanitisation and physical distancing.” Joshi added, “It is still 12 to 18 months for Maharashtra to get a vaccine so the only way now is masking.”In terms of health infrastructure, Mumbai and Pune are better prepared, Joshi said. “We have a shortage of ICU beds. Rather than making temporary structures, we need to strengthen current infrastructure and build permanent structures.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/second-covid-19-wave-likely-in-maharashtra-in-january-february-health-department-advisory/story-ZOmXSubTpRHqZa4GvlXIDP.html
13-11-2020||Pune||Pune rural police arrest man posing as Indian Army officer||A man was arrested by the Pune rural police for posing as an Indian Army officer. A woman was also held in the case, according to the police. The military intelligence officials helped the police locate the accused, according to senior inspector Padmakar Ghanwat of Pune rural police local crime branch (LCB). The accused was identified as Ankit Kumar Singh (23) of Utsav Society in Kirkitwadi area of Pune and a native of Hasanpur in Amroh region of Uttar Pradesh, according to the police. The police have recovered 10 identification cards, two mobiles, a tablet, a printer, laptop, duplicate documents, and Indian Army officer uniform including shoes, waist-belt and a cap with the emblem. “Inputs from banks are awaited to check if he is part of an Army recruitment racket. Banks are closed for Diwali,” said Ghanwat. The police on tip-off nabbed a man posing as Lieutenant Colonel on Wednesday. He is alleged to have duped people under the guise of an officer. A woman named Meenakshi who claims to be his wife was also arrested. A case has been lodged at a local police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-rural-police-arrest-man-posing-as-indian-army-officer/story-NUaMNu4EIU6HvxskoHOiPI.html
13-11-2020||Pune||PMPML introduces colour codes for buses to attract commuters||The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) introduced buses with colour codes from Thursday (November 12). The public transport utility has covered 207 routes in the first phase. A total of 1,300 buses plying on these routes will have one of 15 colours to help commuters know the stretch and stops that it will take. The colour coding system is named CARISMA (Colour Coding All Routes To Identify Simplify Maps And App). “We have introduced a QR (quick response) code-based maps bus tracking system and mobile application for commuters to get the exact location, timing and frequency of buses. It is one of the first colour coding systems implement by a public transport in country,” said PMPML chairman and managing director Rajendra Jagtap at a press meet organised at PMPML headquarters at Swargate. “We have followed the bus colour coding used in London for metro train services. A total of 53 buses running on nine routes under ATAL ((Aligning Transit on All Lines) scheme will have orange colour. The airport ABHI bus service buses will have pink colour. We have started the service on 90-day trial project basis.” said Jagtap. Currently, more than 1,500 buses of PMPML are running on 315 routes across Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad areas, making more than 19,000 trips daily from 13 main bus depots and 50 bus terminals. The running and maintenance of these buses are carried out by 2,800 drivers, 4,200 conductors, 1,100 mechanics and 650 administrative staff, according to PMPML press release. “Through the mobile phone application, passenger can know the route and other details. The QR code will be displayed on buses also.” said Jagtap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmpml-introduces-colour-codes-for-buses-to-attract-commuters/story-JiWyTwPGHyG8psS6g49CpO.html
13-11-2020||Pune||Pune construction company official booked for causing death of two men in road accident||Unnamed officials of a construction company have been booked by the Pune police on Wednesday, for causing the death of two men on Baner road on November 8, by leaving a hole in the road the which the company was working on. The deceased were identified as Devashish Vidyanand Saksena (26) and Tejas Tridev Sharma (24), both resident of Metro Jazz Society in Mahalunge, Pune. The company has been as identified as JP Enterprises Engineers and Constructors. On the midnight of November 8, the two were riding on a motorcycle along Baner road that connects Ganraj chowk with Radha chowk when they met with an accident. The company had undertaken work on the side of the road where the two were riding and had dug holes for construction purposes, according to the case. However, no barricading, diversion boards, or traffic wardens were present on the site. Initially, an accidental death report was registered at Chaturshringi police station. Upon further examination, the police found the company to be at fault. A case under Sections 304(a) (causing death by negligence), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), and 283 (danger or obstruction in public way or line of navigation) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Chaturshringi police station. Assistant police inspector RV Malegave is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-construction-company-official-booked-for-causing-death-of-two-men-in-road-accident/story-T36KCpQcTWcHabe8iDgjjP.html
