14-11-2020||Mumbai||Places of worship in Maharashtra allowed to open from Monday||The Maharashtra government on Saturday gave its nod for the reopening of all religious places from Monday, lifting the Covid-enforced shutdown of eight months. The state also issued standard operating procedure (SOP), including compulsory wearing of masks, no physical offerings or prasad, no group singing or touching idols, among other preventive measures to contain the spread of Covid-19 in places of worship.As per the SOP issued by the state government, only those places of worship that are outside the containment zone shall be allowed to reopen. People over age 65 and below 10 years old, people with co-morbidities and pregnant women are advised to stay at home.A statement from the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) said that Covid-appropriate behaviour, including wearing masks and no crowding, must be strictly maintained when visiting places of worships. All places of worship were closed to the public since lockdown was imposed in March to contain the Covid-19 pandemic.A statement from CMO said, “The people of the state observed discipline during this [Covid] period. That is why the situation in Maharashtra has not gone out of hand as in other states. Maharashtra has always been blessed by saints, Gods, and Goddesses. However, Holi, Ganeshotsav, Navratri and Pandharpur wari (procession) did not take place as a precaution. Not only that, but other religions also observed discipline, such as during Eid and the Mount Mary fair.”The statement added that self-discipline will have to be maintained at these places. “You have to take off your slippers and enter the temple, but don’t forget that a mask is mandatory. Temples will open, other places of worship will open. Only if we follow discipline, then only we and Maharashtra will get God’s blessings.” Meanwhile, Maharashtra reported 4,237 new infections and 105 deaths on Saturday, taking the tally to 1,744,698 and toll to 45,914. Mumbai saw 726 new cases and 16 deaths, taking the tally to 269,133 and the toll to 10,558. Following Mumbai, Pune registered the second-highest number of cases, 522, and 18 deaths, followed by Nashik which saw 423 cases and two deaths. The MMR accounted for 34.86% or 1,477 cases of the new infections. The state’s case fatality rate (CFR) stands at 2.63%. State’s recovery rate improved to 92.41% after 2,707 patients were reported to have recovered, taking the tally to 16,12,314, according to the health department. Active patients’ tally in the state stands at 85, 503, including 16,185, the highest number of active patients in Pune. The SOP order issued by chief secretary Sanjay Kumar added that individuals must maintain a distance of 6 feet, practice frequent hand washing with soap or sanitizer, compulsory masking, and respiratory etiquette must be followed. The order added that large gatherings and congregation will continue to remain prohibited.The entrance of places of worship, according to the SOP, must have thermal screening and sanitizer dispenser. The state has also called for staggered entry of visitors in places of worship, which must be decided based on the size of the structure, ventilation etc. by the trust/board running the place and the local authorities.Shoes and footwear, preferably, must be kept inside their own vehicles. If needed, it must be kept in a separate slot for each person or family by the person themselves. Touching of idols, statues, holy books is not allowed.It added that with a view of a potential spread of infection, recorded devotional music/song must be played as far as feasible. Choir or group singing is not allowed. No physical offerings like prasad or distribution or sprinkling of holy water to be allowed inside places of worship, the SOP order added. The use of air-conditioner must be between the temperatures of 24 to 30 degree Celsius, while humidity must be in the range of 40-70, intake of fresh air should be as must as possible, the SOP said.The reopening of places of worship had become a major point of friction between the ruling combine and the principal opposition party, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). BJP had made several demands seeking reopening of temples and other places of worship after the Centre allowed reopening of religious places in its advisory in September. Maharashtra governor, Bhagat Singh Koshyari, in a stinging letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray last month, asked his government to reopen places of worship.Welcoming the decision of the state government BJP leader Pravin Darekar said that the state government acted after the party and religious outfits put pressure on it to reopen religious places. “The government woke up late, but we welcome the decision. The decision came because we kept pressure on the government,” Darekar said in a statement.Although the state has allowed temples to open, district collectorates have been directed to take necessary steps to augment the health infrastructure, anticipating a potential spike after Diwali. “The district administrations have been asked to ramp up the health infrastructure with 10% more bed facilities than they had in September when we witnessed a peak in the cases. Besides it, we have also asked them for aggressive tracking of contacts to keep the spread of the virus under check,” said an official from the health department. The officials also said that after the temple and religious places were allowed to reopen from Monday, the decision about resumption of local trains for all will be taken after assessing the Covid-19 situation. “We had written to the Western and Central Railway two weeks ago, asking them to chalk out the plans for resumption of the local trains for all in non-peak hours. But we are not pushing for immediate resumption as there could be a spike in cases after Diwali. The decision over it may be taken a week after Diwali by reviewing the situation,” an official from Mantralaya said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/places-of-worship-in-maharashtra-allowed-to-open-from-monday/story-kUerUL223xCaseFXRHcnyN.html
14-11-2020||Mumbai||Five of Navi Mumbai family killed as bus falls off bridge in Satara||Five members of a Navi Mumbai family of 11, including a three-year-old boy, were killed after their speeding tempo traveller fell off a bridge on Saturday morning, police said. The remaining six and the driver, who was booked, sustained injuries and were recuperating at a hospital. The family was headed to Goa for a vacation and started from Vashi around 9pm. The crash took place on Tarali river bridge, on the outskirts of Umbraj village in Karad, Satara, between 4.30am and 5am, according to the police. “The driver of the vehicle dozed off while on the bridge. Due to this, he ended up hurtling off the bridge 50 feet below,” said AL Gorad, assistant inspector, Umbraj police station. According to the police, after the vehicle crashed, one of the injured occupants called the emergency police helpline. The police traced the call and sent for rescue operations. The five killed are Madhusudhan Nair, 42, his wife Usha, 40, their 23-year-old son Aditya, along with Sajan Nair, 35, and his three-year-old son Aarav, police said. The local traffic police said the place where the crash took place is not a black spot – an accident-prone area. The two-lane bridge is separated by a dividing gap, which looks over the river. Incidentally, a spot a few metres after the bridge ends is prone to crashes, police added. “Such a crash has not taken place on the bridge. Nevertheless, crash barriers have been installed on the side of the roads to prevent crashes. It appears the vehicle, owing to its high speed, crashed through the concrete barrier and off the bridge,” said Asmita Patil, in-charge at Karad traffic police. The driver of the vehicle and six other members of the Nair family sustained injuries in the crash. All of them were said to be recuperating and out of danger. The injured were rushed to Satara civil hospital and the bodies were sent to Karad civil hospital for an autopsy. “We contacted their relatives in Mumbai to inform them about the crash. The relatives are on their way,” said an officer from Satara police. Meanwhile, the police have registered a case of rash driving and causing death due to negligence against the driver, Rinku Gupta, 30. Police said he was sober at the time of the crash. The police sought help from cranes to pull the vehicle out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/five-of-navi-mumbai-family-killed-as-bus-falls-off-bridge-in-satara/story-6eMO6Z9bluZ3PVgnyUt8pO.html
14-11-2020||Mumbai||Exhibition of portrait rangolis at Thane ends today||Portrait rangolis of 24 well-known personalities from various disciplines including sports, politics and freedom fighters have been displayed at Kopri’s Vidyasagar Vidyalaya. These are made by experts who took three to four days to make them using rangoli powder. They are put up for public display till Sunday.This is an annual feature wherein artists from across Maharashtra participate. However, this year it has been restricted to local artists only. Moreover, those visiting have to maintain social-distancing and wear masks to watch the wide display of portrait rangolis.Vikas Gharkar, who made a portrait of legendary cricketer Kapil Dev, said, “This was the first time I attempted Kapil Dev’s portrait. It took me almost four days to focus on the minute nuances. I have been participating in this annual event for the last six to seven years and try to come up with a new portrait every time.”Similarly, Yogesh Bhagane made a portrait of Narendra Modi and Amit Shah with the Rafale planes in the backdrop. “This has been in the news for quite some time now. To get Modi’s and Shah’s facial expressions right was quite a task,” added Bhagane. Art lovers were in awe of these portraits. “To prepare one such portrait is a task and some artists have managed to make two portraits in a single image. That takes a lot of patience. I am in awe of their skill, creativity and talent,” said Anirudha Joshi, 45, a visitor from Kopri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/exhibition-of-portrait-rangolis-at-thane-ends-today/story-Mu729QnRqIhLqxDhIgJ93N.html
14-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s Covid-19 tally reaches 4.82 lakh with 7,340 new cases, death toll rises to 7,519||The national capital recorded 7,340 Covid-19 cases in a day taking the infection tally to over 4.82 lakh on Saturday, while 96 new fatalities during the same period pushed the death toll in the city to 7,519, authorities said.These fresh cases were detected from 49,645 tests, including 19,635 RT-PCR ones, conducted the previous day. The positivity rate in the city was 14.78 per cent amid festivities and rising pollution, according to a bulletin issued by the Delhi health department.The highest single-day spike of 8,593 cases was recorded on Wednesday and 85 fatalities were recorded that day. On November 12, the number of fatalities was 104, the highest in over five months.On Saturday, 96 more fatalities were recorded, pushing the death toll in the national capital to 7,519, the bulletin said.The tally of active cases in the national capital on Saturday rose to 44,456 from 44,329 the previous day.According to the bulletin, the total number of cases has reached 4,82,170.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-covid-19-tally-reaches-4-82-lakh-with-7-340-new-cases-death-toll-rises-to-7-519/story-oTvWLMA3BiilMcJMSAFu9I.html
14-11-2020||Kolkata||Fire breaks out in Kolkata’s New Town, several houses damaged||A fire broke out in the slum area of Nivedita pally in Kolkata’s New Town on Friday evening. Several houses were gutted in the blaze, according to ANI. Two fire tenders doused the flames within 30 minutes after it was reported, as per reports.Around 30 shanties in the area near were gutted in the fire that broke out in Gauranga Nagar locality. No casualty has been reported yet in the fire.“The reason of the fire is yet to be ascertained,” PTI reported citing fire department officials.The Calcutta high court last week had banned the use, sale and purchase of firecrackers in West Bengal during Kali Puja, Diwali, Chhath and other pujas during this festive season to curb the air pollution as the country struggles with Covid-19. (with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/fire-breaks-out-in-kolkata-s-new-town-several-houses-damaged/story-2aRNeEJRRcaHYsQDOKpw5I.html
14-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality turns severe on Diwali: IMD||Delhi’s air quality turned severe on Diwali with stubble burning accounting for 32 per cent of the city’s PM2.5 pollution and calm winds worsening the situation as they allowed accumulation of pollutants, the weather officials said.  The city recorded an overall AQI of 414 on Saturday, which falls in the severe category.  The 24-hour average AQI was 339 on Friday and 314 on Thursday.Delhi recorded a 24-hour average AQI of 337 on Diwali last year (October 27), and 368 and 400 in the next two days. Thereafter, pollution levels remained in the “severe” category for three days on the trot.This time, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said that a fresh western disturbance is likely to increase the wind speed and improve the air quality in Delhi-NCR post the Diwali.Light rain is likely on Sunday under the influence of a western disturbance. It is still to be seen if it is enough to wash away pollutants, Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD’s regional forecasting centre, said.V K Soni, the head of the IMD’s environment research centre, said calm winds, smoke from farm fires and firecrackers emissions may push the air quality to the severe zone on Diwali night.  The wind speed is expected to pick up thereafter and the wind direction will be east-southeasterly, he said.There will be a significant improvement in air quality by November 16, he added.The Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi also said the situation is likely to improve significantly on Sunday.  “Under the influence of a Western Disturbance, isolated rainfall over plains of northwest India and adjoining central India is likely on Sunday. The predominant surface wind is likely to be coming from East-Southeast direction of Delhi with wind speed up to 20 kmph,” it said.“Generally cloudy sky, light rain, thundershowers accompanied with gusty winds (speed 30-40 kmph) is likely towards afternoon-evening on Sunday,” the central agency said.The National Green Tribunal (NGT) had on Monday imposed a total ban on sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in the National Capital Region (NCR) from November 9 midnight to November 30 midnight, saying “celebration by crackers is for happiness and not to celebrate deaths and diseases”.A bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel clarified that the direction will apply to all cities and towns in the country where the average of ambient air quality during November 2019 was in “poor” and above categories.  “At other places, restrictions are optional for the authorities but if there are more stringent measures under orders of the authorities, the same will prevail,” the NGT had said.The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) had on Wednesday ordered closure of hot mix plants and stone crushers in Delhi-NCR till November 17 in view of a likely increase in pollution levels during the festive season.It also asked the governments of Punjab and Haryana to take immediate stringent actions to curb stubble burning and authorities in Delhi-NCR to strictly check biomass burning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-air-quality-turns-severe-on-diwali-imd/story-Yyug1W6LvEtStFD0uXXpAO.html
14-11-2020||Patna||Bihar council polls: Nitish Kumar’s JD(U), BJP get 2 seats each; Congress bags 1||The JD(U) lost one constituency of the Bihar legislative council to an Independent candidate and held on to two others, while the other five were retained by the respective members belonging to the BJP, CPI and Congress in the polls held last month, officials said on Saturday.Counting of votes for the graduate constituencies of Patna, Koshi, Darbhanga and Tirhut, and the teacher constituencies of Patna, Darbhanga, Tirhut and Saran, which began on Thursday, concluded late on Friday, they said.The polling for the seats, which fell vacant in May, was deferred by a few months due to the Covid-19 pandemic and held on October 22.The ruling JD(U), headed by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, lost the Darbhanga teacher constituency to Sarvesh Kumar, an Independent candidate, who polled 15,595 out of 22,549 votes cast, the Election Commission said.He wrested the seat from Dilip Kumar Chaudhary, a close aide of JD(U) working president and former minister Ashok Choudhary.JD(U) candidates Neeraj Kumar and Devesh Chandra Thakur retained their Patna graduate and Tirhut graduate seats. Neeraj Kumar was the minister for Information Public Relations Department.Ashok Choudhary held the building construction portfolio.Kumar and Choudhary were stripped of their cabinet berths recently as a period of six months elapsed since their membership of the legislature expired.Choudhary is expected to be accommodated through the Governor’s quota.BJP candidates NK Yadav and Nawal Kishore Yadav retained the Koshi graduate and Patna teacher constituencies, respectively.CPI candidates Sanjay Kumar Singh and Kedar Nath Pandey also retained their respective teacher constituencies of Tirhut and Saran.Madan Mohan Jha, the state Congress president, retained the Darbhanga teacher constituency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-council-polls-nitish-kumar-s-party-bjp-2-seats-each-congress-bags-1/story-Qd0RK6Jd9gSSldy89HIekK.html
14-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality turns ‘severe’ on Diwali||Delhi’s air quality turned “severe” on Diwali with stubble burning accounting for 32 per cent of the city’s PM2.5 pollution and calm winds worsening the situation as they allowed accumulation of pollutants, weather officials said.  The Ministry of Earth Sciences’ air quality monitor, SAFAR, said, “Even a small increase in local additional emissions is likely to have significant deterioration impact on Sunday and Monday.” It said peak levels of PM10 and PM2.5 are expected between 1 am and 6 am in case of additional internal emissions.  Earlier, it had said that the PM2.5 concentration in Delhi on Diwali is likely to be the “lowest” in the last four years if no firecrackers are burnt.The city recorded an overall AQI of 414 on Saturday, which falls in the “severe” category.  The 24-hour average AQI was 339 on Friday and 314 on Thursday.Delhi recorded a 24-hour average AQI of 337 on Diwali last year (October 27), and 368 and 400 in the next two days. Thereafter, pollution levels remained in the “severe” category for three days on the trot.In 2018, the 24-hour average AQI (281) on Diwali was recorded in the “poor” category. It deteriorated to 390 the next day and remained in the “severe” category on three consecutive days thereafter.In 2017, Delhi’s 24-hour average AQI on Diwali (October 19) stood at 319. It, however, slipped into the “severe” zone the next day.This time, the India Meteorological Department has said that a fresh western disturbance is likely to increase the wind speed and improve the air quality in Delhi-NCR post Diwali.Light rain is likely on Sunday under the influence of a western disturbance. It is still to be seen if it is enough to wash away pollutants, Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD’s regional forecasting centre, said.“However, Delhi-NCR’s air quality is likely to improve post Diwali due to an expected increase in the wind speed on Sunday,” he said.V K Soni, the head of the IMD’s environment research centre, said calm winds, smoke from farm fires and firecrackers emissions may push the air quality to the “severe” zone on Diwali night.  The wind speed is expected to pick up thereafter and the wind direction will be east-southeasterly, he said.There will be a significant improvement in air quality by November 16, Soni said.The Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi also said the situation is likely to “improve significantly” on Sunday.  “Under the influence of a Western Disturbance, isolated rainfall over plains of northwest India and adjoining central India is likely on Sunday. The predominant surface wind is likely to be coming from East-Southeast direction of Delhi with wind speed up to 20 kmph,” it said.“Generally cloudy sky, light rain, thundershowers accompanied with gusty winds (speed 30-40 kmph) is likely towards afternoon-evening on Sunday,” the central agency said.The Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) on Friday directed the CPCB and states concerned to ensure there is no lapse in the implementation of the National Green Tribunal’s directions in view of the air quality scenario during the Diwali period.“In pursuance of NGT order dated November 9 and considering the concerns of air quality scenario in the NCR and its adverse health impact, the Commission directed CPCB, state governments and authorities concerned for strict compliance of the directions of NGT, with zero tolerance on violation,” it said.The National Green Tribunal (NGT) had on Monday imposed a total ban on sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in the National Capital Region (NCR) from November 9 midnight to November 30 midnight, saying “celebration by crackers is for happiness and not to celebrate deaths and diseases”.A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel clarified that the direction will apply to all cities and towns in the country where the average of ambient air quality during November 2019 was in “poor” and above categories.  “At other places, restrictions are optional for the authorities but if there are more stringent measures under orders of the authorities, the same will prevail,” the NGT had said.The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) had on Wednesday ordered closure of hot mix plants and stone crushers in Delhi-NCR till November 17 in view of a likely increase in pollution levels during the festive season.It also asked the governments of Punjab and Haryana to take immediate stringent actions to curb stubble burning and authorities in Delhi-NCR to strictly check biomass burning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-air-quality-turns-severe-on-diwali/story-U9VSqApm5d6eeMckbk5E8N.html
14-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra celebrates Diwali in toned-down manner amid Covid-19||Diwali, the festival of lights, is being celebrated across Mumbai and other parts of Maharashtra on Saturday with fervour, but in a subdued manner under the shadow of the Covid-19 pandemic.This year, Laxmi Pujan, the main day of Diwali, and Naraka Chaturdashi, are being celebrated on the same day on Saturday.In Maharashtra, families celebrate this day by getting up early in the morning and having an ‘abhyanga snan’ (ritual bath) as per the custom. People light earthen lamps, adorn the balconies with ‘akash kandil’ (sky lantern) and colourful rangoli patterns are drawn at the entrance of houses.Early morning ‘Diwali Pahat’ cultural programmes in major cities across Maharashtra, including Mumbai, Pune, Thane and Nashik, have become an integral part of the festival.However, these programmes were missing this year due to the coronavirus outbreak.Nevertheless, some organisations conducted online programmes, like musical events and interviews.Masunda Lake in Thane city and Phadke Road in Dombivli (in Thane district) are famous spots for such programmes, where people gather in large numbers to enjoy the cultural extravaganza. However, such celebrations were cancelled this year due to the pandemic.Even as the Maharashtra government has not banned firecrackers, the Shiv Sena-led Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has announced a ban on the use of crackers and fireworks in the city to curb the spread of coronavirus.The civic body has, however, allowed use of ‘mild firecrackers’ on Laxmi Pujan, saying Mumbaikars can use anar (cracker known for a sparkling display and showers of coloured sparks upwards) and ‘fulzadi’ (sparklers) at their private premises.In a recent review meeting with senior Covid-19 task force members on the preparedness for a possible second wave, Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope had said firecrackers could have an adverse effect on lungs.Maharashtra has so far recorded 17,40,461 coronavirus positive cases, while 45,809 people have so far died due to the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-celebrates-diwali-in-toned-down-manner-amid-covid-19/story-y7UygaCUGAsAIiikPnVwjP.html
14-11-2020||Mumbai||Places of worship in Maharashtra to reopen from Monday: Govt||The Maharashtra government on Saturday announced the reopening of all religious places from Monday. A statement from the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) said that Covid-appropriate behaviour, including wearing masks, must strictly be maintained while visiting the places of worships. All places of worship are closed for citizens since a lockdown was imposed in the third week of March to contain the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.The statement by the CMO added that self-discipline will have to be maintained at these places. “Footwear is kept outside the temples, but one must not forget mask will remain compulsory. There should not be any crowding in the places of worship,” the statement added.”The people have maintained discipline in the fight against Covid-19, and therefore the situation in Maharashtra did not go out of hand as it happened in other states. During this time, not just Holi, Ganeshotsav, Navratri, Pandharpur Wari pilgrimage, but Eid, Mount Mary festival etc were also celebrated with discipline… But now on the Deepawali Padwa, the New Year [as per Hindu calender], the state government has decided to reopen all the places of worship,” it added.The reopening of places of worship had become a major point of friction between the ruling combine and the principal opposition party, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The BJP had made demands seeking reopening of temples and other places of worship after the Centre allowed reopening of religious places in its advisory in September. The party had held state-wide protests outside temples and had also threatened to open temples forcibly if no decision was taken by the government. Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, in a stinging letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray last month, asked his government to reopen places of worship.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/places-of-worship-in-maharashtra-to-reopen-from-monday-govt/story-i6i7gdrjN2COSweDvTHjYP.html
14-11-2020||Pune||Buldhana’s Lonar Lake declared Ramsar site, second for Maharashtra within a year||The Lonar lake in Buldhana district of Maharashtra has been declared as the 41st “Ramsar” site of India. It has effectively become the second Ramsar site in the state. There are 2,412 designated Ramsar sites in the world. The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) Convention for the conservation of wetlands was called the ‘Convention on Wetlands of International Importance especially as Waterfowl Habitat’. The convention got its name of Ramsar Convention from the city of Ramsar in Iran where it was signed in 1971 and came into force in 1975. “I’m glad that the Lonar crater is now officially a Ramsar Site. Having seen it for the first time in 2004, it is a sight that captivates everyone. It has its own significance in the world of biodiversity, tourism and geology,” tweeted Aditya Thackeray, environment and tourism minister of Maharashtra. “Inhabiting the site are 160 species of birds including the vulnerable Asian woolly neck (Ciconia episcopus) and common pochard (Aythya ferina), 46 species of reptiles, and 12 species of mammals including the iconic grey wolf (Canis lupus),” reads the announcement by Ramsar Convention. According to the Ramsar Convention, the ecology, botany, zoology, limnology or hydrology of the wetland needs to be considered before including it in the list. The inclusion will ensure added funds and training for the maintenance of the site for the staff and indigenous people. However, ecologist and academic Madhav Gadgil is sceptical about the development. He urged the government to first take steps at the local level failing which international intervention like Ramsar list may not help. “These protections need to be brought to life. For example, UNESCO heritage site Kaas plateau has been made worse after being declared a heritage site. I have never seen even one site which has gained an advantage after being protected by the forest department. At Lonar, the sewage is let into the lake. There are red algae blooms - it is getting spoiled. Tourism is also highly politicised. If we have to fix this then, we must take out the tourist lodges near the heritages sites and prevent sewage from entering the lake. Where is the political will for doing all this? Rivers like Mutha and Bhima have also turned into gutter Gangas. What’s the use of giving international status? Maharashtra and the Central government climate change ministry should take it up seriously,” said Gadgil. “The sites are both threatened by household sewage and urban wastewater and by unsustainable tourism” reads the announcement further. The lake had made news in August when the water in the circular-shaped lake turned pink. The phenomenon was caused by salt-loving Haloarchaea microbes which lead to pigmentation, according to a report by Agharkar Research Institute (ARI) in Pune, an autonomous body under the department of Science and Technology. The Lonar lake was declared as the 41st Ramsar site along with Sur Saroivar or Keetham Lake in Uttar Pradesh. The first site from Maharashtra to enter the list was Nandur Madhameshwar in 2019. Uttar Pradesh has the highest contribution from India to the list with eight and Punjab has the second highest with six sites in the list.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/buldhana-s-lonar-lake-declared-ramsar-site-second-for-maharashtra-within-a-year/story-vhomyKcTPrNmbaRL5WgIPN.html
14-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality ‘very poor’, likely to become ‘severe’ by evening: Weather experts||Delhi’s air quality remained ‘very poor’ on Saturday morning and emission from firecrackers and calm winds may push it to the ‘severe zone’ by this evening, according to government agencies and weather experts.The Ministry of Earth Sciences’ air quality monitor, SAFAR, said the PM2.5 concentration in Delhi on Diwali is likely to be the ‘lowest’ in the last four years if no firecrackers are burnt.Pollution levels in Delhi during the Diwali period are likely to remain in the higher end of the ‘very poor’ category even in the absence of emissions due to firecrackers, it said.The air quality in Delhi-NCR is likely to deteriorate further and enter the ‘severe’ category by evening, it added.The city recorded an AQI of 373 at 10am on Saturday, which falls in the ‘very poor’ category. However, several monitoring stations, including at ITO (406), Alipur (422), Jahangirpuri (431), Rohini (403), Vivek Vihar (415), Narela (418), Bawana (430), Mundka (405) and Anand Vihar (429), recorded their AQI in the ‘severe’ category.The 24-hour average AQI was 339 on Friday and 314 on Thursday.This time, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said that a fresh western disturbance is likely to increase the wind speed and improve the air quality in Delhi-NCR post Diwali.Light rain is likely on Sunday under the influence of a western disturbance. It is still to be seen if it is enough to wash away pollutants, Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD’s regional forecasting centre, said.V K Soni, the head of the IMD’s environment research centre, said calm winds and firecrackers emissions may push the air quality to the ‘severe’ zone on Diwali night.  The wind speed is expected to pick up thereafter and the wind direction will be east-southeasterly, he said.There will be a significant improvement in air quality by November 16, Soni said. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) had on Monday imposed a total ban on sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in the National Capital Region (NCR) from November 9 midnight to November 30 midnight, saying “celebration by crackers is for happiness and not to celebrate deaths and diseases”.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-air-quality-very-poor-likely-to-become-severe-by-evening-weather-experts/story-gWqcerXELCqP4ebHO3vQ0K.html
14-11-2020||Patna||Bihar council polls: JD(U), BJP, CPI win 2 seats each; Cong, Independent bag 1||The JD(U) lost one constituency of the Bihar legislative council to an Independent candidate and held on to two others, while the other five were retained by the respective members belonging to the BJP, CPI and Congress in the polls held last month, officials said on Saturday.Counting of votes for the graduate constituencies of Patna, Koshi, Darbhanga and Tirhut, and the teacher constituencies of Patna, Darbhanga, Tirhut and Saran, which began on Thursday, concluded late on Friday, they said.The polling for the seats, which fell vacant in May, was deferred by a few months due to the Covid-19 pandemic and held on October 22.The ruling JD(U), headed by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, lost the Darbhanga teacher constituency to Sarvesh Kumar, an Independent candidate, who polled 15,595 out of 22,549 votes cast, the Election Commission said.He wrested the seat from Dilip Kumar Chaudhary, a close aide of JD(U) working president and former minister Ashok Choudhary.JD(U) candidates Neeraj Kumar and Devesh Chandra Thakur retained their Patna graduate and Tirhut graduate seats. Neeraj Kumar was the minister for Information Public Relations Department.Ashok Choudhary held the building construction portfolio.Kumar and Choudhary were stripped of their cabinet berths recently as a period of six months elapsed since their membership of the legislature expired.Choudhary is expected to be accommodated through the Governor’s quota.BJP candidates NK Yadav and Nawal Kishore Yadav retained the Koshi graduate and Patna teacher constituencies, respectively.CPI candidates Sanjay Kumar Singh and Kedar Nath Pandey also retained their respective teacher constituencies of Tirhut and Saran.Madan Mohan Jha, the state Congress president, retained the Darbhanga teacher constituency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-council-polls-jd-u-bjp-cpi-win-2-seats-each-cong-independent-bag-1/story-COcbKJICyf0iwZQi9jhsfP.html
14-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal to perform ‘Diwali pujan’ at Akshardham Temple||Chief minister of Delhi Arvind Kejriwal will perform ‘Diwali pujan’ at the Akshardham Temple on Saturday evening along with the members of his cabinet. The pujan will begin at 7.39 pm and the event will be live streamed. On Wednesday, Kejriwal tweeted a video message inviting people to tune in to the event. “As two crore Delhiites will together perform Lakshmi Pujan, marvellous vibes will be created across Delhi and all the visible and invisible forces will bless them,” he said in his message.Also Read: From Holi to Diwali, how Covid-19 and lockdown impacted IndiaCM Kejriwal had said last week that the Covid-19 situation was deteriorating in the national Capital due to the rising air pollution. He appealed to the people to not burst firecrackers on Diwali, and join him and his ministers in worship and prayer.On Friday, CM Kejriwal said that his government was planning to take steps in the coming week to address the issue of rising Covid-19 cases in the capital. He also said the situation is expected to come under control in another seven to ten days. “The Covid-19 situation in Delhi is concerning. Next week, we will take some more steps to address it. The situation should come under control in 7-10 days,” said Kejriwal in a video press briefing.The Delhi government decided to ban all types of firecrackers in the city till November 30 after a review of the Covid-19 situation by the chief minister on November 5.Special teams and flying squads have been formed by the Delhi Police under each police station to prevent the sale and bursting of crackers on Diwali. Police have seized nearly 3,000 firecrackers and arrested 47 persons in the past 10 days for either selling or bursting firecrackers, officials told HT.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-to-perform-diwali-pujan-at-akshardham-temple/story-5wH9FrOtYap5j3Gl9szSlI.html
14-11-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: His bandaged feet||One of his feet is wrapped in plastic — the kind of bag in which the fruit sellers might keep your apples.“It has patti inside,” says rickshaw puller Kalicharan. This evening he is sitting on the rickshaw’s passenger seat, his legs stretched out, both his feet resting on the saddle. Motionless for now, he seems ready to jump up as soon as a customer approaches.Kalicharan explains that he wrapped his bandaged foot in a plastic so that the dressing remains dry, and no street keechar (dirt water) spills over it. He got the feet injured four days ago. “It was about this time in the evening... a customer was lifting his bag when it fell on my foot.”The foot initially didn’t pain much, Kalicharan recalls, but “it was looking very bad, full of blood.” With his rickshaw, he pedaled to a government hospital where he got the injury looked after by a doctor for free. “Nothing was broken, but the bag squashed the maas (flesh).”Later Kalicharan returned home, which is on a pavement. He lives alone. He says he has no friend on the “patri” (pavement) and that night, following the injury, no one inquired about his bandage. “Because none of the people who also sleep there noticed it.” In fact, as always, Kalicharan went to the same dhaba for the same dinner (fish and rice) where, despite being a regular, no cook or waiter enquired about the bandaged foot either. He also didn’t inform his family in the village in Jhansi, UP, “because no one is alive.” Kalicharan had a wife who passed away some years ago. He doesn’t know his age, but he says that he has been a rickshaw puller in Delhi since 1984.“So you have absolutely no one in the world?”—this is the query put to him.Kalicharan shakes his head in acknowledgement.“So you have to take care of your injury on your own?”Kalicharan nods.“Do you ever feel lonely?”Kalicharan shakes his head. This time, he answers by also responding in words. “What would I do with loneliness?”He continues to lounge on the passenger’s seat, both his feet still resting, for now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-his-bandaged-feet/story-QrFchkrn5l1BVIN6GhlYON.html
14-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi adds 7,802 new Covid infections, 91 more fatalities||Delhi on Friday reported 7,802 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), up from 7,053 new infections added the previous day, as the city continued to reel from the effects of a third wave of the disease.The number of new daily deaths dropped marginally on Friday to 91. With 104 deaths reported, Thursday saw the highest number of deaths due to Covid-19. Friday’s toll took the overall deaths in the city to 7,423 on Friday.“When the number of cases rises, there will naturally be an increase in the number of deaths also as we are seeing a Covid-19 mortality rate of 1.48% nationally. Covid-19 beds, especially beds in the intensive care unit (ICU), are nearly full in most hospitals, which means hospitalisations are increasing,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head, department of pulmonary medicine, All India institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi. The case positivity rate — the percentage of people who test positive among the total number tested, soared to 13.80% on Friday, up from 11.71% the previous day. The daily case positivity rate has also been averaging at least 10% for the past couple of weeks.The positivity rate is representative of the ongoing spread of the infection in the city, and the transmission is thought to be controlled when the positivity rate remains below 5% for two weeks. “As I have observed, there are not only more cases but we are also seeing lightly increased severity in infections these days. That could be one reason why more deaths are taking place,” said Dr Rajesh Chawla, senior consultant, respiratory and critical care medicine, Indraprastha Apollo Hospital.“Looks like it may continue like this for a few weeks before the numbers start coming down,” he added.The Delhi high court allowed the state government on Thursday to reserve 80% of intensive care unit (ICU) beds in 33 private hospitals for Covid-19 patients for two weeks. Earlier, the state government had increased a total of 500 beds, including 110 icu beds, in eight of its hospitals.Even with the HC allowing the government to reserve 80% of the total ICU beds, the beds are filling up fast.“Even as we continue to open more and more ICU beds, they are filling up fast. I am getting so many calls every day requesting a bed. And, if you compare to May or June, we are getting sicker patients, even in the wards. If this continues, I don’t know what will happen,” said Dr Vikas Maurya, director, department of pulmonology and sleep disorders at Fortis Hospital, Shalimar Bagh.To reduce mortality due to the infection, the state government has also ordered all its testing centres to check the patients’ oxygen saturation to prevent deaths from “happy hypoxia”, where a person does not have any apparent breathlessness even as their oxygen saturation drops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-adds-7-802-new-covid-infections-91-more-fatalities/story-UjE2hC9jqTIhvSPDbW8V2I.html
14-11-2020||City||Ludhiana: Health officials, cops on alert for Diwali||Health services, especially emergency, burn and eye units have been put on high alert to tackle with any untoward situation during Diwali celebrations. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said that all civil hospitals, community health care centres, and outreach centres have been told to stock up enough medicines to deal with any emergency during the festivities. “A communique has been issued to senior medical officers of civil hospitals of Ludhiana, Khanna and Jagraon. Besides, community health centres at Samrala, Raikot, Khanna, Payal, Mullanpur and Vardhman Chowk have also been asked to keep the emergency staff on high alert on the occasion,” said Dr Bagga.Covid testing to continueDr Bagga further added that the health department will collect samples for Covid-19 testing at the civil surgeon’s office on Saturday too. “As per government guidelines, we cannot stop the collection of samples. So the staff has been directed to collect samples even on Diwali. Residents who have Covid-like symptoms or came in contact with a positive patient should visit government-run sample collection centres for tests,” he said. Candle light tributes for Covid victimsThe civil surgeon further said the health department has decided against going for big festivities, in honour of those who lost their lives to the virus. “It was a tragic year. Many innocent people lost their lives after coming in contact with the contagion. So we have decided to light candles to pay homage to the departed souls on Diwali. There will be no celebrations this year and we will offer prayers for an end to this spell of gloom,” said Dr Bagga.120 police patrolling teams on vigil At least 12 police teams will be on patrolling duty in the city to check social distancing and firecracker violations.Residents are allowed to burst crackers only between 8pm and 10pm. Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said that FIRs will registered against the violators. Cops have also released a WhatsApp number (9115601159) for residents to report any violations. Agrawal added that the identity of the informers will be concealed. Cops in civvies will also be making the rounds of the city. Besides, 125 checkposts will be set up across the city. Special security arrangements have also been made at markets and religious places. “At least 2, 000 police personnel will be on checking and patrolling duty in the city. Apart from it, traffic police personnel will also be deputed in the markets to deter traffic violations and maintain the flow of traffic,” said the police commissioner.Appealing to residents to wear masks while venturing out, the Ludhiana police distributed 800 saplings among locals to spread the message of a green Diwali. Agrawal said saplings have also been planted at the police lines. 5 temporary fire stations set up to meet any exigencyTo effectively tackle any untoward incident during Diwali, five temporary fire stations have been set-up in the city. Besides, fire hydrants and earth movers will also be deployed at all fire stations in the city. The municipal corporation has also assigned 15 drivers to assist the fire department. Also, workers of five water-filling stations have been asked to report for duty on the night of Diwali.Atish Rai, sub- fire officer, said that as many as 102 fire fighters have been pressed on duty to ensure residents can celebrate a safe Diwali with their families. “We will remain away from our children and parents so that residents can enjoy the festival,” he said.He added that the fire tankers have been stationed keeping in mind the population and density of the area.“The teams will be stationed at Jalandhar Bypass, Samrala Chowk, Baba Than Singh Chowk near Field Gunj, Dandi Swami Chowk and the area around Arora Cinema,” Rai said.The sub-fire officer said that 31 fire incidents were reported on Diwali last year.“We request the residents to clear the way for fire tenders to pass so we can reach the spot where a fire incident has occurred so that further mishap can be prevented,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-health-officials-cops-on-alert-for-diwali/story-P5ooosZZmGKObKqsijg21H.html
14-11-2020||City||Ludhiana: Cracker sales go up a day before Diwali||After witnessing a lull throughout the week, the cracker market in Ludhiana’s Dana Mandi saw a huge rush on Friday, a day before Diwali. The wholesale dealers stated that though the footfall was comparatively lower than the previous years, they are still hopeful of clearing the stock by Saturday.A visit to the market on Friday afternoon revealed that though a large number of customers had turned up to make last-minute purchases, most of them preferred to buy crackers in small quantities. Many were also seen flouting distancing norms and carelessly roaming around without masks.Pradeep Gupta, president of Dana Mandi Cracker Association, said, “Due to the pandemic, people’s buying capacity is lower this year but they are still keen on buying at least a few crackers.” said Gupta. He added that though they have stocked up green crackers too, these are finding only a few takers.The usual favourites, including fuljhadi (sparklers), chakri and anar (fountain), rockets and bombs, remained in big demand this year too. Many people were also seen purchasing sky lanterns of vibrant colours. Kapil Malik, a customer, said, “I have bought crackers in small quantities as my children are very fond of these. In view of the severe air pollution, I decided not to purchase anar this time.”Sale at 8 earmarked spots In all, 41 vendors have been allowed to sell crackers at eight earmarked sites in the district. At Dana Mandi in Salem Tabri, the administration had given permission to 13 dealers to set up their firecracker stalls.Green-crackers rider doesn’t go well with tradersThe National Green Tribunal (NGT) and state government’s last-minute announcement to allow only green crackers to be burst for two hours this Diwali has not gone down well with the dealers. They say that the announcement should have come at least three months ago, when the production was yet to start. A dealer requesting anonymity, said, “This time, I invested Rs 2 lakh on crackers. But the state government announced it much later that only green crackers will be allowed, leaving us high and dry.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-cracker-sales-go-up-a-day-before-diwali/story-rbeUJ9S2BPO9T8nF3KPLRK.html
14-11-2020||City||Ludhiana advocate helps slum kids dispel the darkness of digital illiteracy||For 10-year-old Munni and several other slum children in the city, this Diwali marks their passage from the darkness of a digital divide to the light of education.Having never touched a computer before, some 200-odd slum children in the city are now able to independently use basic computer applications, such as Paint and MS Word, all thanks to a city-based advocate, Hariom Jindal.Jindal, who runs a school for slum children, had introduced computer classes for the students last month, when the school reopened for the first time after the lockdown. “In this day and age, computer literacy is very important. Our idea is to provide basic computer education to these children so that they can find themselves a good job, and don’t suffer the plight of their parents,” says Jindal.Many of these kids used to beg on streets or go for rag-picking to make a living, but now they have pledged not to accept any donations. “People used to come and donate food, sweets and crackers in the slums every year. But this year, we won’t accept any of it,” says Seema, 13, one of the students at Jindal’s school.She proudly reveals that though she started taking the computer lessons only a week ago, she is already adept at Paint. Her friend Munni, 10, adds, “I am very excited and grateful to be receiving these lessons. I want to grow up and become a teacher so that I can teach other children like me.” Jindal says that he tells his students that free food and donations only make them dependent on others. “Only education can make one completely independent and self-reliant,” he says. Won’t accept donations, free food, say slum kidsJust like students at Jindal’s school, 3,200 other slum children, studying at a school run by Nobel Foundation, have pledged to not accept any free food, firecrackers or sweets.Rajinder Sharma, head of the Nobel Foundation, says that 99% of the slum kids don’t accept such donations. Sunny, 12, a student of the school says, “Every year, people come in big cars and offer us food and sweets. We turn them down and our reaction surprises them. We ask them to help us in our education instead of offering us free goodies.”Rekha, his classmate, says, “We won’t make a beeline in front of these cars this time. Instead, we will be making rangolis, applying mehendi and taking part in online competitions this Diwali.” Ludhiana police bring a smile to kids, masks for safety The Ludhiana Police and the Rotary Club of Ludhiana have joined hands this Diwali to bring a smile on children’s faces and also ensuring that they stay safe amid the pandemic.On Friday, the police visited the slums near Pataka Market, on Hambran Road, and distributed masks, chocolate packets and stationery items such as pencil box, colours, colouring books and notebooks among children. Joint commissioner of police Bhagirath Singh Meena, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, special branch) Rupinder Kaur, ADCP Sameer Verma, Rotary Club zonal president Amanpreet Singh and advocate Rajinder Babbar were among those who visited the slums as part of this programme. Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal, in a special message, said, “This festive season, we stand with slum children to help them celebrate a Happy and Covid-free Diwali.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-advocate-helps-slum-kids-dispel-the-darkness-of-digital-illiteracy/story-lwqg9uYp5sBWWAmOEV3gnN.html
14-11-2020||City||Foreigner caught with 80gm heroin in Karnal||A foreign national was arrested with 80gm heroin near ITI chowk late on Thursday, police said. The accused has been identified as Kenmongne Fancois, a resident of Cameroon’s Douala, who was currently residing in a rented accommodation in Delhi. Harjinder Singh, in-charge, detective staff, said Fancois was nabbed with the drug that could cost up to ₹4 lakh in the international market.He said that during the investigation, it was found that he brought the drug from Delhi and was supposed to sell it in Haryana, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh.Fancois had come to India in 2015, the cop said, adding that he was staying in the country illegally as his visa had expired. A case under Section 21 of the NDPS Act has been registered against him in Karnal. Fancois was produced in a court on Friday and sent to two-day police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/foreigner-caught-with-80gm-heroin-in-karnal/story-mpsfrqzVseEBAcKGugjC1M.html
14-11-2020||Chandigarh||Manesar land case: Multiple legal opinions interpreting SC directions add to complications||Multiple pieces of legal opinions tendered by the Haryana advocate general’s office with regards to the interpretation of the “deemed award” ordered by the Supreme Court in the Manesar land case seems to have complicated the matter. The case will be heard by the top court on November 17. The apex court had last month asked the Haryana government to furnish names of officials who passed orders for excluding land parcels from the apex court-ordered “deemed award” in Gurugram’s Manesar. These land parcels were apparently excluded on account of execution of collaboration agreements between landowners and developers after August 27, 2004, the day a Section 4 notification of the Land Acquisition Act was issued to acquire the land. The SC has also sought to know the present status of development at the site with pictures. Haryana seeking clarification The SC is hearing a prayer seeking clarification whether its 2018 judgment would also cover land parcels purchased prior to the date of Section 4 notification on August 27, 2004, but transferred by the landholders between August 27, 2004 and January 29, 2010 by way of collaboration agreements in favour of other parties and whether they will form part of the “deemed award”. The opinionsThe first legal opinion on May 2018 said that out of 912 acres, land parcels transferred by the landowners between August 27, 2004 and January 29, 2010 would come under the “deemed award”. Based on this opinion, the state government in November 2018 passed “deemed award” for about 420 acres. The state government, however, belatedly realised that there were certain land parcels where landowners collaborated with builders to get licences. Also, there were land parcels which had been released by a ministers’ committee after Section 6 notification. Thus, a second opinion was sought. The legal opinion of December 2018 said the land which was included in Section 6 declaration would fall within the award deemed to have been passed on August 26, 2007. A third opinion of March 2019 reiterated the December 2018 opinion. A fourth opinion was sought after the Gurugram land acquisition collector demanded clarification with respect to passing of award for the balance land. The legal opinion tendered by the advocate general’s office in July 2020 said that passing the award for balance land which has not been transferred by landholders during August 27, 2004 to January 29, 2010 would be violative of the apex court judgment. The award is to be announced for land where collaboration agreements were entered between August 27, 2004 and January 29, 2010. The “deemed award” is to be announced qua the land which was released after Section 6 notification on the recommendation of ministers’ committee. However, it is to be considered that if any land holding which was released but not transferred between August 27, 2004 and January 29, 2010 is to be excluded from the “deemed award” and the rest is to be included, the AG’s opinion said. ‘Our land outside the scope of SC order’ The SC had last month restrained three real estate developers who claimed that their land was outside the scope of apex court’s orders and landowners from creating fresh third-party rights on 268 acres which was once sought to be acquired for creating an industrial township in Manesar in Gurugram, but was dropped from the acquisition by the Congress regime in 2007. The 268 acres were a part of the 688 acres being acquired for public purpose and dropped during the Congress rule. Box: What has happened so far A CBI investigation was ordered in 2015 and the decision to drop acquisition proceedings of 688 acres in Manesar and around was set aside by the Supreme Court in 2018. Award for this land deemed to have been passed on August 26, 2007. The apex court had ruled that 688 acres will vest in the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation and all licences granted in respect of lands covered by the “deemed award” of August 26, 2007 will stand transferred to HSIIDC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/manesar-land-case-multiple-legal-opinions-interpreting-sc-directions-add-to-complications/story-MEuc26Etz1Zkc1rdeMqWXP.html
14-11-2020||Chandigarh||Repair cost of old govt houses in Chandigarh to go up: NITTTR report||A preliminary report submitted by the National Institute of Technical Teachers Training and Research (NITTTR) has told the Chandigarh administration that the repair cost of old government houses will go up in the coming years. Hence, it should consider reconstruction in a phased manner.The preliminary report was sought by UT on the structural stability of 1,400 houses in Sector 22, Sector 7 and Sector 19, but the report is about such accommodations in Sector 22. The report was commissioned last year and submitted in March this year.“These houses are old and require regular and special maintenance. And the costs may rise in the coming years. In view of this, the department may look into reconstruction of these houses in a phased manner,” the report says.NITTTR also said that the final report in respect to other places will get delayed as due to the pandemic, they were not being allowed to enter the premises by residents.Part of compliance report submitted to HCThe report is part of a compliance report submitted this week in Punjab and Haryana high court by the administration as part of steps being undertaken to increase housing for employees in the city. The proceedings for the same are being monitored by the high court since 2017.The UT’s status report also mentions that high-rise buildings in Sectors 7 and 22 cannot be constructed since these are part of a dozen odd sectors where under the first phase reutilisation of government housing is being considered. Other sectors are 10, 11, 15, 16, 19, 20, 23, 24, 27, 28 and 29.The status report also mentions that redensification should not be carried out since it is a complex issue and will create a lot of problems. “It will put pressure on the existing infrastructure—drinking water, drainage system, parking, schools, colleges, hospitals etc. So any work related to redensification would violate the recommendation of the Chandigarh Master Plan 2031,” a document in the report reads. To the high court suggestion that UT should aim at 5,000 houses in multi-storey mode, UT said a final decision will be taken after a complete report from NITTTR, adding that 192 houses were being constructed for police personnel, besides 144 and 216 under two other categories. All these three projects are in Dhanas.The UT’s report also said that multi-storey towers were coming up in the IT park, which will also cater to the housing needs of employees. UT has told the court that the houses to be offered for allotment would be photographed and photos uploaded on a portal so that those interested did not have to physically visit the place. As for renovation, 46 agencies had been roped in for maintenance work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/repair-cost-of-old-govt-houses-in-chandigarh-to-go-up-nitttr-report/story-KfIANo2XxcH91YdR5UIcdK.html
14-11-2020||City||Blast at Lalru dhaba during fuel theft kills three||Three men were killed and another critically injured after a blast ripped through a dhaba’s basement while they were stealing fuel from an oil tanker at Sirsini village, Lalru, on the Ambala-Chandigarh highway on Friday. Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan has marked a magisterial probe to investigate the presence of inflammable material at the dhaba and fuel theft from the tanker to sub-divisional magistrate Kuldeep Bawa, who will submit a report in a week. The deceased have been identified as Jaswinder Singh, 35, owner of Rama Punjabi dhaba, and his relatives, Babloo, 20, and Vikram kumar. Another victim, Sandeep Kumar, suffered 80% burns and is admitted at PGIMER, Chandigarh.“The dhaba owner and his staff used to steal fuel from oil tankers in connivance with the drivers and store it in drums in the eatery’s basement,” said Aashika Jain, additional district magistrate (ADM).On Friday, they were again taking out fuel from a tanker when there was a spark in the pump, which caused a blast due to the petrol and diesel drums stored in the basement. Jaswinder and Vikram were killed on the spot, while Babloo succumbed to his injuries at GMCH, Sector 32, Chandigarh. The unidentified tanker driver fled the scene as he heard the explosion.Two fire tenders were rushed to the spot and the dhaba was sealed. The blast’s impact caused cracks in the building. An evaluation of the structural safety has been ordered.While dousing the flames, Dera Bassi fire station officer Pardeep Kumar Rana suffered injuries and was admitted to the local civil hospital. Senior superintendent of police Satinder Singh said they had booked the deceased dhaba owner and the tanker driver under Sections 304 (causing death by negligence), 379 (theft), 420 (cheating) and 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) of the Indian Penal Code.Deceased dhaba owner was arrested last yearIn July last year, police had registered a case against Jaswinder for illegally storing 525 litres of petrol and 630 litres of diesel in his dhaba’s basement. ADM Jain said an inspection drive will be carried out at all dhabas in the area to check fuel theft. “Oil smuggling is common in districts of Punjab bordering Chandigarh, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir due to the price difference. We have for long been informing the Punjab government about this,” said Ashwinder Mongia, president, Mohali District Petroleum Dealers Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/blast-at-lalru-dhaba-during-fuel-theft-kills-three/story-QNmkJQFYCNhW5kTwnHhQ9L.html
14-11-2020||City||Non-bailable warrants issued against real estate agent in Panchkula||The Haryana State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has issued non-bailable warrants against the managing director of Samar Estates located in Sector 20, Panchkula.The decision was taken against Vinod Bagai over non-compliance of orders passed by the Commission in January this year, directing him to refund money to the complainant, Ranbir Singh of Mauli village in Panchkula, for failure to give possession of a flat.Advocate Kunal Kapoor, counsel for the complainant, had moved the application seeking execution of the Commission orders after the accused failed to comply with them even after a lapse of more than nine months.Ranbir Singh had booked a flat costing ₹67.7 lakh with ESS VEE Apartments, Samar Estates, and paid ₹47.72 lakh for it. The flat-buyer agreement was executed in October, 2011, and the builder had assured to complete the project and deliver the possession of flat within 36 months, but failed to do so.The Commission, while issuing the non-bailable warrants, observed in its order of November 10 that, “Keeping in view the previous conduct of the opposite parties (Bagai), the coercive methods have also to be adopted and as a consequence thereof, the opposite parties/judgment debtors (Samar Estates), which has been represented by Vinod Bagai as managing director is ordered to be summoned by way of non-bailable warrants returnable for November 26.”The Panchkula police commissioner has also been strictly directed by the Commission to ensure the execution of the warrants.Earlier in 2014, Bagai had unsuccessfully contested elections for the post of MLA from Panchkula constituency as an independent candidate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/non-bailable-warrants-issued-against-real-estate-agent-in-panchkula/story-0wSocfLA9oeAV3OnTUT0IK.html
14-11-2020||City||Ambala police seize 8 sacks of illegal crackers, increase vigil||The Ambala police have recovered eight sacks of illegal crackers from a retailer in the city’s Baans Bazaar on Thursday, FIR on which was lodged at Ambala City police station on Friday.Police said that assistant sub-inspector Ramesh Kumar, who is also the complainant in the case, had received a tip-off that one Ankit Aggarwal had stored crackers at his shop. “The man’s negligence could have proved dangerous for nearby residents, as he was selling crackers without licence. We informed duty magistrate Ajay Kumar and raided the shop where we found a huge quantity of crackers,” Kumar said.“The man was unable to present any licence or permit to sell the crackers. As the deputy commissioner has banned the sale and use of explosives, the accused has violated the orders,” Kumar said in his statement.Station in-charge Ram Kumar said, “An FIR was lodged under the Explosives Act and the Indian Penal Code. There were around eight sacks of crackers of different rates and types. Our teams are inspecting the markets to keep a check.”DC Ashok Kumar Sharma said as per the orders of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), there was a complete ban on crackers in the district and he appealed to the citizens to help the administration by following the orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ambala-police-seize-8-sacks-of-illegal-crackers-increase-vigil/story-IOEaLXswZ0eLwdPZn8jm3K.html
14-11-2020||City||Punjab: Online applications invited for recruitment of assistant superintendents of jail till December 7||The Punjab Subordinate Services Selection Board has invited applications for the recruitment of assistant superintendent of jails.Talking to media persons, Raman Behl, chairman of the Services Selection Board, Punjab, said that interested candidates can apply online from November 16 to December 7, and the last date to deposit the fees is December 10.Behl said that for the convenience of the candidates, the syllabus of the examination had been uploaded on the website of the Board.The Board has also given approval to begin the recruitment process for 443 posts of junior draftsman in various departments and 1,090 posts of patwaris in the revenue department. An advertisement in this regard will be issued soon and applications will be sought from the candidates and after a written test, the eligible candidates will be selected on the basis of merit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-online-applications-invited-for-recruitment-of-assistant-superintendents-of-jail-till-december-7/story-6PqJOBS4SZ2LukQKOsWAEN.html
14-11-2020||City||Non-payment of salaries: Contractual sanitation workers stage protest, throw garbage outside MC official’s office in Dera Bassi||The contractual sanitation employees of Dera Bassi were up in arms against the municipal council on Thursday over non-payment of salaries as they threw garbage outside the office of MC executive officer (EO) Jagjit Singh Judge, following which the police were called. Even SSP Mohali Satinder Singh reached the spot and pacified the protesters, assuring them of an early solution.Harvinder Kumar, president of the Sanitation Employees Union, who was sitting on a dharna outside the council office, said that many employees of the council were working on contract basis and were not being paid by the contractor, that too in the festive season.Kumar said that when he complained to the council officials, instead of supporting the employees, they sided with the contractor, which disturbed him and he decided to stage a protest in front of the council office.When contacted, EO Jagjit Singh said the council had nothing to do with the salaries, which the contractor had to pay. Regarding the throwing of garbage, we will take action against the contractor, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/non-payment-of-salaries-contractual-sanitation-workers-stage-protest-throw-garbage-outside-mc-official-s-office-in-dera-bassi/story-Ucs4Jp5iKNN3sXUvFvPQSJ.html
14-11-2020||Mumbai||BJP questions land deals in Maharashtra; Shiv Sena promises fitting reply||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), stepping up its attack on ally-turned-rival Shiv Sena, on Friday alleged that there are irregularities in various land deals by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), which the latter heads. The Sena, rubbishing all the allegations, said that a fitting reply will be given to the BJP leaders making these claims after Diwali and that they should be ready to face the “consequences”. While one of the alleged deals includes a 7-acre land proposed to be acquired by the BMC for a 5,000-bed hospital in Mulund, the other is pertaining to a land at Dahisar. The party also claimed that the mayor has illegally possessed some flats of a slum rehabilitation project (SRA). Apart from these allegations, the BJP said also raised questions over a land purchased by Rashmi Thackeray, the wife of chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray and Manisha Waikar, the wife of Sena legislator Ravindra Waikar, from the late interior designer Anvay Naik, who died of suicide in 2018. The BJP has also approached the Lokayukta, urging an inquiry into the deals pertaining to the land parcels in Mulund and Dahisar. According to Somaiya, the process to acquire the land at Mulund for the infectious diseases hospital moved at a “suspicious pace” for the “benefit” of a particular builder. He alleged that the cost of the land is around Rs3,000 crore and it was proposed to be acquired without any scrutiny, with the sole intention of “favouring’ the builder who owns it. The estimated cost of the construction of proposed hospital is Rs12,000 crore. Somaiya said that after his petition to Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari for action, he approached the Lokayukta and he has been assured that the due process for an inquiry has begun. The BMC has denied any wrongdoing in the matter. “We floated an expression of interest (EoI) and had received proposals over it. We have not purchased any land parcel yet. After going through technicalities, the [BMC] commissioner wrote to state government to take up the project,” a senior BMC official. In another allegation, Somaiya said that a 9-acre land in Dahisar was purchased by BMC for Rs349 crore. He alleged that the civic body made the deal with a private builder last year on November 29, a day after Thackeray was sworn-in as the CM. “The builder purchased the land in 2010 for a mere Rs2.55 crore. The land parcel has various reservations including a garden and a road that’s encroached upon. Three former consecutive commissioners struck down the proposal to buy the land from Nishalp Reality. But the BMC, under pressure from Thackerays, purchased it for Rs349. The builder has now demanded Rs550 crore more claiming that the earlier valuation was faulty,” said Somaiya. Meanwhile, Somaiya also produced nine more 7/12 extracts in the land purchase transaction of the 9.35-acre Raigad land by Rashmi Thackeray and Manisha Waikar. According to Somaiya, Rashmi Thackeray and Manisha Waikar jointly purchased the land in Korlai village in March 2014 through 30 land transactions. “Rashmi had 40 land transactions in total, of which 30 are for the land owned by Naik. The land is not fit for agriculture as mentioned in the records and hence the Thackerays should clarify what was the purpose behind purchasing the land, which is close to the sea. They should also reveal if they had any business partnership with Naiks,” he said. A spokesperson representing Thackeray family said that the Sena leaders have been authorised to speak on the issues. Refuting the allegations, the Sena said the BJP was attempting to change the direction of the probe into Naik’s suicide. Party’s chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut dared Somaiya to produce evidence on the land deals between the Thackerays and the Naiks. Speaking to reporters in Mumbai, Raut referred to BJP as “shethji’s party (a party of the wealthy)” and called Somaiya a “vyapari (trader)”. “The spokespersons of the shethji party are not ready to speak about a Marathi woman who lost her husband. She and her daughter are crying for justice and when we are trying to ensure that they get justice, these people are making allegations to divert the direction of the probe into the suicide,” Raut said. He added that the BJP wants to protect the three-accused, including Republic TV’s editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami, in Naik’s abetment to suicide case. “Shethji’s party wants to protect the accused,” he said referring to Goswami and two others. The Sena leader in no uncertain terms warned Somaiya to stop levelling allegations without evidence. “This is a legal deal. Nothing will be proven [in these allegations]. This deal was finalised by a Marathi manoos, does it prick his eyes? Somaiya claims 21 deals, but show me at least five deals. This is a warning to him.” Responding to the demand for a probe by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) into the alleged land deals, Raut hit back and said, “Why only ED...let there be a probe by the CBI (Central Bureau of Investigation). Go to Interpol, FBI, KGB, Interpol and the United Nations.” Meanwhile, Ravindra Waikar said, “Somaiya should give proof of the 30 transactions he has been talking about. We have been saying that the land transactions were revealed on all platforms including income tax returns and elections affidavits, from time-to-time. His allegations are baseless and we are ready to face any inquiry.” Somaiya also accused Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar of illegally possessing a few flats of a slum rehabilitation (SRA) project in Worli. He filed a petition at Bombay high court over the issue and said that the hearing is expected to take place after Diwali. “Pednekar set-up offices of a company owned by her relatives in the tenements allotted to the original tenants at Gomata Janata Society in Worli. The SRA tenements are neither allowed to be used for commercial purposes nor can be transferred. I have moved the court against the mayor,” he said. HT tried contacting the mayor but her phone was switched off. Maharashtra transport minister and Sena leader Anil Parab said that Somaiya must be “prepared to face the Sena’s allegations too.” He is known for making baseless allegations and his track record is sufficient to prove this. He has been given the responsibility [by his party] with the task of targeting us. Let him complete his series of allegations. We will respond after Diwali. But he too should be prepared to face our allegations against him.” The attack on the Thackerays and the Shiv Sena by the BJP is one of the several attempts in the past 11 months after the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) led by Thackeray came to the power. In August, BJP leaders targeted Thackeray scion and Maharashtra cabinet minister Aaditya by alleging his involvement in the Sushant Singh Rajput (SSR) death case. The MVA government was also accused of inept handling by the Mumbai Police during the probe into the actor’s death case, which now the CBI has taken over. Prior to that, in April the BJP attacked the state government and held it responsible after two seers and their driver were lynched by a mob at Gadhchinchale village in Palghar. The BJP had alleged mishandling of the case by the police that led to the killing of the three men. BJP has also been aggressively targeting MVA and its other two ruling parties, the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party) over various issues, including handling of agriculture distress, the Covid-19 situation in the state and the crimes against women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bjp-questions-land-deals-in-maharashtra-shiv-sena-promises-fitting-reply/story-GKnuSQDSbdLH337CTjDVEP.html
14-11-2020||Chandigarh||Garbage not being collected from houses of those in quarantine, say Chandigarh residents||Many Covid-19 patients, currently quarantined in their homes, have been left in the lurch with no garbage collectors from the municipal corporation (MC) coming to collect it from their homes.While regular door-to-door collectors have been directed not to collect the “potentially infectious garbage”, it is still the duty of the MC to collect the same from the patients’ houses. But many people have complained that since they were quarantined, nobody from the MC had turned up.“Against the tall claims of the MC and the administration of caring for Covid-19 patients, this is the reality. While we struggle with the disease, the MC has failed to even lift the daily garbage, which is lying in our houses for more than a week now,” said a resident of Sector 51, who along with his wife and son, has been directed to be home quarantined till November 20.Heaps of garbage are getting collected at people’s houses as they themselves can’t go out and nobody can come in their houses except for MC officials. “We are collecting garbage in polythene bags and cardboard boxes, but we have run out of options. It has been 14 days since we were quarantined and the garbage has not been collected,” said a resident of Sector 30.With no help coming from MC, some families had to seek help from the health department for removal of the garbage. “On one of the regular calls from the health department, we had to complain to them about the lack of garbage collection. They intervened and then somebody from the MC came to collect the garbage,” said a resident of Sector 38W.When contacted, Dr Amritpal Singh, MOH, said, “We are regularly collecting garbage from houses of Covid-19 patients. There can be some cases where we may have missed due to lack of information with our department. We will check and ensure that garbage is collected.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/garbage-not-being-collected-from-houses-of-those-in-quarantine-say-chandigarh-residents/story-UY0FlJTEvplcTdYcXGHoPO.html
14-11-2020||Chandigarh||Covid cases continue to surge for second consecutive week in Chandigarh||Incidence of coronavirus infection continues to rise in Chandigarh for the second consecutive week with the Union Territory reporting 749 more cases last week (November 6 to 12) as compared to the preceding week.As many as 502 infections were reported between October 30 and November 5.UT health officials attributed the increase to people not adhering to safety norms by intermingling in crowds, majorly in market areas, and extensive movement due to festivals.The surge in cases is also coupled with an increase in the number of fatalities, as per official records. Last week, 15 deaths were reported as compared to four a week before. The fatality rate has, however, been around 1.5%-1.6% in the last one month.“Enforcing measures like social distancing and wearing masks in public is not only the onus of the administration, residents should also be more sensitive and adhere to norms when the threat of extensive spread is looming large. Inter-state movement has also increased mostly from Delhi, Punjab and Haryana, where the spread is witnessing an upward trend. All this is contributing to the surge, however, the numbers are not alarming,” said Dr VK Nagpal, joint director, UT health department.The number of active cases increased to 1,002 on Thursday; they had dropped to 593 on November 2 after the peak of 3,171 cases on September 16.“As active cases grow, the number of fatalities also increases. The number of recoveries are less than new cases being reported in the last 11 days, thus the Sector-48 Covid hospital has been reopened again,” health officials said.The testing level as well as the positivity rate have increased gradually in the last four months. The positivity rate in the last week touched 9% against 7.1% a week before. Testing in UT in the last two months has also been increased by making rapid tests available in market areas and in dispensaries, and with random checking of people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-cases-continue-to-surge-for-second-consecutive-week-in-chandigarh/story-qrQzQmUCSTpVZjcMIzmv5M.html
14-11-2020||Mumbai||Self-discipline real weapon, says Navi Mumbai civic chief ahead of Diwali||Even as Navi Mumbai has seen a huge dip in Covid positive cases, the civic commissioner has appealed to people to celebrate the festival with utmost care.Abhijit Bangar, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation commissioner, said that if the city faces another wave, it could be more fatal.“All have been under restrictions since the last nine months. The per-day active cases have gone down drastically. Some of the Covid centres have also been shut due to lack of patients. It doesn’t mean that the virus has disappeared. The danger on each one of us is still there. While visiting the market, people are seen in a festive mood. Each one of us has to keep in mind that even while enjoying a festival, the guidelines need to be followed. Masks have to be worn always and social-distancing has to be maintained,” Bangar said.Bangar insisted that self-discipline is the biggest feature to fight the pandemic. “With every ‘Mission Begin Again’ notification, we are easing on some or the other restriction. People need to understand that one small mistake can lead them to travel backwards towards the restrictions again. The other countries are prime examples of how a second or third wave is much more disastrous than the first. Be it any festival, self-discipline in the celebrations is a must,” Bangar added.The civic body was to follow the state government norms for celebrating Diwali but after National Green Tribunal (NGT) regulations over the celebration, the city decided to ban the sale of the fire crackers.NGT has enforced a ban in cities and towns in the country where the average of ambient air quality during November (according to available data from last year) has dropped below the ‘poor’ category.“As per the notification of NGT, Navi Mumbai falls under this category and hence we decided to not give permission to anyone to sell fire crackers. Since there is no sale, there should not be any bursting of crackers as well. If anyone is found bursting, the law enforcement agency would look at the action to be taken,” Bangar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/self-discipline-real-weapon-says-navi-mumbai-civic-chief-ahead-of-diwali/story-s4ixckMfAq0XFRQGpXg6jL.html
14-11-2020||Mumbai||Crowd management the key for Thane civic body this Diwali||The Thane Municipal Corporation has set up a team to ensure crowd management in Thane market during the festival. Moreover, mobile testing vehicles for Covid are also set up at various locations in aid of those who come for shopping.Naupada area is known for its Diwali fervour and many locals come over for shopping along the streets of Ram Maruti Road. Keeping this in mind, the shopkeepers have also implemented various precautionary measures and strict social-distancing norms.Rasik Chedda, chairman, Ram Maruti Road Shopkeepers Association, said, “Every shop has a sanitizer at the entrance. Only a limited number of people are allowed to enter these shops at a time. However, the shopkeepers are responsible for any crowd gathering outside the shops as well. All social-distancing norms have been shared with the shopkeepers and masks are compulsory for those inside the shops as well as the customers.”The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) is making time-to-time announcements across the market area to create awareness regarding social-distancing norms, lesser crowd and the need to wear mask at all times.“If there are any complaints related to crowd management, we will send a team to disperse the crowd gathered at the market areas. Moreover, our mobile Covid testing units set up inside the Thane Municipal Transport buses are also active in these areas keeping in mind the festive shopping crowd. Currently, the situation in Thane city is very much under control,” said Vipin Sharma, TMC commissioner.Unlike previously, the streets in Naupada are not decked up for the festive season. Neither was any special cleaning work initiated by the corporation.“We already had started a sanitization drive wherein each ward had to focus on the cleanliness within their precincts. Various visits and checks were made to ensure that the cleanliness drive was implemented and followed across the city. However, apart from that no special cleaning or lighting was done for Diwali as they have been done in the previous years in Thane as the pandemic is still prevailing,” said a senior officer from TMC.Shoppers do not find Thane markets having the same festive charm like the previous years, “Although shops have reopened and well lit up, the decorations and festive mood across the city are missing. The shopping crowd is back on the streets but everything seems a bit low key with so many rules to be followed. Most shops are ensuring that only few customers visit them to maintain social-distancing rules,” said Kanchana Sinha, 44, resident of Teen Hath Naka, Thane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/crowd-management-the-key-for-thane-civic-body-this-diwali/story-S74WzI5pWQepueKouTyDGL.html
14-11-2020||Chandigarh||Automobile sales zoom in Chandigarh, jewellery loses lustre during Dhanteras||A rare astrological occurrence with the festival of Dhanteras – considered auspicious for buying precious metals – falling over two days brought cheer to automobile dealers. About 405 vehicles were sold in the city between Thursday and Friday, shows data available with the UT Registration and Licensing Authority (RLA) and the UT State Transport Authority (STA). Till 5 pm on Friday, 261 motorcycles, 143 cars and one auto rickshaw were sold and registered at the point of purchase as per records. The number of those preferring registrations later is almost negligible, say auto dealers. “After the lockdown people are back in the market for automobiles. The sales, however, aren’t as good as 2019, with those of premium brands such as BMW and Mercedes on the lower side,” says Ronny Hoon, president of the Federation of Chandigarh Regional Automobile Dealers. People prefer value for money, he addsHoon, who runs a Hyundai dealership, says people had brought forward or postponed vehicle delivery dates for Dhanteras with many pre-booking the i20 hatchback. Hoon, who also owns a Hero dealership, said the brand’s motorcycles followed a similar trend.Nitin Mehan, who owns the Maruti Suzuki dealership Autopace Chandigarh, says the government’s stimulus to employees for Diwali resulted in many of them turning up during Dhanteras for buys. Sales actually improved for him this year by around 20%, with the Swift and Alto hatchbacks doing well this Dhanteras.Dull scenario Meanwhile, jewellery sales remained dull during Dhanteras. “The response of people was lukewarm as compared to last year,” says Vinod Talwar, president, Jewellers Association Chandigarh.“ This year the price of 24 carat gold at Rs 53,000 per 10 grams was 40% higher compared to last year, which is why people came in but did not pick up anything. Silver at Rs 660 per 10 grams was also higher than last year but had more takers. Coins and religious idols made of silver, however, had many takers,” he addedRajeev Sahdev, president, Chandigarh Jewellers Association, added that the Covid effect led to decrease in sales No complaints of traffic congestionEven as the festive fervour led to a rush in markets, the traffic police received only two complaints of traffic congestion this year on the traffic helpline 1073, as compared to 51 calls last year. Speaking about this, officiating senior superintendent of police (SSP, Traffic) Manoj Kumar Meena said, “This year the deployment was increased and specific plans were prepared for each market. These were also uploaded online for people to see.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/automobile-sales-zoom-in-chandigarh-jewellery-loses-lustre-during-dhanteras/story-DfWQKcuEQvDyvXK7wzDv0L.html
14-11-2020||Chandigarh||HT Chandigarh Readers’ Take: Happy Diwali, go for peace not pollution, care not crackers||Stay away from crowded placesYes, festivities bring joy and excitement, but we should not forget that Covid-19 has not been vanquished. So, to prioritise our safety and that of our loved ones, let us have virtual celebrations. Let us meet and greet friends and family members through video and phone calls or by using social media apps. A namaste is always preferable in these times to a hug or a handshake. Avoid eating out or ordering takeouts and cook tasty food at home. Make sure your diet contains vitamin C, omega 3 fatty acids and other high nutritional foods to increase immunity levels. And if you are going out, don’t forget your masks. Also, do not use a sanitiser while lighting diyas and candles as the alcohol in it is inflammable. Avoid crackers. Puneet AggarwalGo green with a vengeanceThere is a great risk of a surge in Covid cases because of the rush in markets, so the best thing to do would be to celebrate a green Diwali this year by lighting earthen oil lamps and not bursting crackers. People must also as far as possible not venture out of their homes to avoid getting infected.Rajinder Parshad Donate to the poorWe can light diyas, make rangolis and distribute sweets among friends and family. Donate clothes, masks and sanitisers to the poor so that they can keep themselves as well as their families safe. We should clean not only our houses but our surroundings too. We should pledge to spread happiness, not pollution and do what we can for the needy as their sufferings have been greater than ours during the pandemic. Ishita NaraHeavy fines please for bursting crackersDiwali should be celebrated by lighting up homes, common areas such as parks and greeting our near and dear ones. Sweets should be made at home as the ones available in the market are often not made with pure ingredients. Heavy penalties should be imposed on persons violating the cracker ban. Whatever the occasion, be it religious or political, no crackers be allowed at any time from now on. Inderjit Singh Sidhu, MohaliStay at home, keep things simpleEvery individual is under the threat of coronavirus while smog is engulfing our lives too. It’s a welcome move to ban crackers but it should have come earlier. Simple celebrations will suffice this year by exchange of gifts and organising of indoor games with the family. This coronavirus phase has united every family so it’s high time we preserved our traditions by cleaning up our surroundings and distributing extra stuff among the needy. A small amateur show can be organised for family too. Aman KaurHelp those in needCovid-19 has made life miserable for a lot of people who have lost their jobs or faced salary cuts. In India, there is a big gap between the rich and poor and because of inflation the poor do not have a lot of money in their hands. The true spirit of Diwali means helping those who need it. SK Khosla, ChandigarhBecome Santa Claus this DiwaliThis Diwali we must perform our social responsibility of not polluting the environment and let the ring of laughter replace loud crackers. It is important to follow the norms set to fight the pandemic to keep the spirit of the festival alive. Use biodegradable ingredients such as rice powder, colourful grains, turmeric, and flowers for rangoli and replace electrical lamps with clay diyas. We must try utilising old utensils or fabrics to make interesting DIY decorations and choose fabric or recycled paper for wrapping gifts. Make a healthy switch to home made goodies and opt for handcrafted gifts, personalised cards or gift plants and terrariums. We can be the Santa Claus this Diwali and light up many lives by sharing clothes, sweets or books and experience the biggest joy by celebrating the festival, which marks the victory of good versus evil, in its true sense . Komal Singh, ChandigarhStrive to be better each dayThe beauty of life is that it can be enjoyed every moment with a deep sense of gratitude that leads to contentment and joy. However, in this day and age, our hearts could be filled with negative emotions, insecurity and negative thoughts. This Diwali let us light the dazzling diyas of faith and positivity by making ourselves better persons by adopting a healthy lifestyle, learning and growing through books. Diyas should also be lit to express gratitude for those who gave up their today for us, and with love and support to those who lost their loved ones. Let’s burn the crackers of hatred, insecurity and selfishness and replace it with love and harmony. Aditi MalhotraAvoid crowdsThe surge in Covid cases after a lull necessitates strict observation of safety rules viz use of mask,gloves and sanitisers and avoiding crowded places to maintain social distance. We need self-restraint to celebrate the festival safely and should avoid crowds and sensitise others too to do so. In our family we have decided to gift plants to friends. One of our rituals annually is to provide woollen clothes and blankets to the lepers’ home and meals/sweets at an orphanage. No one should make personal visits. Conveying good wishes to loved ones by phone or e-mail will be good enough. Usha Verma, ChandigarhHelp small craftsmenLet’s encourage people to use earthen diyas and candles instead of electrical lighting to illuminate homes to provide some financial help to small craftsmen and to save energy. Instead of sweets, exchange saplings and books as Diwali gifts. Above all, try to help at least one needy person. Dr Sukhdev Singh Minhas, MohaliSpend time with the elderlyThe best way to celebrate Diwali this year is to spend time with our loved ones, especially the elderly, just being together as a family and thanking God for the life he has given us. Instead of spending money on oneself it’s important to help the less fortunate and in providing food to the needy. All of us should light diyas and pray for harmony, peace, prosperity and happiness for all and take a pledge to help those who need it. It’s important that people take social responsibility in their own individual capacity to be safe and follow social distancing norms. Samita KaurRWAs have to step inThe effort to sensitise people about the ill-effects of crackers should continue throughout the year. In educational institutions, seminars and debates should be organised to impress upon the youngsters the urgent need to shun crackers. Resident welfare associations must play a responsible role in ensuring a complete check on cracker burning in their areas, as besides creating pollution, these cause burn injuries. SS Arora, MohaliDon’t increase burden on hospitalsMedical experts have been warning us to avoid social gatherings and bursting of crackers, which can lead to a manifold rise in the number of Covid infections, increasing the burden on limited medical facilities in the country. Considering the extraordinary times we are living in, it is better to take medical advice as a matter of faith, avoid crowded places, take all precautionary measures to save ourselves and others and strictly follow the restrictions imposed by the authorities on crackers in their respective areas. One should celebrate Diwali at home with the family, put up lights, do pooja and make rangolis. Let the dark clouds prevailing across the globe be blown away and peace and wellness prevail. Suresh Verma, ChandigarhStay put at homeFirst of all, safety guidelines, ie face masks and sanitisers should be used and social distancing followed. People should light up their homes and clean their houses, decorating them with flowers and toys, earthen lamps and candles. No one should be rushing to the markets. Families should ensure they sit together to worship the goddess Lakshmi and pray for the good health, wealth and happiness of all. And yes, no gambling please. Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, Mohali Time for introspectionDiwali should be celebrated without inflicting any harm upon our fellow humans, birds, animals and the environment. Let Diwali be an occasion for introspection. Any bursting of firecrackers is synonymous with vulgar display of affluence. Heavens will not fall if firecrackers are not burst. Vote-bank compromises today must not be to the detriment of the coming generations. Let us also make a difference to those for whom even two square meals a day is a feast. Make their Diwali memorable by offering them food and gifts besides clothes to face the winter season. Lalit Bharadwaj, Panchkula We have a lot to be thankful forI think people should take it as a blessing if they are fit and fine and with their families on this day. They should not take the risk of visiting crowded areas.Wish your loved ones a Happy Diwali on phone or through social media apps. Stay at home, don’t burst firecrackers, don’t buy sweets from the market and above all avoid being a part of a large gathering. Suman Kansal, Panchkula Light diyas of positivityThe best way to celebrate Diwali is to not just be happy but also to spread happiness, not only among humans but nature too. I want my Diwali to be lit up by the positivity of diyas, to explore my creativity through colourful rangolis and have my family come together and make new and positive memories. I also want to light up every corner of my home. In this current situation, we all should understand that firecrackers need to be avoided as doing so would mean increased risk of Covid-19. Shefali Aswal, Chandigarh Help slum childrenLet’s say no to firecrackers and instead bring joy to the lives of slum children by sending them gifts that they could use instead of spending money on sweets and cards for friends and relatives who are well off. Clothing and items of daily needs would help.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliSpend money for a good causeMoney that’s budgeted for buying crackers should instead be spent on helping the needy, especially the homeless or those living in old age homes and orphanages, others who are disabled, transgenders, or have been afflicted by leprosy. Saplings can be planted to save the environment on Diwali. I along with my family never burst crackers and every Diwali I try to help needy people in my own way. Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliCracker ban decision came too lateIn the days of Covid 19 and increasing air pollution the ban on crackers is a right step keeping the health of the people in mind. But why does the administration always wake up at the eleventh hour? This is injustice with the traders who have invested lakhs of rupees in buying crackers. This decision should have been taken two to three months back, thus avoiding monetary loss and any heartburn. Dr Devinder Garg, ChandigarhWe have to mend our ways – nowNature has taught us a lesson during this pandemic , whether we accept it or not. If we do not mend our ways now then we may not get another chance to celebrate the next Diwali. Celebrations this year should be free of air and sound pollution.Chander VijLife cannot be risked for moneyChandigarh has a large population of senior citizens, who are in the high risk category for contracting Covid-19. Hence, the more pollution there is, the more susceptible they will be to infections. The contention of the traders that their Diwali is ruined is unjustified as lives of the people cannot be put to risk for a few bundles of notes. Rajiv Boolchand Jain, ZirakpurLeave the world a bit better“To laugh often and much; to win the respect of intelligent people and the affection of children; to earn the appreciation of honest critics and endure the betrayal of false friends; to appreciate beauty, to find the best in others; to leave the world a bit better, whether by a healthy child, a garden patch, or a redeemed social condition; to know even one life has breathed easier because you have lived. This is to have succeeded.” On this auspicious Diwali, let’s take inspiration from this beautiful quote by Ralph Waldo Emerson and make sincere efforts to uplift the life of all the people around us. Avik Seth, ZirakpurStart cleaning upPeople should stay at home to celebrate an eco-friendly Diwali with their families. We should clean and sanitise our homes. Like olden days, whitewashing the house makes sense as it automatically sanitises and kills germs. Arun Goyal, ChandigarhGift plants to Covid warriorsAlways remember, your happiness doubles by sharing. 1) So, use the money you were going to spend on buying crackers to help someone who is need. Donate clothes,food items, and books to NGOs/domestic helpers 2)Support local vendors by buying theire products 3) Recycle gifts 4) Gift a tree, especially to corona warriors with a thank you message written on the pot and don’t forget to plant a tree in your garden A small kind act of yours, can change someone’s life. Vasundhara Chaudhary, MohaliNot a time to show off your wealthAim to make this auspicious festival a day of giving and forgiving, and not of show of wealth or sycophancy. Let it be a happy day full of love and brotherhood, where people reach out to one another, even making up with estranged relatives. Saying sorry on this day should be a normal thing. Let us seek the blessings of our parents and grand parents, thereby enriching the sanskars in our children. Let us not rush to others’ houses to give gifts and crowd around to prove to the world how sincere we are. Why don’t we understand? Why have we already started hearing the sound of crackers bursting ? As if farm fires were not enough, why are we adding into pollution, and to the discomfort to animals and birds? The coronavirus should have at least taught us to value life and be humble. Let it be a day of sharing joy and brotherhood. At the end of the day, it should leave us happy with a kinder heart, and stronger bond. Colonel R D Singh ( Retd), Ambala Cantonment||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ht-chandigarh-readers-take-happy-diwali-go-for-peace-not-pollution-care-not-crackers/story-zzCh13y7C6ncZoi4G3C00O.html
14-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra to implement waqf rules; income from assets will be used for charitable purposes||The Maharashtra government has decided to implement the Waqf Properties Lease (Amendment) Rules, approved by the Centre this year. With the implementation of the rules, waqf properties can now be leased out at 2.5% of the market value, per annum, instead of minimal rates. A 292 square metre (sqm) plot at Bhuleshwar in south Mumbai becomes the first such case. The income generated can be used by the trust for betterment of the backward section of the community, minority affairs minister Nawab Malik said.Waqf is the property given in the name of God for religious and charitable purposes in Islam. Maharashtra has around 93,418 acres of waqf land spread over around 23,566 registered properties, with the maximum land parcels in Aurangabad region — 57,802 acre, followed by 9,310 acre in Pune, 9,260 acre in Nagpur, 8,350 acre in Nashik, 5,941 acre in the Konkan and 2,755 acre in Amravati. The basic role of the state waqf board, set up in 2002, is to keep an account of the revenue and expenditure of waqf properties and ensure that they are being used for the purpose they were created. The Waqf Act allows leasing out the properties, but has held their transfer or exchange as illegal.Waqf properties are generally leased out by the respective trusts on nominal rates since decades. To change this practice, the Central government brought in the waqf properties lease rules in 2014 and later amended them in February this year. However, the rules were never implemented in Maharashtra.The minority affairs department headed by Malik, for the first time, decided to implement the rules for a property at Bhuleshwar which belongs to Rogay Charitable Trust and is being leased out to Indian Oil Corporation. An order to this effect was issued by the minority affairs department on November 11 stating that the tenant will have to pay 2.5% per annum of the market value of the property for a period of 15 years (January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2029).“With the decision, the trust is now going to get ₹2.55 lakh per month instead of ₹2,500 per month that they were getting from the same tenant for decades. It means the trust can generate proper income that can be used for betterment of the backward classes of the community and education of poor children,” the minority affairs minister said.He said that the rules had not been implemented in the state in the past six years but the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has now decided to follow them in letter and spirit. “Following the Waqf Act, the trust will have to submit their annual audit report to the state waqf board through which we can monitor that the money is being used for the purpose intended,” Malik said.“Any trust found involved in irregularities can also be dissolved by the state waqf board,” he added.According to the rules, “The reserve price per square feet for lease of an immovable waqf property shall — (a) for hospitals, educational institutions and social sectors, be not less than 1% per annum; (b) for commercial activities, be not less than 2.5% per annum; of the market value of the property.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-implement-waqf-rules-income-from-assets-will-be-used-for-charitable-purposes/story-yz2NmRPxBKIhx5x6OL5XSI.html
14-11-2020||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai police to check noise levels during Diwali||The Navi Mumbai police have warned of action against those violating noise decibel levels during Diwali celebrations, even as ambiguity remains over the sale and bursting of firecrackers in the city. The police also urged people to report the bursting or sale of firecrackers in their vicinity.The special branch of Navi Mumbai police has issued instructions to citizens asking them to maintain social distancing and avoid crowding in public areas. The police said there is an apprehension of worsening of the Covid-19 crisis due to firecrackers bursting, especially for those infected.“We will take action against those violating the orders. Meanwhile, the Covid-19 guidelines imposed for social distancing and wearing masks will continue to remain the same,” said Pravin Patil, deputy commissioner of police, crime branch.Police have warned of action under the Noise Pollution (Regulation and Control) Rules, 2000, against those violating the permissible noise levels in the city. For residential areas, 55 dB is allowed from 6 am till 10 pm and 45 dB from 10 pm to 6 am. In silence zones, 50 dB is allowed during daytime while for night, it will be restricted to 40 dB.Police have also urged people to celebrate at home as religious places continue to be closed.“Officials and staff from the local police stations will be patrolling the streets to ensure that the rules are followed. Appropriate action will be taken against violators,” said Rupali Ambure, deputy commissioner of police, special branch.Officials have also formed special teams to prevent chain-snatchings, molestations and eve-teasing. The crime branch and the officials from the special branch will assist the local police stations for the security arrangements, senior officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-police-to-check-noise-levels-during-diwali/story-g2wbeMwOjWiyal1SHjhdHO.html
14-11-2020||Delhi||‘Bad air leading to Covid-19 spike; respite soon’: Arvind Kejriwal||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday identified high levels of air pollution as “one of the biggest factors” for the spike in Covid-19 infections, linking the two crises the Capital is currently reeling under, but said that the third wave of the coronavirus disease outbreak in the city was likely to come under control in another 7-10 days.Kejriwal’s comments come at a time when the city has recorded persistently grim Covid numbers – it logged the most single-day fatalities on Thursday and, a day earlier, the most number of new cases. The city’s hospitals have been swamped as active cases rose from 21,490 on October 13 to over 43,000 on November 13.At the same time, the air quality in the Capital has been several times over the safe limit for most of this month. For six days from November 6, it remained in the “severe” zone – above 401 – with the reading at some monitoring centres maxing out. Exposure to high levels of air pollution may exacerbate a Covid-19 infection, particularly since the virus as well as the particulate matter affect a person’s ability to breathe once they enter deep into the lungs. For every 1ug/m3 increase in exposure to PM2.5, the increase in mortality risk due to Covid-19 rises by 11%, a group of researchers from Harvard University said in a recent study.“Whatever necessary steps are needed, we are taking them. There are steps we will take over the next few days, next week and we believe within the next 7-10 days, the outbreak will be brought under control,” the CM said in a video press conference. Kejriwal did not elaborate on the options being considered by the government to control the outbreak, but according to senior government officials who asked not to be named, the administration has asked the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) to convene a meeting by Tuesday.Experts said they feared it might take longer for the city to turn the corner from its current peak. “By the current trends, it looks like cases can go up for at least another three weeks unless the government imposes certain restrictions on non-essential activities – that can concern market timings, size of gatherings, etc,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the epidemiology and communicable diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).“We are seeing slightly more severe cases that are taking longer to recover. There are different theories but the most plausible seems to be rise in air pollution levels as this trend is largely seen in Delhi where pollution levels are the highest,” said Dr Rajesh Chawla, senior consultant, respiratory and critical care medicine, Indraprastha Apollo Hospital.“Both, severe pollution and festive season is contributing to the spread and severity of the disease, and how the outbreak pans out we will get to know exactly once the festive season gets over. The cases will eventually come down but I don’t see it happening in days; it will probably take weeks,” he added.The spike has been particularly pronounced due to the festive season. In the week ending October 25, when the city held muted Dussehra celebrations, there were an average of 3,663 cases every day. As on Thursday, this number rose to 7,196. In comparison, the number was 2,627 in the first week of October.In his address, the chief minister spoke at length about the air quality crisis, which he said has played a big role in driving the epidemic. “One of the biggest reasons for Covid-19 spike in Delhi is rise in pollution,” Kejriwal said. The 24-hour air quality index according to Friday’s 4pm bulletin stood at 339, in the “very poor“ category, worse than the 314 on Thursday, and weather experts expect the number to worsen over the weekend when at least some people are expected to defy bans to burst firecrackers. “Even though we have forecast that this Diwali is likely to be better compared to the last few years, the weather is expected to be unfavourable. If people in the city burst crackers, then the pollution level could slip to ‘severe’ on Diwali day and a day after,” said VK Soni, head of IMD’s environment monitoring research centre.The crisis prompted the National Green Tribunal to ban the use of firecrackers across the National Capital Region (NCR), a decision that was also based on research showing a strong link between Covid-19 severity and bad air quality. “This time, the period of hazardous air seems to have arrived even before Diwali. The relationship of air pollution with severity of pneumonia is well established. Therefore, it is expected that there will be an increase in positivity and severity of Covid 19. Instead, all efforts should be made to curb pollution,” the tribunal said on November 9.The link between pollution and coronavirus disease was first made in Italy where officials discovered almost 40% of documented cases and a third of fatalities in the northern region of Lombardy. The epicentre of the outbreak also turned out to be a heavy industrialised and polluted region. The findings were backed by a statistical analysis of Covid-19 case and mortality spread across the 3,089 counties of United States. The team of researchers from Harvard University discovered that regions with worse air quality recorded more serious numbers. “We found that an increase of 1 ug/m3 in the long-term average PM2.5 is associated with a statistically significant 11% increase in the county’s Covid-19 mortality rate,” said the authors in their report, published in Science Advances on November 4. The air quality crisis has been an annual event for the last decade, Kejriwal said in his briefing on Friday as he devoted a sizeable chunk to one of the major causes of air pollution: farm fires in the neighbouring states of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.Kejriwal shared results of an experiment with a bio decomposer – developed by the Pusa Institute – that can be used to dissolve crop stubble that farmers usually burn. Last month, he said, the bio decomposer was spread over 2,000 acres of farm lands in Delhi and results of the experiment – based on samples collected from 24 villages -- showed that 70%-95% of total crop stubble have been decomposed.“Now we have a solution. I urge other states, the central government and the Supreme Court to take note of it. The Delhi government will file a petition along with this report to the central government’s air safety commission urging them to issue directions to states to use the bio decomposer,” said Kejriwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/bad-air-leading-to-covid-19-spike-respite-soon-arvind-kejriwal/story-jbav2qfVYjg5t8EVydmTRL.html
14-11-2020||Mumbai||4,132 new Covid-19 cases take Maharashtra’s tally of infections to 1,740,461||Maharashtra recorded 4,132 new Covid-19 cases, pushing its tally of infections to 1,740,461 on Friday, the 27th consecutive day when the daily count of cases stayed below 10,000 and fifth straight day of less than 5,000 new infections. The state has reported 59,719 cases in the first 13 days of November as against 160,545 in the corresponding period last month. The number of active cases in the state, too, have continued to dip and stand at 84,082 – 4.83% of the total cases in Maharashtra. The state also reported 127 fatalities, taking its toll to 45,809. According to the state health department, of the 127 deaths, 80 were from the past 48 hours, 25 from last week and 22 from the period before last week. Mumbai, meanwhile, recorded 801 cases on Friday, taking its count to 268,407. Of these, 13,866 are active cases. The city reported 17 deaths, pushing up its toll to 10,542.Also read: Mumbai local trains may resume for all if no spike in Covid-19 tally a fortnight after DiwaliThe state government, which has repeatedly cautioned citizens to take all necessary precautions to avoid a surge in cases in the coming months, reiterated its plea. “It is a positive sign that the number of new cases in Maharashtra is low, but we cannot let our guards down. The precautionary measures cannot be neglected. It is difficult to say if the second wave will come or not, but whatever is going on in the world and in European countries, where they have again imposed lockdown, we should be ready for any situation” Dr Sanjay Oak, who heads the state’s Covid-19 task force, told TV9 Marathi new channel. “We are celebrating Diwali in the backdrop of Covid-19 and we should not run away from wearing masks no matter what. In European countries, they have asked people to wear masks even at home as it has been proved that wearing a mask is the cheapest and easiest way to get protected from Covid-19.”Also read: Covid-19 likely to be more lethal during winter in cities like Mumbai, say expertsChief minister Uddhav Thackeray, too, on Wednesday had appealed to citizens to celebrate Diwali in a “low-key manner”, to avoid a potential second wave of Covid-19 infections. “I am celebrating Diwali sitting at home and exchanging greetings online. It is important to keep ourselves and our family safe until the vaccine is available and reaches us. It is only because of the restraint adopted by the people during festivals of all religions in the past eight months, we could keep the virus at bay. It is possible even in future if we adopt Covid-19-appropriate behaviour,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/4-132-new-covid-19-cases-take-maharashtra-s-tally-of-infections-to-1-740-461/story-d4kOnKaLoGv5g9qkDHp5oI.html
14-11-2020||Mumbai||On Dhanteras, Kalyan police return lost mobile phones to owners||Some of the Kalyan residents were in for a pleasant surprise on the day of Dhanteras on Friday. The Khadakpada police have returned 27 high-end mobile phones and Bazarpeth police, 20 mobile phones robbed in the city. One of the victims who lost his mobile phone during the 2019 flood in Kalyan was surprised to get his back.“Getting back the phones on the day of Dhanteras has given happiness among the residents,” said Ashok Pawar, senior police inspector, Khadakpada police station.Under the guidance of Datta Karale, additional commissioner of police, and Vivek Pansare, deputy commissioner of police, Kalyan, a team was formed to track the increasing chain-snatching and mobile-theft cases and arrest the accused.In the past few days, the team had arrested many accused in house-breaking and mobile phone thefts and also recovered the booty including mobile phones from them.On Friday, the Khadakpada police returned the mobile phones. One of the mobile phones was recovered from Karnataka.“In 2019, following the flood in Kalyan, a victim was walking in waist-high water. He fell and lost his mobile phone. We recovered the phone lost in the flood and returned it back to the victim’s sister,” Pawar said.Pansare assured that the returning process of mobile phones will be carried out in the future also as a dedicated team is working round the clock to detect the cases.The victim’s sister who received the lost mobile, Aishwarya More, said, “When we received a call from the police station, we were scared. But it was a perfect Diwali gift for my brother.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/on-dhanteras-kalyan-police-return-lost-mobile-phones-to-owners/story-in2qCA9ciDXjNUfSVk503H.html
14-11-2020||Pune||2-year-old drowns after falling into water tank in Pune||Pune: A two-year-old child drowned in a water tank in Bhosari, Pimpri-Chinchwad on Friday afternoon. The child was identified as Viraj Sunil More, a resident of Dighi road in Bhosari. The incident occurred at the backyard of the house, where the child lived with both his parents. A water tank has been placed for cattle, which has been dug by the family’s neighbours, according to the police. The child strayed near the tank and is suspected to have lost balance and tripped. When the child did not return, the parents later found him in the tank, according to the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-year-old-drowns-after-falling-into-water-tank-in-pune/story-rnsOIZLyBb2UZUpJAAymiI.html
14-11-2020||Pune||Pune reports 449 Covid-19 cases, 14 deaths due to infection||The state health department, on Friday, reported 449 fresh Covid-19 cases in Pune district. Fourteen Covid-related deaths were reported in in 24 hours taking the death toll to 7,150. The district has reported 3.41 lakh Covid-19 cases, of which 3.17 lakh have recovered, and 15,904 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals, or in home isolation. Pune city reported 180 new cases taking the total count to 1,75,064. Seven deaths were reported on Friday, putting the death toll at 4,096. PCMC reported 91 new cases taking its final count to 86,081. Six deaths on Friday put the death toll at 1,197. Pune rural reported 178 new cases taking the final count to 79,911. One death put the death toll at 1,838 according to the state health department. The state health department reported 4,543 patients discharged, taking the final count to 16.09 lakh. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.63%. Currently, 8,10,267 people are in home quarantine and 6,177 people are in institutional quarantine||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-reports-449-covid19-cases-and-14-deaths-due-to-the-infection/story-FMocn5IUS1iLpCQMLvu8fN.html
14-11-2020||Mumbai||Lonar Lake in Buldhana district declared Ramsar site, second for Maharashtra within a year||Lonar crater lake in Buldhana district, 500 kilometres (km) from Mumbai, has been declared Maharashtra’s second Ramsar site. Ramsar sites are wetlands of international importance under the Ramsar Convention (held for the first time in Ramsar, Iran, in 1971), which aims to halt the worldwide loss of wetlands. On Thursday, the Ramsar Convention of Wetlands of International Importance announced on its website that Lonar Lake was now a Ramsar site. In January, Maharashtra got its first Ramsar site at Nandur Madhmeshwar, in Nashik. “Lonar Lake on the Deccan Plateau is an endorheic or closed basin, almost circular in shape, formed by a meteorite impact onto the basalt bedrock. The site includes the lake as well as escarpments, which form the crater walls, and forested zones. The lake is high in salinity and alkalinity… but threatened by household sewage, urban wastewater and by unsustainable tourism,” read the convention’s declaration.State environment and tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray said, “Lonar crater has its own significance in tourism and geology. As it becomes a Ramsar site, it will help us protect it better in the years to come.”   I’m glad that the Lonar Crater is now officially a Ramsar Site. Having seen it for the first time in 2004, it is a sight that captivates everyone. It has its own significance in the world of Biodiversity, Tourism & Geology.Photos by: CM Uddhav Thackeray ji. pic.twitter.com/g6MKN0XRY4He also shared a photograph of the site taken by chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray and said the CM had been pushing for tourism at Lonar. Forest minister Sanjay Rathod said, “The declaration comes as a Diwali gift for environment lovers and it is a matter of pride for the forest department and the entire state.”“It is a good achievement for the state that it got two Ramsar sites within a year,” said Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife), Maharashtra, adding that the Ramsar status would help conservation efforts. Lonar and Nandur Madhmeshwar bring India’s tally of Ramsar sites to 41. Maharashtra has proposed six more wetlands as Ramsar sites.Also read: 800-ha Nandur Madhyameshwar declared state’s first Ramsar siteIndependent experts said Maharashtra and the Deccan region had low representation in Indian Ramsar sites. “There is a large scope of increasing the number of Ramsar sites considering several wetlands are of high ornithological value,” said Ritesh Kumar, director, Wetlands International (South Asia).The 77.69-hectare (ha) Lonar lake is part of the 365.16-ha Lonar wildlife sanctuary. Located 500 km from Mumbai and over 90 km from Buldhana city, the lake has an average diameter of over 6,000 feet and is 449 feet deep. The area is home to 160 species of birds, 46 species of reptiles, and 12 mammal species including the grey wolf. According to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), the lake was formed as a result of a meteorite impact between 35,000 and 50,000 years ago. It was identified as a unique geographical site by a British officer CJE Alexander in 1823, and declared a notified National Geo-heritage Monument in 1979.Lonar wildlife sanctuary falls under the unified control of the Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR), Amravati. “The Ramsar status enhances protection for rare and endemic species, facilitates the development through national level policies, provides access to financial aid through the convention’s small grant fund, and allows access to expert advice on site related problems of this wetland,” said MS Reddy, field director, MTR.The lake was first proposed as a Ramsar site in 2017 by the state forest department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lonar-lake-in-buldhana-district-declared-ramsar-site-second-for-maharashtra-within-a-year/story-XLBrbNADwhPuAX0KHZdo0N.html
14-11-2020||Pune||Man, friend booked in Pune for alleged porn clip of ‘wife’||PUNE: A man and his friend were arrested by Pimpri Chinchwad police on Thursday for spreading a pornographic video and claiming that the woman in the video is his wife. The man and his accomplice are residents of Wakad, according to the police. The complaint was lodged by the accused’s wife.The duo shared the clip with man’s relatives claiming that the woman in the video is his wife. It was also forwarded to the complainant’s brother. The woman told the police that her husband used to abuse her suspecting of having an extra marital affair, according to the police. A case under IPC and Information Technology Act, 2000 was registered at Wakad police station against the two men.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-friend-booked-for-alleged-porn-clip-of-wife-in-pune/story-Dz6vrOzBqs2qk9WdPjOlrI.html
14-11-2020||Pune||Driving instructor, accomplice held for abduction, robbery of woman in Pune||PUNE: Two men were arrested by Pune police on Friday for abduction and robbery of a 35-year-old female techie in the city under the guise of driving classes on Tuesday. The two were identified as Rajesh Singh Mahi (39) a resident of Meerut area of Uttar Pradesh and Krishna Ram Bahadur Rana (30) a resident of Mahipalpur in Delhi. The arrest was made from Delhi by a team led by police sub-inspector Somnath Shendage of Unit 5 of Pune police crime branch. “Rana had arrived in Pune on the day before the crime. Mahi is a stud farm worker and a driver and Rana runs a chicken shop in Gurugram. They have been arrested in Delhi and are being brought to Pune for further investigation,” said Bachchan Singh, deputy commissioner of police, crime, Pune. The two men took an Ola cab to Mumbai and thereafter a flight to Delhi on the day of the crime, according to the police. The two had robbed a 35-year-old woman after abducting her in the morning hours of Tuesday form Salunkhe Vihar area. They drove her around while making her transfer money and robbing her of gold ornaments before dropping her home and fleeing, according to the police. While the woman is an IT engineer, her father is a retired Indian Army officer, according to the police. Mahi used to teach the woman how to drive a car in the morning hours and on Thursday morning; the man arrived with his friend and suggested that they take the lesson in her father’s car. A case under Sections 342 (wrongful restraint), 363 (kidnapping), 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery), 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Kondhwa police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-arrested-for-abduction-robbery-of-a-35-year-old-woman-in-kondhwa/story-fhabJGOqr1oT6GMFc0PPPN.html
14-11-2020||Pune||Pune civic body schools to reopen on November 23, four hours of classes scheduled||After Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced to restart schools from November 23, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) primary school education department has begun gearing up for the re-opening. While PMC schools will run only for four hours between 9 to 11am, prior permission by parents will be compulsory for students to come to school for classes. “A review meeting was held yesterday of all the PMC-run school principals about starting of schools from November 23. In this meeting, it was decided that funds will be made available to schools from the school management committee for purchasing of the thermal scanner guns, oxymeters and sanitisers for school. The daily school capacity of students will be limited to 50 per cent for which every student will be called to school every alternate day,” said Shivaji Daundkar, PMC’s primary education department head. “We will be focusing on only three subjects to teach as of now – English, Mathematics and Science. Later on, as per the situation and if the school time is extended then other subjects will also be taught by our teachers. Also, we will provide detailed information to parents about getting their permission letter for sending the child to school,” added Daundkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-schools-to-reopen-on-november-23-four-hours-of-classes-scheduled/story-bzIH8do918CHyXl62LGRkL.html
14-11-2020||Pune||Young generation should know works of Nehru: Chhajed||Minister of state Vishwajeet Kadam on Friday inaugurated a two-day photo exhibition on former prime minister and Congress leader Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru at Balasaheb Thackeray art gallery near Sarasbaug. Kadam said, “Some people are trying to defame the national leader who built the new India, but their efforts would never affect the great works of visionary leaders like Nehru.” Abhay Chhajed, former city Congress president, has organised the event to mark the Children’s Day celebrated every year on November 14 to commemorate the birth anniversary of independent India’s first prime minister. Various events are held on the day to increase awareness of the rights, care and education of children. Chhajed said that the exhibition is an effort to show the younger generation the achievements of the visionary leader. Chhajed said, “Nowadays it has become a trend by the ruling party to blame Nehru for everything wrong in the country. All the institutions that India is proud of today were founded in his time, including IITs, IIMs, NID, NCL, Atomic Energy Commission, Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) and Indian National Committee for Space Research.” The Congress leader said that despite enjoying a clear majority in the Parliament, Nehru involved the opposition parties in decision making and gave them space. “One of Nehru’s successes was the creation of the modern Indian state. When Nehru became the prime minister, the country was poor, hardly literate and unable to feed itself and average life span of Indians was just 32 years. By 1964, the average life span of Indians was 50 years,” he said, highlighting the overall development of the country during the period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/young-generation-should-know-the-works-of-visionary-leader-like-nehru-chhajed/story-TnyAlXdW6k5za9EqqMQqyJ.html
14-11-2020||City||Retired Army doctor in Pune duped of Rs 12.77 lakh in online job fraud||PUNE A retired Indian Army doctor residing in the city was duped of Rs 12,77,992 in an online job fraud in December 2019.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Dr Hardeepsingh Bindra (60), a resident of Salisbury Park, who retired from the Indian Army in 2019.Dr Bindra is currently serving at a hospital in Mumbai.After retirement, he was looking to work in the private sector and was looking for options on the Internet when he received an email regarding a job opportunity from a hospital in Dubai.The police suspect the website of the hospital was fake and was allegedly set-up to dupe the complainant.Under the pretext of living and travel expenses, Dr Bindra was asked to make payments to multiple bank accounts.A case under Sections 419 (impersonation), 420 (cheating), 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code and Sections 66(c) and 66(d) of Information Technology Act is registered at Swargate police station against unidentified people.Senior police inspector Brahmanand Naikawadi of Swargate police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/retired-army-doctor-duped-of-rs-12-77-lakh-in-online-job-fraud/story-crOEIn1CgAN8RcnY1zDHwM.html
14-11-2020||Pune||Pune civic body to start comorbidity clinics for critical patients||Anticipating a possible second wave of Covid-19 in Maharashtra around January 2021, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will now start Covid-19 comorbidity clinics for early detection and early diagnosis of Severe Acute Respiratory Illnesses (SARI) and Influenza-like Illnesses (ILI).According to officials, this will also help keep the case fatality rate low as it is the highest among those who have comorbidities. These patients will be called to the OPD to detect the early symptoms of flu so that they could be diagnosed earlier and start treatment at the earliest.On Thursday, PMC reported 233 fresh positives, taking the case total to 1,74,884 and seven deaths which takes the death toll to 4,089.Ashish Bharti, health chief, PMC, said, “We will start Covid-19 comorbidity clinics in all the dispensaries and maternity hospitals which would have a dedicated OPD for the comorbid patients whom we have detected during the state survey, ‘My family, my responsibility.’”“Early detection of symptoms will lead to early treatment which prevents fatalities. We will divide these hospitals and comorbid clinics into each ward and once in a week we will have a stipulated time to operate these clinics,” he said.Bharti also added that currently, the only problem is arranging for anti-diabetic and anti-hypertensive medications which we will have to provide to the patients coming for the consultation.He said, “We will have to provide consultation and medication for free at the clinics. The comorbid people who have been detected through the survey will have to come to the clinic for regular assessment of their health. We will soon start the clinic.”Dr Sanjay Dabhade from Jan Aarogya, said, “It is a good move. However, it is too late for them to start this but they must not just operate them during Covid-19 but continue to keep a watch on these patients so as to ensure that the overall mortality of the city goes down. Many patients discontinue their tablets for diabetes and hypertension which leads to higher mortality.” There are about 52 dispensaries which will be attended by the dispensary doctors who will look for early signs of Covid-19 or any flu-like symptoms and then they would be advised for further treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-to-start-comorbidity-clinics-to-save-people-at-risk/story-WeRO9A0ZUkE3DvtPqQoSmM.html
14-11-2020||Delhi||Mandatory fire safety checks at GB Road soon||All buildings housing brothels at Swami Shradhanand Marg, commonly known as GB Road (Garstin Bastion Road), in central Delhi will soon have to mandatorily undergo a detailed safety inspection.The move comes after a four-storey building — that partially serves as a brothel — went up in flames last Thursday (November 5), prompting the evacuation of 60-70 sex workers and their customers. The fire continued to rage for more than two hours and a spate of cylinder blasts on the upper floors caused the top floor to collapse partially. While no deaths or injuries were reported, the firefighting revealed glaring lapses as far as safety from fire is concerned.GB Road, which connects Ajmeri Gate to Lahori Gate near Old Delhi, has around 85 brothels, which employ around 2,500 women as sex workers. Officials said the inspection will be carried out jointly by Delhi Fire Service and North Delhi Municipal Corporation, and are expected to begin after Diwali on Saturday. Officials said the brothels are a cause of major concerns as most of the buildings there have narrow staircases, mezzanine floors, small chambers and dilapidated roofs, all in violation of fire safety norms.Rajesh Kumar Shukla, assistant divisional officer, who led the firefighting effort on Thursday, said they found that these buildings have staircases that are less than a metre wide, and mezzanine floors and chambers that have been constructed illegally with no fire-fighting equipment in place. “There is barely any fire safety norm being followed here. The current situation is disastrous. Any major fire can turn out tobe fatal leaving no scope for evacuation or rescue operation at all,” Shukla said.Atul Garg, director, Delhi Fire Service (DFS) said these brothels have never been inspected by the Delhi Fire Service. “In my memory, the area has never been inspected. This is also because Delhi Fire Service Act 2007 and Rule 2010 do not include the word ‘Kotha’. Further, as these are residential buildings which are less than 15 metres tall, they do not fall under our purview. There are shops on the ground floor and residential area on the second and third floors. The mercantile shops are also not under our purview as they do not exceed a height of nine metres,” Garg said.Jai Prakash, mayor of North Delhi Municipal Corporation said the constructions in GB Road area were very old, dating to the 1960s, when norms were not very strict. “I had visited the place immediately after the incident. The area is congested, with narrow lanes. After Diwali, we will conduct a survey to identify vulnerable buildings in the area and check for illegal construction in the buildings. We will try to find out how fire hazards can be avoided and what other structural safety measures can be taken,” Prakash said.The Aam Aadmi Party’s Shoaib Iqbal, who is the member of legislative assembly from Matia Mahal, the constituency under which a part of GB Road also falls, said they have been planning for long to relocate the sex workers. “Even though no lives were lost, the fire incident reminds us of the magnitude of tragedy that may unfold. We plan to discuss it with the fire department and other authorities concerned and reach a solution,” Iqbal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/all-gb-road-brothels-to-undergo-mandatory-fire-safety-inspection-soon/story-uP3NvLCvwXctKSToX9vc4N.html
14-11-2020||Delhi||Few firecrackers, at least in Delhi’s big markets||Despite the sale and purchase of firecrackers being banned in the National Capital Region (NCR), several residents of Delhi said they were worried that prohibitions would be flouted, leading to the almost inevitable annual post-Diwali air pollution spike. An HT spot check on Friday revealed that while firecrackers were not openly available in the city’s major markets, some bootleggers and small shops had made arrangements to surreptitiously supply customers with the banned products.The Delhi Police, for its part, said it has formed special teams and flying squads under each police station and police district to prevent the sale and bursting of crackers on Diwali, adding that they have seized nearly 3,000 firecrackers and arrested 47 persons in the past 10 days for either selling or bursting firecrackers. However, some residents of the national capital — in Mayur Vihar, Saket and CR Park — told HT that they could hear firecrackers in their vicinity. The police and government crackdowns, however, did ensure that firecrackers were not being sold openly at busy markets such as Sadar Bazar and Dariba Kalan in Old Delhi. Some people were able to go about their business discreetly, and while police said they arrested many such offenders, some others slipped through the cracks.In north-west Delhi’s Pitampura, for instance, a resident said firecrackers were being sold in some local grocery stores, and were available to customers familiar with the shopkeepers.In north Delhi’s Sarai Rohilla, the police caught a grocer was caught with 20kg firecrackers he allegedly intended to sell from his grocery store. “The grocer was caught with Rs 4,500 worth of firecrackers during checking at a police picket,” said Anto Alphonse, deputy commissioner of police (north). The police said they had seized around 85kg of firecrackers across the city on Friday and arrested four men for selling them, taking the total number of such arrests to 41. Further, three people were booked for bursting crackers on Friday.Some residents posted videos on Twitter of firecrackers being burst. “I’ve been hearing crackers being burst for at least two days now, and had to finally call the police in the evening,” said a 28-year-old resident of Saket, who asked not to be named.At many markets in the southern part of the city, shopkeepers refused to even reveal any places where firecrackers could be purchased. “The plainclothes policemen were tricking shopkeepers into revealing the identity of illegal traders. The word has gone out and no one wants to take a risk,” said a shopkeeper, Anant, in Badarpur Market. In areas such as Mayur Vihar, IP Extension, Tughlaqabad and Sangam Vihar, while people thronged to wrap up the last-minute shopping, firecracker shops remained closed. Sunil Kumar, 32, who sets up his vegetable cart near a firecracker shop in Mayur Vihar, said, “The shop also sell colours and other items apart from firecrackers. But the shop has been closed for three days now. Customers come enquiring about firecrackers, but to no avail. We understand the ban and the crisis, but who will explain these to our children? They want to burn firecrackers because for them, that’s what Diwali is all about.” Harjit Singh Chabbra, general secretary of the Fire Crackers Association of Delhi, who has a licensed shop in Sadar Bazaar (one of the biggest wholesale cracker markets in Delhi), said: “We have been ruined, as the government did not inform us about the ban in advance. We had bought crackers before the ban, but they are now lying unused. This year, maybe people will not burst crackers as licensed wholesale shops like ours have been closed for over 10 days now. In the previous years, the other sellers would normally buy from us and sell it in their local markets but this year, the ban was put in place more than 10 days ago.” The Delhi Police, in a statement about their preparedness, said pickets have been placed in markets and places with high footfall to sensitize public for wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. “Public address systems and banners are also being used to sensitize people,” the police statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/few-firecrackers-at-least-in-big-markets-in-delhi/story-iBXmTK4YcF5q2p0j9LSBDM.html
14-11-2020||Delhi||Will Diwali again lead to a bad air spike?||For the past five Diwali nights, the bursting of firecrackers has sent the air quality, which is in any case toxic at this time of year, to emergency levels, maxing out nearly all monitors in the city.According to data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air in Delhi remains severely polluted for a week after Diwali due to a combination of emissions from firecrackers, farm fires in neighbouring states, and adverse weather conditions.This means that the slight improvement in Delhi’s air since Wednesday — it went from “severe” to “very poor” — may be short-lived, a possibility experts have flagged in recent days, if the cracker ban is not strictly followed. WATCH | Diwali 2020: Kedarnath temple, CST decorated; UP CM performs aarti in Ayodhya The AQI on Friday was 339, while it was 314 on Thursday. “The key this year will be to enforce the cracker ban effectively. Last year, because of an early Diwali, and better enforcement, we saw our first “severe” air day only after Diwali. But this year, we have already experienced a week of severe air quality,” said Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment. On Diwali, PM Narendra Modi likely to celebrate with troops on western border CPCB data shows that over the past five years, the pollution levels in the city have remained in the “severe” levels in the days following Diwali. Last year, despite slightly better wind speeds, the air quality index (AQI) on Diwali day (October 27) was 337, in the “very poor” category. In the subsequent days, the air quality continued to deteriorate and on October 29, the AQI was 400. The next day, it rose further to 419. In 2018, a similar trend was seen. On November 7, Diwali day, from an AQI of 281 (poor category), it rose to 390 the next day, a tad short of the “severe” zone. The subsequent day, the AQI climbed to 423. According to Roychowdhury, last year, despite favourable weather conditions and increased enforcement, pollution levels remained high simply because too many firecrackers were used. On a scale of 0 to 500, an AQI value between 301 and 400 is considered “very poor”, while values between 401 and 500 are considered “severe”.To assess the impact of firecrackers on Delhi’s air this year, the CPCB has directed the state pollution control boards of Delhi and NCR towns to conduct detailed ambient air quality monitoring in two or three localities, so as to understand the trend. In Delhi, the areas chosen for this monitoring are Pitampura, Janakpuri and ITO. “It will be a 15-day study, assessing the air quality seven days before Diwali and seven days after Diwali. Noise monitoring assessment will also be carried out from November 9 to November 14,” a statement by CPCB on Friday said. Senior CPCB officials said in that in northwest Delhi’s Pitampura area, the levels of PM10 (particulate matter with diameter less than 10 micrometres), sulphur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen dioxide (NO2), PM2.5 (ultra fine particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres), and metals in PM10 (lead, nickel, arsenic) will be monitored. In Janakpuri, the levels of metals in PM2.5, such as aluminium, barium and iron will be monitored. Noise pollution assessments will be conducted in six areas in Okhla, Lajpat Nagar, Mayur Vihar Phase-2, Kamla Nagar, Pitampura and Janakpuri from 6pm to midnight on Diwali. Real-time noise monitoring will also be done at 10 places in Dilshad Garden, RK Puram, Civil Lines, Anand Vihar, Dwarka and Punjabi Bagh. A Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) analysis of the air quality during the Diwali week in 2019 showed that in Delhi-NCR the concentration of PM 2.5 levels jumped 10-fold in the seven hours starting 5pm on Diwali evening. This was alarming as Diwali last year was celebrated earlier than usual, which means the city was warmer and had favourable conditions for the dispersal of pollutants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/will-diwali-again-lead-to-a-bad-air-spike/story-YOAMM1REv4zyjE3NpvPdTI.html
14-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt to build over 89k EWS flats||The Delhi government will construct 89,400 residential flats by 2025 for people belonging to the economically weaker sections (EWS) and slum residents, the chief minister’s office said on Friday.The decision was taken in meeting convened by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal with officials of the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB), a senior government official said.“It was decided (in the meeting) that the Delhi government will construct 89,400 flats for EWS and slum dwellers. These 89,400 flats will be constructed in three phases in a total of 237 acres,” the CM office said in a statement.The statement said, “The construction project of the 89,400 flats will be carried out in three phases – 41,400 in the first, 18,000 in second, and 30,000 in the third. The Delhi government is preparing a detailed rehabilitation and construction plan (and) architect consultants will be appointed for the project.”“The ‘Jahan Jhuggi Wahin Makaan’ policy is the flagship policy of the Delhi government. We have to ensure the construction of the EWS flats for the in-situ rehabilitation of the people should be completed in its due timeline. This has to be ensured so that we can provide shelter for every poor in Delhi,” Kejriwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-construct-89-400-ews-residential-flats/story-2pKia9fXHKm9Rof5rAVKsM.html
14-11-2020||Noida||Businessman robbed near IP Park||A businessman driving home with his wife and friends after a party in Indirapuram was robbed of his gold and cash at gunpoint on Friday morning. Police said the robbery took place when he had stepped out of his car in central Delhi’s Indraprastha Park early Friday. The 39-year-old businessman, his wife and two friends saw the crime unfold from inside their car and recorded the entire incident on their mobile phone.RP Meena, deputy commissioner of police (south-east), said a case of robbery has been filed at Sunlight Colony police station and the police are working on certain specific leads to crack the case.The victim, Amit Arora, is in the transport business and lives in Rohini’s Sector 18.The DCP said Arora and his wife Megha were returning from Indirapuram in Ghaziabad after attending a party. They were accompanied by their friends Rohit Sharma and Megha Sharma.“Around 1.15am, when they were driving towards ITO, they stopped near Shanti Stup in Indraprastha Park as Arora wanted to relieve himself. Arora was outside the car when five men arrived in a white Swift car. Three of them got out of the car and one of them pointed a gun at Arora and another threatened him with a knife,” the DCP said.Arora was made to hand over his gold bracelet, a gold chain, two gold rings, a watch and Rs 40,000 cash to the robbers. He alleged that after targeting him, the robbers started walking towards Arora’s car while asking the occupants to get out, but Sharma was able to steer the car away. “The robbers escaped in their car,” said Arora.Arora said the police took over an hour to reach the crime spot; the DCP said the initial call was marked to the Tilak Marg police station as the victims had given the crime spot as Pragati Maidan.“We received the call at 2.45am after the PCR call was transferred to our district,” the DCP said.Meena said a subsequent probe and CCTV footage analysis has revealed the last four digits of the Swift car’s number plate. Arrests are imminent, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/businessman-returning-home-with-family-and-friends-robbed-by-car-borne-men-in-ip-park/story-SFrdZJ4AxXoRz1AfQXGx7I.html
14-11-2020||Delhi||40-yr-old sets himself on fire at mall after store refuses to replace handset||A 40-year-old man allegedly set himself afire at a mall in outer Delhi’s Rohini on Friday afternoon when a store refused to replace a “malfunctioned” mobile phone he had gifted to his niece for online classes, police said. The man, who repairs inverters for a living, suffered 40% burns and is being treated at Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital, according to the Delhi Police. PK Mishra, deputy commissioner of police (Rohini), said the man is stable and continues to remain under observation in the hospital. Mishra said the man had bought the smartphone from a store at a prominent mall in Rohini a month ago and gifted it to his 14-year-old niece who is a class nine student at a government school for her online classes. “According to the family, the phone started to get heated and malfunctioned. He visited the store on November 6 and demanded the handset be replaced, but the company cited their policy to deny him a replacement,” the DCP said, based on his family’s complaint. Further correspondence with the company yielded no results and he was again cited the same policy for refusal, the DCP said. “On Friday, he decided to set himself on fire if his request was turned down,” the deputy commissioner of police said, quoting the family members.When his request was again turned down on Friday, Mishra allegedly filled en empty bottle with petrol from his scooter parked outside the mall and then set himself on fire while climbing down the stairs. The police said they are continuing to probe the circumstances of the alleged suicide bid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-sets-himself-on-fire-after-mobile-store-refuses-to-replace-handset/story-qZlkpue1sWTUTjETChm6TM.html
14-11-2020||Chandigarh||2008 UT Employees Housing scheme: CHB to present revised options to delegates on Nov 17||Hoping to resolve objections to the costing of the 2008 UT Employees Housing scheme, the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) will present two revised options to the employee representatives on November 17.At the meeting, to be chaired by the UT adviser, employees’ views on the options – seven storey or 10-storey housing projects – will be taken. These have been devised to reduce the cost of the flats offered under the scheme. As per the UT urban planning department, the 10-storey housing options will require amendments in the Chandigarh Master Plan -2031, which does not permit high-rise buildings.Recently, the employees had approached the Punjab and Haryana high court on the delay by CHB in preparing the revised options.Notably, the process to reassess and revise the cost of the project started after the August 19 meeting between UT administration officials, employee representatives and the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) officials. The meeting was chaired by the Union home secretary to discuss all matters regarding the housing scheme.After deliberations, it was decided that the calculation of rates be made again for different categories by applying various factors like floor area ratio, collector rate, plotted area etc., in consultation with the representatives of the petitioners. The housing scheme for administration employees was launched in February 2008. The draw of lots for 7,827 applicants was held in November 2010. A total of 3,930 employees were declared successful and submitted Rs 57 crore. Around 4,000 flats were planned in Sectors 52, 53 and 56. Later, the scheme was shelved, but revived after the employees took up the matter with local MP Kirron Kher. But the MHA allowed the administration to transfer the land to CHB at the current collector rates.This caused the apartment costs to shoot up from the earlier Rs 34.70 lakh to Rs 2.08 crore in case of 3-BHK, Rs 24.30 lakh to Rs 1.64 crore for 2-BHK and Rs 13.53 lakh to Rs 1 crore for 1-BHK. Even for one-room flats, the earlier cost of Rs 5.76 lakh was revised to Rs 50 lakh.The employees then moved the high court alleging that CHB was charging five times the initial price for land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2008-ut-employees-housing-scheme-chb-to-present-revised-options-to-representatives-on-nov-17/story-SK0Gc9N2x4uWpyQIADcEBL.html
14-11-2020||Pune||Pune roads flooded with shoppers on Diwali eve||A day before Diwali, the streets of Pune were filled with buyers on Friday. Major city market areas like Laxmi road, Tulshibaug and Raviwar peth reported a huge rush. Residents had stepped out to purchase various things for Diwali from clothes, sweets, electronic goods, gold jewellery and other household items. With more people on the streets, major traffic congestions were also reported on city roads due to the Diwali shopping rush and traffic police were seen monitoring the vehicular movement. “From the last one week slowly the business is growing and in the last two days, there is a heavy rush at our shop to purchase clothes. We have made face mask compulsory and only four to five customers are allowed at one time inside the shop. Also, each and every customer is given a hand sanitiser and their thermal checking is done before entering the shop. We had to keep adding two people at the shop to clear the rush,” said Rushi Jain a clothing shop owner on Laxmi road. There are three major roads for Diwali Shopping in Pune city – Laxmi road, Kumthekar road and Tilak road. There was also a crowd on Friday at Tulshibaug, Bohri Aali and Raviwar peth markets. Deepak Chaudhaury, electronic shop owner on Tilak Road said, “Due to Covid-19 pandemic, there was a slow start to the sale of electronic goods, but as we kept various festival offers, attractive EMI options for customers there is a good response now. Though people have suffered financially during the lockdown the sales of electronic goods are increasing now. We hope that the overall market business condition gets better from Diwali.” Punekars have been enthusiastic of Diwali shopping despite the fear of Covid-19 infection spread. Shweta Kanade a housewife said, “This year due to the Covid situation we had already decided to not shop as much, we only bought festive clothes for children. And washing machine for the house as it was a long pending in our list to buy. Going to shop in the current market rush is still a risk and so we avoided the frequent trips outside. We have come out in a market place only for today and from now we will celebrate the festival at home.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-roads-flooded-with-shoppers-on-diwali-eve/story-NUUPsStRrDuqLslKxR2oxM.html
14-11-2020||Pune||Form death audit committee at civic body-run Covid hospitals: State to PMC||In line with the formation of a panel by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to carry out death audit of Covid patients, the Maharashtra government has brought a general resolution (GR) directing government hospitals across the state to institute similar panels. According to the state directive, the committee must have a hospital superintendent, a physician who is either private practitioner or government doctor, a medical college physician and a public health professional. The state has taken the step after observing a rise in critical cases and deaths despite fall in fresh Covid cases. PMC has constituted the “death audit committee” in its bid to curb the rising death rate of Covid patients. The civic administration has issued guidelines to all its hospitals to form a committee. The new order makes it mandatory for all PMC-run Covid hospitals to assess and analyse the exact cause of death of patients due to the virus. Though the government released the order on November 5, PMC issued an order for appointment of death audit committees for each of its hospitals two weeks back. The audit report will carry out factual analysis of death of Covid patients, including age, gender, previous ailments, recovery time, remedial measures, line of treatment adopted by the hospital and survey report of the area where the patient was residing. Pune mayor Muralidhar Mohol said, “PMC has already issued directions for constituting the committee at each of its hospitals and efforts will be taken to follow necessary compliances. The exercise will give a clearer picture of the disease to the administration.” Dr Sudhakar Bhoite, a public health professional said, “The new order is yet another step towards bureaucratic handling of the virus. Instead of providing the administration with more funds and manpower, the state government is making them adopt a clerical approach in combating the disease. The government could have instructed the state health department doctors to complete this process rather than burdening the PMC medical staff.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/form-death-audit-committee-at-civic-body-run-covid-hospitals-state-to-pmc/story-1mxKc1YQIr0epnC8HnKKWJ.html
14-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai local trains may resume for all if no spike in Covid-19 tally a fortnight after Diwali||Mumbai’s local trains may be thrown open to all commuters about a fortnight after Diwali festival, if there isn’t a significant spike in Covid-19 cases, said sources. Officials of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said that daily Covid-19 cases will be closely monitored for two weeks following which a final call on resuming local trains will be taken. Instances of spike in daily cases reported in the city will further postpone resumption of the service. Daily, over 7.5 million people travel by Mumbai suburban train network which was closed in March following Covid-19 outbreak. Later, the services were started for people in essential sectors and last month, for all women commuters during non-peak hours. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner who is in charge of health, said, “The virus has a 14-day cycle and this period will be crucial to know if there is any surge in Covid cases post-Diwali. The state government will take a final call on fully resuming local trains. Inputs based on observations with regards to starting local trains will be given to the state by all civic bodies of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region.”Also read | BMC forms squads to monitor Covid-19 guidelines violations around DiwaliOn October 30, the state government had written to the general managers of both the zonal railways and had proposed three time-slots during the day for general commuters, and two time-slots for essential services staff. The government had also sought a ladies special train every hour.Since October 24, the city has seen a downward curve of Covid with cases reporting as low as 535 in a day. Prior to this, daily cases reported were all-time high on almost every alternate day. With the coming Diwali festival, that falls on November 14, the civic body is taking various measures to avoid any further surge in cases, similar to the one following the Ganesh festival in September. Daily Covid cases in Mumbai that were reported then were above 2,000 on most of the days.Sanjay Pattiwar, a public health expert, said, “Diwali is one of the biggest festivals in India and will be a crucial time for Covid-19 as well. Authorities should ensure that the downward trend continues till the end of November and if that happens, it’s a good sign.”Meanwhile, the railways said while discussions with state and BMC are ongoing, there is no time frame decided to resume local services for all.On October 30, the state had written to the general managers of both the zonal railways and proposed three time-slots for general commuters, and two slots for essential services staff. The railways, however, said there have been no discussions over introducing different time slots. “The state said a mobile application to facilitate commute with fewer crowds is being prepared,” said a railway official.Meanwhile, the railways resumed Automatic Ticket Vending Machine (ATVM) services. “We are operating 88% of suburban local train services and have opened ATVMs in a phased manner,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, Central Railway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-local-trains-may-resume-for-all-if-no-spike-in-covid-19-tally-a-fortnight-after-diwali/story-ctrEph49Cq5xyQ5KylVqsI.html
