15-11-2020||Chandigarh||HT Chandigarh Our Take: Can Panjab University function without a senate?||A crisis seems to be brewing at Panjab University, with the senate polls postponed twice after being scheduled for August 24 and October 15. This is a matter of concern as the university has now been without its supreme governing body since the four year term of the last senate ended on October 31 . Further delays can make things worse as the term of the university’s top executive body, the syndicate, ends on December 31. Many former senators have demanded early elections, alleging that postponing the polls is a covert ploy to install a board of governors under the National Education Policy (NEP) comprising only nominated numbers, which they say will “lead to complete alienation of stakeholders from the decision-making processes of the university.” In a year when the Covid-19 pandemic has wreaked havoc around the world, hitting education systems especially hard, PU authorities will find it tough taking key decisions on restarting classes and hostels and planning for the next academic year without a senate. In the recent past, decisions on declaring results, announcing the first ever blended (online/offline) examinations, and the new calendar were taken without any House meeting. Also, as a stakeholder, the Punjab government has yet to adopt NEP and its consent is required if any board is to be set up, the former senators say. Worried about the developments, Punjab chief minister (CM) Captain Amarinder Singh has recently written to vice-president M Venkaiah Naidu, who is also the PU chancellor, seeking early elections to the senate. The CM has said that the delay in polling is causing resentment among various constituents of the institution and urged Naidu to advise PU authorities and the Chandigarh administration to conduct it on time. “There is a substantial resentment among the teachers, professionals, technical members, graduates of the university and representatives of constituencies for the senate elections. Besides, there are legislators from the Punjab assembly and ex-officio members, such as the chief minister, education minister, and DPI (colleges) of the state, who represent the Government of Punjab,” Capt Amarinder Singh is learnt to have written. There is no reason now to put off the polls because of Covid-19 as the situation had improved and elections to Parliament, assemblies, and urban and rural local bodies had been held across the nation, the CM’s letter states. Various issues are pending before the university, and any delay in setting up a governing body can affect the working and hurt the interests of the students. PU POLITICS Does Punjab University need the senate? Should Punjab University have a board of governors in place of a senate? Send your responses to Chandigarh@hindustantimes by November 20||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ht-chandigarh-our-take-can-panjab-university-function-without-a-senate/story-IKs1woyLb1cdUs1ukhubbK.html
15-11-2020||City||Slippery roads after drizzle makes motorists call fire department about ‘oil rain’||New Delhi: The light drizzle in Delhi on Sunday evening saw the fire department receive several calls reporting a strange phenomenon: “oil rain”.But on attending the calls, the fire department found that it was just a case of roads turning slippery due to rain water mixing with mud and dust, said Atul Garg, director, Delhi Fire Services. Garg said the fire department received 57 such calls. “Initially, three or four motorcyclists skid due to slippery roads in the immediate aftermath of the drizzle. They called the fire department, and at the same time rumour spread that there was an ‘oil rain’,” Garg said. Soon, the fire department was inundated with such calls. “But it turned out that the sudden rain mixed with the mud on the roads. It also brought down with it the dust in the air. All these together caused the road to turn a little slippery, giving rise to the belief that it was oil rain,” said Garg. The officer said the calls were received from across Delhi and not from any particular area. There were no immediate reports of any injuries due to the slippery roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/slippery-roads-after-drizzle-makes-motorists-call-fire-department-about-oil-rain/story-E27h0UltKEgvB3WYYNifxK.html
15-11-2020||Noida||12 people arrested for selling crackers in Noida, environmentalists want authorities to target manufacturing||Since November 8, a day before the National Green Tribunal (NGT) banned firecrackers in the national capital region (NCR), the Noida Police had arrested only 12 people for allegedly selling the banned items. Environmentalists say this pointed to gaps in enforcement and that the authorities needed to focus on controlling the manufacture of crackers rather than going for only those selling and burning crackers.“So far we have recovered firecrackers and explosives worth more than Rs 8 lakh in the past one week and we will continue with the vigilance till the ban is in place,” said a police spokesperson.Knowledge Park police had the biggest haul. On Diwali two men, identified as Vijay Saini and Kashif, were nabbed with 39 sacks of firecrackers worth nearly ₹4 lakh. On Sunday, two men were nabbed with firecrackers worth ₹1 lakh by the Phase 3 police.Diwali night saw NGT rules being flouted across the district with the air quality index in the district going in to the “severe” category. However, only five people in the district were booked.“Our teams were constantly patrolling across the area and anyone we came across trying to burn crackers was given a strict warnings. Three persons from the Surajpur Kasba area were booked under section 151 of the CrPC for not adhering to the warnings and continuing to break laws,” said Pradeep Kumar Tripathi, station house officer, Surajpur police station.Two more people were challaned by the Bisrakh police for similar violations.Police personnel in Gautam Budh Nagar carried out awareness drives all through Diwali night to keep people from bursting crackers. “We identified spots where crackers were being burst and we spoke to people urging them to refrain from doing this. We gave warnings to them and we will continue with the vigilance for the upcoming festivals also. The ban is in effect till November 30 and the enforcement will also be in place for it,” said Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1. He also said that people in the city stopped once warnings were issued to them. “But we have identified potential troublemakers and will keep an eye out on them in the next few days and take any necessary legal action,” said Singh.“The vigilance of authorities did not help as we know that crackers were burst openly all throughout the district. While creating awareness is crucial, we also need to focus on the industry itself. The manufacturing needs to be controlled while in turn will help control the distribution, sale and purchase. That is what police and Administration should focus on going forward,” said Vikrant Tongad, an environmentalist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/12-people-arrested-for-selling-crackers-in-noida-environmentalists-want-authorities-to-target-manufacturing/story-O2nepRnNP3qpTJ7ORNxr3H.html
15-11-2020||Noida||Cleaning of river Hindon banks starts ahead of Chhath puja||Ghaziabad: As the Diwali festivities come to a close, the authorities are now gearing up for the upcoming Chhath festival on November 20, when devotees will come to the banks of the river Hindon to offer prayers. Officials of the municipal corporation said that apart from initiating a cleaning drive, they are also expecting that Ganga water to the river will be released before the start of Chhath festivities.Annually, thousands of devotees come to offer prayers on the banks of river Hindon but this year, the administration is contemplating restricting the numbers of people who would be allowed to attend the festivities due to the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.“This year the festivities will be restricted due to the pandemic, and we are trying that only one person per family would be allowed. For this, we have held meetings with the Purabiya Jan Kalyan Parishad and asked them to restrict the size of the gathering,” said Shailendra Kumar Singh, additional district magistrate (city). “We have also spoken to the irrigation department officials as well and have asked them to arrange for water to be released into the river before the festival. It is likely that Ganga water will be released into the river before November 20,” he added. The flow to the river gets affected before Diwali due to the annual maintenance of the Upper Ganga Canal system. Till the time the canal is shut for cleaning, water is stopped to the river.“The corporation has started the cleaning drive and we are also telling our members to restrict the number of people who come to the river banks. There are no directions as yet, specifically, for the Chhath puja. So, people who are coming over for the puja will arrive as they please. However, there should be no last minute issuance of directions. In such a case, we will not be able to restrict the number of visitors or tell them to curtail rituals,” said Rakesh Tiwari, Purabiya Jan Kalyan Parishad. He added that the association members have also asked officials to expedite the release of water to the river.The corporation officials said that they have initiated a cleanliness drive and deployed several teams to ensure that the banks are cleaned before the festival. “Our teams are deployed and they will ensure that people are restricted from throwing any puja material leftover from Diwali into the river. It is likely that the water will reach before the festival,” said MS Tanwar, municipal commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/cleaning-of-river-hindon-banks-starts-ahead-of-chhath-puja/story-jFzxCYR8WIZzsQqhcqojaI.html
15-11-2020||Noida||Despite ban on crackers, Diwali in Noida and Ghaziabad more polluted this year||Despite the complete ban firecrackers, there was no respite from pollution in Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad this year as well. In fact, on Sunday, the day after Diwali, the three cities’ air quality fell to the “severe” category when even healthy people would suffer respiratory distress.This year, on the day from Diwali, the pollution monitoring stations reported much higher levels of coarse particles (PM10, those with size less than 10 microns) and ultrafine particles (PM2.5) than last. These particles are known to cause several diseases with PM2.5 being able to cross the blood-brain barrier and infiltrate organs.Residents of the three cities said that people openly flouted the National Green Tribunal’s (NGT’s) order banning all forms of firecrackers till November 30. While the Uttar Pradesh government directed all agencies to enforce the order, there seemed to have been limited impact on the ground.“On Saturday evening (Diwali), it seemed that there will be no firecrackers burning this year and maybe there would be some respite from the pollution. But after 7-8pm that hope soon fizzled out and cracker bursting went past midnight,” said Ruchin Mehra, a resident of Raj Nagar Extension. “There seemed to have been some measure of control,” said Akash Vashishtha, a Ghaziabad-based environmentalist. “Compared to last year, it was probably cut by three-fourth. However, it has raised concerns that there were gaps in enforcement due to which crackers eventually made their way into the hands of residents. It is unlikely that crackers were stored since last year and burst this year. In all likelihood it is possible that sales were done from behind the shutters.”The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data showed that the average PM2.5 level ranged from 205 to 297 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m³) at the four monitoring stations in Ghaziabad during the 24 hours period of Diwali day in 2019. During the same period this year on November 14, the Diwali day, average PM2.5 was higher in range of 310.53 to 416.53µg/m³. Likewise, during the same period in 2019, the average PM10 stood in range of 331.82 to 487.84 µg/m³ but this Diwali it was much higher in range of 490.93 to 636.41 µg/m³. On Sunday, Ghaziabad was the second most polluted city in the country.The standard limit for PM2.5 is 60µg/m³ while that for PM10 is 100 µg/m³. In Noida too, the four monitoring stations recorded average PM2.5 in range of 182.22 to 206.82µg/m³ last year while this year the range was 267.3 to 391.12µg/m³. Likewise, the average PM10 levels were also high in range of 370.73 to 587.68µg/m³ this year while it stood in range of 301.89 to 376.16 last year. In Greater Noida, the scenario was no different. The average PM2.5 levels last year on Diwali ranged from 148.7 to 175.09 µg/m³, while these were 254.62 to 279.39µg/m³ this year. Likewise, the average PM10 levels were 264.18 to 348.72µg/m³ last year during the same period while it ranged from 405.75 to 525.59µg/m³ this year. “The pollution levels were primarily high due to unfavourable meteorological conditions and increased instances of stubble-burning which led to contribution of 32%. Crackers were burnt, but much lower after ban by NGT,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UP pollution control board. Ajay Shankar Pandey, Ghaziabad district magistrate, did not respond to calls and messages. “There was enforcement taken up and the violations were very less besides we also carried out awareness drives. It has also come to light that people brought crackers from outside the NCR,” said Shailendra Singh, additional district magistrate (city), Ghaziabad. SSP Kalanidhi Naithani did not respond to calls but police spokesperson responded with figures that stated that 40 calls were received on Dial-112 response system related to use and sale of crackers on Diwali and a day before Diwali. “In this connection, 27 cases were registered and action was taken against 30 persons. Another two-dozen people were arrested for creating ruckus and bursting crackers under section 151 of CrPC (prevention against commission of cognisable offence) and notices were served to another 100 persons,” the response by the police spokesperson stated. Police personnel in Gautam Budh Nagar said that they carried out awareness drives all through Diwali night to keep people away from bursting crackers. “We identified spots where crackers were being burst and we spoke to people urging them to refrain from doing so. We gave warnings to them and we will continue with the vigilance for the upcoming festivals also. The ban is in effect till November 30 and the enforcement will also be in place for it,” said Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1. Five people in the district were booked for firecracker violations, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/despite-ban-on-crackers-diwali-in-noida-and-ghaziabad-more-polluted-this-year/story-r5ZUe9A0hsMfrl3oHQ1fdK.html
15-11-2020||Noida||Yamuna Expressway authority decides to launch new schemes only after acquiring land||GREATER NOIDA: The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) will not chalk out new plot schemes without having the requisite land ready for the same, unlike earlier when schemes were launched before the land was acquired. The move comes as the authority realised that schemes launched without ready land troubles property buyers in the long run.The authority, in 2008-09, had launched a residential plot scheme in sectors 18 and 20 along the 165km Yamuna Expressway, which connects Greater Noida and Agra. The authority had assured plot buyers to give possession of the plots in 2011-12. But the authority is still to give possession to at least 7,000 plot buyers. The Yeida took more than 10 years to ready this land to be given to plot buyers, who wanted to build houses, due to the land dispute. Farmers dragged the Yeida to the Allahabad High Court, delaying the residential scheme, which was the biggest plot scheme by the industrial body. The Yeida had launched another industrial plot scheme in 2013 and promised possession at theearliest. It had allotted 816 plots in Sector 32 located along the expressway, at a rate of Rs 5,500 per square metre. The authority had allowed, as per the scheme, to pay up half yearly installments for the plot cost, and charged 12% interest on the plot cost. But the authority is yet to ready the land and give possession. As a result, it has decided to first ready the land and then launch schemes, in the future.“We will launch schemes, be it for residential purposes or other usages, only once we have the land readily available with us. The reason is that the interest of our allottees is a priority for us. We want that investors or individual allottees can get possession of their allotted plot on time. Earlier, we launched schemes with planning to acquire the land. But now it is clear that we must launch a scheme only after readying the land for the same,” said Shailendra Bhati, officer on special duty of the Yeida.The authority is buying the land from landowners via direct purchase. In direct purchase, willing farmers can come forward and sell their land directly to the authority.“In this process, there is no scope for dispute because if a land owner is willing then he can sell his or her land,” said Bhatia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/yamuna-expressway-authority-decides-to-launch-new-schemes-only-after-acquiring-land/story-CQNLAikaXHWN91Aseqp98O.html
15-11-2020||Chandigarh||DDC polls: Ex-minister, ex-MLA among BJP’s second list of candidates||The Jammu and Kashmir unit of BJP released its second list of candidates for the third, fourth and fifth phase of upcoming District Development Council (DDC) elections at party headquarters on Sunday.The 44 candidates included former minister Shakti Raj Parihar and former MLA Bharat Bhushan. Parihar has been fielded from Gundana constituency in Doda district, while Bhushan has been fielded from Bhalwal in Jammu district.BJP general secretary Dr Devinder Kumar Manyal, in consultation with party president Ravinder Raina, general secretary (organisation) Ashok Kaul and other senior party leaders, made the announcement.The state election commissioner of J&K KK Sharma announced the schedule on November 4 for the first DDC polls, to be in eight phases from November 28 to December 29.The elections for the vacant seats of sarpanchs, panches and urban local bodies (ULBs) will also be held simultaneously with the DDC polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ddc-polls-ex-minister-ex-mla-among-bjp-s-second-list-of-candidates/story-m65TSfJLy5vciUk6iTR5dK.html
15-11-2020||Noida||Noida: Sewage network laid out in ten sectors to ensure only treated water is dumped into rivers||NOIDA: The Noida authority on Sunday said that it has connected the master sewer pipeline with a sewage treatment plant to trap waste water from sectors 74, 75, 76, 77, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, Hosiery complex and Phase 2, with an aim to make sure that only treated water flows in to Hindon River.The move will help in making sure that sewage is not dumped into the river without treatment, said officials. The National Green Tribunal, through various orders, had directed the Noida authority that only treated sewer water should be dumped into drains, which further empties into two rivers – Hindon and Yamuna, which flow along the city. Even the Noida Master Plan 2021 had mandated trapping of sewage from all areas and treatment of the same at the sewage treatment plants (STP), and before it was dumped in drains.“Our water department has connected the sewer network from many areas, that include sectors 74, 75, 76 and 80, among others, with an STP for sewage treatment, as per Master Plan 2021,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer of the Noida authority.These sectors 74, 75, 76 and others are home to several newly-built group housing societies. The sewage from these societies was being dumped into drains without any treatment, thereby causing pollution.Earlier, the authority was unable to tap the sewer as it could not connect a 1,200 metre-long stretch of the master sewer line in Sector 74 due to a land dispute. Due to non-availability of land, the authority could not build a sewer connection line and the master sewer line remained out of reach, said officials.“However, now the authority has connected the 1,200 metre-long stretch as it resolved the land dispute seven months ago. In the last seven months, the authority has completed the master sewer line work. We have started tapping 30 million litres daily (MLD) sewer water from these areas to the Sector 123 STP for treatment. Now we will no longer dump the waste water directly into drains,” said a Noida authority official, not authorised to speak to the media. The authority has installed a sewer pumping station at Sector 117 (located between Sector 74 and the Sector 123 STP) to channelise sewage from these areas to the STP in Sector 123.Residents, meanwhile, said they have been demanding a master sewer line connection for a long time.“As the sewer line was not connected properly, sewage from our societies was being dumped into vacant plots and open drains. We hope it will change now. Still, the authority needs to clean the sewer line to make sure sewage is not dumped into open,” said Amit Gupta, president of Prateek Wisteria Society apartment owners’ association (AOA) in Sector 77.The 1200 metre sewer line has been laid six metres below ground to ensure all areas remain clean, officials said.“It is important that while building a sustainable township, we need to have a sustainable process of clearing household sewage waste. The 7x sectors cluster is one of the largest high-rise clusters of Noida. This will be a big relief to high-rise society dwellers. IT is indeed a welcome step and we look forward to the implementation of such infrastructure all across the district. This will also help Noida achieve a better Swatchh Bharat ranking in the future,” said Rajiva Singh, president, Noida Federation of AOA, an umbrella body of AOAs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-sewage-network-laid-out-in-ten-sectors-to-ensure-only-treated-water-is-dumped-into-rivers/story-WAaAS5iTn5QNJ6oHYMrlfI.html
15-11-2020||Noida||Over 50% patients who died due to Covid-19 in Gautam Budh Nagar were diabetic, say officials||NOIDA: Among the comorbidity factors in Covid-19 deaths reported in Gautam Budh Nagar district, diabetes has emerged as the main comorbid condition behind such fatalities. Health officials said that more than 50% of the total infected persons who died due to the virus in the district were also suffering diabetes. According to the officials, out of 73 patients who died due to coronavirus in the district till November 14, 38 of them had diabetes, a chronic metabolic disorder in which blood sugar levels are very high. District chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri said that it has been found that diabetes increases the risk of death among patients infected with Covid-19. “Out of 73 Covid-19 infected patients, who succumbed to the virus, 38 were diagnosed with diabetes. Diabetic patients, both during treatment and post recovery, are at high risk of developing complications and there is need for strict monitoring and follow-ups,” Ohri said.“Patients with diabetes, hypertension or any other comorbid condition must always take even minor Covid-19 symptoms seriously and immediately go to a Covid-dedicated facility instead of waiting for symptoms to be more serious,” the CMO said. On Saturday, GB Nagar reported 191 new cases, taking the tally to 20,154 in the district. The district also reported one death due to Covid-19 on Saturday, as per the state control room figures.Ohri further said that as early identification is very important in this situation, the district health department has asked all the Covid-dedicated facilities to keep a close tab on the blood sugar level of all the Covid-19 infected patients having diabetes. Dr AK Shukla, senior consultant physician of Kailash Hospital in Noida, said that there is enough evidence proving that the Sars-CoV-2 virus can attack the beta cells of pancreas, responsible for producing insulin. “In case of a diabetic patient, the blood glucose levels become highly erratic, especially when Covid-19 becomes acute. After the Covid-19 infection, they become more insulin-dependant and require higher doses. In some Covid-19 patients without diabetes previously, it has been found they can become diabetogenic. If the oxygen saturation level dips, the diabetic patients can also develop ketoacidosis, where the body produces excess blood acids (ketones),” he said. Echoing similar views, Dr Ajay Agarwal, director of internal medicine at Fortis Hospital in Noida’s Sector 62, said that it has been seen worldwide that complication and mortality for Covid-19 in diabetic patients is more as compared to non-diabetics. “So, it is very important for people with diabetes to control their blood sugar levels and take their medicines regularly. It is advisable for everyone above 40 years, who may or may not have been infected by Covid-19, to go in for a check-up for diabetes particularly if they have a family history of diabetes or are obese or have a sedentary lifestyle,” he said. However, Dr AK Gadpayle of Sharda Hospital in Greater Noida , doesn’t agree that diabetes alone can trigger the Covid-19 infection to death. “Diabetes can become a killer if it damages the other organs like kidney and heart. Abnormal blood sugar level invites many fatal diseases to attack the organs of our body. So, unless the other co-morbidities develop, diabetes alone can’t shoot up the Covid-19 viral infection to go to an incorrigible stage,” said Gadpayle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/over-50-patients-who-died-due-to-covid-19-in-gautam-budh-nagar-were-diabetic-say-officials/story-Y5uAy85oaQWBc8PgtUBWqI.html
15-11-2020||Noida||Man going to temple on Diwali run over by truck, dies||Greater Noida: A 42-year-old man riding a bicycle to a local temple on the occasion of Diwali was killed after being run over by a speeding truck on Saturday, police said. The driver of the truck was also seriously injured in the incident, they said.The deceased, identified as Rajendra Singh, was critically injured in the incident and died at the spot, the police said, adding that he was a resident of Sirsa village in Greater Noida. Rajendra’s elder brother Menpal Singh has filed a complaint against the truck driver at Site V police station. He said that in the evening Rajendra and his son Gaurav, 13, were going to the temple to light diyas and offer prayer. “Rajendra and Gaurav were riding two bicycles. When they reached Vinod Bhati roundabout, a speeding truck hit Rajendra and run over him,” he said. The complainant said that the victim’s both legs were severed from the body in the accident, while Gaurav narrowly escaped. Gaurav then informed his family members about the incident, the complaint said. Vivek Trivedi, station house officer (SHO), Site V police station, said that a police team visited the spot after getting information and found that the truck driver, Vikas, had lost balance of the vehicle which led to the accident. “The truck hit Rajendra and then hit the road divider. Rajendra died at the spot In the accident, while the truck driver was also critically injured. We have admitted him in a private hospital’s ICU. The driver is not in a condition to record his statement,” the SHO said. Trivedi said that it appears the driver lost balance of the vehicle after its brakes failed. Based on the complaint, a case has been registered against the driver under Section 279 (rash driving) and Section 304-A (death due to negligence) of Indian Penal Code, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/man-going-to-temple-on-diwali-run-over-by-truck-dies/story-N44g2Nj8sUZHnAzPxkcgFP.html
15-11-2020||Chandigarh||Keen to open badminton academy in Himachal: Saina Nehwal, Parupalli Kashyap||Renowned international-level badminton players Saina Nehwal and her husband Parupalli Kashyap called-on Himachal governor Bandaru Dattatreya on Sunday at the Raj Bhawan and said they wanted to open a badminton academy in Himachal Pradesh.Nehwal said players from North India go to Hyderabad and Bangalore for coaching and should be able to avail international-level coaching in north India itself. “Coaching is very important for playing on an international level and coaches should also be of the same level so that performance is maintained,” she said, adding that most players who did well nationally,were often unable to hold their own on international platforms. Kashyap said many players went abroad to train at a high altitude while the same training could be provided in Himachal.The governor honoured Nehwal and Kashyap with a Himachali cap and shawl and presented them with a picture of the Raj Bhawan as a memento. He said, “The youth of the state are very talented but do not get a good platform due to lack of facilities. Many players from Himachal are doing well internationally, but this number should be increased.” Dattatreya said with the help of international players like them, the possibility of improving sports infrastructure in Himachal could be explored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/keen-to-open-badminton-academy-in-himachal-saina-nehwal-parupalli-kashyap/story-EOHJmVgtsDAqh8GIiklKLI.html
15-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashra looks to bring down Covid-19 case fatality rate||Concerned over Maharashtra’s constant case fatality rate (CFR), which remains at 2.63% despite a dip in the number of cases daily, the directorate of health services has ordered formation of a death audit committee at every hospital in the state. Maharashtra on Sunday recorded 2,544 cases, lowest in five months since June 16, taking the case count to 1,742,242. It was the 29th consecutive day when daily cases recorded were below 10,000. The active cases reduced slightly, reaching 84,918. From November 9 to 15, the state has been seeing less than 5,000 cases. The average number of cases per day has declined to 4,433 from 12,088 cases in the corresponding period last month, according to the state health department. The state’s toll reached 45,974, with 60 casualties. Of the total deaths, 35 are from the past 48 hours and three are from last week. The rest are from the period before last week, health officials said. The death audit committee will carry out detailed factual analysis of every death due to Covid-19. It has to give its observation considering age, gender, co-morbidity and treatment period of the deceased. The committee will have to suggest changes, recommendations for field survey and training required for doctors and health workers, if needed, stated the order issued by the director, health services, Dr Archana Patil. Each committee must comprise a medical superintendent as its head, a physician as secretary and other members such as physician either from a private or government medical college, a child specialist, a public health expert and an intensivist, it added. The committee is expected to complete the audit within seven days, which has to be submitted to the deputy director through the health officer or district surgeon. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, chairman, communicable diseases prevention control and technical committee of the state and public health expert, said, “We want to ascertain where we are lacking and make changes accordingly. People have not followed the advice to avoid crowding while preparing for festivals and since social distancing wasn’t practised, we may have to face the consequences. For this, we will have to wait for at least 28 days to see if there is a surge.” Mumbai saw 577 new cases and 15 deaths, taking the tally to 269,710 and toll to 10,573. Pune registered the second highest number of cases, 299, and 7 deaths, followed by Ahmednagar which saw 163 cases and two deaths. Meanwhile, places of worship were being prepared for the reopening on Monday, after eight months. Physical offerings or prasad and group singing won’t be allowed. People over the age of 65 and below 10, people with co-morbidities and pregnant women are advised to stay at home. The individuals must maintain a distance of six feet, practise frequent hand washing with soap or sanitiser, wear masks compulsorily, and respiratory etiquette must be followed, while large gatherings and congregations continue to remain prohibited. The entrance must have thermal screening and sanitiser dispenser, the SOP stated. The state has also called for staggered entry of visitors in places of worship, which must be decided based on the size of the structure, ventilation etc. by the trust/board running the place and the local authorities. Shoes must be kept inside vehicles. Touching idols, statues and holy books is not allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashra-looks-to-bring-down-covid-19-case-fatality-rate/story-vRmVI8vcQPIEgNkmSKHS2N.html
15-11-2020||City||Ludhiana: Burn cases pour in at city hospitals this year too||Doctors at the burn unit in city-based hospitals remained on their toes as cracker mishap cases continued to pour in throughout the night on Diwali. At Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), as many as 10 patients were rushed in with burn and eye injuries. At Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), seven cases of minor injuries due to crackers were reported. At the civil hospital, however, no such case was reported, the senior medical officer, Amarjit Kaur, said. According to public relations officer at CMCH, out of the 10 patients rushed to the hospital with burn injuries, four suffered eye injuries. On the other hand, the public relations officer of DMCH said that seven patients with minor injured were rushed to the emergency of the hospital last night and all the patients were sent back home after first-aid.All the injured who were rushed to hospital after suffering burn injuries were in the age group of 12 to 20 years.Meanwhile, the civil hospital SMO distributed fruits and sweets among the patients at civil hospital on the occasion of Diwali. Many of them had been abandoned by their families due to ailments, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-burn-cases-pour-in-at-city-hospitals-this-year-too/story-K6mwbTEaw9n8VBCwXnXafL.html
15-11-2020||Mumbai||Medical students on Covid-19 duty get robbed at hostels in Mumbai’s KEM Hospital; lose thesis papers||While resident doctors remain busy providing treatment to Covid-19 patients at the premier civic-run King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital at Parel, their electronic equipment is getting stolen at their hostels. Medicos alleged that despite complaints, the hospital authority has not taken adequate steps to provide security. In November alone, three incidents of theft have been reported at the hostels of resident doctors. The first incident was on November 2 when a mobile got stolen from room number 26 at Annexe hostel, followed by two more incidents on November 11 and 12 at room numbers 30 and 321 of Annexe hostel and resident medical officer (RMO) hostel, respectively.In all three cases, first information reports (FIRs) were registered at Bhoiwada police station. Vinod Kamble, senior police inspector of Bhoiwada police station didn’t respond.All three cases of theft took place in the absence of the resident doctors who were on Covid-19 duty at the hospital. “After a tireless day at work at Covid-19 wards, we found our electronic items missing when we returned to our hostels. This is extremely frustrating,” said a medical student whose laptop is stolen. “Among the stolen goods two were Macbooks which cost over ₹1 lakh, one iPad and one Dell laptop. These are expensive electronics. We can’t afford to buy those again,” said a resident doctor. Due to the theft, students who had stored their thesis paper on their laptops have lost them which can get them disqualified for the final examination. “It took me two years to collect data to complete my thesis. If I don’t get my laptop back, I may not even qualify to sit for the final examination,” said another resident doctor. “Other than that, we also have important academic related documents,” the student added.Students alleged that despite repeated complaints to the hospital authority, they aren’t paying any heed. “The hospital hasn’t installed CCTV cameras on all floors. Security is extremely weak, so anyone from outside can walk into the hostels without being checked,” said another resident doctor.Dr Arun Ghule, president of Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD) at KEM Hospital, confirmed the incidents and said they are going to submit a letter to the dean on Tuesday. “This has started happening recently and we have also informed the hospital authority about it. If the doctors don’t get their laptops, then they have to redo their thesis again. We are going to demand for better and stringent security at the hostels,” he said.Dr Hemant Deshmukh, dean of the hospital said, “Police complaints have been filed. We are looking into the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/medical-students-on-covid-19-duty-get-robbed-at-hostels-in-mumbai-s-kem-hospital-lose-thesis-papers/story-SikaDugkeAsmxrXHbfrLcL.html
15-11-2020||City||74-yr-old woman is latest Covid casualty in Ludhiana, 64 others test +ve||A 74-year-old woman succumbed to Covid-19 while 64 others tested positive for the virus in Ludhiana on Sunday. Earlier on Saturday, reports of 95 samples had come back positive.Among the fresh infections are 11 persons who came in contact with a positive patient, 12 who were referred from the outpatient departments of various city hospitals and 39 patients showing influenza-like symptoms. Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said that currently there are 743 active patients in the district.He revealed that in all, 73 patients tested positive in Ludhiana in the last 24 hours, out of which nine belong to other states and districts. The DC added that apart from the elderly woman from the district, a Haryana resident also lost the battle to the deadly virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/74-yr-old-woman-is-latest-covid-casualty-in-ludhiana-64-others-test-ve/story-ET6VslMxMf1D08gxeJU67J.html
15-11-2020||Chandigarh||Showers hit Punjab, more likely on Monday||Light rainfall was recorded across Punjab on Sunday under the influence of a fresh western disturbance, according to India Meteorological Department.Even hailstorm was witnessed in parts of Malwa region, including Bathinda, Muktsar, Faridkot, Ferozepur, Barnala, Sangrur and Ludhiana districts.According to data available till 5:30pm, 13mm rain was recorded in Amritsar, 1mm in Patiala and just 0.6mm in Ludhiana. More rain can be expected on Monday, following which dry weather is likely to return.“The rain was the result of a feeble western disturbance. There had been no western disturbance in the region after monsoon ended. Rain will continue on Monday, but the intensity will be lower than that on Sunday,” said IMD regional director Surender Paul.Farmers fear crop damage“Weather is still cloudy and even mild rainfall can cause damage to the freshly sown wheat crop,” said Ranjinder Singh, a farmer from Chaina village in Faridkot.Dr Jaswinder Singh Brar, plant protection officer, Moga, said rain may pose a challenge to farmers still resorting to stubble burning, but those who used crop residue management machines will benefit. “Crop residue ploughed back into the field will work as a cover and keep the field moist and benefit germination process. However, wheat sown in the last five days on fields where paddy straw was burnt is likely to get damaged as mild rainfall will harden the surface and affect germination,” he said.Be cautious of Covid, say expertsIn Amritsar, showers brought minimum temperature down to 13°C in the afternoon. With mercury taking a plunge, health experts have asked people to be more cautious to prevent a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases. “The survival rate of coronavirus on substances will increase in lower temperatures, increasing the chances of people getting infected,” said Dr Naveen Pandhi of the chest and TB department at Government Medical College and Hospital, Amritsar.“The drop in mercury can lead to more cases of cough, cold and chest infections, which can lead to further complications among Covid-19 patients,” said Dr Anita Chauhan, epidemiologist, Faridkot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/showers-hit-punjab-more-likely-on-monday/story-ZuU43YdpNWxHgdntI7aSZI.html
15-11-2020||Chandigarh||Snowfall in Lahaul-Spiti, Rohtang||The average temperature across the state dropped two-three notches as the tribal district of Lahaul-Spiti and Rohtang Pass experienced light snowfall on Sunday. Himachal meteorological department director Manmohan Singh said, “Snowfall in higher reaches and rainfall accompanied by thunderstorms in middle hills is likely to continue on November 16 while the weather in lower hills will remain dry. The weather will remain clear throughout the state till November 21.The minimum temperature in the state’s capital Shimla was 8.9°C, while Kufri, a popular tourist destination 14 kilometres from Shimla, recorded a minimum temperature of 8.5°C.Famous hill stations Manali, Dharamshala and Dalhousie recorded a minimum temperature of 5°C, 8.6°C and 6.8°C, respectively.Una recorded a minimum temperature of 7.4°C, Bilaspur recorded 9°C, Hamirpur 9.2°C, Nahan 12.9°C and Kalpa 3.2°C. With a maximum temperature of 26.8°C , Solan was the hottest place in the state while Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district was the coldest with a minimum temperature of 2.4°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/snowfall-in-lahaul-spiti-rohtang/story-0i3UF4aWeHismDKEj0qZcO.html
15-11-2020||Chandigarh||Nine report to Chandigarh PGIMER with injuries on Diwali||This Diwali night, PGIMER, Chandigarh, attended to seven cases of eye injuries and two of burns caused by firecrackers. Their number last year was 20, including five burns cases. According to a hospital statement, this year, while four were major injuries, three were minor and all patients were stable.Three of the patients are from Punjab, two from Haryana and one each from Chandigarh and Himachal Pradesh.The burns patients – a man from Mohali and a woman from Una, Himachal Pradesh, suffered a superficial facial burn and an oral cavity deep burn, respectively. While the man is at the plastic surgery ICU, the woman is in the trauma ICU and on ventilator support.At GMCH, Sector 32, a 25-year-old man from Punjab reported with a mild injury. He was treated and discharged.The emergency wing at GMSH, Sector 16, received nine cases of burns, eight of them on hands. Besides, eight patients also reported with eye injuries. “Dr Swati Sharma, eye surgeon on duty during Diwali night, dealt with a 23-year-old man named Lalit from Maloya. He had lid and corneal lacerations, along with corneal burns, and underwent lid repair and debridement of corneal foreign bodies,” said an official statement from the UT health department.Ajay Kumar, a 28-year-old man from Dhanas, underwent the same surgery. Last year, the hospital had attended to 18 patients with different eye injuries.14 injured in MohaliIn Mohali, 14 people were injured while bursting firecrackers, as compared to 44 residents suffering injuries last year. The patients were treated for superficial burns at various government health facilities in Mohali, Kharar, Dera Bassi, Dhakoli, Kurali, Mullanpur and Zirakpur and discharged after first-aid.Mohali senior medical officer (SMO) Dr Areet Kaur said all five patients from Mohali city were children, while four patients were from Kharar, three from Dera Bassi and two from Zirakpur. None of the patients had eye injuries.The Panchkula health department confirmed that there were no burns cases at the civil hospital on Saturday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nine-report-to-chandigarh-pgimer-with-injuries-on-diwali/story-ximrjX2Pw1jFnLjYzamMbL.html
15-11-2020||Gurugram||Shiv Raj Puri held for duping people at golf course in Gurugram||Gurugram Police on Friday arrested Shiv Raj Puri, the 40-year-old alleged mastermind behind a major banking fraud in 2010, from Dehradun for allegedly duping people of nearly ₹2 crore at a golf course in Sector 80. He was declared a proclaimed offender in two cases and was carrying a reward of ₹50,000 on his arrest. According to the police, Puri had shifted to Dehradun in March before the lockdown was imposed and had rented an apartment in Engineers Colony on a forged identity. He was paying a rent of ₹15,000 and had told landlord that he used to invest in stock exchange and had plans to offer tuitions classes. He had introduced himself under a fake name, Shiv Sareen, said the police. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that Puri was working as a golf trainer at Karma Lakeland on Delhi-Jaipur Expressway in Sector 80 and had duped several people of nearly ₹2 crore before fleeing the place. “During investigation, it was revealed that the suspect booked for fraud was a history-sheeter and was identified as Shiv Raj Puri. He had forged identity documents to take up the job and was training people in golf under the name of Dr. Shiv Ahluwalia,a professional golfer. He is a good golfer and had some tournament certificates to his name as well,” he said. The police said after registering a case under section 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (fraud) of the Indian Penal Code on June 26 at Kherki Daula police station, they started investigating. KK Rao, commissioner of police in October, formed a special investigation team under the leadership of Sangwan and assigned the task for Puri’s arrest to the Sikanderpur crime unit led by inspector Ajay Dhankhar. Rao said they roped in the cyber crime team to track his movement and his call detail records were scanned. He was traced based on human and technical intelligence and surveillance. “The teams had camped in Dehradun for four days before arresting Puri. He was living a luxurious life and was earning nearly ₹2 lakh a month from stock market. He had plans to dupe more people but was arrested,” he said. Ajay Dhankhar, inspector, said that Puri was living in South City-1 prior moving to Dehradun. He was changing locations to evade arrest. He had also changed more than 20 mobile numbers in the last one year, he said. Sangwan said Puri was produced before the court on Saturday and was sent to 14-day judicial custody. “We will take him on production remand in the two cases and will recover the amount duped,” he said. The police added that the enforcement directorate is in process to attaching his properties and court proceedings were underway in Gurugram’s sessions court.During investigation, it was further revealed that Puri used to work as a relationship manager at a private bank in DLF Phase 2 and was involved in ₹400-crore fraud case. He was suspended after the bank lodged a police complaint about suspicious transactions, forgery and criminal activities on December 5, 2010. Puri had duped nearly 30 investors and channelled the money to the stock market. Between December 5, when the police complaint was filed, and December 27, when Puri was arrested, the bank appointed one of the big four audit firms to conduct a forensic audit of all transactions related to wealth management, hired a top law firm for legal counsel, and even made Puri sign agreements with some of the clients, promising to return their money. Sangwan said Puri had worked in the bank for seven years, starting in 2002. In his early 30s, he had started siphoning off money, which increased after 2009. “He used to send fake circulars to the customers purported to have been sent by the capital markets regulator, promising 2-3% returns per month. People fell prey and started investing. Many had also given him blank cheques to invest money,” he said. A case of fraud was registered on December 27, 2010 after the bank complained against him. He was arrested on December 29 and was released on bail by the Punjab and Haryana high court on May 28, 2012, said the police. Later on February 25, 2014, the trial court pronounced Puri guilty under various sections of the IPC and sentenced him to two years and six months in prison and a fine of ₹10,000. In another case, Puri was convicted and sentenced to two years and six months in jail, thereby taking the overall imprisonment to five years. However, since he did not appear for any of the hearings, the police declared him as a proclaimed offender. He was out on bail, when he got a job at Karma Lakeland as a golf trainer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/shiv-raj-puri-held-for-duping-people-at-golf-course-in-gurugram/story-m4y6tgSrEXj8Db4ue504LL.html
15-11-2020||Chandigarh||Higher reaches receive snowfall in Kashmir valley||Light snowfall and widespread rain lashed parts of Kashmir on Sunday breaking the extended dry spell.Authorities have asked people to avoid travelling through the Srinagar-Jammu national highway as there were chances of a blockade due to inclement weather. Kashmir highway SSP traffic JS Johar said, “The highway is functioning as of now. There are overcast conditions in Ramban after light rainfall. We are advising people to avoid undertaking journey on the Jammu-Srinagar national highway (NH 44) till Tuesday when the weather opens up.” The traffic department will allow light vehicles to ply on the national highway if the weather conditions remain good. The department said Mughal Road and the Leh-Kargil roads were blocked due to accumulation of snow. The precipitation in northern and central Kashmir was due to a western disturbance hitting the region on Friday. Some places in the region had witnessed rain on Saturday. The meteorological centre in Srinagar said there was light snowfall in Gulmarg and rainfall in other parts of the Valley. “Gulmarg received 4.5 inches of snow on Sunday and 7 inches on Saturday. Besides, there was heavy rainfall in north Kashmir and light rainfall in southern parts,” said an official.He said Kupwara received 14 mm rain on Sunday and 71mm on Saturday. “Jammu witnessed 12.4 mm rainfall and Katra 8.8mm,” he said.Weather to improve today IMD director Sonam Lotus said, “As expected, moderate snow with isolated heavy fall was recorded on higher reaches of J&K, Zojila and in Drass area. The system persisted on Sunday too. A significant improvement is likely from Monday.” Meteorological department deputy director Mukhtar Ahmad said the weather was expected to improve from Monday. “The sun will come out by Monday afternoon. Another wet spell is expected on November 18,” he said.Meteorologist Mohammad Hussain Mir said there was little snowfall this time owing to increase in night temperatures from November 13. “The region received less snowfall as the minimum temperature on the night of November 13 and 14 had increased to 6 °C,” he said.The MeT office said the maximum temperature in Srinagar was 7.7 °C while it had been 2.3 °C on Saturday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/higher-reaches-receive-snowfall-in-kashmir-valley/story-qrMDHzTiDzDs7291FbIKRM.html
15-11-2020||City||Diwali cracker curbs go up in smoke amid poor enforcement in Punjab||Restrictions imposed on bursting firecrackers were violated with impunity in various parts of Punjab, as police failed to ensure strict compliance on Diwali. Even as celebrations went on much beyond the two-hour window (8-10pm) announced by the state government, only a handful of FIRs were registered in various districts. These were registered under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code, but the violators remained unidentified in most cases. Following the National Green Tribunal’s directions to control pollution during festivities in India, chief minister Amarinder Singh had announced a two-hour window for the use of only green firecrackers on Diwali and Gurpurb, except in Mandi Gobindgarh where a blanket ban has been imposed. The CM had also asked director general of police Dinkar Gupta to crack down heavily on violators. Only 5 FIRs in Amritsar, none in Tarn Taran Even as crackers were being burst even on Sunday morning, only five cases were registered against unidentified violators in the Amritsar commissionerate area, while none was registered in Amritsar Rural and Tarn Taran police districts. In the two districts, 14 fire incidents were reported, of which three in Amritsar were major. However, no one was reported to be injured. A limited number of licences for selling green crackers were issued in the two districts, but many vends were reportedly set up illegally in densely populated markets of various towns and cities. “What is the point of issuing the order of a two-hour window, when there is nobody to implement it? People kept bursting firecrackers the whole night without any fear of law, and no cop was there to check it,” said Harikrishan Arora, a social activist in Tarn Taran. Tarn Taran superintendent of police Jagjit Singh Walia said no illegal sale of crackers was found by special teams constituted for the purpose. “We are trying to identify those who burst crackers beyond the two-hour window,” he said. 8 booked in Ludhiana, 14 in Jalandhar In Ludhiana, bursting of crackers went on till 2am, but only eight FIRs were registered against unidentified people. Meanwhile, 17 people suffered burn and eye injuries while busting crackers. The Jalandhar commissionerate registered only 14 FIRs, with one each at 14 police stations under its jurisdiction. On no one being named in the FIRs, police said violators had left the spot by the time teams reached there and efforts are on to identify them. In Mohali, 25 FIRs were registered for flouting cracker regulations, said senior superintendent of police Satinder Singh. Last year, not a single case was registered. Thirteen cases of minor burn injuries were reported at hospitals in the district. Firemen remain on their toes in Malwa regionIn Ludhiana, 33 fire incidents reported on Diwali night, including three major factory fires at Rahon Road, Tibba Road and Sahnewa. Goods and machinery worth lakhs perished, but no casualty was reported. Also, 26 fire distress calls were received in Mohali, but only two turned out to be major. A scrap dealer’s godown at Behlolpur village went up in flames along with 25 used cars and other equipment. Blaze also engulfed a house at Bhabat village in Zirakpur, and it took three hours to bring it under control. Around 2,000 cotton bales that were stacked in the open at an industrial unit were gutted at Abohar in Fazilka district on Diwali night. The fire is suspected to have been caused by a cracker.In Bathinda, a gifts shop godown was gutted at Amrik Singh Road, while in Faridkot, a garment shop at Hukki Chowk was destroyed in fires the same night. In Moga, firecrackers led to a blaze at a scrap godown on Nihal Singh Wala Road at Bagahapurana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/diwali-cracker-curbs-go-up-in-smoke-amid-poor-enforcement-in-punjab/story-bPilMnq7bbtPBeHBe8PQWP.html
15-11-2020||Chandigarh||Diwali pollution levels lowest in Chandigarh since 2017||Chandigarh Pollution levels on Diwali were at their lowest since 2017 with the firecracker ban in place and fears of contracting Covid-19 keeping many people indoors.Debendra Dalai, vice-president of the Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC), which maintains a record of the city’s Air Quality Index (AQI) since 2017, said, “At the Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Station in Sector 25, the maximum AQI on the day of Diwali remained at 140, even as it had gone up to 341 in 2019 on Diwali.”The firecracker ban, Dalai said, had some success due to people’s cooperation. “We hope the AQI will continue to stay in the moderate bracket now (between 100-200),” he added.According to the data, of all five stations that measure AQI in the city, the highest AQI of 314 (very poor) was recorded at the Institute of Microbial Technology (IMTECH) in Sector 39. Last year, the AQI was 352 here. Such conditions can lead to respiratory illnesses on prolonged exposure.The prominent pollutant at all the monitoring stations was PM2.5, which can get directly absorbed into the bloodstream and cause asthma, lung cancer and heart diseases. Apart from Sector 39, other stations monitoring AQI recorded a dip, with Sector 17 registering 227 (poor). Although this was lower as compared to 247 in 2019, it was still higher than levels recorded in 2018 and 2017 .“No firecrackers were burst in Sector 17, but AQI remained high probably because of the footfall here even on Diwali. The roads were crowded with vehicles and the footfall was equivalent to Diwali in previous years despite the pandemic,” said Neeraj Bajaj, president of the Business Promotion Council in Sector 17.CPCC officials, meanwhile, said AQI in the busy market centre had been logged at 230 for the past week before the festival, so it actually fell to 217 on Diwali. Vehicular emissions, a source of PM2.5, could have been the cause, they said. The good news was that Sunday evening’s rain spell cleared the air considerably. “Rain brings down the suspended particles in the air reducing the AQI,” said Surender Paul, director, India Meteorological Department, Chandigarh.With rain likely to continue on Monday, AQI levels are likely to fall to the satisfactory bracket (between 50-100), he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/diwali-pollution-levels-lowest-since-2017/story-ytzVcYg5fz0bz42xqiUWEJ.html
15-11-2020||Chandigarh||Virus claims 9 lives in J&K, 460 infections surface||Jammu and Kashmir recorded nine deaths and 460 fresh coronavirus infections on Sunday, taking the Union Territory’s Covid count to 102,619 and death toll to 1,589.Officials said 271 people tested positive in Kashmir and 189 in Jammu. Four persons each succumbed to the disease in Jammu and five in Kashmir division. So far, 95,342 people have recovered from the disease in the UT, taking the recovery rate to 92.90%. There are 5,688 active cases in the UT.As many as 1,054 people have succumbed to the disease in Kashmir and 535 in Jammu. So far, 111 people have lost their lives to the infection this month.As many as 326 people succumbed to the infection in August, 478 in September and 293 persons lost their lives to Covid in October. The death toll crossed 500-mark on August 13, 1000-mark on September 20 and 1500-mark on November 03.With 7,829 cases, November so far has recorded an average of 521 daily infections against an average of 632 daily cases in October and 1,245 cases in September. An average 7 deaths a day were reported in November and10 were reported in October against 16 average deaths in September. The total number of tests conducted in the UT has crossed 26.45 lakh.In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 120 more people tested positive, followed by Baramulla at 51 cases. In Jammu division, the highest number of cases was recorded in Jammu district at 94, followed by 23 in Kishtwar.Srinagar tops the case tally with 21,426 cases and 396 deaths followed by Jammu district with 19,029 cases and 280 deaths.Till date, 7.14 lakh people have been enlisted for observation – 24,462 in home quarantine, 5,688 in isolation, and 41,083 under home surveillance. Besides, 6.41 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/virus-claims-9-lives-in-j-k-460-infections-surface/story-Uci98QVst1XlVNyqhnha7O.html
15-11-2020||City||Mischief turns fatal: Juvenile on the run after 11-yr-old dies in Amritsar||An eleven-year-old boy died after a juvenile pumped air into his rectum at Gagomahal village in Amritsar’s Ajnala subdivision, police said on Sunday.A Class-7 student, the boy had been training at a welding workshop, as his school was closed due to the pandemic. According to the FIR, his father, a labourer, dropped him at the workshop on Saturday morning and went to shop for Diwali.On returning in half an hour, the complainant found his son’s trousers lying on the road outside a puncture repair shop situated next to the welding workshop.On entering the premises, he found the accused, who worked at the shop, forcibly pumping air through his son’s rectum. While the accused fled, the man rushed his son, who complained of severe stomachache, to hospital. The boy died in a few hours while undergoing treatment.“Preliminary investigation has revealed the accused, who is also a minor, was indulging in mischief with the victim. Raids are being conducted to nab him,” said Mantej Singh, station house officer, Ramdas.A case has been registered under Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mischief-turns-fatal-juvenile-on-the-run-after-11-yr-old-dies-in-amritsar/story-5E9v1GjA4B9CEv6YFfjfdO.html
15-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai coastal road: More corals to be tagged, shifted than originally identified, permitted||During the exercise for shifting coral colonies for further reclamation for the coastal road project, marine biologists said the number of coral colonies visually identified was much more than what was originally identified for translocation. However, the exact area would be calculated post final translocation of the coral species.The exercise of shifting the marine species began on Thursday.The Union environment ministry and Maharashtra forest department granted permissions under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 for shifting two species of corals from the Rhizangiidae family (Oulangia and one unidentified species) with 18 colonies documented across 0.251 square metre (almost 3 square foot) in Worli region of the project site, and another species (Dendrophylliidae family) along with Rhizangiidae across 1.1 sqft area at Haji Ali. The marine species were falling in the project’s way and needed to be shifted for further reclamation, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).Since March, BMC has reclaimed over 65 hectares of the sea along south Mumbai for the 9.9-km coastal road, an eight-lane highway connecting Princess Street flyover to the southern tip of the Bandra-Worli Sea Link.Between Thursday and Saturday, 16 colonies from Worli were removed from their original locations while loose boulders (with corals) were removed from Haji Ali. There are two more coral colonies at Worli that need to be translocated. The process is likely to continue over the next five days.“During the on-going survey during low tide, visually we found many more coral colonies, especially at Haji Ali. Overall, we need to calculate the total coral expanse versus what had been originally identified,” said Harshal Karve, a marine biologist appointed by the state mangrove cell to oversee the translocation process.Vivek Kulkarni, independent coastal ecologist appointed by BMC to overlook the safety of marine biodiversity for the project, said, “The original survey was carried out two years ago. During the lockdown there had been improvement of seawater quality and project construction was at a standstill. As a result, new colonies had also been established since they are living organisms. However, we are taking all care and will ensure no corals are harmed.” Karve explained that coral colonies may be found on boulders or rocks across isolated patches within tide pools at both areas but the total expanse is calculated based on only the length of each coral colony and not considering the extent of one boulder to another. He added that these colonies may have been missed during the original survey in monsoon as such corals were located towards the deeper end of tide pools which were submerged. “However, all such colonies at both Worli and Haji Ali have been identified, tagged, and will be shifted carefully as mandated by the forest department and Centre,” he said.While National Institute of Oceanography (NIO) officials refused to comment on the issue, BMC officials said the translocation work was being handled by NIO and monitored by the mangrove cell. “We have asked for a final report which will be submitted to the state government and the environment ministry post translocation,” a senior BMC official said.The corals from Haji Ali will be shifted to Navy Nagar in a protected zone while the corals at Worli will be shifted to a site less than 200 metre away, outside the coastal road project area. “These sites were cautiously selected considering their proper safety and feasibility of transporting the coral species using crates and other equipment which may not have been possible at other zones like Geeta Nagar, Colaba or Marine Drive,” said Karve.Environmentalists said the original biodiversity study was a rushed job. “We actually have no clue on the actual presence of corals, how many were shifted or already dead along the alignment. Large numbers of these marine organisms have already been destroyed due to reclamation and excess sedimentation prior to the first biodiversity assessment,” said Debi Goenka, executive trustee, Conservation Action Trust, that is petitioning against the project.Mangrove cell said that each and every aspect of the translocation was being scrutinised in detail. “Firstly, we must realise that not all corals are Schedule I species under the Wildlife Act. Thus, the mandate is to protect mainly the reef building corals. Secondly, the window to apply for post-facto clearance for some of the additional coral colonies identified during the current exercise can be done by BMC,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (mangrove cell).Goenka countered the claim highlighting a Supreme Court order that does not allow post facto-clearance for any projects either under the Environment Impact Assessment, Coastal Regulation Zone or Wildlife Protection Act.CORALS AND WHY SHOULD YOU CARE?Corals are protected marine species sporadically spread across rocky intertidal regions along the Mumbai coast. They garner the same protection as a tiger or elephant under Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act (WLPA), 1972, and permissions are needed from the principal chief conservator of forest (PCCF-wildlife) before translocation of the species.Corals along Mumbai coastMarine biologists from Mangrove and Marine Biodiversity Conservation Foundation of Maharashtra, an autonomous body that assists the state in coastal marine conservation, found the presence of 11 coral species along Mumbai coast. HT had, on June 27, 2019, reported that some of these 11 coral species may be lost owing to the coastal road project.- Nine of the 11 species identified were stony or hard corals, which extract calcium from surrounding seawater to create a hardened structure, while two species were soft corals that grow woody cores similar to plants for protection.- Among the hard corals, five species were identified from Rhizangiidae family, one species each from Caryophylliidae family and Dendrophylliidae family, and two others identified as reef-building corals from Siderastreidae family called False Pillow coral and one species from Poritidae family, Goniopora. Both the species of soft corals are from Gorgoniidae family.- The corals were identified across eight locations — Haji Ali, Geeta Nagar in Colaba, Marine Drive, Nepean Sea Road, Worli Sea Face, Bandra Bandstand, Carter Road and Juhu — as part of a four-month study.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-coastal-road-more-corals-to-be-tagged-shifted-than-originally-identified-permitted/story-iaWbR6ZFSoeDrjcuuENUdJ.html
15-11-2020||Chandigarh||ESMA enforced in Shimla as emergency services’ control room staff goes on strike||Even as 11 more people succumbed to Covid in Himachal on Sunday, the Shimla district administration was forced to enforce the Essential Services Maintenance Act (ESMA) to prohibit emergency ambulance service employees from taking mass leave.The ‘108 ambulances service’ was disrupted on Sunday as the control room staff refused to attend the emergency calls until their demand for better facilities and wages were met. Shimla deputy commissioner (DC) Aditya Negi on Sunday issued an order prohibiting mass leave, mass agitation or mass strike by the operating staff of EMRI, GVK-108 ambulances in Shimla district. “GVK EMRI ambulances are being used to transport patients from sub-divisions to district hospitals or to Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC). Ambulances also carry the dead to cremation grounds,” said Negi.Shimla chief medical officer Surekha Chopra had informed the district administration that ambulance service had been hit after the employees refused to attend emergency calls and the patients were forced to arrange transport to hospitals on their own.“In case of violation of these orders, legal action will be taken against the operating staff as per the provisions of HP Essential Services (Maintenance) Act, 1973,” said Negi. There has been a steady upsurge in the number of Covid cases in Shimla district, recently.GVK EMRI in public-private partnership (PPP) with the state government had launched the ‘108 emergency service’ on December 25, 2010. The 108 national ambulance service with a fleet of 200 ambulances is spread across different parts of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/esma-enforced-in-shimla-as-emergency-services-control-room-staff-goes-on-strike/story-4gjVKWnwJdMjcUajL4IujI.html
15-11-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal logs 11 fatalities||Eleven more deaths were reported in the state on Sunday, while the death toll mounted to 435.Three deaths have been reported in Kullu, two each in Shimla and Kangra, while one death each was reported in Sirmaur, Una, Chamba and Mandi districts.Meanwhile, 383 people tested positive for Covid on Sunday even as 209 patients recovered. The state’s Covid tally stands at 29,713, of which 6,679 cases are active.Of the new cases, 122 have been reported in Lahaul-Spiti , 80 in Shimla, 74 in Kullu, 40 in Kangra, 18 in Solan, 16 in Mandi, 14 in Una, nine in Hamirpur, six in Bilaspur, three in Sirmaur and one in Chamba.With 4,670 cases, Mandi is the worst-hit district, followed by Shimla with 4,310 cases. As many as 4,073 cases have been reported in Solan district till date, 3,882 in Kangra, 2,433 in Sirmaur, 2,431 in Kullu, 1,801 in Una, 1,637 in Bilaspur, 1,557 in Chamba, 1,543 in Hamirpur, 746 in Lahaul-Spiti, and 630 in Kinnaur.Senior doctors must take 3 rounds of Covid wards: Jai Ram Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Sunday reviewed the Covid situation in the state. He stressed on the need to improve contact tracing. the CM asked doctors to ensure all patients were treated properly, especially those with co-morbidities. He asked senior doctors to take at least three rounds of the Covid wards to instil confidence among patients. He added that proper protocol must be adopted for treatment of asymptotic patients Himachal bans farewell, lunch, retirement parties in govt schoolsIn order to curb infections, schools and colleges of the state have been banned from holding farewell, lunch and retirement parties. The directorate of higher education has issued instructions in this regard to district officials and principals. Director higher education Amarjeet Kumar Sharma said these programmes were in violation of SoPs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-logs-11-fatalities/story-ootsZAbOtO68LrkN4UpVjJ.html
15-11-2020||Mumbai||Central Railway to upgrade infrastructure of 13 stations in Mumbai||The Central Railway (CR) has decided to undertake upgradation of 13 suburban railway stations that connects Mumbai city and suburbs. The work is likely to start from next month and will continue for four months. The railway stations selected for infrastructure upgradation are Byculla, Currey Road, Chinchpokli, Dadar, Matunga, Sion, Kanjurmarg, Vidyavihar, Ghatkopar, Vikhroli, Bhandup, Mulund and Nahur.The CR has also floated a tender for the upgradation work that includes improvement of station area including a circulating area for passengers and premises, along with railway platforms, maintenance of passenger amenities including foot overbridges (FOB), entry and exit of the railway stations and their water proofing. In addition, sanitisation of stations and local trains will also be undertaken along with the upkeep. The sanitisation of locals, with the help of disinfectants, will be carried out at Kurla, Sanpada, Kalva for a period of six months, the officials said.“We are upgrading station area, platforms, service buildings of various stations as routine work. It will also include repairs. This will help to retain the beauty of stations and also provide comfort for passengers during a commute,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relation officer, CR. Local train services on both the Central and Western Railway were suspended from March 23. Train services resumed on June 15. At present, they are operational for employees working in essential services, cancer patients, specially-abled commuters and school teachers along with the non-teaching staff. Women passengers and lawyers are also allowed to travel for a stipulated time recently.The CR is operating 1,572 train services and the WR operates 1,201 local train services every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/central-railway-to-upgrade-infrastructure-of-13-stations-in-mumbai/story-U2H1S6C5bJAOXgMw7p9VPN.html
15-11-2020||Mumbai||BMC starts restoration of British era heritage milestones in Mumbai||After a delay of about two years since it was first planned, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday started work on the restoration of 11 British era heritage milestone markers of the city. These milestones are approximately 200 years old, according to information from BMC, and were installed to mark the distance from St Thomas Cathedral near Horniman Circle in Fort, which is considered the zero milestone. There are supposed to be 15 or 16 such milestones in the city limits, of which 11 have been traced so far.The restoration process includes excavating buried milestones, cleaning and polishing the surface, reinstalling them in the original location on a raised platform, with an information plaque next to the stone. Each milestone will have a QR code tag that tourists can scan on their mobile phones to view the entire milestone heritage circuit. BMC plans to install replicas in place of those that have not been traced, to commemorate a heritage spot, while those 11 that have been traced will be restored as per this plan. Rahul Chemburkar from Vaastuvidhaan, which has been appointed as the conservation architect consultant for the project said, “The unique selling point of this project is the QR code that will enable us to create a heritage circuit of all milestones, tying up the circuit together digitally.” If a tourist comes across any one milestone, they can scan the QR code, and will be able to access map showing the entire heritage circuit, the distance and directions to the next milestone from the tourist’s present location, and more information about the history and relevance of each milestone. The Cooperage Bandstand and the Kothari Pyau also have similar QR codes. Both were restored by Vaastuvidhaan. These are also part of heritage circuits, for example, the Kothari Pyau will be part of a circuit of 22 such pyaus, that will be restored by the civic body over the next few months.Chemburkar said, “We need to give these distance markers their due importance.”In the past three years, various initiatives have been taken up by different stakeholders to reinstate a few milestones in the city, at the BMC ward level. This project will cost an estimated ₹26 lakh, and will take about three months to complete.The project was first pitched in 2018 before BMC’s Heritage Committee and has been in the pipeline due to the cost and design revisions.According to information available with HT (Received from BMC in 2018)Milestones found:I milestone at Kalbadevi Road3 milestone at Gowalia Tank, TardeoIII milestone at Bhatia Hospital, TardeoIV milestone at N.M Joshi Marg, ChinchpokliV milestone at AgripadaV milestone that was relocated to ColabaVI milestone at Chitra Cinema, DadarVI milestone at Rail Mantralay, DadarVII milestone at Antonia DaSilva High School, DadarVIII milestone in SionIX milestone preserved at Bhaudaji Lal Museum, BycullaMissing MilestonesMilestone marker II is missing, another milestone marker III probably located at Mascarenhas Road is missing, milestone with IV marking probably located at Voltas Nagar is missing, and a milestone marker VIII is missing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-starts-restoration-of-british-era-heritage-milestones-in-mumbai/story-0yRx5VCahaKObcqFjOYbqN.html
15-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai witnessed lowest noise pollution in 15 years during Diwali: NGO||Mumbai recorded the lowest level of noise pollution in the last 15 years on the first day of Diwali festival on Saturday during the permissible hours when the use of firecrackers was allowed, according to an NGO.Sumaira Abdulali, founder of Awaaz Foundation, told PTI on Sunday that the credit for the lowest levels of decibels (dB- the unit in which sound is measured) goes to the strict guidelines of the state government on bursting of firecrackers and growing awareness among citizens.“The noise pollution level recorded during Diwali this year is the lowest in the last 15 years,” Abdulali said.In a statement, the NGO said the noise level was measured from 8 pm to 10 pm (on Saturday) and then until the next morning (Sunday).The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had banned the use of firecrackers and fireworks in the city in a bid to check the spread of coronavirus.“A noise level of 105.5 decibel (dB) was recorded just before the 10 pm deadline (for bursting firecrackers) at the Shivaji Park ground, a silence zone in the city,” the Awaaz Foundation said.“This is the first time since Shivaji Park was declared a silence zone by the Bombay High Court in 2010 that firecrackers were burst there during Diwali.“The maximum noise levels (for Mumbai) stood at 112.3 dB in 2019, 114.1 dB in 2018, and 117.8 dB in 2017,” the NGO said, adding that many people who had assembled at Shivaji Park didn’t wear masks.However, the NGO also added that the accurate measurement of decibels for the entire Mumbai is difficult.“While the sound of bombs and other aerial firecrackers was audible in parts of the city. Their sound in residential societies cannot be measured,” it stated.The NGO said the BMC’s ban on not bursting firecrackers after 10 pm was violated at some places in the city.“However, in spite of these violations and the use of green firecrackers, the overall use of firecrackers was significantly less this time compared to previous years,” it stated.Mainly, less-noisy firecrackers like sparklers, fountains etc. were used this time, it said.“I would like to thank citizens of Mumbai, the police and the state government for taking up the impossible challenge of reducing noise pollution in our city, one of the noisiest in the world.“It was heartening to see the massive change brought about through active participation of all, which has succeeded in significantly reducing noise pollution from some of its most acute sources including during Ganpati, Eid-e-Milad and Diwali,” Abdulali said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-witnessed-lowest-noise-pollution-in-15-years-during-diwali-ngo/story-eUcr7ITIy3MlgdPSQXNMuN.html
15-11-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: 902 fined in 10 days for travelling in locals without masks in Mumbai||Government railway police (GRP) have penalised 902 people in the past 10 days for roaming on railway premises without masks. The police have so far collected the fine of ₹1,81,000. According to police, the maximum number of people caught without masks has been at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT), Thane, Kurla, Mumbai Central and Andheri stations. “The drive began on November 4. We need to ensure people are wearing a mask and are adhering to Covid norms,” said a GRP officer.On the first day, the police had penalised 35 people across the three railway lines of the city and collected a fine of ₹10,000, the following day the police caught 66 passengers and collected a fine of ₹19,200 with a maximum number of penalised people in Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT).“On November 4, we fined a total of 50 passengers on the first and second day. However, this number gradually increased. Each commuter caught without a mask was fined ₹200,” said Hemant Bawdhankar, senior police inspector of CSMT. On Diwali day, the GRP caught 50 people and collected ₹10,000 as fines.Officers said that since the railways have started to allow women commuters along with essential workers, concern for safety owing to Covid-19 infection has increased following which the drive was initiated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-902-fined-in-10-days-for-travelling-in-locals-without-masks-in-mumbai/story-uhcwY9OetyLu1HTey4m0zL.html
15-11-2020||City||Indian Army to begin recruitment rally on Dec 7 in Ludhiana’s Khanna||The Indian Army recruitment rally for candidates who registered from districts Ludhiana, Moga, SAS Nagar and Rupnagar will be held from December 7 to 22 at AS College, Kalal Majra, Khanna, under the aegis of ARO Ludhiana.This recruitment rally would be organised for categories of soldier (general duty), soldier technical, soldier (clerk/storekeeper technical) and soldier nursing assistant. The rally will be held amid all Covid precautions. All candidates will have to undergo RT-PCR test five days in advance and get a Covid-19 negative certificate signed by a government doctor. As per rules, candidates have to adhere to all the Covid safety protocols including wearing face masks, gloves and sanitising their hands frequently.Director recruiting Colonel Sajeev N said that candidates are requested to download their admit card from their registered email id along with the Covid-19 negative certificate. He said that candidates can enter the rally site from 7 am and 10 am.He further informed that a total of 14,632 candidates have registered for the recruitment screening. He said that candidates shall undergo physical fitness tests followed by physical measurement tests. He said that detailed screening of documents would be carried out for qualified candidates.He added that candidates must bring original documents including Aadhaar card, education certificates issued by the respective education board, online residence/nativity certificate issued by the SDM/tehsildar, online caste certificate, character certificate, unmarried certificate issued by village sarpanch/district administration in last six months with photo, no claim certificate duly countersigned by the village sarpanch with photo.Candidates below 18 years should bring no claim certificate duly signed by their parents, NCC certificate (A/B/C), participation in sports at international/national/state-level with first and second position within the last two years, relationship certificates and Disch Book (in respect of wards of serviceman/ex-servicemen.He also informed that no manual certificate will be accepted and Sikh candidates will carry their recent photographs with and without a turban. He said that the medical examination of such qualified candidates would be undertaken on the following day of physical screening.Director recruiting said that the candidates must report at the rally site by 6.30 am on their respective screening days. He said candidates should download their admit cards from the website www.joinindianarmy.nic.in.He said that the common entrance exam (CEE) for screened candidates will be intimated during the rally.Meanwhile, candidates attempting fraudulent enrollment will be prosecuted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indian-army-to-begin-recruitment-rally-on-dec-7-in-ludhiana-s-khanna/story-aGWFYobRNpYwmMeXT6IClN.html
15-11-2020||City||Gurugram: 1,000 new cases over Diwali weekend; count drops as testing low due to festival||Gururgam: The district recorded over 1,000 new cases of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease over the Diwali weekend, with the daily tally standing at 504 new infections on Saturday, and 515 new cases on Sunday. While these numbers are lower than the 800-odd cases being reported daily last week, the health department’s data also shows a significant dip in testing over the past two days.Gurugram tested only about 2,500 samples per day (down from about 4,000 samples) over Saturday and Sunday, with the daily test-positivity rate (TPR) touching 20%, the highest in at least two weeks.While the chief medical officer, Gururgam, could not be contacted on Sunday, a medical officer in the health department, seeking anonymity, said, “The numbers have fallen largely because of the unavailability of staff during Diwali festivities, but the shortfall will be made up in the following week.”From the tally at 34,742 a week ago, the tally of Covid-19 cases in Gurugram is now a stone’s throw from the 40,000 mark, standing at 39,387 reported cases. The past week saw 4,645 new coronavirus cases, up from 4,215 new cases the week prior. This was the highest weekly aggregate in at least seven weeks.Alongside the continuing rise in new daily cases, the district’s total tally of active cases is also on the rise. From 5,183 active coronavirus patients a week ago, the number exceeded the 6,000 mark for the first time on Saturday, with the tally at 6,143 active patients. However, the number dipped on Sunday to 5,990 active cases. Of these, 405 are presently hospitalised (up from 309 a week ago), while 5,575 patients are under home isolation (up from 4,865 patients a week ago). Another 10 patients (up from nine a week ago) are under observation at district Covid-care centres.The daily growth rate of cases also dipped over the weekend, touching 1.3% on Sunday (down from 2.8% on November 8). However, experts cautioned that this is due to testing, and does not indicate that the spread of Covid has slowed down among the community.“Testing numbers must continue to increase over time as the virus spreads. If you reduce testing by such a large margin, as Gurugram has done over the weekend, then naturally your growth rate -- or the number of new daily cases -- will also reduce. This doesn’t mean that the spread of the virus has slowed,” said Dr Rajesh Kumar, epidemiologist and former professor of community medicine at PGIMER, Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-1-000-new-cases-over-diwali-weekend-count-drops-as-testing-low-due-to-festival/story-26bg5IbBBmQdAfiiq4JjyK.html
15-11-2020||Gurugram||Colleges, varsities to resume physical classroom sessions from November 16||State universities and colleges across the state will resume physical classroom sessions in a staggered manner from November 16 for the first time since educational institutions across the country were asked to shut down in view of Covid-19 pandemic in March. As per the standard operating procedures (SOPs) shared with universities and colleges in the state last week, the higher education department had said that research scholars and postgraduate students in science and technology would be allowed to visit colleges for the purpose of research and laboratory work, with generic preventive measures in place. The same rules will apply to students of undergraduate courses of all streams. Pooja Khullar, principal of Dronacharya Government College, said that the college had informed teachers to send out appropriate directions to students for the resumption of classes from Monday. She said the college had already put in place sanitisation and physical distancing measures. “We are expecting students to visit the college from Monday. All teachers have been asked to ensure that attendance is not enforced so that only willing students can visit the premises. Enforcement of physical distancing is going to be our priority since admission formalities and exams are already taking place on the campus. With the resumption of classes, the footfall will increase,” said Khullar. As per the guidelines issued by the higher education department last week, online/distance learning will continue to be the preferred mode of teaching and shall be encouraged. Students who wish to continue with online classes will be permitted to do so and attendance will not be enforced. For now, colleges will be abiding by the protocol that was issued in September for academic guidance sessions. As per the protocol, students from different courses have been allotted different days of the week for the classroom sessions. “Students will be permitted to visit the college twice a week for a limited duration, to begin with. We are expecting students to visit the colleges from Tuesday since many students are still at home for Diwali,” said Dr Satyamanyu Yadav, principal of Government College in Sector 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/colleges-varsities-to-resume-physical-classroom-sessions-from-november-16/story-IvVw8YIxpmhmbP576vnD7O.html
15-11-2020||Gurugram||Over 1,300 calls to control room keep cops on their toes||The city’s police control room (PCR) on Saturday received over 1,366 telephonic calls, including 899 calls related to the bursting of crackers and 106 calls about loud music at social gatherings on Diwali. The police said that the number of calls was the highest in the last 11 years.Other complaints made to the PCR include drinking in public spaces and people visiting one another without observing mask hygiene or social distancing. As many as 3,800 personnel had been deployed on Saturday night to make spot visits.Last Monday, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had banned the sale and use of all types of firecrackers in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR), including Gurugram, following which the state government issued similar orders. However, instances of cracker burning were reported from across the city, said police.Police commissioner KK Rao said, “We had deployed 40 special teams across the city to keep a check and take action against violators found defying the state government’s order with regard to crackers. Despite regular coordination and awareness, people did not adhere to the guidelines and burst crackers until late night. People have bought crackers illegally from different cities and districts and even the people staying in high-rise and condominiums burst crackers on different floors,” he said, adding that 377 calls were made by neighbours of such violators.The police said that besides complaints, they received 77 mischievous calls as well. Rao said that in 13 instances, PCR vans rushed to the spot but found that the call was a hoax, whereas in other instances, officials were greeted by revellers, most of whom were inebriated. However, no action was taken against such callers. No action was taken by the police in a majority of the cases from societies on Golf Course Road, Palam Vihar, Sohna Road and in Nirvana either.According to the police, starting 11am on Saturday, the PCR continuously received calls till around 6am on Sunday. More than 35 calls were made by people complaining of drunken brawls, while 260 calls were miscellaneous in nature. The PCR in-charge, however, said that incidents of quarrels were fewer compared to last year. In 2019, the police received 67 calls of quarrels while around 17 calls of incidents of fire were also reported.Sixteen calls related to road accidents were received by three call operators, while around 107 calls related to noise pollution were reported after 10pm, compared to the 40 reported last year. These calls were mostly from Sushant Lok -1, South City-2, DLF Phase-2, Sector 23 and Golf Course Extension Road, along with some of the newly developing areas in Sector 107. Besides, nine calls related to fire incidents were also received, fewer than the 17 received last year. A team of 13 policemen were deployed at the PCR. “The PCR did not receive so many calls in a single day over the last 11 years. Every year, the control room receives around 700-800 calls on Diwali. The PCR staff members were prompt in taking action after receiving calls. All the senior police officials made regular visits in different areas and checked the police deployment,” said Rao. About 800 police officials from 40 police stations, 350 from traffic police and a few others from the crime team were deployed, along with riders and the PCR staff, to respond to calls. The police said that the highest number of calls from urban villages were from Badshahpur, Chakkarpur, Sikanderpur, Jharsa, Pataudi and Manesar, Sector 10A and Palam Vihar ranked highest among urban sectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/over-1-300-calls-to-control-room-keep-cops-on-their-toes/story-kzYyTsQnVLr7IueTdG45BJ.html
15-11-2020||City||Duty before family for firefighters in Ludhiana||At a time when people celebrate the festival of lights with their family and friends, 102 firefighters were on toes to keep city residents safe.Around 102 firefighters were deployed on both day and night duty on Saturday, while 70 were stationed at different fire stations during the night and 15 extra drivers were deputed on fire duty on Diwali night to ensure that no untoward incident mar the celebrations of city residents.Sub fire officer (SFO), Navrang Singh said, “Our workload increases manifold on Diwali as a large number of fire incidents are reported every year. I have two daughters and they understand that I have to sacrifice festivals to save the lives of people. I stay in touch with them via video call.”For Simranjit Singh, who has been working as a firefighter for the last ten years, duty comes first. “On Saturday, I was on duty till 10 pm and reached home at around 11 pm. The celebrations were over till then, but my family members were waiting for me to come home. We spent some time together and on Sunday morning I was back on duty,” he said.The firefighters said that their families understand their sacrifice and now it has become the new normal for those whose sons have also joined the fire brigade.Sub fire officer Atish Rai said, “My father was an SFO in Ludhiana and I have been celebrating Diwali without him for 21 years and now my family is celebrating the festival of lights without me for the last 15 years.”Jaswinder Singh who is deputed as an SFO in Ludhiana has been given the additional charge of the Phagwara fire brigade. Singh said, “I was in Ludhiana till around 10:30 pm on Saturday and went to Phagwara to take stock of the situation. Then again, I reached Ludhiana at around 3 am as a large number of fire incidents were being reported here. Being at the fire stations during Diwali is a normal thing for us.”Mayor, municipal commissioner laud fire brigade personnel For applauding the efforts put in by the fire brigade especially during Diwali, mayor Balkar Sandhu, municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal, joint commissioner Kulpreet Singh, councillor Rakesh Prashar among others conducted a meeting with firefighters at fire brigade headquarters on Saturday afternoon. Sandhu said, “Fire personnel does a commendable job and the government is also working to upgrade the fire brigade with modern technology and equipment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/duty-before-family-for-firefighters-in-ludhiana/story-43NCrZRedSurWfIbo8jInJ.html
15-11-2020||Gurugram||Light rain set to alleviate chokehold of toxic air||Several parts of the city received light rain on Sunday afternoon, a day after Diwali, due to a fresh western disturbance, said weather officials. Isolated to scattered rainfall is likely to bring some relief to residents from a spike in air pollution post-Diwali.Air quality in the city deteriorated to the ‘severe’ category on Sunday, with a reading of 425 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s air quality index (AQI) bulletin, a day after Diwali. This is significantly up from Saturday’s AQI reading of 358, which indicated ‘very poor’ air.Earlier during the day, high-speed winds of 12-14kmph prevailed, due to which accumulation of pollutants was curtailed to some extent. As per the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research’s (Safar) official forecast, Sunday’s rainfall may help in the improvement of air quality.“An isolated scattered rainfall under the influence of fresh Western Disturbance by November 15 is also expected. The AQI is likely to start improving from the afternoon and make AQI in the lower end of ‘very poor’ on November 16,” stated Safar’s official forecast on Sunday.Gurugram’s minimum temperature settled at 15 degrees Celsius on Sunday, according to the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Palam observatory in Delhi, which, according to the MeT department officials, gives a fairly accurate reading of the city’s weather. The IMD’s automatic weather station (AWS) did not record the city’s minimum temperature on Thursday. The city recorded a maximum temperature of 27.4 degrees Celsius, as per the Palam observatory.Navdeep Dahiya, a Rohtak-based meteorologist, said that due to the build-up of meteorological activity on account of the western disturbance, the city could receive scattered rainfall till Monday morning. “Gurugram can expect light to moderate rain between Sunday night and Monday morning on account of the western disturbance. By Monday afternoon, the skies should clear up,” said Dahiya.He said that both the minimum and maximum temperatures are expected to fall by several degrees in the coming days. “North-westerly winds from the snow-clad mountains will bring down the temperatures in the coming days. Gurugram can see a minimum temperature of around 8 degrees Celsius between 17-19 November while the maximum temperature might hover around 23 to 25 degrees Celsius,” said Dahiya.As per the IMD’s weekly forecast, both the minimum and maximum temperatures are expected to drop by two degrees Celsius on Monday. While the maximum temperature will stay around 25 degrees Celsius on Tuesday, the minimum temperature will hover around 13 degrees Celsius, as per IMD. As per the weekly forecast, fog and mist will prevail in the morning hours, followed by partly cloudy skies during the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/light-rain-set-to-alleviate-chokehold-of-toxic-air/story-qgn7t0qkhFjQlZuUa7JetK.html
15-11-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Over 500 penalised for firecracker violations, not wearing masks||The Police on Saturday penalised at least 537 persons who were found without masks, bursting firecrackers or selling them. Police said a ban had been imposed on bursting firecrackers by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in view of rising air pollution, and they penalised violators in different areas of the city. According to the police, 104 people from different places in Gurugram were arrested for allegedly selling firecrackers despite a ban on the sale and bursting of firecrackers in the city in the last three days, said the police.City police commissioner KK Rao said that they had alerted their informers and deployed at least 690 police personnel in plainclothes across the city in a massive crackdown on firecracker sale and usage. The NGT, earlier this month, had ordered zero tolerance on such activities in the National Capital Region (NCR) in view of the deteriorating air quality in November. “Since Saturday morning, we have been getting calls that people are not wearing masks and are roaming around in markets, shopping. Outskirt areas, from where most of the firecracker godowns were seized, were reported to be selling firecrackers,” he said.Across the city, police teams visited almost all residential areas and requested residents not to burst firecrackers, else they would face action.Rao said that until 6pm everything was peaceful but then suddenly, after 7pm, people started bursting firecrackers like there is no tomorrow. “Surprisingly, people living in high-rises too did not follow any guidelines issued by their resident welfare associations. They bought crackers illegally and burst them from their terraces. There was noise and air pollution at night following which people started calling and complaining about their neighbours,” he said. Police said they seized more than 700 kilograms of firecrackers during the crackdown and it was found that shopkeepers had bought them from neighbouring areas. Officers booked the suspects under Section 9B of the Explosives Act at respective police stations, said the police.Police said there was a lot of confusion amongst the people as many reached designated areas with firecrackers to burst them, not knowing of the latest NGT order. Their firecrackers were seized but no action was taken against them, said officers. More than 350 persons were given a warning and allowed to leave as they had come with their children at different spots and had assumed there was some firework display on Diwali.Rao said they wanted the people to have a safe Diwali and to ensure there were no drunken brawls, the police had taken precautionary measures and had deployed personnel in all slum areas as well. The NGT order bans firecrackers in the NCR from the midnight of November 9 to the midnight of November 30. Earlier this week, the NGT had sought responses from state governments in the NCR on banning firecrackers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-over-500-penalised-for-firecracker-violations-not-wearing-masks/story-svICgfRl9NKC7VfPRLVnyM.html
15-11-2020||Gurugram||28 fire incidents reported on Diwali||At least 28 incidents of fire were reported on the day of Diwali from various parts of the city. However, no injuries were reported in any of them, said Gurugram fire department officials on Sunday.As per the officials, all the incidents took place between 6pm and midnight on Saturday, November 14.Of all the fire incidents, 26 were categorised as minor by officials, while two incidents — one in Sector 50 and the other in Sector 67 — were said to be major.In the first of these two incidents, three buses of a private school caught fire, with one of them getting completely gutted while the other two getting partially burnt.“The driver or the conductor of the bus had lit a candle or a diya (lamp) inside, the flames of which resulted in the bus catching fire. We had stationed a fire tender at Vatika Chowk. It reached the spot within three minutes after the incident was reported,” said Satyawan Samriwal, assistant divisional fire safety officer (ADFSO).Samriwal said that the flames from the bus also reached two other buses parked nearby.“With three buses catching fire, we sent another fire tender from the Sector 29 fire department for support. The two fire tenders were able to douse the flames in under 15 minutes. However, the bus where the fire had originally broken out was completely gutted,” said Samriwal.In the second incident, three cars parked at a vacant plot near IREO Victory Valley were gutted after a fire broke out possibly due to stray firecrackers.Minor fires also broke out in apartments located in Sector 9, South City-2, Sector 46 and Udyog Vihar while stray firecrackers resulted in a shop containing decoration items near Sikanderpur Rapid Metro station catching fire.Apart from these incidents, a rag collection point at a vacant plot opposite Signature Towers, and a 1.5acre farm in Farrukhnagar also caught fire.“All these remaining incidents were minor and, in most cases, required limited or no use of fire tenders. Overall, no injuries were reported in any of the incidents. We had strategically placed fire tenders at five different points across the city, besides having five fire stations, to ensure the minimum amount of response time,” said Samriwal.The fire department had placed fire tenders at Vatika Chowk, Sadar Bazar, Old Railway Road, Mahavir Chowk, and Palam Vihar.The fire department have also cancelled the leaves of all 200 firemen till November 16 to ensure that there are more available staff. The 200 firemen are working in two shifts of 12 hours each, instead of three shifts of eight hours each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/28-fire-incidents-reported-on-diwali/story-kPCEjBL6fqrfrL3BqTWEbK.html
15-11-2020||Gurugram||Cracker ban goes up in smoke as air worsens to ‘severe’ zone||Residents showed scant regard for the firecracker ban on Diwali, with extensive cracker bursting across the city since Saturday evening plunging the air quality to the ‘severe’ category, once again, on Sunday. Gurugram’s daily air quality index (AQI) reading for the day, as per the Central Pollution Control Board’s daily bulletin, was at 425 — up from a ‘very poor’ AQI of 358 on Diwali day. Several citizens also took to social media to voice their criticism against the use of firecrackers, which could be seen and heard until well after midnight on Saturday.All four official air quality monitors in Gurugram recorded a sharp increase in the concentration of particulate matter pollutants between 8pm on November 14 and 12am on November 15.At Vikas Sadan in Sector 11, the level of finer particulate matter with diameter of 2.5 microns or less (PM2.5) rose from 340 micrograms per cubic metre (ug/m3) at 6pm to over 500ug/m3 at midnight, and remained well above 400ug/m3 until 6am. In Sector 51, the level of PM2.5 rose from 300ug/m3 at 6pm to over 500ug/3 at midnight, while the level of PM10 rose from 140ug/m3 to 461ug/m3 at 10pm.Similar spurts in particulate matter were seen at two other air quality monitoring stations in the vicinity of Gwal Pahari, along the Gurgaon-Faridabad road. Hazardous levels of PM pollutants — exceeding concentrations of 400ug/m3 — persisted at all four monitoring locations until the wee hours of Sunday morning, and receded into the 330ug/m3 to 390ug/m3 range by afternoon, official data shows.Although the bursting of crackers remained muted throughout the day, it picked up pace between 6pm and 11pm, which majorly contributed to pollution on Diwali evening. A large number of residents also called authorities to register a complaint in this matter, but overall the enforcement of the ban on crackers was lax, alleged residents.Publicly available data from these monitoring stations also reveals spikes in the levels of chemical pollutants like sulphur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen dioxide (NO2) and carbon monoxide (CO) on Diwali night. For instance, in Sector 51, the concentration of CO rose from 60ug/m3 at 6pm to 133ug/m3 at 10pm. At Vikas Sadan, the concentration of SO2 rose from 16ug/m3 at 6pm to 106ug/m3 at 10pm.Officials in the Haryana State Pollution Control Board, as well as experts, attributed this spurt in pollution directly to firecracker emissions. With stricter adherence to the NGT’s ban, they added, air quality may have remained ‘very poor’ on Sunday, below the 400 AQI mark.However, officials also claimed that the city saw decreased firecracker emissions, in comparison to 2019, partly due to reduced use and partly due to favourable meteorological conditions.As per data provided by the HSPCB’s regional office in Gurugram, a dip in the level of PM2.5 was observed at its monitoring station in Vikas Sadan, as compared to 2019. “Last year on Diwali night, PM2.5 peaked to over 900ug/m3. This year, the maximum concentration was 633ug/m3. Similar variance from last year is also seen in the quantity of SO2 and NO2 at this same location. We can say it is because of less firecracker use this year. Non-availability in the market has worked to a degree,” said Kuldeep Singh, the HSPCB’s regional officer, Gurugram.Experts, meanwhile, said that while firecracker intensity has been lower this year, the overall pollution level is worse than last year. CPCB data from last year shows that Gurugram’s AQI a day after Diwali, on October 28, 2019, stood at ‘very poor’, with an AQI of 372 (as against 425 this year).“Last year, Diwali happened in late October, when the weather was warmer. There was also no stringent cracker ban as we have seen this year. So yes, we anticipate that the intensity of firecracker emissions has been less, but we are already at a point in the pollution cycle when the AQI is quite high, which is why it is not really a ‘cleaner’ Diwali,” said Sachin Panwar, a city-based independent air quality scientist.Panwar, who has been tracking pollution levels in the city since early on Friday, also explained, “Gurugram saw extremely high wind speeds which touched 12kmph in some parts of the city on Diwali night, so pollutants from firecrackers were not allowed to accumulate. These winds were followed by light rain on Sunday afternoon, which will further alleviate the situation.”The early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR stated, “The strong easterly winds are highly favourable of removal of pollutants on 15.11.2020. The air quality is likely to remain in lower end of very poor to poor category on 16.11.2020. The air quality is likely to remain in poor category on 17.11.2020.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cracker-ban-goes-up-in-smoke-as-air-worsens-to-severe-zone/story-g73DjbozWbBRkfE8Si7pVM.html
15-11-2020||Chandigarh||Cracker ban goes up in smoke in Chandigarh with 11 arrests, 25 FIRs in Mohali||A cracker ban imposed by the Chandigarh administration was ignored in some sectors on Diwali on Saturday despite police patrolling with 11 persons arrested for violations. About 25 first information reports (FIRs) were filed in Mohali. Chandigarh police say 11 cases were registered under Section 188 (disobedience of an order duly promulgated by a public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), which involves imprisonment for up to two years with a fine of Rs 1,000, and the Disaster Management Act. Thirteen cases were registered in 2019 under Section 188.Awareness drives bore fruitPeople by and large didn’t burst crackers. “The awareness drives carried out bore fruit, which is why people were more willing to listen to us and lesser cases were registered,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, Chandigarh senior superintendent of police (SSP). Most of the arrests were made in the villages of the city, including a cracker seller in Manimajra. The police control room received 667 calls, of which 347 spot incidents were generated. Although 113 calls of nuisance created by bursting crackers were received as compared to 75 last year, there were fewer incidents of quarrels, accidents and fires.Though the offence is bailable, provisions under the Disaster Management Act are stricter as compared to Section 188 of the IPC, which carries maximum jail for only three months. Section 51 of the Act provides for a jail term of two years in case anyone gets hurt and one year for violations. Police officials also said bail was granted in all the cases on Saturday, but the parties will have to appear in court at a set date.Many residents violated the cracker ban. Kusum Ghai, a social activist in Sector 45, said fireworks went off at 4 pm near Killa Sahib Gurdwara and continued till the late hours. Criticising the locals for not paying heed to rules, Hitesh Puri, chairman, Chandigarh Resident Associations Welfare Federation, said, “Police patrolling was going on throughout the night, but people also need to abide by the rules. Crackers were being burst in most of the Sectors. However, the big aerial crackers which cause the most pollution remained missing this time.”Beyond time limitIn Mohali, 25 FIRs were registered under Section 188 for bursting crackers beyond the permitted time — 8pm to 10pm, versus zero cases last year.“We have registered 25 cases against the people from the district bursting crackers beyond permissible time limit,” said Satinder Singh, SSP Mohali.Challans were issued on traffic violations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cracker-ban-goes-up-in-smoke-in-chandigarh-with-11-arrests-25-firs-in-mohali/story-ixpt23XSWzbzy8Vrz4gg5K.html
15-11-2020||City||Three killed in separate road accidents in Ludhiana||Three persons were killed in separate road accidents in the last 48 hours in the district.In the first incident, a man was killed while two others suffered injuries in a head-on collision between two scooters near Jhammat village on Saturday night. The deceased has been identified as Rajesh Kumar, 35, of Kundanpuri area. His friend Raj Bansi, and a scooterist Rakesh Masih of Basant Nagar were injured in the incident.Rajesh, along with his friend, was returning home when the incident took place. As they reached near Jhammat village, another scooterist rammed into their scooter, following which Rajesh fell on the road and died.Raghunath Enclave police post in-charge ASI Ravinder Kumar said that Rakesh was speeding. An FIR has been lodged against him.Pedestrian run over by truckIn another incident, Surinder Singh, 41, of Noorwala road, was killed after a truck hit him on Tajpur road while he was crossing the road. The truck driver managed to escape the spot.Division Number 7 police have registered a case against the unidentified truck driver.22-yr-old dies as scooter rams into stationary truckA 22-year-man was killed, while two others were injured after their scooter rammed into a stationary truck in Leela Megh Singh village on Friday night. The scooter rider could not see the truck as its taillights were off, and ended up hitting it, police said on Sunday.The deceased has been identified as Bobby Lal of Police Colony in Sidhwan Bet. His father works as a cook with the Ludhiana (rural) police department. Those injured were identified as Om Parkash, 29, and Sushant, 22, of Police Lines, Jagraon.In his police complaint, Om Parkash said that he was riding the scooter, while his friends were riding pillion. As he reached near a liquor vend in Leela Megh Singh village, he rammed his scooter into a stationary truck whose taillights were off. The impact of the collision was such that Bobby was thrown off the two-wheeler and suffered head injuries. After the incident, the truck driver fled the spot with his vehicle. They were taken to the hospital by passersby. ASI Lakhbir Singh said a case under Sections 304, 337, and 427 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against an unidentified person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-killed-in-separate-road-accidents-in-ludhiana/story-QtKMeV0zLdPVPla0vA80EJ.html
15-11-2020||Chandigarh||Diwali mishaps: 3 major fires in factories in Ludhiana; no casualty reported||While city residents celebrated Diwali on Saturday by bursting crackers at large, the fire brigade remained on its toes with 33 fire incidents being reported from the district. Major fires were reported from three factories in the city. Goods and machinery worth lakhs were gutted; but no casualty was reported. The fires broke out at a blanket unit in Seera village near Rahon road, a hosiery unit on Tibba road and an oil and chemical factory at Pahwa village of Sahnewal area. At Seera Road, flames ravaged a blanket and shawl manufacturing unit. The fire broke out at around 5.30pm and four fire tenders were rushed to the spot. The operation to douse the flames continued for around three hours and no casualty was reported. However, material and machinery worth lakhs perished. The unit was closed when the fire broke out and officials suspect a short circuit. Flames also engulfed a hosiery unit on Tibba Road at around 9.15pm. Three fire tenders were rushed to the spot. No casualty was reported but the fire brigade faced problems as a large number of labourers gathered at the spot.In Sahnewal, the fire broke out at around 11.30pm. The fire-fighting operations continued for over six hours. Mustard oil is manufactured in the factory and cardboards were kept in large quantities on the first floor of the unit. Sub-fire officer (SFO) Arvinder Singh, said: “The fire fighting operation continued for a long time as cardboard was kept the first floor. Black smoke was emanating out of the unit and the we faced difficulties in dousing the flames. The reason behind the fire is uncertain as the unit was closed when the mishap took place.” The other fires were reported from shops, open plots, stationary vehicles and houses. Officials said bursting of firecrackers is the main reason behind the mishaps. SFO Navrang Singh, said, “A Tata Ace loaded with scrap from paint boxes also caught fire near the Gill Road fire station. As the scrap was of paint boxes, a few explosions were witnessed, but the flames were doused in some time.” SFOs Jaswinder Singh and Atish Rai said, “The other fire incidents reported from scrap shops, scrap dumped in open, houses and a few mobile and furniture shops. All were minor incidents and no casualty was reported.” Singh said that minor fires were also reported on Sunday morning including a house in Model Gram.70 firefighters deployed on Diwali night As many as 102 firefighters were on duty on Saturday of which 70 were deployed at night. Fifteen extra drivers were assigned on fire duty and 17 fire tenders were deployed at fire stations, including two small tenders for dousing flames in the narrow congested streets of old city area. Five temporary fire stations were also established at Samrala chowk, Jalandhar Bypass, Sherpur Chowk, Dandi Sami Chowk and Bharat Nagar Chowk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/3-major-fires-in-factories-no-casualty/story-K1zaUzVRz6aMf6WkTKVXoI.html
15-11-2020||Chandigarh||Sweeping, garbage lifting delayed in Ludhiana: Waste generated on Diwali remains strewn on streets||The waste generated as a result of Diwali celebrations remained strewn on the city’s roads till late on Sunday as the process to lift garbage from secondary dumps got delayed. The A2Z company’s labourers took part in Vishwakarma Day celebrations and the lifting process only started in the afternoon, that too at a slow pace. Also, sweeping got delayed in parts of the city including Shimlapuri, Haibowal, Dugri, Giaspura, Field Ganj and Dhandari.Officials said sweeping got delayed as it was holiday on Sunday; still the workers covered many parts of the city and the remaining areas will be covered on Monday morning. They added that the lifting of garbage got delayed as the A2Z company’s labourers were celebrating Vishwakarma Day and did not report on duty. There are over 50 secondary dumping points in the city where large quantities of garbage had accumulated. At certain points, including Jawahar Nagar Camp, Field Ganj, near Division number 3 police station and scooter market near Model Town, roads outside the garbage dumps got blocked due to dumping of waste. As per the information, around 1,100 metric tonnes of garbage is generated in the city everyday and on Diwali, the number reached 1,300 metric tonnes.Officials said the lifting of garbage restarted partially in the afternoon. Major points have already been cleared and garbage has been cleared from the road portions. Vishant Chaudhary, manager of A2Z company, said: “The labourers did not come to work on Vishwakarma Day. However, when the situation deteriorated in the city, we deployed a few workers and the lifting of garbage has been commenced partially. The garbage has been removed from roads and the process will commence at full capacity from Monday.” Meanwhile, residents said that the MC should make permanent arrangements to streamline the lifting of garbage as accumulation of waste in the open at secondary dumping points is not new in the city.Satinder Singh, a shopkeeper at the Model Town scooter market, said: “We understand that the lifting got delayed on Vishwakarma Day, but this is not new in the city. We have submitted several complaints to the MC, but they have failed to remove the open garbage dump from the area, which also takes a toll on the business. The foul smell spreads in the entire area.” Jagjit Singh, a shopkeeper in the Shimlapuri area, said: “The streets were filled with waste generated from bursting firecrackers and no sweeper reported on duty for duty on Sunday. The MC should make arrangements to clear the city roads after Diwali and residents should also become responsible. They should not bursted crackers in the street, and if they do, then should also make arrangements to clean up after themselves.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sweeping-garbage-lifting-delayed-in-ludhiana-waste-generated-on-diwali-remains-strewn-on-streets/story-qrsf1FYFx0Xk1MjkuUThyJ.html
15-11-2020||Mumbai||Siddhivinayak temple to allow 1,000 devotees beginning November 16||Only 1,000 devotees will be allowed inside famous Siddhivinayak temple in Mumbai every day beginning Monday in staggered time slots to be booked through a mobile phone application, its chairman Aadesh Bandekar said on Sunday.Religious places in Maharashtra, which have been shut since a Covid-19 lockdown was imposed in March, are set to reopen from Monday during ongoing Diwali festival.The Siddhivinayak Temple Trust has prepared a mobile application through which devotees can book their appointments for darshan beginning Monday, Bandekar told reporters.“Devotees will have to download ‘Shri Siddhivinayak temple’ application on their mobile phones to book slot for darshan. They will need to fill in their details and book an appointment, following which a QR code will be generated with a time slot. QR codes for 1,000 people will be generated during the day,” he said Bandekar said devotees will have to put the QR code into the scanner at the temple. “They will be allowed inside after undergoing mandatory checks,” he added.“The access barrier will open only if a visiting devotee’s body temperature is normal and he/she is wearing a mask,” he said.To start with, 100 people will be allowed inside the temple every hour except during ‘aarti’ and ‘puja’ rituals.Bandekar appealed to senior citizens to avail darshan of Lord Ganesh on the mobile app until the Covid-19 situation returns to normalcy.Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday announced that places of religious worship will reopen from Monday.As per the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) released by the state government, religious places located out of Covid-19 containment zones will be allowed to remain open as per the timings decided by authorities, and devotees will be allowed inside in a staggered manner.Mumbai’s tally of Covid-19 infections stood at 2,69,130 as on November 14, as per the city civic body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/siddhivinayak-temple-to-allow-1-000-devotees-beginning-november-16/story-ODxkbpiwa8zOH6aI7Yb7qO.html
15-11-2020||Chandigarh||Winter intensifies in Chandigarh with 5mm showers, more on the cards||The maximum temperature dropped to 26.4°C on Sunday with 5mm rain – the first since August – proclaiming the arrival of winter.More rain in the city and snowfall in Himachal Pradesh are expected in the coming days, which will cause the mercury to dip further.“The rain was a result of the confluence of Western Disturbances and low-level easterly winds. The system will continue on Monday and chances of rain are expected up to Tuesday. However, the intensity of rain will be lower,” said Shivinder Singh, scientist, India Meteorological Department, Chandigarh.Meanwhile, the minimum temperature went up from 10.1°C on Saturday to 12.6°C on Sunday. In the next three days, the day and night temperatures are expected to remain around 25°C and 12°C, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/winter-intensifies-in-chandigarh-with-5mm-showers-more-on-the-cards/story-pUvQwgfykJQ6p60LvyZf3H.html
15-11-2020||City||Two held for thrashing elderly man to death in Ludhiana village||Two people were arrested for beating up a 60-year-old man and injuring two others after barging into their house in Mansuran village. Eleven accused are yet to be arrested. The deceased has been identified as Chamkaur Singh.The arrested accused have been identified as Gurdas Singh and Hari Singh of Mansuran. Others were identified as Amandeep Singh alias Soni, Amritpal Singh alias Mana, Gurjant Singh alias Gosha, Himmat Singh alias Billu and Gurmukh Singh and their six accomplices who are yet to be identified.The FIR was lodged following the statement of the victim’s nephew Manjit Singh of Jodhan village. In the incident, Manjit’s father Harbachan Singh and brother Maninder Singh also suffered injuries.In his complaint, Manjit said that a few months ago they had bought a house in the village after which his neighbours asked him and his family members not to cross from the street out of jealousy.On Friday, when his father and maternal uncle returned home after visiting a doctor, the accused armed with sticks and sharp-edged weapons barged into their house and assaulted them.Manjit added that the accused badly thrashed them before fleeing the spot. In the attack, his uncle, father and brother suffered injuries. They were taken to a hospital, however, his uncle was declared brought dead by doctors. SHO at Jodhan police station inspector Bikramjit Singh said that an FIR under Sections 302, 307, 452, 427, 506, 148 and 149 of the IPC has been lodged against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-held-for-thrashing-elderly-man-to-death-in-ludhiana-village/story-OiXDhfr22nzmsoliaCPRwN.html
15-11-2020||City||Ludhiana: Held for assaulting ASI, two lawyers allege custodial torture||Two lawyers who were arrested for manhandling an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) on Saturday, were allegedly tortured in police custody.Sidharth Chandi and his brother Mohit Chandi were arrested on Saturday evening after they indulged in a scuffle with their neighbours in Bank Colony of Bachan Singh Nagar and vandalised their houses after locking them inside. On receiving information, when ASI Sham Singh reached the spot, the accused allegedly tore his uniform and manhandled him. The police had then booked the accused including a former sarpanch Narinder Singh, Sidharth Chandi and his brother Mohit Chandi, Bhupinder Singh and Varinder Singh, all residents of Bachan Nagar in Haibowal under Sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter a public servant from discharge of his duty), 186 (obstructing a public servant in discharge of public functions), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation), 34 (Act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC at Haibowal police station.On Sunday afternoon, advocates gathered and decided to call a meeting of the Bar association on Monday over the issue. The Bar council of the Punjab and Haryana high court took to Twitter to seek the attention of Punjab Police and chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh over the matter.Advocate Shashank Kapoor, a member of the Ludhiana Bar Association stated that some residents of Bachan Nagar had indulged in a fight over an issue. Former sarpanch Narinder Singh reached there to pacify them, however, he was attacked by the mob. Singh then sounded the police.He alleged that when ASI Sham Singh reached there he slapped him following which the residents staged a protest in the area. Meanwhile, SHO inspector Jaskanwal Singh also reached the spot and nabbed some residents. Kapoor added that when the trio reached the police station to record their statement, the police snatched their mobile phones and pushed them inside the lockup. The police then thrashed them, he alleged. Refuting the allegations, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 3) Sameer Verma said the accused including advocates, Narinder Singh, Bhupinder Singh and Varinder Singh had indulged in a scuffle with their neighbours. The accused also vandalised their houses and locked them in. When police reached there and released the victims, the accused manhandled ASI Sham Singh, following which an FIR was lodged against them.On being asked about the injuries suffered by the advocates, the ADCP said they sustained injuries during the fight with some residents of their area and were not tortured in police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-held-for-assaulting-asi-two-lawyers-allege-custodial-torture/story-wh0MAnxdRBHVBBWxAqWunK.html
15-11-2020||Indore||200-year-old fireball-fight banned in MP, locals threaten to boycott civic poll||Breaking the 200-year-old tradition, Indore district administration on Sunday succeeded in stopping Hingot—the fight with fireballs-- that used to leave scores of people injured every year. Heavy police force was deployed in Gautampura area after Indore district administration cited Covid-19 pandemic to turn down the request for holding of annual Hingot—a 200-year-old tradition. Indore district collector Manish Singh issued an order banning organisation of Hingot since it encourages participation of hundreds of people and would make it impossible to check for violations of Covid 19 protocols. However, the decision of putting a ban on age-old tradition didn’t go down well with locals. Congress leaders also criticised the BJP-led state government for the decision of ban. A resident of Gautampura, Manoj Parmar said, “We wanted to do a symbolic fight to keep the tradition alive but administration and police didn’t allow us. We are planning to boycott local bodies’ elections which are slated to be held in January.” Congress MLA Vishal Patel said, “On one side, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan asked people to burst crackers on Diwali by defying National Green Tribunal’s order to keep the tradition alive but on the other side, BJP-led state government put a ban on an age-old tradition which is a matter of faith of people of Gautampura and Kalangi.” Also Read: MP govt’s Deendayal committees ploy to build BJP network for 2023 polls: CongDuring the by-elections, they didn’t think of gathering hundreds of people but now they are showing concern. This is a double standard of the government and people will make the BJP-led state government realise this in local bodies’ election. However, Indore, deputy inspector general (DIG) of police, HN Mishra said, “It is a wrong tradition and should be banned. This year, the administration put a ban on it but people themselves didn’t come out for the fight. The ban was completed successfully.” Last year, more than 70 people had sustained injuries in the fight. According to this tradition, the warriors — ‘Turra’ of Gautampura and ‘Kalangi’ of Runji village — attack each other with burning hingots, a hollow fruit stuffed with gun powder that resembles a shooting star.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/indore/200-year-old-fireball-fight-banned-in-mp-locals-threaten-to-boycott-civic-poll/story-AjdSeuQGCcA2kp3VtPinSP.html
15-11-2020||Chandigarh||Cow killed in fire at Chandigarh market on Diwali||Three fires broke out in Chandigarh on Diwali night, but it remains unclear whether these were caused by firecrackers.Around 2am on Sunday, a fire erupted at the Kabari Market in Hallomajra, killing a cow. Four fire tenders rushed to the spot and found the carcass, besides a burnt Mahindra Max loading vehicle and a three-wheeler. Staff from the Society for Prevention of Cruelty towards Animals (SPCA) was called in to remove the carcass. Two refrigerators, one television and the stationery at a shop were also damaged in the fire.Earlier around 11pm, three fire tenders had to be pressed into service after flames were noticed on the second floor of a shop near Samadhi Gate, on Old Ropar Road in Manimajra. After workers at the shop, Everwell Pharma Private Limited, informed the fire brigade, the fire was brought under control in 90 minutes. The total loss wasn’t ascertained, however, firemen said the premises stocked medicines. Later, at 11.30pm, the fire department received information of a fire at the godown of a clothing company in Faidan village. As many as 14 fire tenders were sent to the spot, along with fire officer Gulshan Kumar, the SHO of Sector 31 police station and the deputy superintendent of police (DSP) on night duty. Officials said only some clothes were burnt and the loss of property had not been estimated yet by plot owner Dheeraj Tayal of Sector 46.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cow-killed-in-fire-at-chandigarh-market-on-diwali/story-RGALx4Jf5SqSdRsS34QNfI.html
15-11-2020||Delhi||JD(U) holds protest against Delhi’s Chhath Puja Ban||Members of the Janata Dal (United) (JDU) in Delhi and the Chhath Puja Sangharsh Samiti on Sunday held a protest at Jantar Mantar against the Delhi government’s ban on Chhath Puja this year, saying that the Aam Aadmi Party-led government is hiding its incapability as they failed to make proper arrangements for the celebrations.Satya Prakash Mishra, general secretary of the JD(U) in Delhi said that the government must allow devotees who were fasting to perform the puja on the banks of the Yamuna. “The government must at least allow the people who are fasting to go to the ghats and celebrate the festival while following all Covid-19 protocol. This is an important festival for the people of Bihar and Purvanchal and it is not possible to perform the puja at houses and mohallas. This government has imposed this ban to hide their incapability,” Mishra told ANI. He added, “If the government had made arrangements just one month ahead, the festival could have been celebrated very smoothly on the ghats of the Yamuna while following all protocol. We have reached out to the Lieutenant Governor and the Chief Minister but have not received a response. We will continue this protest till our demand is met.” Parmila Devi, another protestor said, “We have been celebrating Chhath Puja for the last 30 years here. The river is just 5 kilometers away from our home. Where should we go and do puja? Does the government think we don’t know how to maintain social distance? Aren’t we also afraid of getting infected?” she asked.Others however felt that the ban was reasonable and said that they should follow the instructions of the government. “We will follow the government’s orders for Chhath Puja this year. We can collect some water from the river and perform puja at home. It is about your devotion anywhere and everywhere. I do not need to go to the river to show my devotion,” said a devotee on the ghats. Chhath, which is celebrated six days after Diwali, starts on November 20 this year. It is dedicated to the Sun God and is one of the most popular festivals for the people of Bihar and parts of Uttar Pradesh or Purvanchal. Devotees gather and take holy dip in rivers, ponds and other water bodies during the four-day festivities. Last week, the Aam Aadmi Party-led Delhi government decided to ban community Chhath Puja celebrations at Ghats to curb the spread of Covid-19. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/jd-u-holds-protest-against-delhi-s-chhath-puja-ban/story-QQH0nVj5TSHjbYsCHsxzGM.html
15-11-2020||Pune||Maharashtra woman 1st attacked with acid then set ablaze by partner; dies||A 22-year-old Pune woman succumbed on Sunday to burn injuries inflicted when she was set ablaze after acid was thrown on her in Beed district of Maharashtra on Saturday. The police have arrested her partner, who has been booked for murder.The deceased woman was a resident of Nanded district and was living with her partner 25-year old Avinash Rajure. The motive of the murder, however, is not yet confirmed.Police said the victim was unaware of Rajure’s intention to kill her. She gave a dying declaration to the police, according to DySP Bhaskar Anna Sawant, sub-divisional police officer, Kaij division of Beed police.Also Read: Expected surge in Covid-19 cases post Diwali will not lead to shortage of beds in Mumbai“She told us in her dying declaration that he tried to first strangle her. Then he threw acid on her and then petrol before setting her ablaze. The owner of the farm, in which she was found, heard her whimpering and called the police on Saturday. She had already spent a few hours in that condition. The police called for an ambulance and rushed her to Beed Civil Hospital. She succumbed on Sunday afternoon,” said DySP Sawant.“The field where she was found is 500-600 feet away from the main road. We believe he had planned the attack as he brought the acid and petrol in a can and a bottle respectively. They had left Pune on a motorbike on Friday. The attack happened around 3 am on Saturday and she was found on Saturday afternoon,” added DySP Sawant. A case under relevant sections of 307 (attempted murder), 302 (murder), 326(a) (acid attack) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at Neknoor police station against the man who is on the run.The two had been in a live-in relationship in the Shirur area of Pune for the past two years, according to the police. Her parents had her married to another man whom she left two years ago and started living with Rajure, she told the police. While he worked in a private company in Ranjangaon MIDC while she did not work, according to the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/maharashtra-woman-1st-attacked-with-acid-then-set-ablaze-by-partner-dies/story-OEq4XRlu3pansMAICjuLXO.html
15-11-2020||City||18-year-old Rajasthan youth murdered in Mohali’s Nayagaon area, three arrested||An 18-year-old mason was allegedly murdered by three persons over old enmity in Nayagaon village on Saturday evening.The accused, Basu, 20, a resident of Adarsh Nagar, Nayagaon, and his two accomplices, who are both juveniles, have been apprehended.Victim Rajveer was a native of Sri Ganganagar in Rajasthan and was currently putting up in Dashmesh Nagar, Nayagaon, in a rented accommodation. He worked as a mason for a local contractor.“Rajveer was returning home after work when he ran into one of the juveniles, who nursed a grudge against him. The duo had heated arguments, following which the minor boy called in Basu and the other juvenile, who assaulted Rajveer. Basu attacked his head with a wooden log and fled,” said sub-inspector Jagjeet Singh, Nayagaon station house officer.The victim was rushed to PGIMER, Chandigarh, where he succumbed to his head injuries on Sunday morning. The victim’s family in Rajasthan has been informed and the autopsy will be conducted on Monday. The three accused were nabbed soon after the attack. They will be produced in court on Monday. “The accused and the victim lived in the same locality in the past where they had a dispute, which led to Rajveer’s murder,” the SHO said.All accused have been booked under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code at the Nayagaon police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/18-year-old-rajasthan-youth-murdered-in-mohali-s-nayagaon-area-three-arrested/story-LvKBp3fce5DqBFV61oyXqK.html
15-11-2020||Lucknow||Mayawati names new UP BSP chief, signals strategy for 2022 polls||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) president Mayawati, on Sunday, named Bhim Rajbhar as the party’s Uttar Pradesh unit president with an eye on other backward castes (OBC) votes in the 2022 assembly election.In a tweet, Mayawati congratulated Rajbhar on his appointment as BSP’s state unit president.Rajbhar will replace Munkad Ali who has been made the state coordinator of Uttarakhand. The decision to appoint a new president comes five days after BJP swept the results of the by-election on seven assembly seats by winning six and leaving one for the Samajwadi Party. The BSP failed to win even a single seat, though the party candidate was runner-up on the Bulandshahr seat.The BSP polled 19% votes, indicating that it enjoys the support of the Dalit community but may have to regain the support of its traditional OBC vote base to win the 2022 assembly election.The removal of Munkad Ali, considered the Muslim face of the BSP, has surprised political observers. In the by-election, Mayawati had fielded two Muslim candidates: Mohammad Muslim on the Bulandshahar seat and Furkan on Naugawan Sadat seat. Despite courting controversy with her statement that BSP will support the BJP candidate in the legislative council election to ensure the defeat of the Samajwadi Party candidate, the BSP candidates were runner-up on the Bulandshahar seat by polling 65,917 votes, and third on Naugawan Sadat seat, by polling 38,253 votes.Yes to uncle Shivpal, but no to major parties: Akhilesh Yadav reveals his probable plans for 2022 electionsMeanwhile, the BJP, SP and the Congress are trying to woo the OBC before the crucial 2022 assembly election. To counter their move, Rajbhar was appointed the new state president. The party wishes to send a message to the backward community that they will get a prominent place in the organisation, a BSP leader said.While Munkad Ali was removed from the state unit president’s post, the BSP is working to strengthen its base in the Muslim community. Muslim leaders have been made zonal coordinators in the organisation, while the party is also working on forming new alliances to expand the base in the Muslim community.The BSP contested the assembly election in Bihar in alliance with the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) led by Asaduddin Owaisi. The Grand United Secular Front (GUSF) secured victory on six seats. While the AIMIM bagged five seats, the BSP secured victory on one seat. The BSP might replicate the Bihar experiment in UP assembly election by tying up again with the AIMIM which has expanded its base in the Muslim-dominated Rohilkhand region, the BSP leader said.A loyal party leader, Bhim Rajbhar, is a resident of Mau district, located in Eastern UP. He held the post of the district unit president and was promoted to the rank of zonal coordinator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/mayawati-names-new-up-bsp-chief-signals-strategy-for-2022-polls/story-Qlktz57xfEqTtkA0MbWuEN.html
15-11-2020||Ranchi||Hemant Soren congratulates people of Jharkhand on state’s foundation day||On the occasion of Jharkhand’s foundation day, chief minister Hemant Soren on Sunday extended his greeting to people of the state, stating that “today is a reminder that each one of us should work for the welfare of the state”.Speaking at the police investiture ceremony here in Ranchi today, the chief minister credited the security officers for their contribution to the state’s welfare.“The security officials of the state have played a key role in the progress and prosperity of Jharkhand. I want to congratulate the police officers for their dedication and salute their bravery today,” Soren said. Addressing the family members of the soldiers who sacrificed their lives for the nation, he said their grievances will be assisted on priority by the Jharkhand government. “Family members of brave jawans who lost their lives protecting our country are also present here with us. I would like to assure them of complete assistance for their grievances. Our government will treat their concerns on priority,” he asserted.The chief minister also highlighted the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic and expressed gratitude towards the frontline workers for their efficiency during the last seven months. “The Covid-19 pandemic has been a challenge and we have acted with acute patience and caution while dealing with the situation. The collective contributions of healthcare workers and police enable us to fight the pandemic. If we continue to work with integrity and patience, success and happiness are guaranteed to our state,” he said.Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi wished the people of Jharkhand on the foundation day of the state on Sunday.In a tweet in Hindi, the Prime Minister congratulated the people of Jharkhand and wished them prosperity and good health. “My heartiest greetings to all the residents of the state on the foundation day of Jharkhand. On this occasion, I wish all the people happiness, prosperity and good health,” PM Modi wrote.Jharkhand was carved out of Bihar in the year 2000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/hemant-soren-congratulates-people-of-jharkhand-on-state-s-foundation-day/story-mKbEambsJd2avO7pNXiEzO.html
15-11-2020||City||No offerings, no prasad, strict social distancing in queues: Pune’s temples ready to re-open on Monday, Diwali Padwa||PUNE Temples in the city will open from Monday, November 16, and have begun preparing for the same, taking all precautionary measures as per the Covid-19 protocols, to allow devotees to enter on what is marked as the “Diwali Padwa” day. For Punekars, Diwali Padwa is as special as the “deepotsav” (lighting of diyas) programme. One of the major attractions during deepotsav is Sarasbaug garden, where thousands of citizens come in early in the morning on Diwali Padwa. “We have started our preparations for opening of the temple from Monday as per guidelines given by the state government for Covid measures. We are not going to allow people to do “pradakshina”, to offer any kind of personal belongings, prasad or garlands. Also, no prasad will be given. They just need to come in a queue, maintaining social distancing, and take the darshan and go out of the temple premises. Only for tomorrow, temple timings will be 5am to 12 noon and 4pm to 9 pm, as it is Diwali Padwa. For other days it will be 8pm to 12noon and 4pm to 8pm,” said Sarasbaug temple’s head trustee Sudhir Pandit. Similarly, other prominent temples in the city are also gearing up to open. Advocate Pratap Pardeshi, trustee of the Mahalaxmi Temple Trust, said, “We have made special security arrangements at the temple for darshan and barricading has been done accordingly to maintain social distancing in the queue. The temple is going to open on Monday with a Mahabhishek puja at the hands of Covid warriors. We appeal to the public not to bring any kind of offerings to as it will be not allowed inside the temple.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-offerings-no-prasad-strict-social-distancing-in-queues-pune-s-temples-ready-to-re-open-on-monday-diwali-padwa/story-MHMy4ZHCtuWxK1iAABTnIK.html
15-11-2020||City||Haryana’s first woman MP Chandrawati, 92, dies of Covid||First woman MP and MLA from Haryana and former lieutenant governor of Puducherry, Chandrawati Devi, died of Covid-19 on Sunday. She was 92 and had been undergoing treatment at the Rohtak’s Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS).Her last rites were performed by doctors as per Covid-19 guidelines at Dalawas village in Dadri district. Chandrawati was the first woman advocate from the Haryana region and also the first woman from the region to become an MLA from the Badhra constituency (then in Mahendergarh) on a Congress ticket in the midterm elections to the PEPSU Legislative Assembly in 1954. She became the first-ever woman MP from Haryana in 1977 when she defeated political stalwart Chaudhary Bansi Lal from the Bhiwani constituency. Leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Tosham MLA Kiran Choudhry, BJP state unit head OP Dhankar and many others condoled her death. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-s-first-woman-mp-chandrawati-92-dies-of-covid/story-RKanHRgwDyYuLZCv4crbZM.html
15-11-2020||Patna||LJP claims it proved its worth in Bihar through its ‘influence in changing results’||With questions being raised about the Lok Janshakti Party’s(LJP) prospects after it won only one seat in the Bihar assembly polls, party sources on Sunday cited its “influence” in “changing” results in over 40 seats to assert that it will continue to have a key presence in the state politics.The LJP was instrumental in the defeat of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar-led Janata Dal (United),JD(U)in at least 36 seats which is evident from its vote share, and the The Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP)would also have been hit hard if the regional party had gone all out against it in a similar manner, the sources claimed.The LJP might have won only one seat, but it has underscored its presence by fetching 5.7 percent votes, the party sources said.They noted that the party put up candidates in only six seats where the BJP was in the fray while contesting on almost each of the 115 seats where the JD(U) contested in the elections to the 243-seat Bihar assembly polls. With the JD(U), hit hard by the LJP in the elections, likely to oppose any friendly vibes to the party by its ally BJP, the sources in the Chirag Paswan-led party claimed that it was offered only 15 seats to contest in the polls, leaving it with no option other than to fight on its own. So far, there has been no official word from either the BJP or the LJP about the number of seats it was offered. LJP sources said their party could not have accepted only 15 seats after having six Lok Sabha MPs and one Rajya Sabha member in Ram Vilas Paswan, whose death has necessitated a by-election to the seat. “We had the option of either crossing over to the opposition or fighting on our own with a focus on seats being contested by the JD(U), as its reluctance was the main reason the LJP was offered only so few seats,” an LJP leader said, adding that its decision was driven by the desire to cause minimal harm to the BJP.The National Democratic Alliance(NDA) scraped through in a close contest with the The Rashtriya Janata Dal(RJD)-Left-Congress alliance by winning 125 seats against the opposition’s 110.The JD(U) suffered heavy losses as its tally fell to 43 from 71 in the 2015 polls. The LJP, which had two seats in the outgoing assembly, won only one seat while the BJP emerged victorious in 74.Chirag Paswan has insisted that his party might have left the NDA in Bihar, but it remains a member of the ruling alliance at the Centre.It remains to be seen what shape the LJP’s relations with the BJP at the Centre take as the party’s political presence is confined to Bihar where JD(U) leaders have expressed their opposition to any ties with Chirag Paswan’s party. In his campaign, Paswan was strongly critical of Nitish Kumar and praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/ljp-claims-it-proved-its-worth-in-bihar-through-its-influence-in-changing-results/story-Y6YZYOUEBPdcdZDfHOrCvO.html
15-11-2020||City||20 per cent positive rate in Cantonment board areas despite lower testing||PUNE The three Cantonment boards in Pune district - Pune, Khadki and Dehu road - have an average Covid-19 positivity rate of 20.21% for the past 14 days.Pune district has a positivity rate of an average of 10 per cent in November. With fewer tests being conducted in Cantonment board areas located in the vicinity of the city, the city also runs the risk of a possible surge in Covid-19 cases. Even though the Indian Council for Medical Research’s (ICMR) testing guidelines, in anticipation of a second wave, states that there must be at least 140 tests per million population to prevent a re-surge of Covid-19 cases. As of November 14, the three Cantonment boards, combined, have reported 6,398 Covid-19 cases, of which 5,807 have recovered; 412 are active cases and 179 deaths have been reported. A total of 18,652 Covid19 tests have been done in all the three Cantonment boards as per a report by the district health office (DHO).As per the health office, the total number of tests done in all these three Cantonment boards since November 1 are 638, of which 129 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported, putting the positivity rate at 20 per cent. The data also shows that zero tests were conducted on November 8, a Sunday; and on November 14, Diwali, four Covid-19 samples were collected for testing. Dr V D Gaikwad, Pune Cantonment board’s resident medical officer, said, “On Sundays, labs are shut and we send our samples only to NIV and Sassoon. Our Covid19 centre at Mahadji Shinde is collecting samples while other hospitals have started non-Covid19 OPD services since this month.”Cantonment boards also lack tertiary healthcare and none of their dedicated Covid-19 hospitals have a ventilator or ICU beds, which makes the residents dependent on PMC, PCMC or private hospitals for critical cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/20-per-cent-positive-rate-in-cantonment-board-areas-despite-lower-testing/story-Qz3bHHkpyYCxiFcnAb4s7H.html
15-11-2020||Election:||Sushil Modi to step down as deputy CM, Tarkishore Prasad might take over||Bihar’s deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi, indicated on Sunday that he will not hold the same position in Nitish Kumar’s new cabinet after the BJP chose Tarkishore Prasad as the CM’s deputy.In a tweet he thanked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Sangh Parivar for the 40 years of his political life and said that he would discharge whatever responsibility would be given to him. Modi had served as deputy CM since 2017. He congratulated Tarkishore Prasad who was also unanimously elected as leader of the BJP legislature party in Patna. BJP legislature party sources also said that Prasad will take over as the new deputy chief minister.The NDA won the Bihar Election against the Grand Alliance thanks to the BJP’s 74 seats which pushed the alliance over the majority of 122. JD(U)’s poor performance had initially given rise to suspicions about his future as Bihar CM but Kumar is all set to take the oath on Monday. The JD(U) only managed to secure 43 seats whereas Tejashwi Yadav’s RJD emerged as the single largest party in the state after securing 75 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/sushil-modi-to-step-down-as-deputy-cm-after-bjp-picks-tarkishore-prasad/story-mwqyeIZZ348DVGMPSdaNpN.html
15-11-2020||Pune||Woman attacked with acid, set ablaze by partner in Beed; succumbs||A 22-year-old woman has died after her partner allegedly threw acid on her and tried to set her ablaze in Maharashtra’s Beed district, police said on Sunday. The police have traced the accused, who has been booked for her murder.The incident took place on Saturday and the motive of the attack is not yet known, said police.The woman, originally hailing from Shelgaon in Nanded district, was travelling from Pune to her native place along with the accused, identified as Avinash Rajure (25), said deputy superintendent of police Bhaskar Anna Sawant, sub-divisional police officer, Kaij division of Beed police.The woman detailed the incident to the police in a dying declaration, he said.“She told us that the accused tried to first strangle her. Then he threw acid on her and then petrol before setting her ablaze. The owner of the farm in which she was found, heard her whimpering and called the police on Saturday,” said Sawant.“She had already spent a few hours in that condition. The police called for an ambulance and rushed her to Beed civil hospital. She succumbed on Sunday afternoon,” he said.“The field where she was found is 500-600 feet away from the main road. We believe the accused had planned the attack as he bough the acid and petrol in a can and a bottle respectively. They had left Pune on a motorbike on Friday. The attack happened around 3 am on Saturday and she was found on Saturday afternoon,” he said.The two had been in a live-in relationship in the Shirur area of Pune for the past two years, according to the police. Her parents had her married to another man whom she left two years ago and started living with Rajure, she told the police.While the accused worked in a private company in Ranjangaon MIDC while she did not work, according to the police.A case under relevant sections of 307 (attempted murder), 302 (murder), 326(a) (acid attack) Indian Penal Code has been registered at Neknoor police station against the man who is on the run.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/woman-attacked-with-acid-set-ablaze-by-partner-in-beed-succumbs/story-6dT0hA2MOofHupRqQIYXfI.html
15-11-2020||City||Recovered patients a no-show at Jumbo facility OPDs for post-Covid care||PUNE It has been a month since the Pune municipal corporation (PMC) began its post Covid-19 out-patient department (OPD) at its two jumbo facilities, at COEP and in Baner. However, both centres have not seen a positive response with patients prefering private facilities. Despite providing free consultation, the civic body’s OPDs have not seen many discharged Covid-19 patients come in to report any post Covid-19 symptoms. Dr Shreyansh Kapale, director of Medbros, the agency which runs the COEP jumbo facility said, “We have not had many discharged patients at the OPD and those who come to the facility come only for clerical work like getting their reports or other such things.” Dr Vaishali Jadhav, assistant medical officer in PMC, said, “It is true that we are not getting the response which we expected. However, the reason is not clear. It has been only a month since we started the OPD and the doctors by the private agency who run the facility also run the post-Covid-19 OPD as well, so we will wait for some more time.”Another PMC official, requesting anonymity, said, “It is not clear as to why discharged patients are not turning up even though we offer free services. It could be because of the fear of Covid-19 patients being treated at the centre, or even that only very few patients have any post Covid-19 symptoms, and those who have it, prefer going to private hospitals.” Many discharged patients have reported multiple symptoms including fatigue, breathlessness and cardiac ailments post their “recovery” from Covid19. These symptoms have been visible in patients discharged months ago from the hospital. Most private hospitals that treated Covid19 patients have now started their own post Covid-19 OPD’s to attend to symptoms of discharged patients. Dr Jitendra Oswal, deputy medical director, Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital, who is also in-charge of the post Covid-19 OPD, said, “We have had 450 patients who were were infected and have come to the OPD for post Covid-19 care. We started the OPD almost two months ago and now we have all the data which we will also analyse to understand the common symptoms and the intensity of symptoms on people, and whether it depends on the comorbidity of the person, their age, the duration of treatment on ventilator or ICU, and the drugs and treatments procedures used on them during Covid19 treatment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/recovered-patients-a-no-show-at-jumbo-facility-opds-for-post-covid-care/story-iMTZv6FCYnoE0HIKJnbSGN.html
15-11-2020||Pune||BJP, NCP at war over credit for Bhama Askhed water project||A war has broken out over taking credit for the Bhama Askhed water project between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP).The project is considered to be a landmark in the development of the eastern side of the city. The Bhama Askhed project which has been plagued in delays was completed recently and the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has begun its trials.The PMC is bringing water in from a dam that is 50 kilometres away. Water will be provided to areas that fall under Ahmednagar road, Kharadi, Vadgaonsheri and Kalyani nagar.After the completion of the project, city unit president and former MLA Jagdish Mulik visited the project and announced that the ruling BJP will inaugurate the project at the hands of former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis.Mulik claimed, “During his tenure as MLA from Vadgaonsheri, he followed up the project for a period of five years continuously.”Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol and standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne also supported city unit president and assured to inaugurate the project at the hands of Fadnavis.Meanwhile NCP’s incumbent MLA Sunil Tingre has objected to Mulik’s Fadnavis inauguration announcement.Tingre said, “The project was conceptualised and started in NCP’s tenure in 2014. Congress and NCP took approval from the Central government and got the funds under Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission. During the BJP’s tenure, the leaders were not able to sort out the whole issue and they delayed it for almost five years. Ajit Pawar took interest in it after the Maha Vikas Agadi was sworn in power and completed the rest of the work. It was decided by the PMC to inaugurate the project at the hands of Pawar.”Rasne said, “The Central government had given Rs 171 crore for this project and the state government contributed Rs 68 crore in it. Despite that, the Pune Municipal Corporation had spent Rs 112 crore on the project.”The BJP claims that during their tenure, they underwent a financial burden for the project despite it being funded by both the state and the Central government. However, the NCP blamed the BJP for increasing the financial burden of the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/bjp-ncp-at-war-over-credit-for-bhama-askhed-water-project/story-aMvUuKB7ab8mtZ6UIOJm1I.html
15-11-2020||Pune||Less firecrackers this year on Laxmipujan||Despite a ban on bursting firecrackers at public places within Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits, many residents were seen enjoying fireworks on the streets after the Laxmi pujan ceremony on Saturday evening. According to civic officials, as compared to previous year people burst fewer firecrackers this year. An official of fire brigade department said, “Till 8.30pm, we did not receive any call of fire-related accident due to bursting of crackers.” Vishal Berate, a firecracker seller from Parvati area, said, “Due to Covid-19, this year the sale of crackers has come down. Every year, my friends and I, put up three stalls of firecrackers. Till Friday (November 13), there was no sale. On Saturday, the Laxmi pujan day, we saw buyers but not as expected.” Another stall owner Ravindra Pophale from Aryaneshwar area said, “Only half of the stock is sold out. Customers who used to spend Rs1,000 on crackers in previous years, this time purchased only of Rs200 to Rs300 of fireworks. Maximum purchasers are from trader community.” A Rupesh Sakla from Maharshinagar area said, “There was no bursting of firecrackers on the first two days, but on Laxmi pujan day people participate in fireworks, especially the trader’s community.” Trader Mitish Gujrati said, “It is an auspicious day. We burst a few crackers this year and followed the coronavirus precautions. Every year, we bought crackers worth Rs 5,000. but this year did a purchase of only Rs2,000.” Hrishikesh Joshi from Baner area said, “Most of the parents in our society did not allow kids to come down and burst crackers. Usually every year there is a huge rush in the evening.” Sachin Limaye from Padmavati area said, “In our 20-flat society, every year almost all residents used to burst crackers, but this time hardly one or two families did so. After Laxmi pujan, some more burst crackers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/less-firecrackers-this-year-on-laxmipujan/story-YEnEjeSiMJuldg1C6qRtjO.html
15-11-2020||Pune||100-bed infection control hospital to be set up in PCB||Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) has sent a proposal to build a 100- bedded infection control hospital which will be similar to Naidu hospital, currently the only dedicated infection control hospital in the city.The proposal has been sent to the defence ministry since the cantonment board is governed by the same.Dr VD Gaikwad, resident medical officer, said, “We have sent a proposal to the defence ministry since we would be getting funds under the PM funds for the new building. The proposal mentions that the hospital will have 100 isolation beds including 20 ICU beds and ventilators.”“We have a plot identified for the same near Golibar Maidan but we are awaiting a response from the ministry,” he said.As of Friday, out of the 3.30 lakh Covid-19 positive cases reported in the district, 6,388 are from the three cantonment boards including Pune, Khadki and Dehu road cantonment boards.Amit Kumar, chief executive officer, PCB, said, “We had sent a proposal for the release of funds under the PM funds for the project months ago. We have been following up on the issue including MP Girish Bapat but we are yet to receive any official approval for the same.”Currently, Naidu hospital is the only infection control hospital in the city which was also the first in the state to treat Covid-19 patients. However, the facility did not have any ventilators or ICU before the pandemic. With another infection control hospital in the city, it would reduce the load on PMC hospitals and make more beds accessible to patients living in cantonment areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/100-bed-infection-control-hospital-to-be-set-up-in-pcb/story-gEREcqvYkxkUPxOSLiNpaK.html
15-11-2020||Delhi||Parts of Delhi-NCR receive rainfall as IMD predicts minor relief from pollution||Amid Delhi’s worsening air quality, parts of the national capital received rainfall on Sunday which is expected to bring relief for the residents struggling against a severe level of PM2.5 pollution. The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast had said that “light to moderate” rain would occur over and adjoining areas of Delhi-NCR. It had stated that a fresh western disturbance is likely to increase the wind speed and improve the air quality in the region. The areas likely to receive rainfall include parts of New Delhi, along with Jhajjar, Gurugram, Bahadurgarh, Faridabad, Noida, Greater Noida, and Ghaziabad. According to Air Quality Early Warning System For Delhi, the air quality index remained in the severe category on Diwali and is likely to improve significantly on November 15. It further added that the air quality is likely to remain in the lower end of “very poor to poor” category on November 16 and in the poor category on the next day.“The predominant surface wind is likely to be coming from East/Southeast direction of Delhi with wind speed upto 16-30 kmph, generally cloudy sky and light rain/thundershowers accompanied with gusty winds (speed 30-40 kmph) towards afternoon/ evening on 15.11.2020,” the central agency said in its weather bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/parts-of-delhi-ncr-receive-rainfall-as-imd-predicts-minor-relief-from-pollution/story-sbY3Il9mW2G0BUC2reBRAO.html
15-11-2020||Delhi||Daily Covid-19 tests to be increased to over 1 lakh in Delhi, says Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday attended a meeting chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah over rise in cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Delhi. Speaking to media after the meet, Kejriwal announced the number of daily Covid-19 tests would be increased to over 1 lakh.The Centre would provide 750 intensive care unit (ICU) beds at the Defence Research and Development (DRDO) Covid-19 hospital, Kejriwal further said.Also Read | Amit Shah calls meeting to review spike in cases of Covid-19 in Delhi at 5pm“Since October 20, there has been a rise in cases here. There’s sufficient number of Covid beds but ICU beds are exhausting. Centre has assured 750 ICU beds will be made available at the DRDO centre. The number of Covid tests to be conducted daily to be increased to over 1 lakh,” Kejriwal announced.“Centre will also help the Delhi government in getting BiPAP machines to increase the number of ICU beds at Delhi government facilities,” he added.  Centre will also help the Delhi government in getting BiPAP machines to increase the number of ICU beds at Delhi government facilities: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, on meeting called by Home Minister Amit Shah on COVID19 situation in Delhi The high-profile meeting was held to discuss measures to control the spread of the disease in the national capital, people aware of the developments said. This also marks the second time Shah is directly intervening after spike in Delhi’s Covid-19 cases. He had chaired a series of meetings in June and July when the city witnessed a major spike in its Covid-19 cases.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageOn Saturday, Delhi logged 7,340 new cases of the disease and 96 related deaths, taking its Covid-19 tally to 482,170 including 7,519 deaths, the Delhi government’s Covid-19 bulletin showed. The number of recovered and active cases, meanwhile, stand at 430,195 and 44,456 respectively, as per the bulletin.Also Read | Delhi records 7,340 new Covid-19 cases despite conducting fewer tests; death toll crosses 7,500Delhi had reported its highest-ever single-day Covid-19 count on Wednesday, with 8,539 infections and 85 fatalities beung reported. Then, on Thursday, the city reported 104 deaths due to the virus, the highest number of deaths here in a single-day, as well as 7,053 new infections.The Delhi government had already announced a host of measures to control the situation, including a ban the sale of firecrackers in the national capital till November 30, though on Diwali, the ban was largely defied. Also, for Chhath Puja, which falls on November 21-22, officials have been directed to ensure the puja is not performed in public places.Schools in Delhi have already been directed to remain closed till further orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/amit-shah-to-chair-meeting-on-rising-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-at-5pm/story-gkNaKb6xSi5L89zpU00jhK.html
15-11-2020||Pune||Illegal hookah parlour raided in Hinjewadi, owner booked||The Hinjewadi police on Thursday raided a hookah parlour operating in a hotel and arrested two persons in connection with the case. Meanwhile, the police have recovered hookah equipment worth Rs 2,800 from their possession.The two accused have been identified as Abhijit Ashok Shivtare (30) and Pankaj Shankar Kadu (32), residents of Warje Malwadi. Police naik Ganesh Babu Shinde has lodged a complaint in this regard.According to the police, the hotel was raided as it was found that they were running an illegal hookah parlour. A case has been registered against under section 4 (A), 21 (A) of section 285 of Indian Penal Code (IPC).The PCMC police commissionerate has enforced a major crackdown on illicit hookah parlours and illegal tobacco consumption in the area. Subsequently, the police have raided hotels and restaurants in the area looking out for violations.Additional commissioner of police Ramanath Pokale said, “We found hookah being served at illegally in the hotel. Accordingly, action was taken and the accused was booked under relevant sections of the IPC.”Meanwhile, police officials maintained that strict action was in the offing against illegal hookah parlours after the commissionerate received complaints from citizens in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/illegal-hookah-parlour-raided-in-hinjewadi-owner-booked/story-IJ0PDA7Y8BgMoP3Ne57LCN.html
15-11-2020||Pune||Hearse meets with an accident; three dead, 12 injured in Mohol, Solapur||Three people died while 12 others were injured as Hyderabad-bound ambulance met with an accident in Mohol village of Solapur on Saturday morning.Two of the three deceased were identified as Ravi Manik Rathod (38), Buddhibai Channapagul (45), both residents of Warje Malwadi, Pune. The third deceased was the driver of the ambulance identified as Sudarshan Shashirao Shinde (20), also a resident of Pune.The injured were identified as Ramrup Dhanru Rathod (45), Ramrup Soimnath Rathod (38), Asha alias Haslibai Kisan Rathod (40), Lokesh Hansingh Rathod (39), Nilesh Bhanu Pawar (33)Ravi Bopa Rathod (32), Ramesh Devdi Rathod (32), Kisan Narayan Rathod (40), Anusha Subhash Khatarawat (18), Gopal Dhansingh Rathod (45), Ganesh Dhansingh alias Dhandu Rathod (45), according to the local police. They were all part of the same family residing in Warje Malwadi.“They were carrying the body to Hyderabad. Now we have booked the driver. Whether he had a license or whether he was speeding or not will be a part of the investigation,” said head constable Avinash Shinde of Mohol police station of Solapur rural police who is investigating the case.The ambulance was a hearse carrying the body of a person from the Rathod family. The family members were taking the body to their native place in Hyderabad from Pune when the accident happened.The ambulance which had travelled all night rammed into a container truck from behind on the Solapur-Pune highway.The injured were rushed to the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj hospital in Solapur where they are undergoing treatment. A case under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and Motor Vehicle Act was registered at the Mohol police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/hearse-meets-with-an-accident-three-dead-12-injured-in-mohol-solapur/story-mcE63T1CE8d4Iw9dxeRWxN.html
15-11-2020||Chandigarh||Seven fire-related incidents reported in Kullu on Diwali||Seven fire-related incidents were reported in Kullu district on Diwali night, police said on Sunday. However, there were no casualties. An intense blaze broke out in a hotel in Manali, gutting four rooms, the reception, kitchen, and dining room. The loss was estimated at ₹10 lakh. A police party patrolling the area noticed the flames at around 11.30pm and alerted the fire department. Fire tenders rushed to the spot and doused the fire within 30 minutes. The police rescued the watchman who had fallen asleep on his post.Four of the seven incidents were reported in Kullu sub-division, including a fire at a house in Gadsa village and one in forest adjoining Shavad village in Ani sub-division, which were brought under control. The other fire-related incidents were minor. Kullu superintendent of police (SP) Gaurav Singh said an investigation was underway in all cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/seven-fire-related-incidents-reported-in-kullu-on-diwali/story-uG5rfnBSlRbcp9F6QcCTiO.html
15-11-2020||Pune||Pune rural police dispose of illegally mined sand worth Rs 1.2 crore||The Pune rural police found and destroyed illegally mined sand worth Rs 1.2 crore in Daund, Pune on Friday. Six men were booked in the case which was later registered at the Daund police station.“At 11pm, some people were found mining the sand with the help of a fibre and section boats. We took help of a local boat to enter the river flow and arrested them in the act,” read a statement from the police.The six were identified as Anil Popat Giramkar, Dada Zubar Giramkar, Mahesh alias Pappu Hanumant Kothbire, all residents of Shrigonda in Ahmednagar; Bablu Pandurang Ifte, Deepak Suresh Mane, and Ganesh Mohan Shejal, all residents of Devalgaon in Daund, according to the police.“We have not yet arrested them. We are looking for them while further investigation is on,” said police inspector Narayan Pawar of Daund police station.The men were found in the stretch of Bhima river that flows through Deulgaon Raje area of Vadgaon Darekar in Pedgaon village of Daund taluka.The police intercepted one fibre boat used by the miners and had to follow the other boats for around two kilometres in the river as they tried to flee, according to the police statement.The police used the first fibre boat that was intercepted to chase the other five fibre boats and three section boats.A case under Section 379 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 421 of Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957, and Sections 9 and 15 of Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 was registered at Daund police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-rural-police-dispose-of-illegally-mined-sand-worth-rs-1-2-crore/story-MJNcdD4lr6SP3JQRvyXeiO.html
15-11-2020||Pune||Two from one family arrested for murder in Bhosari||A man and a woman from one family were arrested by Pimpri-Chinchwad police for killing a 25-year-old with their bare hands on Friday evening in Bhosari.The deceased was identified as Raju Shankar Pawar (25), a resident Madhuban Colony in Devkar Vasti area of Chakrapani Vasahat in Bhosari.The two accused were identified as Ramdas Anna Gaikwad (25) and Sonabai Anna Gaikwad (50), both residents of open grounds in Chakrapani Vasahat in Bhosari, Pune.The murder happened at 4pm on Friday near the open grounds where the accused lived.One of Pawar’s younger brother got into a fight with minor children from the Gaikwad family, according to the police. The elders of the families got involved in the physical fight during which the Gaikwads hit Pawar in the head and the chest, the complainant told the police.The man succumbed to the blunt injuries caused by their blows. The two arrested people will be produced in court on Saturday for a police custody remand.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Arun Shankar Pawar (22) who lived with his now deceased brother.A case under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Bhosari police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/two-from-one-family-arrested-for-murder-in-bhosari/story-GsE0u0CBx7iCri07ALPbRM.html
15-11-2020||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal nominates 11 MLAs as chairpersons of district development committees||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has nominated 10 AAP MLAs and a BJP MLA as chairpersons of district development committees, officials said.An order for nominations of committee chairpersons in 11 districts in Delhi was issued by Principal Secretary (Revenue) Sanjeev Khirwar earlier this week, they said.The list of new chairpersons also includes the name of BJP MLA Jitender Mahajan for Shahdara district development committee.The remaining nominated AAP MLAs include S K Bagga (East), Pramila Tokas (New Delhi), Ajesh Yadav (North), Surendra Kumar (North East), Mukesh Ahlawat (North West) and Naresh Yadav (South).Sangam Vihar MLA Dinesh Mohaniya has been nominated as chairperson of South East district development committee. Besides Naresh Balyan (South West), Jarnail Singh (West) and Som Dutt (Central) have also been nominated, the order said.The power of nomination of chairpersons of district development committees is vested in the chief minister as per an order of the General Administration Department of Delhi Government, issued in 1999.The district development committees serve many purposes, including decentralisation of decision-making by involving elected representatives in the matters of development, officials said.They also play a role in planning and execution of programmes and schemes at district level with special focus on development of basic amenities and serve as public grievance redressal mechanism through involvement of the elected representatives, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/arvind-kejriwal-nominates-11-mlas-as-chairpersons-of-district-development-committees/story-ii0m0MzIUw1HbjzUDWvDZM.html
15-11-2020||Pune||Yourspace: ‘Do not let down guard against Covid-19’||It has been almost eight months that we all are battling the pandemic and every day there is a new challenge. Though the cases have reduced the authorities have warned of a possible second wave. As a doctor, the only thing which is most evident is that the fear is slowly turning into negligence. With diminishing awareness regarding the basic guidelines to curb Covid-19, people might overlook the reality that cases have just reduced and not eradicated. And thus, amid the festive season, it is important to act responsibly and follow all required precautions. One should adopt all precautions into day-to-day life which is a new normal. -Dr Sabiha SaudagarWay of life should change and not put on holdThe way of life must change, not put on hold completely, to fight the virus. It makes no sense to restrict people by starving them while trying to save them from the disease. Instead, the government and administration is expected to empower us with measures to carry day-to-day activities with necessary precautions. Closing down everything will make no sense. Protocols given by the civic bodies should be strictly followed.-Shreyas BagalEase restrictions, but follow precautionsIf people follow all safety precautions then reopening public and religious places and common areas won’t be an issue. Following safety protocols is the only way to fight the pandemic. The three basic rules to follow are wearing a face mask, follow social distancing norms and wash hands frequently. Sadly, many people are not following the norms which is a cause of worry.-Ravindra Kadam Public places should remain closeGovernment is easing restrictions in a phase-wise manner, but politicians and people are behaving impatiently and taking the virus for granted. People can be seen flouting safety norms and some are not even wearing a face mask and behaving irresponsibly. At shops and markets, people wear a face mask but remove it while talking to vendors or shopkeepers. I think the government should be strict with such people and not open all public places. -Jayashree Patil Take responsibility for yourselfGovernment and civic bodies are undertaking surveys and creating awareness among masses about the pandemic, but people are not serious and behave irresponsibly. It is high time people behave responsibly. The government should not only provide free treatment but also punish those who fail to follow norms.Ranjan Somani Authorities must ensure residents follow normsHumans are social beings and can’t remain isolated for a longer period. Many people face Emotional and psychological trauma as they are isolated inside their houses, some even stay alone here. Pubic places must be open in a phase-wise manner and people should follow safety norms and authorities should make sure the protocols are followed.-Vidya GadgilThis is not a simple flu Many people have preconceived notion about the virus and think is it just the normal flu and almost everyone recovers. The Sars-Cov-2 virus is a threat for those who are at risk and already suffer from comorbidity. So to keep our family and friends save we have to follow safety norms. At public places like tea stalls, eateries people behave in an irresponsible way which is not a good thing. -Vinod Sawant Behave responsiblyIf citizens follow all safety precautions the restrictions at public places can be eased. many people step out to buy groceries, milk and medicines but fail to follow norms. The civic bodies are taking enough steps to create awareness among masses but at the end of the day it the responsibility of each one of us to be safe and make sure the people around us are safe.-Yogita KelkarFight pandemic with precautionsWhat is the harm in keeping public places open when citizens are visiting in malls, theatres and markets I am of the view that instead of imposing strict lockdown, the civic authorities must focus on creating awareness about safety norms. The economy should keep running so we must step out, but with care.-Satyajit Dev||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/yourspace-do-not-let-down-guard-against-covid-19/story-0cij9oLpkgR34BXRp9pu8L.html
15-11-2020||City||Panth must stand with farmers against Centre’s laws: Akal Takht||Amritsar Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on Saturday asked the Khalsa Panth (the core section of Sikh community) to stand with the farmers agitating against farm laws introduced by BJP-led union government.Delivering his customary ‘sandesh’ (message) on Saturday to the community from the Darshani Deori of the Golden Temple on Diwali, which is celebrated at the holiest Sikh shrine on a grand scale, he said, “We are celebrating the Bandi Chhod Diwas, when Indian farmers are in the battle field to secure their rights. The Khalsa Panth witnesses the development in which Baba Banda Singh Bahadur made people, the owners of the land they tilled, over 300 years ago.” He also claimed that incumbent rulers were making efforts to ensure control of the capitalists over farmers, their land and produce.“On Bandi Chhod Diwas, the Khalsa Panth should not only assure the victimised, including farmers and labourers that it stands with them, but also come to the fore to fight for the cause of their agitation,” the jathedar added.Giani Harpreet Singh added, “Every Sikh, especially our youth, should realise his duties. This realisation becomes necessary when drive of discrimination and oppression has been intensified in the country, once again, on the pretext of killing natural diversity in terms of religion, language, politics, economy, education and culture. When all citizens especially minorities, scheduled castes and tribal people are being deprived of exercising the right to freedom of speech and expression.”He continued, “When dissenting voices are being suppressed using the high-handedness of political power. When instances are increasing, in a worrisome manner, of putting ordinary citizens, including intellectuals, behind bars by introducing new draconian laws. When Sikh prisoners are being jailed for the past five years.”He also congratulated the community for helping the needy in times of covid-19 outbreak during which many people lost their livelihoods. Takht Patna Sahib jathedar Giani Ranjit Singh, Takht Kesgarh Sahib jathedar Giani Raghbir Singh, Golden Temple head granthi Giani Jagtar Singh, Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Gobind Singh Longowal, Damdami Taksal chief Harnam Singh Khalsa and Budha Dal chief Baba Balbir Singh also addressed the devotees.Dhian Singh Mand, Sarbat Khalsa-appointed acting (parallel) jathedar of the Akal Takht, also came to the Golden Temple with his supporters including Jarnail Singh Sakhira and Harbir Singh Sandhu of the SAD (Amritsar) and other Sikh activists to deliver his sandesh, but police restricted his entry to the shrine, citing the possibility of clash between them and the SGPC staff inside. After being denied entry, they sat outside the shrine for half an hour and then Mand delivered his sandesh.As per tradition, Nihang organisations also gathered at the Akal Takht to observe the Bandi Chhod Diwas in large numbers, carrying long traditional weapons. The festival was celebrated with religious fervour with the entire shrine complex being illuminated. Candles and earthen lamps were lighted on the bank of the sarovar (holy tank).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panth-must-stand-with-farmers-against-centre-s-laws-akal-takht/story-WjBbQUrJ41GQMWONBwKFVJ.html
15-11-2020||Kolkata||‘Lost a family member’: Satyajit Ray’s son pays tribute to Soumitra Chatterjee||Legendary Bengali actor Soumitra Chatterjee died at 12.15 pm at a private hospital in south Kolkata on Sunday, losing a 40-day battle with Covid encephalopathy. He was 85 and is survived by his wife Deepa, who was also an actor, son Sougata and daughter Poulomi Basu. Known for an illustrious career that spanned over 61 years and around 300 films, Chatterjee is best known for playing the protagonist in as many as 14 films made by the legendary Satyajit Ray, a feat no other actor could match. Chatterjee received the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award in 1998 and 2011, the Padma Bhusan in 2004 and the National Film Award for acting in 2006. The highest honours, however, came rather late in his life. In 2012, Chatterjee received the prestigious Dadasaheb Phalke award and, in 2018, the government of France honoured him with the Chevalier de la Légion d’honneur, (Legion of Honour) the highest civilian award of the country. Gloom descended on the movie industry and among Chatterjee’s countless fans in the country and beyond as the news flashed on television screens. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee rushed to the hospital within 15 minutes of his death. “We lost a gem today. Chatterjee was not just a memorable actor on screen and stage. He took part in many movements for the sake of humanity. Today we lost a part of history,” said the chief minister. “I am extremely grateful to the chief minister, the doctors and all those who took such great care of my father. I would like to ask everybody not to grieve. Let us celebrate his life,” said Chatterjee’s daughter. Chatterjee was admitted in the hospital on October 6 after he tested positive for Covid-19. He tested negative on October 14 but his neurological system was affected by Covid encephalopathy. As a result, Chatterjee’s condition drastically deteriorated. He was in a drowsy state over the past three weeks. His condition deteriorated further on Friday with neurological functions reaching its worst state. On Saturday night, Chatterjee’s organs stopped responding to life support therapy and Dr Arindam Kar, head of the team of doctors that treated Chatterjee, said his revival was nearly impossible. Ray’s son and director Sandip Ray said, “I lost a member of my family. He shared a wonderful chemistry with my father. He gave a lot of thought to the characters my father created. His most favourite role was that of Gangacharan in Ashani Sanket. He was so involved in the project that he even pushed the trolley when there was a shortage in manpower one day.” Also Read: Soumitra Chatterjee, the doyen of Bangla cinema, dies at the age of 85Aparna Sen, Chatterjee’s life-long friend and co-actor, said, “He was my first hero. I was only 14 when we first met. I used to call him uncle at that time. He and his wife were friends of our family. I became his friend too as I grew up. I can’t believe he is no more.” Chatterjee made his debut in 1959 with Apur Sansar (The World of Apu), the third in Ray’s internationally recognised Apu Trilogy, as the husband of another debutant, 15-year-old Sharmila Tagore. Also Read: End of an era: Soumitra Chatterjee, Ray’s all-time favourite protagonist in iconic films will live onReacting to Chatterjee’s death, Tagore told a television channel, “We were hoping that he would recover. I lost a very old friend, a very dear friend and a very loyal friend. He left a legacy. He is associated with Ray but he gave wonderful performances while working with other directors as well. He was a very erudite person. I remember listening to him and actor Subhendu Chatterjee as they discussed politics and literature for hours when we were shooting in the outdoor location for Ray’s Aranyer Din Ratri.” Chatterjee’s body will be taken to his home in Golf Green and the Technician Studio in Tollygunge before the last rites are performed at the Keoratala crematorium on Sunday evening. The state government will honour him with a gun salute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/soumitra-chatterjee-loses-40-day-battle-with-covid-encephalopathy/story-c8EfKTecUu8wZx0wnV04GK.html
15-11-2020||Lucknow||UP cities violate cracker ban resulting in poor AQI and low visibility||Despite a government ban on crackers in some Uttar Pradesh cities, especially those near Delhi, residents couldn’t resist bursting firecrackers during Diwali on Saturday, resulting in poor Air Quality Index (AQI) level and low visibility the next morning.Moreover, the debris of firecrackers and other festival paraphernalia were seen littered across the cities like Lucknow, Varanasi, Moradabad, and Kanpur on Sunday.In wake of the increasing pollution levels, the Uttar Pradesh government has banned the sale or use of firecrackers in Muzaffarnagar, Agra, Varanasi, Meerut, Hapur, Ghaziabad, Kanpur, Lucknow, Moradabad, Noida, Greater Noida, Baghpat, and Bulandshahr till November end.Despite this, unabated fireworks took place on Diwali night.The Air Quality Index in the Lalbagh area of Lucknow was recorded at 396 (very poor), as per Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). Kanpur’s Nehru Nagar recorded an AQI of 328 (very poor), as per CPCB.Meanwhile, the residents questioned the cracker ban.“What good did the government ban on firecrackers bring? It was of no use. Lots of firecrackers were burst, emitting a lot of pollutants. During the morning walk today, I faced some difficulties. Then what is the point of this ban,” asked a resident of Kanpur.Another local resident said despite the ban, people managed to buy firecrackers. “Had the government ensured proper implementation of the ban, the situation would have been different. My question is how come the crackers were burst despite the ban?”Akash from Moradabad echoed: “Lots of firecrackers were burst on the night of Diwali. I came out for a morning walk today, and I am having trouble breathing because of the pollution and smog.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-cities-violate-cracker-ban-resulting-in-poor-aqi-and-low-visibility/story-O9iCtNkC2MVfjRfQ3Bxs8O.html
15-11-2020||Lucknow||Minor brutally murdered on Diwali, organs missing; police chase 2 theories||A seven year old girl, missing since Saturday evening, was found brutally murdered 100 yards north of a historical and revered temple in Kanpur’s Ghatampur area early on Sunday morning. Her throat and abdomen were cut wide and many of the organs were said to be missing, said police.It was being investigated whether the girl was sacrificed for exorcism or killed for some other reason.DIG Kanpur Dr Preetinder Singh said the angle of human sacrifice and old enmity were being investigated and some persons have been detained in the case.“Forensics team was on the site, collecting all the evidence; we can’t say anything at this point of time but are investigating it threadbare; sacrifice and old enmity is part of the investigation,” he said.The victim’s father Karan Kureel had informed the police about his daughter going missing on Saturday night. She was last seen with a local youth who had taken her to buy crackers around 6 pm.While the villagers claimed the police were indifferent to their complaint, the police said its men were part of the search mounted by the villagers in the night. There were announcements made from the local mosque and the temple to help find her. But the efforts did not yield results and Shreya could not be traced.Also Read: Crocodile with fish hook stuck in mouth rescued in Uttar PradeshThis morning around 7 am, her body was found in a field owned by a local farmer Gannu, close to Maa BhadraKali temple. Vermillion had been applied all over her body, particularly her legs. The neck and abdomen were deeply cut and all the important organs were missing, said police. Body has been sent for an autopsy for further leads.Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya said the police should go to the bottom of the case and take stern action against those involved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/minor-brutally-murdered-on-diwali-organs-missing-police-chase-2-theories/story-upA8adbjLchv8Xf7ERtw9O.html
15-11-2020||City||Mumbai Police’s EOW registers 2 FIRs against Cox & Kings for “duping” Axis Bank, firm of ₹1,582 crore||The economic offences wing (EOW) of the Mumbai Police has registered two fresh first information reports (FIRs) against global tours and travel company Cox & Kings (CNK) as well as its group company Ezeego One Travels for allegedly duping Axis Bank and a private investment company of Rs1,582 crore. CNK has been booked for payment default, cheating, forgery, criminal breach of trust, falsification of documents and criminal conspiracy, among other charges, said EOW officers.An EOW officer privy to the probe said that the new cases were first registered at Cuffe Parade and MRA Marg police stations on Friday and was later transferred to EOW.On behalf of Axis Bank, its vice-president Prakash Prabhakara Rao filed a complaint against CNK at Cuffe Parade police station. Nine people – Ajay Peter Kerkar (CEO and group director of CNK); Urrshila Kerkar, Pessey Patel, ABM Good, Anil Khandelwal, Mahalinga Narayanan, Arup Sen, Manisha Amblapurkar and Nilu Singh – have been made accused in this case.“Axis Bank in their complaint has told the police that CNK had taken several loans from them under the company’s name and diverted the funds to suspicious bank accounts. Because of such misappropriation of funds, CNK and Ezeego jointly owe Axis Bank a total of Rs1,030 crore. They caused wrongful losses to the bank,” an officer who is part of the probe said.Meanwhile, Kerkar has refuted all the allegations against him and termed them baseless and frivolous. He said he has lodged a counter FIR against Axis Bank. “The allegations made in our FIR are being probed by the EOW. In the FIR, we have clearly revealed the modus operandi of Axis Bank. We have provided definite proof of collusion of Axis Bank officials to divert money from Cox and Kings and Ezeego to other companies,” said Kerkar, adding, “It is clear that this is simply a counterblast to divert the attention from their obvious crime and mislead the media.”In the second FIR at MRA Marg police station, Kerkar, Urrshila, Ezeego company and other individuals were booked after Dinesh Goel, director of Investment Opportunities IV Pte Ltd – an investment company incorporated under the laws of Singapore and its investment advisor SSG Capital Management (Singapore) Pte Ltd – approached the police alleging misappropriation of funds. Documents pertaining to the probe in possession with HT indicate that in October 2018 Goel was approached by Kerkar with a request for loans for CNK’s offshore subsidiaries, Prometheon Enterprises Limited (PEL) and its offshore subsidiary Prometheon Holdings UK Limited (PHUK). The loan was reportedly sought to repay the loans of CNK in India, as the travel company did not have any borrowing capacity.Axis Bank has refused to comment on the matter. On October 15, 2018, Kerkar, in a meeting with Goel at Fort, reportedly told the latter that only Rs1,850 crore was outstanding for CNK to avail the loan from the complainant company. This had been subsequently admitted by Kerkar in his documents filed in the United Kingdom under oath and is also evident from the multiple financial disclosures of CNK received by the complainant company as part of its financial monitoring.“Kerkar made several representations and false assurances to the complainant and its key persons that he has to repay the said loans in India with foreign-fund loans,” Goel’s complaint stated.Based on the representations and information provided by Kerkar, the complainant made available a short-term loan of 33 million pounds in December 2018 to PEL. This facility was used to transfer amounts to CNK in India for the repayment of its loans in India. Goel has alleged that Kerkar had again misled his company and used the loan amount to avail another loan, worth 50 million Euros for PHUK, under a facilities agreement on March 20, 2019, which was used by CNK to refinance the loan due from PEL.In April 2019, Kerkar again approached Goel seeking another loan. The complainant then provided a loan of $10 million in April 2019 to PHUK under a facilities agreement on April 25, 2019, against a corporate guarantee from CNK of $70 million and a personal guarantee from Kerkar, the police said.Before October 2018, Kerkar, Urrshila and some other unidentified accused, allegedly hatched a criminal conspiracy, and in furtherance of their common intention and mala fide and to deceive and defraud the complainant, co-ordinated and made numerous false representations to Goel to provide loans to CNK Group entities on the basis of a false debt position at CNK, said the police. The intention of the accused persons was dishonest, fraudulent and mala fide at the outset itself and they never had the intention to pay back the said loan amounts. Their acts caused wrongful losses, prima facie worth Rs552 crore to the investment company, the complainant alleged in the FIR.To the allegations made by the investment firm, Kerkar said, “This is an entity controlled by SSG. I have accused them of colluding with the key management personnel of Cox and Kings to transfer our assets to themselves illegally. A further point is that all the foreign companies mentioned in the FIR are companies which the Investment Opportunities Fund IV/SSG are a partner and had board representations. He also claimed that it is the investment company which caused losses and he is the victim in the case.This is the fourth FIR against CNK filed by the EOW. Earlier, the agency had booked Kerkar, along with the other directors and senior executives of CNK on complaints filed by Kotak Mahindra Bank and IndusInd Bank for allegedly duping them of Rs170 crore and Rs284 crore, respectively. The banking fraud unit-2 of EOW is investigating all the four FIRs against CNK.Earlier, Kerkar had refuted to the allegations made by Kotak Mahindra Bank and IndusInd Bank too, and had termed them baseless.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-police-s-eow-registers-2-firs-against-cox-kings-for-duping-axis-bank-firm-of-1-582-crore/story-AJkSzpvFLtEp6MgO3XE2FO.html
15-11-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 forces life of shoe shiners in Mumbai off track||Shoe shiners have been a fixture at railway stations almost since the inception of the city’s suburban railways in 1853. More than 1,000 shoe shiners earned their living at Mumbai’s suburban railway stations until train services were shut down during the lockdown.Ramkishan Mehra, chairman of Maharashtra Railway Bootpolice Kamgar (MRBK), said of shoe shiners, “All of them have gone back to their villages as there they would at least not starve to death.” Mehra said MRBK has written to the Railways, asking shoe shiners be allowed to return to stations since some train services have now resumed. Surendra Ram, 55, used to sit at Wadala station. “For the first time in 20 years, I don’t have a job, I have no income and odd jobs are also difficult to come by. So I have started selling vegetables at a local market.” Ram and his family left Mumbai in May and walked to Ram’s village near Aurangabad. It took them 10 days. The move has thrown Ram’s children’s education into jeopardy. Ram’s son and three daughters were enrolled in schools in Mumbai. “I took them to Mumbai so that they could have a decent education. Now I don’t know how their future will shape up because I do not have any money left. My savings have been wiped out and I will have to discontinue their education,” Ram said.Jayprakash Ram, 42, used to sit at Kurla station. He and his family stayed in Mumbai till May. “We were running short on money, on groceries. There were days when my wife, two daughters and son slept hungry, and that is when I decided to head back to my village. Here at least I have the basics,” said Jayprakash, who is now back in his village in Bihar’s Bhojpur district. He now earns a living by doing odd jobs that fetch him between Rs 200 and Rs 250 daily.Dyanchand Bhimshankar, 56, used to be a shoe shiner at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus. He left the city to return to his village in Bihar, in May, when special trains were organised for labourers. “I haven’t had a job since lockdown. All I know is that I want to get back to work,” he said. In addition to polishing shoes, shoe shiners are also an important part of the city police’s information network. A senior Mumbai Police officer requesting anonymity said, “A shoe shiner from Mumbai Central railway station alerted us to a gangster wanted for at least four murder cases. The gangster’s arrest would not have been possible but for the timely tip from shoe shiner.”Shyam Yadav, a shoe shiner at Andheri station, said “We do not forget faces and know how to identify suspicious characters. Once we spot something fishy, we immediately alert the Government Railway Police (GRP). Our job is to keep our ears and eyes open and to protect the commuters while also shining shoes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-forces-life-of-shoe-shiners-in-mumbai-off-track/story-ENB0Xo2yHS0DDTJcMWO3OP.html
15-11-2020||Mumbai||Coastal road: Mumbai civic body pays ₹150.33 crore for marine biodiversity conservation||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), which is building the coastal road in south Mumbai, has deposited ₹150.33 crore funds required for the conservation of coastal and marine biodiversity as per specific conditions under the Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) clearance. BMC, however, has revised the total construction cost and reduced the applicable funds for marine biodiversity conservation by 31%. According to CRZ clearance granted in May 2017, the civic body had to pay 2% (₹254 crore) of the total cost of the project (₹12,721 crore) to the Mangrove Foundation — an autonomous society that assists the state government in marine conservation — on or before commencement of work in December 2018. “The total project cost computed by the mangrove cell was not correct. The actual project construction cost is ₹8,429 crore along with some additional costs taking the complete tally to around ₹8,750 crore. So, as per CRZ condition, all approvals have been received to pay 2% (₹175 crore) to the Mangrove Foundation. Of this, ₹25 crore was paid last year, and now the final fund transfer of ₹150 crore is underway,” said a senior BMC official in-charge of the project, requesting anonymity. Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (mangrove cell) and executive director, Mangrove Foundation, said, “We have received an official intimation from BMC that they have processed ₹150.33 crore. The funds will be kept in fixed deposits as per the Foundation’s mandate. The interest earned will be utilised for improving coastal and marine biodiversity of Mumbai and Thane regions, research projects, and to build awareness among citizens.” The 9.9-km-long road aims to connect Princess Street flyover in south Mumbai to the Worli-end of the Bandra-Worli Sea Link and cut short travel time between south Mumbai and western suburbs by 70%. The submission of funds comes after a delay of two years. HT had, on November 3, reported that Tiwari had requested the environment department to ensure that conditions under CRZ clearance are complied with before considering fresh amendments proposed by BMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coastal-road-mumbai-civic-body-pays-150-33-crore-for-marine-biodiversity-conservation/story-mWPPkAqbgjXLj3neG0xRqL.html
15-11-2020||Mumbai||Change in weather factors may keep air pollution lower than expected in Mumbai post-Diwali: SAFAR||With Mumbai recording the hottest day this season so far on Saturday, the city is expected to witness marginally lower air pollution after Diwali owing to change in weather factors such as hotter conditions and rise in wind speed, said an official at the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR).Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the city, recorded day temperature at 36 degrees Celsius, 2.4 degrees Celsius above normal. Colaba, representative of south Mumbai, recorded 35 degrees Celsius, 2 degrees Celsius above normal. Meanwhile, air pollution levels fell to ‘moderate’ category on Saturday, the day of Diwali, as opposed to a prediction of ‘poor’ air quality. Air quality index (AQI) for all pollutants on Saturday was 111 (moderate) with PM2.5 levels in the satisfactory category at 54 microgrammes per cubic metre (µg/m3) against the safe limit of 60 µg/m3, and AQI for PM10 at 98 (satisfactory).SAFAR published a revised air quality forecast for Sunday stating, “A positive development is that the prevailing temperature is not as cooler as expected. Also increase in wind speed may bring relief for Mumbai, and AQI is going to be towards the lower end of the ‘very poor’ category in a 50% firecrackers (half of the average emissions from firecrackers in 2016-2018) scenario. In case of no firecracker emissions, AQI is likely to remain steady and within ‘poor’ category.”The most polluted areas are expected to be Chembur, Mazagaon, and Malad on Sunday. On Saturday, not a single location in Mumbai recorded ‘poor’ or ‘very poor’ air. Bhandup and Navi Mumbai had the cleanest air.“The highest levels of PM10 and PM2.5 are expected between 1am to 4am between Saturday night and Sunday morning. Air quality will start to improve from Monday,” SAFAR said.In contrast to the previous AQI prediction at 338 (very poor), which would have been the worst post-Diwali air quality in six years, SAFAR’s revised forecast said AQI was expected to be 309 (very poor) on Sunday and 267 (poor) on Monday with 50% cracker emissions, and 227 (poor) on Sunday and 203 (poor) on Monday with no crackers. SAFAR categorises AQI levels from 0-50 as good, 51-100 satisfactory, 101-200 as moderate, 201-300 is poor, 301-400 is very poor, and above 401 is severe.Gufran Beig, project director, SAFAR said, “When temperature and wind speed is low, pollutant particles get suspended closer to the surface, but in this case, current weather factors can allow slight increase in pollutant particle dispersion.”According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the wind direction changed from cooler northeasterly winds to warmer easterly to southeasterly winds on Saturday, allowing the rise in temperatures. Wind speed ranged between 11 and 14 km/hour against the average wind speed of 5-6 km/hour over the past three days. The minimum temperature on Saturday increased to 22 degrees Celsius (a degree Celsius above normal) from 19.6 degrees Celsius on Friday in the suburbs while south Mumbai recorded a 1 degree Celsius rise from Friday to 24 degrees Celsius on Saturday.SAFAR also predicted that the concentration of PM2.5 on Sunday would be over twice the safe limit if firecrackers were used. Against the safe limit of 60µg/m3, Mumbai could record 132 µg/m3 on Sunday with 50% firecracker emissions and 98 µg/m3 with no emission from firecrackers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/change-in-weather-factors-may-keep-air-pollution-lower-than-expected-in-mumbai-post-diwali-safar/story-mG9u6C4kdzleaYr0QWrSHI.html
15-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra education department warns schools against sharing student data to private agencies||The Maharashtra education department has warned schools against sharing the personal data of students to private agencies and coaching classes. In a circular issued recently, the department has stated that schools will face action if complaints of data breach are reported. “During the current situation, as learning has moved online, schools are using various tools for e-learning. For the purpose of online education, schools have collected contact details of students and parents. However, in many cases, this data is shared with private agencies which use it for marketing. Schools should refrain from such practices,” stated the circular. Several parents had complained about receiving calls from different companies trying to market their apps and e-learning solutions. “We trust schools with our personal details but they often breach this trust. Sharing sensitive data of students, including addresses, poses a risk for them. The department should keep a strict watch to stop such activities,” said Anita Tambe, a parent from Navi Mumbai. The education department has also asked schools to use the Diksha app as per the central government’s one nation, one app policy. “Similarly, educational content approved by the Maharashtra State Council of Educational Research and Training (MSCERT) should only be used for teaching,” the education department’s circular further stated. Meanwhile, the department has also asked schools not to market e-learning applications of private players. “Schools should not indulge in these practices for profiteering,” stated the circular.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-education-department-warns-schools-against-sharing-student-data-to-private-agencies/story-Gos5Av15qiHwbKCj1MZdjK.html
15-11-2020||Mumbai||If Shiv Sena digs graves, we will find your skeletons of corruption: MP Sanjay Raut to BJP||With the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government nearing its first anniversary on November 28, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut taunted the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to forget about their “Operation Lotus” to destabilise the three-party alliance government and instead work with them for the people of the state. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress are the other two parties along with Sena that form the MVA. Raut also hit back at BJP leader Kirit Somaiya, who has levelled a series of allegations against the Thackerays in the past few days, saying the latter is not taken seriously by his own party and if the “Sena starts digging old graves, it will unearth skeletons of corruption”. “I don’t think his [Somaiya] party also takes whatever he does seriously. But opposition must criticise. We want a strong opposition party in the state. Those who know Uddhav Thackeray and knew Balasaheb Thackeray will definitely tell you that we never stifle or suppress the opposition like it is done in other states and by the Centre. He must stop levelling false allegations. If they want to dig old graves, even we can do that. But our outlook is to forget the past and move on. If we keep digging graves, we will find the skeletons of your corruption,” said Raut.BJP was quick to respond to Raut’s jibe, with party leader Pravin Darekar saying the Sena leader should not dare them to open their mouths. “Such language of digging graves is not appropriate. Nobody should challenge in this manner. Even we can talk in the manner Sanjay Raut talks,” said Darekar.Speaking to the media on eve of Diwali, Raut said the Thackeray government faced several challenges, both natural and man-made, during its first year, but chief minister Uddhav Thackeray crossed the hurdles.“Several unholy attempts were made to destabilise the government, but none were successful... Nobody in the state has any doubt that the Uddhav Thackeray-led government will complete its full term and that he will remain the chief minister,” said the Sena MP.However, Darekar, the leader of opposition in the legislative council, slammed the Sena-led government over its performance in the first year. “Sanjay Raut said they have completed a year, but what have they done. They have not fulfilled the word given to the farmers... They have not been able to control Covid-19,” said Darekar. “Who talked about Operation Lotus? BJP never spoke. They fear that their government will collapse but they are challenging us to do so.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/if-shiv-sena-digs-graves-we-will-find-your-skeletons-of-corruption-mp-sanjay-raut-to-bjp/story-bzmQVzOSUBFYeogLqyFI3H.html
15-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi records 7,340 new Covid-19 cases despite conducting fewer tests; death toll crosses 7,500||Delhi reported 7,340 new coronavirus cases (Covid-19) on Saturday despite conducting lower numbers of tests. The Delhi government conducted 49,645 cases on Friday, according to Delhi government’s Covid-19 bulletin, as compared to 56,553 tests on Thursday and 60,229 tests on Wednesday.Delhi also reported 96 deaths due to Covid-19, taking the total toll of the viral infection in the city to over 7,500. As of Saturday, 7,519 people had died of the infection in Delhi.Watch how India celebrated Diwali 2020 amid pandemic“The increase in the number of deaths is not unexpected. There is always a lag between the spike in the number of cases and deaths. It’s the time between people getting diagnosed, hospitalised, and dying,” said Dr Rajinder K Dhamija, professor of medicine and head of the department of neurology at Lady Hardinge Medical College.Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, Manish Sisodia perform ‘Diwali Pujan’ at Akshardham TempleHe further added, “Also, when the denominator -- the number of cases -- is huge, the number of deaths will also be more. But the case fatality ratio continues to be 1.57%.”The case fatality ratio (CFR) -- proportion of people who died among those who tested positive for the infection -- however remained at 1.56%.Experts suspect the number of cases to rise after Diwali.HT Spot Check: Delhi markets burst at the seams“There was a slight dip in numbers, but it is too soon to say whether the infections have peaked. In fact, I think that it isn’t even a true decline. With Diwali around the corner, fewer people are likely to go get tested, and tomorrow many labs would also not work. We will see an increase on Monday again,” said Dr Vikas Maurya, director, department of pulmonology and sleep disorders at Fortis Hospital, Shalimar Bagh.Hospitals across Delhi are running out of intensive care unit (ICU) beds as the city experiences its third surge in the number of Covid-19 cases.Almost 88% of the total ICU beds earmarked for the treatment of Covid-19 remained occupied as of Saturday night, according to the government’s Delhi Corona app.The number of beds are likely to increase from the current 3,484 ICU beds -- with and without ventilators -- after the high court allowed the Delhi government order to reserve 80% ICU beds in 33 major private hospitals. The Delhi government wrote to the Centre for 300 additional ICU beds for its hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-records-7-340-new-covid-19-cases-despite-conducting-fewer-tests-death-toll-crosses-7-500/story-WGBAHEooGoLi6LH3gr4rPL.html
15-11-2020||Mumbai||After classes, school admissions in Mumbai move online||With the Covid-19 outbreak, school admissions in the city this year are going digital with everything from application forms to school tours being done virtually. Most private schools in Mumbai begin the admissions process between December and February for the following academic year. While state board schools reopen in June, most schools following the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) and International General Certificate of Secondary Education (IGCSE) begin their new academic year in April. “Last year, we had organised an orientation for all parents where their queries could be addressed and they could see the school at the same time. This time however, due to the current situation, we have decided to schedule this online. We’ll keep the entire admission process online,” said Rohan Bhat, chairperson, Children’s Academy Group of schools which runs schools in Kandivli and Malad. At Orchids - The International schools, parents have been given time slots to choose from and they can access the school’s online classes through the web app Zoom. To ensure the child also experiences the teaching methods, a sample material (like a text book or notes) is being sent by email ahead of the class. School tours for parents are also being conducted virtually.“It is understandable since most parents are working from home now, that they may not find the time to attend [classes] during the weekday. For such parents, we give access to weekend hobby classes or the evening extra classes. It helps them understand the kind of help students receive beyond regular teaching,” said Beena Nayaken, principal, Orchids - The International School, Masjid Bunder. Several schools are also offering student and staff testimonials and videos on demand. “We are offering parents videos to get an idea about the school infrastructure and the teaching at our schools. Similarly, we have organised online counselling sessions for students to get admission-related help easily,” said Prajodh Rajan, co-founder and CEO of EuroKids International. Despite these initiatives, schools said some parents still wish to see the school premises in person.“Many parents want to see the infrastructure and other things so we allow them to come on a designated day after adhering to all the safety protocols,” said Bhat.Some parents who had earlier planned to change their children’s schools are now considering postponing that move by a year. “I wanted to send my daughter to another school from Class 1 but we have decided to continue with the current school for now. With the scare around the virus, we are anyway not going to send her to school soon. So it makes sense to make the switch maybe a year later,” said Shraddha Atrey, a Nerul-based parent. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/after-classes-school-admissions-in-mumbai-move-online/story-MLGQb2PZIZtp9hNiyi9H9H.html
15-11-2020||Mumbai||How much does Obama know about our nation? says Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut in support of Rahul Gandhi||Defending Congress leader Rahul Gandhi over remarks made on him by former US president Barack Obama in his memoir ‘A Promised Land’, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut questioned the latter’s knowledge about politics in India, adding that no foreign politician must make such remarks.Obama, in his book, wrote that Gandhi was “eager to impress” but “lacked either the aptitude or the passion” to master the subject, according to a review of the book published in the New York Times. The remarks caused a political row in India, with the Congress party defending its leader. Speaking to reporters in Mumbai on Saturday, Raut said, “A foreign politician cannot give such opinions on Indian political leaders. We won’t say Trump is mad or Obama was a weak president. Nobody should make such remarks against any leader, whether it is Modi or Amit Shah or Rahul Gandhi. How much does Obama know about this nation?”Shiv Sena, Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) are in a coalition government in Maharashtra. The alliance, called Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA), will complete a year in office on November 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/how-much-does-obama-know-about-our-nation-says-shiv-sena-s-sanjay-raut-in-support-of-rahul-gandhi/story-VwgnW1127vysr8K6tyKe7L.html
15-11-2020||Mumbai||Recovery rate in Navi Mumbai better than Mumbai: Civic body data||Navi Mumbai has managed to reduce the number of Covid-19 cases from October following a steep rise in September. The recovery rate is around 95.65 per cent. In comparison, the corresponding figures are 91.71 per cent in the state and 90 per cent in Mumbai. At present, all the eight wards under the civic body have managed to achieve a recovery rate above 93 per cent.Digha has the lowest recovery rate at 93.92 per cent while Koparkhairane has the highest at 95.65 per cent.Meanwhile, out of the total active cases in Navi Mumbai, the highest number is in Nerul with 271 cases, making for 19.84 per cent of the total active cases.Read more: Places of worship in Maharashtra to reopen from Monday: GovtAnup Dure, ward officer of Nerul, said, “Even as the comparative active cases are higher in Nerul, it is better controlled than previously. Nerul had a large number of active cases since the start of pandemic due to which it still shows a high number of active cases. Nerul has a mix of urban and gaothan areas. The higher number of active cases is among the gaothan residents wherein the community stays very close to each other. The fishermen are also in large numbers in Nerul and since they are exposed to the markets, their community was also infected. Shivaji Nagar and Shiravane are congested areas with the latter also being a market area.”The number of deaths is maximum at Koparkhairane and Airoli with 143 each while the least is at Digha with 41 cases. Even as Digha comprises only 4.44 per cent deaths in the whole of Navi Mumbai, the fatality rate is the highest in the ward with 3.15 per cent. While Nerul accounts for 14.63 per cent of the total deaths, the fatality rate is the lowest at 1.67 per cent.Koparkhairane ward officer Ashok Madhavi said, “We make sure the law and guidelines including social-distancing and using of masks are followed by the residents. Fine is levied on those who don’t follow them. Every time the civic body allows opening of an institution, we make sure that they are following the SOPs provided to them. Tackling the virus medically, isolating the patients and treating the patients are looked after by a team of doctors assigned.”Koparkhairane comprises half the working class in residential societies. At least 30 per cent of the chawls is allotted to mathadi workers and 20 per cent of slums are occupied by labourers.“The maximum number of deceased in Koparkhairane ward comprises people directly and indirectly associated with the APMC market. The market is one of the major hotspots for the infection and most of the traders and mathadi workers reside in Koparkhairane,” a doctor associated with one of the urban health centres in Koparkhairane said.Turbhe is one of the wards with a huge number of slum areas. These include Turbhe store, Turbhe village, Pawane and yet there is currently no active case from the slums. The 143 active cases in Turbhe ward are from the urban areas of the ward including Sanpada, Sector 19 Vashi, Kopri and Juhu village.Dr Kailas Gaikwad, medical officer, Turbhe, said, “In the beginning of the pandemic, the challenge we faced was that no one was ready to listen to us. Not only the illiterate but also the literate believed that Covid was nothing but just a rumour. People would not even get tested. Once, it so happened that a 67-year-old man, who was always at home and never stepped out, succumbed to the virus the day he got admitted. His 23-year-old son, who used to visit the market regularly, was the carrier of the virus. I convinced his son to help us in spreading the awareness. Along with a few NGOs, he visited the slums in Turbhe, spoke to the people. He told them how he lost his father and the same should not happen to anyone and hence getting tested was very important.”Things changed after that in Turbhe.People were convinced that what the civic body was doing was for their own good. Of the three lanes that gave access to enter the slums, two were closed and only one was kept open with 24 hours police surveillance.“The police made sure that people who actually wanted to meet any essential needs were allowed to use the lane. Currently, Turbhe store, Indira Nagar, Pawane slums have no positive cases,” Dr Gaikwad said.He added that the slums in the Turbhe are densely populated due to which the residents have developed immunity now.“The toilets are shared, they are bound to get infected but they don’t turn positive because of the immunity. Whereas, people in urban areas get infected as soon as they come in contact with A Covid positive patient due to lack of immunity,” Dr Gaikwad said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/recovery-rate-in-navi-mumbai-better-than-mumbai-civic-body-data/story-oUNxpI3dmFdyfoeq1YH0dK.html
15-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, Manish Sisodia perform ‘Diwali Pujan’ at Akshardham Temple||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday evening performed Diwali Pujan at the Akshardham Temple along with deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and other members of his cabinet. The pujan began at 7.39 pm and the even was live streamed.CM Kejriwal had earlier announced that he will be taking part in the Diwali Pujan along with his cabinet colleagues. The chief minister had also requested people to not burst firecrackers on the festival.Watch | Delhi CM Kejriwal, deputy CM Sisodia perform Diwali pujan at Akshardham Temple  #WATCH: Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal along with his wife Sunita Kejriwal performs puja at Akshardham temple.#Diwali pic.twitter.com/U2Q7dpC0HNKejriwal on Wednesday had shared a video message on Twitter, inviting people to virtually join him for the pujan. “As two crore Delhiites will together perform Lakshmi Pujan, marvellous vibes will be created across Delhi and all the visible and invisible forces will bless them,” he had said. #WATCH: Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal along with his wife Sunita Kejriwal takes part in #Diwali celebrations at Akshardham temple.State Ministers Manish Sisodia and Satyendar Jain also present. pic.twitter.com/UhPbBdDDCk Delhi: Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal along with his wife Sunita Kejriwal takes part in #Diwali celebrations at Akshardham temple.Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia also present. pic.twitter.com/CglvJZ95ugThe chief minister had earlier greeted people on Diwali, invoking blessings of goddess Lakshmi in their lives. “Happy Diwali to everyone. May Ma Lakshmi’s blessings be with you all the time,” Kejriwal wrote on Twitter in Hindi.In the wake of deteriorating air quality in the city, Delhi government has imposed a complete ban on sale, purchase and bursting of firecrackers till November 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-manish-sisodia-perform-diwali-pujan-at-akshardham-temple/story-snw8YmXThn022TufQKZWuK.html
