17-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn slashes cost of employee housing scheme, but allottees reject proposals||The stalemate over the 12-year-old UT employees’ housing scheme continues as the allottees on Tuesday rejected two fresh proposals of the administration even as the flat costs were slashed by up to 31% from the prices offered last year. Two housing proposals — a seven-storey project and a mix of seven- and eleven-storey project — were discussed in a meeting chaired by UT adviser Manoj Parida with employees’ representatives Dr Dharmender Shastri, Balwinder Singh and Dr Brahmprakash Yadav.While in the first option, the prices were slashed by 13-31% in the four categories of flats, in the second option, the drop was 3-24% (see box), with the maximum difference in the case of 1BHK (bedroom, hall and kitchen) flats that form the bulk of the project.“We have rejected the administration’s proposals, as the flats are still way too expensive as compared to the original brochure prices (of 2008), and are only marginally lower than the 2019 prices. We will submit our decision to the Punjab and Haryana high court. We have already communicated our decision to the administration. We will take flats only on brochure prices,” said Shastri.Parida said: “We will wait for their (employees’) formal response. The ministry of home affairs (MHA) will take a final call. The matter is subjudice.”The much-delayed schemeAround 4,000 flats were to be built in Sectors 52, 53 and 56 by the Chandigarh Housing Board for government employees as part of a scheme launched in 2008.The project comprised 252 3BHK flats with servant quarters, 168 2BHK with servant quarters, 3,066 1BHK and 444 single-room flats.A draw of lots was held in 2010, in which 3,930 employees among 7,827 applicants were selected. They had then deposited around ₹57 crore with the CHB under the scheme.Later, the scheme was shelved, and then revived after the employees took up the matter with MP Kirron Kher. But the MHA allowed the administration to transfer the land to the CHB at the current collector rates, which shot up the apartment costs manifold (see box).The employees even moved the high court, demanding that flats be allotted at the same rates as asked for in 2008, following which the MHA and administration were directed to resolve the pricing issue. Tuesday’s meeting was also held following fresh HC directions this month.However, even after the revised prices offered now, a 3BHK flat will cost employees more than ₹1.5 crore in both the options, around five times the original offer. The twin proposalsUnder the 2019 proposal, the administration was charging for the whole piece of land (73 acre), which was to cost around ₹2,629 crore.Under the first option (Concept 1) submitted on Tuesday, the land cost will be charged on plotted area basis. Though total 65.96 acre will be utilised, but only 38 acre will be charged at ₹35.88 crore per acre, ie a total of ₹1,304 crore. This will require the approval of the Union Cabinet before it can be implemented.Under the second option (Concept 2), the administration will charge for the whole chunk of land (48 acre), on which a mix of seven- and eleven-storey project will be constructed at a total cost of ₹1,734 crore. This option requires approval of the Union Home Ministry as it needs amendments in the Chandigarh Master Plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-slashes-cost-of-employee-housing-scheme-but-allottees-reject-proposals/story-H93cAiR5XoE8sqab3LTarL.html
17-11-2020||City||Two snatchers held in Rohini after shoot-out||New Delhi: Two men wanted by police in Delhi and Haryana in at least 120 criminal cases such as snatching and robbery were arrested after a shootout in KN Katju Marg area on Monday afternoon.Police said the two men Sunil, 32, and Amit, 22 -- referred to only by their first names in police records -- had shot at the police team from their country-made pistols when they were asked to stop before their arrest. Police said no one was injured in their team but the two men received bullet injuries in their legs during the shootout and were to BSA hospital. Police recovered two countrymade pistols, including the one used to fire at the police team, along with a stolen Black Pulsar motorcycle. Deputy commissioner of police(Rohini) PK Mishra said Sunil has 109 criminal cases against him while Amit has 20. Mishra said Sunil was a peon at a school at Sonepat in Haryana while Amit was unemployed. The two are residents of Bankner village in outer Delhi’s Narela.DCP Mishra said police were analysing the pattern of snatching cases in the KN Katju Marg area when they deduced that two persons were using a black motorcycle to commit the crimes. KN Katju Marg and its nearby areas such as Prashant Vihar and parts of Rohini report a high number of snatching cases every year. “At about 4 pm, head constable Sunil and constable Vicky were patrolling in the area when they met constables Kuldeep and Rakesh. A snatching incident had already taken place early Monday. The four police personnel then started looking for suspicious motorcycle riders. At 4.25 pm, they saw two persons on a black motorcycle coming towards them from A-2 Block, Sector-16 Rohini. On seeing the police staff, the men immediately turned back and sped away,” DCP Mishra said.Mishra said the four police personnel chased the bikers and asked them to stop, “But the pillion driver took out his pistol and fired at the police. Our staff managed to escape unhurt and continued to chase. The bikers stopped, pulled out their gun again and aimed at the police. Our officers fired in self-defence and shot them on the lower part of their body. They tried to escape but were overpowered and admitted to BSA hospital,” DCP Mishra added.Snatching of mobile phones, necklaces and hand bags by riders on motorcycles and scooters is one of the most common crimes in Delhi. Every year, police stations across the city register at least 6,000 cases of snatching.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-snatchers-held-in-rohini-after-shoot-out/story-3Tqh3hv33l55jpg57rp0yL.html
17-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra Congress collects 58.77 lakh signatures to protest against farm, labour laws||As part of its nation-wide protest against the newly enacted farm and labour laws, Maharashtra Congress collected signatures of 58,76,881 farmers, labourers and workers over the last two months. The signatures collected from across the county will be submitted to the President of India Ram Nath Kovind by Congress’s interim president Sonia Gandhi on November 19 to register protest against the laws and press the demand of their revocation.Maharashtra Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat handed over the set of signatures to senior leader and Maharashtra in-charge HK Patil at party’s Dadar office, on Tuesday. Senior party leaders including minister Nitin Raut, Aslam Shaikh, Amit Deshmukh, Mumbai Congress chief Eknath Gaikwad, leaders Arif Naseem Khan, Amin Patel, Hussain Dalwai were present on the occasion.Patil said that the response to the signature campaign shows the opposition to the laws, and the drive in Maharasthra has become a role model for the country. “This is a historic campaign and will help to push our demand for repealing the newly enacted farm and labour laws. Maharashtra has always shown the path to the rest of the country. It should also enact a law which could protect the interest of the farmers and would be better than Punjab. We are committed to the welfare of the party,” he said.Thorat said that the state government was appointing a cabinet sub-committee to promulgate a separate farm law to safeguard the interest of the farmers. “All the three ruling parties in Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) are on the same page as far as the opposition to the farm laws is concerned. We are planning a separate law with strict provisions like the criminal case against the trader not paying minimum support price for the procurement of the farm produce. The Modi government’s policies have crushed the farmers in the last six years. The massive campaign launched by the Congress has received an overwhelming response from the farmers despite Covid-19 pandemic, unseasonal rainfall which shows the anger among them over these policies,” he said.The state unit collected 58,76,881 signatures from farmers, labourers, workers from across the state with districts like Kolhapur, Ahmednagar, Nanded, Chandrapur collecting a huge number of signatures. The signatures thus collected from across the country will be handed over to President Ram Nath Kovind on November 19 by a delegation headed by party president Sonia Gandhi. The Maharashtra unit of the party conducted virtual farmer rally, tractor rallies, agitations at tehsil levels and implemented signature campaign over the last two months after the laws were passed in the Parliament. Mumbai Congress to get its new chief soon?HK Patil, Maharashtra in charge for the party held series of meetings with the party leaders including former and incumbent ministers, MLAs, corporators, head of the frontal organisation to take their opinion on the changes need to be done. Most of the leaders reportedly expressed the need for the change in leadership and party to go solo in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation elections to be held in 2021.“Patil and other observers met these leaders in the second round of such meetings at party’s Dadar officer and at Sahyadri guest house on Tuesday. The first round with the Mumbai leaders was held last month. We expect the appointment of the new chief of the Mumbai unit to be announced in next couple of weeks,” said a senior party leader.Mumbai Congress is currently headed by senior party leader Eknath Gaikwad. Former MLA Bhai Jagtap, former ministers Suresh Shetty, Arif Naseem Khan and leader Amarjeet Singh Manhas are believed to be the frontrunner for the post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-congress-collects-58-77-lakh-signatures-to-protest-against-farm-labour-laws/story-zpFCnxL3d442Br1c6VEqhP.html
17-11-2020||Mumbai||3 cases of sexual assaults on minors reported in two days in Mumbai||Two cases of sexual assault and one gang rape, all involving minor survivors, were reported in the city. While Mumbai had recorded the second-highest number of cases under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act in 2019, far fewer incidents have been reported this year. On November 12, a three-year-old girl had been left with her grandmother when her parents left for work. “The minor child was playing outside the home when two boys who live in the neighbourhood took her to a deserted place in Sanjay Gandhi National Park,” said senior police inspector at Kasturba Marg police station, Namdeo Shinde. The police suspect the three-year-old was sexually assaulted and gang-raped by the two boys who are 11 and 12 years old.Days later, the girl complained of stomach pain to her mother, following which her mother questioned her and discovered what had happened. The girl’s mother confronted the boys and filed a complaint at Kasturba Marg police station on Monday. The police have registered a case under sections 342 (wrongful confinement), 354 (molestation), 376 D (gangrape), 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Pocso Act. “We seized the clothes of the two boys and are also waiting for the medical examination report of the girl,” said Shinde, adding that the case would heavily rely on the medical and forensic evidence as the three-year-old may not be able to describe her ordeal before the magistrate. Two other cases of sexual assault on minors were also reported from Kanjurmarg and Trombay.In Kanjurmarg, a 16-year-old girl lodged a police complaint on Sunday, alleging she had been stalked and molested by a person since September. The accused, who is known to the girl’s family, has been arrested, confirmed Prashant Kadam, deputy commissioner of police, zone 7.“On Sunday, the accused, who is 20 years old, again stalked the girl and forcefully kissed her on the road. When she resisted, he threatened to upload morphed nude photos of her on the internet,” said Sandip Patil, sub-inspector from Kanjurmarg police station. The girl told her mother of the incident and her mother confronted the accused, who admitted to having molested the 16-year-old. The girl’s family then approached the police. “We have arrested the accused and charged him under relevant sections of the IPC and POCSO Act. He has been remanded in police custody for two days by the court,” said Patil. In Trombay, a nine-year-old girl was molested by a 24-year-old man on Monday in the Maharashtra Nagar area. The girl had gone to the public toilet in the morning and when she was coming out, she was allegedly molested by the accused.“When the girl screamed for help, locals rushed to help her and nabbed the man. The accused was arrested and charged with relevant sections of IPC and Pocso,” said Siddheshwar Gove, senior inspector, Trombay police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/3-cases-of-sexual-assaults-on-minors-reported-in-two-days-in-mumbai/story-duXhYvGGhVzfvPov44JUrN.html
17-11-2020||City||2 Thane kids suffer major burn injuries in septic tank explosion||Two children, aged eight and 12, have suffered major injuries after an explosion occurred in a septic tank at a housing society in Thane’s Pokhran Road on Tuesday evening. The children were bursting a firecracker near the tank’s lid when the blast occurred. The duo are undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Thane. The boys were bursting crackers around 7.45 pm within the premises of Shivshakti Society. “The heat from the fire crackers and the gases that are usually present within a tank reacted and led to the explosion. The boys have burn injuries and are recuperating at the hospital,” said Santosh Kadam, chief, regional disaster management cell, Thane. Chitalsar Police officers are probing the incident. “Our officers will visit the site and the hospital to know more about the incident,” said an officer from Chitalsar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-thane-kids-suffer-major-burn-injuries-in-septic-tank-explosion/story-TjKmjIco44ZM9krPeIq1gP.html
17-11-2020||City||Panjab University zonal youth and heritage fest to be held after final exams||The authorities are planning to conduct the youth and heritage festival after final exams in February 2021. Only solo events will be organised during the fest to ensure social distancing. This decision was taken up in a meeting held between the PU youth welfare director Nirmal Jaura and principals of Zone B at Ramgarhia Girls College on Tuesday. Keeping in view the Covid pandemic, the fest will be held only for the participants.In the meeting, the principals of girls’ colleges suggested that instead of four days, the fest can be organised for a week so that the Covid-19 protocol is followed.Earlier, there was only one venue for the PU youth festival but this time it has been decided to conduct the fest at two colleges. Jaura said, “Both the colleges are centrally located and have auditoriums and open spaces to conduct the events. For Zone A, the competitions will be conducted at Satish Chander Dhawan (SCD) Government College. The dates of the event will be finalized later on, keeping in mind the coronavirus situation.” For Zone B colleges, the event will be held in Khalsa College for Women, Civil Lines, which will be the nodal college. Few competitions will be organized at Government College for Girls. In 2014, the varsity had introduced a reservation of one additional seat for a zonal, inter-zonal, or national-level youth fest winner and a weightage of 1-3% for participants taking admission in PU-affiliated colleges.Amrita Singla, a student of Government College for Girls, said, “This is my last year in the college and I was very excited to participate in the youth fest. But due to Covid-19, colleges got closed and we switched to online classes. The authorities had earlier decided not to conduct the festival. This move will help me give my last performance here.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panjab-university-zonal-youth-and-heritage-fest-to-be-held-after-final-exams/story-JS9LKJO84KBJAq7jg127FN.html
17-11-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Ensure necessary arrangements are made before schools reopen, Maharashtra education department tells local bodies||The state education department has asked the civic bodies and zilla parishads across the state to prepare themselves for the reopening of schools for Class 9 to 12 from November 23. In a letter issued to the authorities on November 17, the department has asked them to ensure that necessary arrangements are made, before schools in the state reopen. This includes providing sanitisers, thermal guns, pulse oximeters etc to schools. Similarly, necessary arrangements are to be made for free Covid-19 testing of school teachers in government-run testing centres, as per the letter.“In the standard operating procedures (SOPs) for reopening of schools, the responsibilities of local administration are enlisted. All these guidelines with respect to school reopening thus have to be followed,” states the letter. Officials from the education department said that the civic bodies and zilla parishads would have to provide essentials such as sanitisers to both, private and government schools across the state. There are over 16,000 schools in the Mumbai region alone. After the education department released SOPs on school reopening, schools had asked the government to provide basic support. “We are happy the government has decided to take up the responsibility of providing things essential to ensure the safety of students and teachers. We now hope that these things reach all schools,” said Prashant Redij, spokesperson of the Mumbai Principals’ Association. Mandatory Covid-19 tests for staff, one student per bench in a class and avoiding extracurricular activities like sports, gatherings are a part of the revised SOPs for schools released by the state education department on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-ensure-necessary-arrangements-are-made-before-schools-reopen-maharashtra-education-department-tells-local-bodies/story-f1yvvyFJ1lnCoBSElgTCEN.html
17-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai garment trader booked for raping, cheating house help||A 64-year-old Andheri-based garment trader has been booked for allegedly raping and cheating his 40-year-old house help. A case was registered on November 12 at Amboli police station after police received a written application from the complainant. The woman told police that she used to work as a house help for the accused since the last eight years. The accused allegedly told the woman that he had a sexual relationship with his previous house help and had gifted a flat in Andheri. He offered the complainant the same on multiple occasions. In 2018, the woman booked a flat in a slum rehabilitation authority (SRA) building for ₹21 lakh. She had ₹17 lakh with her and needed another ₹4 lakh to purchase the flat. The woman asked the accused for help and he loaned her ₹4 lakh and kept the house documents collateral. The woman allegedly returned the money in two years and demanded her house documents back. An officer from Amboli police station said, “The accused allegedly used to sexually assault the woman and feared that if he returned her documents, she would stop working for him.” The complainant then approached Amboli police station and registered a complaint. “We have filed a first information report (FIR) and are investigating the case,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-garment-trader-booked-for-raping-cheating-house-help/story-rhs9J4io6yBaSfSlLJzGjI.html
17-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai sizzles at 36 degree Celsius, air quality in moderate category||For the second time this season, temperature in the city shot to a new high on Tuesday, keeping the air quality within the moderate category.The Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, recorded 36 degree Celsius, 2.4 degree Celsius above normal. The Colaba weather station, representative of south Mumbai, recorded 34.7 degree Celsius on Tuesday, which was 1.4 degree Celsius above normal.The minimum temperature in the suburbs was 3 degree Celsius above normal at 23.8 degrees while south Mumbai recorded 24.8 degree Celsius, 2 degree Celsius above normal.“Hot weather is likely to continue as the wind pattern continues to be warm southeasterly to easterly along with a clear sky. However, later this week there is a possibility of a marginal drop in temperatures due to partly cloudy conditions as a weather system develops towards the southeast Arabian Sea,” said an official from the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Meanwhile, Mumbai’s air quality index (AQI) was 142 (moderate) on Tuesday. Researchers said it was mostly due to higher temperatures and moderate wind speed. Mazgaon had the worst AQI of 310 (very poor). An AQI of 132 (moderate) has been predicted for Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-sizzles-at-36-degree-celsius-air-quality-in-moderate-category/story-FWwLSRLdCF3C53yp1IuwmK.html
17-11-2020||Gurugram||Health department asks for additional workforce to meet testing target||To break the chain of transmission of Covid-19 infection, the health department has decided to opt for targeted testing in the district. For this, the department is finalising a list of places, where people gather in large numbers, such as wholesale markets and bus depots, where mass testing can be carried out through rapid antigen tests, said officials, adding that the department has also asked for additional workforce from the state for this purpose. After a meeting with the Niti Aayog earlier this week, the district health department was directed to further increase testing capacity in the district. Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, district surveillance officer for Covid-19, said, “New clusters are being identified, especially in high-risk areas like Khandsa Mandi and local markets with high footfalls, where testing will be increased. Mass testing through rapid antigen test kits will be conducted, while for the symptomatic negative patients, Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) tests would be administered.”As reported by HT on Tuesday, the state health department is planning to take the everyday testing in Gurugram to 6,000. Presently, 4,000 tests are being administered every day on an average. For further testing, the health department is seeking deputation of additional workforce. “A letter has been forwarded to the state for additional lab technicians and auxiliary nurse midwifes (ANMs) for administering tests during contact tracing,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. Due to a rapid surge in cases, fluctuating between 500 to 800 cases daily, it has become challenging for rapid response teams (RRTs) to finish contact tracing in three days. Presently, there are 143 RRTs in urban areas and 163 in rural areas, along with 30 lab technicians.“For proper and timely contact tracing, additional workforce is needed. Since the focus is on quarantine of high-risk contacts and home-isolated patients, extra manpower is necessary,” said Yadav, adding that the deputation of the workforce will depend upon the state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/health-department-asks-for-additional-workforce-to-meet-testing-target/story-DZsgcka9ZFdONX0e4JGyjK.html
17-11-2020||Gurugram||City colleges see an uptick in attendance on day two of reopening||The attendance in all four government colleges in the city saw an uptick on Tuesday — a day after colleges in the state reopened for physical classroom sessions for the first time since March. Anticipating a further increase in footfall in the coming days, college authorities said they are working on implementing different arrangements for students, keeping in mind the protocols for physical distancing. While some colleges plan to adopt a hybrid model comprising online and offline classes, others will be conducting classes in multiple shifts while adopting an even-odd formula. Further changes in the mode of imparting lessons are expected this week depending on the daily turnout of students, said college administrators. Around 150 students visited Dronacharya Government College for classes on Tuesday. The college will be adopting a blended model of both online-offline classes, where students from different courses will be allowed to visit colleges twice a week with parental consent. “The number of students visiting the college is picking up now. Depending on the turnout, teachers can form batches and take classes. We have capped the number of students in one class to 20 in view of social distancing norms,” said Khullar, adding that physical distancing was an important concern since exams, admissions, and classes were all taking place simultaneously at the college. “We fear overcrowding since students from different courses and those seeking admission converge together at times. This week, our focus will be on familiarising students with the roster of their respective courses so that online-offline lessons can take place in a structured manner without overcrowding,” said Khullar. At Government College for Girls, Sector 52, around 80 students in different courses turned up for classes on Tuesday. The college is currently operating from a temporary campus where the space is limited. As such, the college will be adopting a new mechanism for conducting classes from tomorrow. “Around 25-30% of students came to the college for classes today. Since we have limited space, we will be holding classes in two shifts from tomorrow. Two classes will take place in the morning from 9am to 12 noon and another set of two classes will take place from 12 noon to 3 pm so that we are able to avoid crowding,” said Mohd Rafique, college principal. Besides holding classes in two shifts, the college is also considering the possibility of recording some sessions for students who are attending online classes from home. “It will take at least a week for us to try out online-offline classes and put in a robust mechanism that works for all. We are also looking at recording some sessions for online classes once students settle down,” said Rafique. Ramesh Garg, principal of Government Girls College, Sector 14, said that the college will be adopting an even-odd formula for physical classroom sessions, which will be live-streamed for those students who have opted for online classes. “We sought preference from students and around 50% of them are in favour of online classes. For offline classes, students with even roll numbers will visit the college on the first three days of the week while those with odd roll numbers will attend on the remaining three days. The strength of each session will be capped at 20 students. The physical classroom session will be live-streamed for students at home,” said Garg||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/city-colleges-see-an-uptick-in-attendance-on-day-two-of-reopening/story-ZO7nnvn95S9uCx3ZZUlRaL.html
17-11-2020||Gurugram||Covid-19 tally in Gurugram crosses 40,000 mark||The total tally of Covid-19 infections crossed the 40,000-mark on Tuesday, with 588 new infections being reported in the last 24 hours. With Covid-19 spreading at an unprecedented rate since the first week of November, amid the festive season and the increasing air pollution, the Covid-19 tally on Tuesday reached 40,521. Of these, 5,445 are currently active, while 34,829 patients have recovered from the infection.On Tuesday, as per the district health bulletin, a record number of 889 people recovered from the infection, bringing down the overall active cases. However, the test positivity rate(TPR) – total number of positives out of the samples collected – remains high at 18%. This is higher than the TPR of the previous week, when it stood at 15% and almost similar to that of July, when the infection was at its peak. In the first week of November, the state health department made a projection based on the real and the worst case scenarios with cases likely to go as high as 43,000 by the end of the month. Experts, however, had warned that considering the rising positivity rate, tally would go well beyond the projected figures.In November, more than 10,000 new infections have been reported so far due to the increasing positivity rate. It is the highest rate at which new cases have been confirmed till now since the outbreak of the pandemic. It took more than a month-and-a-half for the numbers to reach 20,000 in September. It then took a month to reach 30,000 by the end of October. To tackle the upsurge, in the last 10 days, daily testing has been increased to 4,000, except on the Diwali weekend when it came down to about 2,500. The rise in positivity rate comes at a time when the district health department is conducting the maximum number of Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) tests, considered to the gold standard of front-line testing. RT-PCR is significantly better than rapid antigen test in detecting cases and producing accurate results. At least 4,004 tests, including 3,647 RT-PCR tests ( the highest since September) and 357 rapid antigen test, were administered on Tuesday. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “Testing will be ramped up as new clusters have been identified where testing camps will be held. This week, the department will receive more rapid antigen kits to conduct testing in market areas with high footfall. Time and again, teams are administering tests in widely affected areas, such as Tigra, Wazirabad, Chanderlok and areas under the 19 urban primary health centres of the district. It is likely that with increased targeted testing, positivity rate will come down.”With increased testing, new infections also increased to 726 on an average every day, compared to 701 in the previous week. Worried about the consistent upward spike in cases, Niti Aayog earlier this week directed Delhi-NCR cities to increase testing, and modify strategies on surveillance of home-isolated patients and quarantine of high-risk contacts. Since, Delhi-NCR is treated as one unit to tackle Covid-19 spike, Gurugram has followed the footsteps of Delhi in reserving 75% ICU beds and 50% general beds across 42 private and public hospitals of the city on Monday. Officials said the decision was taken as the number of hospitalisation has gone up in the last few days. Hospitalisation has consistently increased from 191 on November 2 to 293 on November 7 and further to 408 on November 13. On Monday, it reached 417 and 427 on Tuesday. Out of the 2,114 beds earmarked for the treatment of Covid-19 in hospitals across the city, 963 beds are currently occupied. However, it is the proportional uptick in ICU patients that has the government worried. On Tuesday, nearly 59% of 159 ventilators and 65% of 312 ICU beds were occupied. The Covid-19 toll also reached 247, with three new deaths. Even at the state level, the tally has reached 2,04,477, of which 19,153 are active. At least 2,063 people across the state have succumbed to the illness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/covid-19-tally-in-gurugram-crosses-40-000-mark/story-jBQQGYAFbeUrHnQAqzSlKK.html
17-11-2020||Gurugram||District-level committee to probe construction on Ghamroj bundh||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has constituted a district-level committee to look into the “alleged illegal and unauthorised excavation” of the Ghamroj bundh, a traditional water harvesting structure which runs for about two kilometres along the Sohna Road in Ghamroj village. Hindustan Times had reported on October 12 that a portion of the bundh had been excavated to make room for a rest area that is being built as part of the National Highways Authority of India’s (NHAI) upcoming toll complex on NH-248A.Through an order dated November 9, the NGT has constituted a three-member committee including the Haryana State Pollution Control Board’s (HSPCB) regional officer for Gurugram, the district forest officer (DFO) and the deputy commissioner, to “look into the grievance” and submit a compliance report by early next month. The NGT took cognizance of the matter following a public interest litigation (PIL) petition filed by Prem Mohan Gaur, a resident of Hajjipur village on Sohna-Palwal road, who frequents Ghamroj and noticed the bundh being excavated in August. Gaur’s petition alleges that excavation of the Ghamroj bundh is in contradiction of Sohna’s Master Plan 2031, which states that the bundh would be retained in its current state. An explanatory note issued in this regard by the town and country planning department on November 15, 2012, mentions, “Sohna Town is surrounded by Aravalli Ranges on eastern & western side. In the rainy season, run-off from these ranges passes through proposed urbanization through barsati Nallahs namely Mehandwara Nadi. Three bundhs namely Sohna bundh, Mohmmadpur bundh and Ghamroj bundh exist on the western side of the town to check the run-off and for recharging the underground water table. All the three existing bundhs and alignment of the tributaries of Mehandwara Nadi / Nallah have been retained as such in the Development Plan on the request of the Irrigation Department (sic).”Gaur also alleged that work to excavate the bundh had commenced without written permission of the irrigation department, which, NHAI officials confirmed, was the case. Vikas Mittal, technical manager, NHAI, said on Tuesday, “We started excavating the bundh only after conducting site inspections along with the irrigation department, who gave us approval to go ahead and make alterations to the structure. We have not yet received any written confirmation from them, but they had, in principle, approved the structural changes to the bundh.”Tampering with the structural integrity of the bundh — which arrests water run-off from Aravalli hills that skirt around the village — may pose adverse consequences, such as flooding, and may negatively affect groundwater recharge in the area, environmentalists have warned. On October 20, Gaur submitted a representation to the deputy commissioner, the pollution control board and the forest department, but did not receive a response in the matter. The NGT’s principal bench, headed by chairman Adarsh Kumar Goel, took cognizance of this and directed the district administration to “look into the grievance and take appropriate action in accordance with the law.” The NGT order states, “According to the applicant, the construction of road will result in the demolition of bundh affecting a water body in violations of law laid down in Hinch Lal Tiwari vs Kamla Devi (2001). There will be further violation of the Sohna Master Plan , 2031. This will also affect forest area in violation of the Forest Conservation Act, 1980.” Shakti Singh, regional officer, HSPCB, which is the nodal agency for compliance in the matter, said, “We will follow the NGT’s instructions. The committee has not yet decided the merits of the case, so it is too soon to comment on that. We will submit our report to the NGT as instructed and make sure that any violations are dealt with appropriately.”The deputy commissioner and forest officer were unavailable for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/district-level-committee-to-probe-construction-on-ghamroj-bundh/story-50cYuVFuBZ9t4KvqZQNLbP.html
17-11-2020||Noida||Women’s group cycles to promote fitness in Greater Noida west||Greater Noida: A group of 30 women cyclists of Greater Noida have formed a ‘Women on Wheels (WOW)’ initiative to highlight the importance of fitness. For the last six months, they would gather in Greater Noida west in the morning and go for a 10 to 15 km ride in the city. The group was founded by a banker and fitness enthusiast Vijeta Pandey, 30, a Greater Noida west resident in June. Pandey said that cycling is the best exercise to remain fit. “Cycling increases strength and flexibility in the body. People feel afresh after cycling and it also helps in managing stress and anxiety,” Pandey said. When asked how the initiative started, she said, “During the lockdown period we were mostly packed in the house that gave rise to anxiety and stress. I started riding the bicycle alone in the society and outside,” Pandey said. “In June, I posted a message in my society group and invited women to join. A few responded and then we formed WOW and added more people.”Kanchan Grover, 33, a software engineer and a resident of Gaur City – 2, said that she was inspired by Pandey to join the group. “I used to see her cycle in the society and neighbourhood. I talked to her, bought a bicycle and joined the group. Around 20-25 women gather every day in Gaur City and cycle in the neighbourhood.”The group rides together and help each other in case a cycle breaks down. Helmet and water bottle is mandatory for all the participants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/women-s-group-cycles-to-promote-fitness-in-greater-noida-west/story-VCg4DSv6wJsujqWuAT5eNM.html
17-11-2020||Noida||Covid crisis: Ghaziabad testing takes a hit in past three days||Ghaziabad: Amid the rising Covid-19 cases, the number of testing in the district has declined considerably in the past three days since Diwali. The district health department data shows that a daily average of only about 2,015 samples were tested during the period from November 14 to 16.Also, unlike Noida where the officials have come up with a strategy to randomly test incoming commuters from Delhi starting Wednesday, the Ghaziabad administration at present does not have a strategy in place to deal with any cross-border infection. On November 12, the state government in its directions had revised the rapid antigen test target for Ghaziabad from 2,000 samples per day to 3,500 samples, besides the regular RT-PCR tests. According to the records of the health department, the district on November 14 took up 2,073 tests, 1,791 on November 15 and 2,180 on November 16. However, during the first 12 days in November, the district was conducting on average about 4,000 tests per day. The overall positivity in the district is about 4.23% with 489,533 tests done which yielded 20,723 positive cases so far. The testing data for November 13 was not available with the health department.“The reduction in testing is due to absence of staff who have gone on leaves during Diwali and also for Chhath Puja. However, we are expecting that testing will increase, and we will be able to achieve the target as well in coming days,” said an officer from the district health department who wished not to be quoted. On Tuesday, the district had a total of 1,233 active cases, while it reported 44 new cases.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey on Tuesday did not respond to repeated calls made to him for his response about the low testing and any plan in the city to deal with cross-border infection. He, however, shared inputs through a message that the district has planned focussed testing of different high-risk groups in urban slums, government and private offices, schools and markets during a drive which has been planned from November 19 to November 30. The district had also been suffering from shortage of rapid antigen kits which were later arranged from neighbouring districts and from Lucknow. On November 12, the district had exhausted its entire stock of rapid antigen kits. The overall monthly testing has also reduced in November. In 16 days of November, the district has conducted about 3,401 tests per day, while the per day testing was about 4,066 in October. In September, per day testing was about 3,928 while it was around 2,967 tests per day in August, the official records showed. Experts said during the present times it is vital that the testing should be increased. “Since people have already mixed up in markets and public places during the festival season, it is time that testing should be increased further. The rise in cases in Delhi indicates that there is every likelihood that cases in neighbouring areas will also increase. The health department has limited resources, but the strategy should have been planned beforehand when the cases spiked in Delhi,” said Dr VB Jindal, former president of Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad. Shailendra Singh, additional district magistrate (city), said that he held a meeting with members of Chhath Puja association and has asked them to avoid large gatherings at the banks of river Hindon during the festival on November 20. “We have made elaborate arrangements at 53 places in Ghaziabad where sanitization will also be taken up. We have also asked the families to allow only one member to come for performing Puja at the river banks. So, this will prevent any large gatherings,” Singh added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/covid-crisis-ghaziabad-testing-takes-a-hit-in-past-three-days/story-56Ym0mry4MeEphbI68wTPM.html
17-11-2020||Mumbai||Three men linked to Dawood Ibrahim’s gang arrested for planning to murder south Mumbai businessman||The anti-extortion cell (AEC) of the Mumbai crime branch on Tuesday arrested three alleged associates of gangster Fahim Machmach who were reportedly planning to murder a south Mumbai-based businessman.The three accused have been identified as Vinod Ramesh Gaikh, 38, a resident of Nalasopara; Fazlu Rehman Ubed ur Rehman Khan alias Mujju, 47, a native of Uttar Pradesh, and Mohammad Yusuf Abdul Qayyum Shaikh, 32, a resident of Kurla.AEC officers recovered two pistols and seven live cartridges from the accused. The trio was produced before a local court and remanded in police custody till November 18. AEC officers said that Khan was in touch with Machmach, a member of gangster Dawood Ibrahim’s gang, and had planned to murder the businessman at the behest of the fugitive gangster who is believed to be in Pakistan.AEC officers received specific information of the murder being planned and an inquiry was made. During the inquiry, it came to light that Gaikwad had left his house in Nalasopara and had started staying at his friend’s place in Kanjurmarg, while Khan was on his way to Mumbai from Uttar Pradesh.Based on the information, a team of AEC officers arrested Khan from Kalyan railway station and Gaikwad from Kanjurmarg. The accused were questioned, and they named Shaikh as their accomplice. He was then arrested from Kurla. During the interrogation, Khan told police that he knew Machmach from his youth and that he was in touch with him. He told AEC officers that as per Machmach’s directions, he had arranged for the pistol and live cartridges. He had given them to Gaikwad and was waiting for orders from Machmach to eliminate a businessman in south Mumbai. Gaikwad said that he was involved in two murder cases and police are now trying to gather information about his past cases.“Machmach, a loyalist of Dawood Ibrahim gang and close associate of Dawood’s younger brother Anees Ibrahim, wanted to keep his hold over the extortion business in Mumbai. This is even though other gangs run by Chhota Rajan, Ravi Pujari and Ejaz Lakdawala have been permanently dismantled after Central agencies as well Mumbai Police put them and their associates behind bars,” said an AEC officer, requesting anonymity||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/three-men-linked-to-dawood-ibrahim-s-gang-arrested-for-planning-to-murder-south-mumbai-businessman/story-zbVsXRcwhPk8yeSjbX28DK.html
17-11-2020||Chandigarh||Ambala Christian cemetery in ruins amid battle for possession||Ambala’s Christian Cemetery on Jagadhari Road is in a state of ruin as two parties remain locked in battle over its possession.Built in 1844, the 20.54 acre burial ground in the Cantonment assumes historic importance as it has an estimated two lakh graves, including those of around 66 World War I (1914-1918) soldiers, 20 Anglo-Boer War (1899-1902) prisoners who fought in South Africa and those of a number of Britons from the pre-independence era. Monuments of different regiments of the British Indian Army and cemetery angels, some damaged and others fallen, can be seen here.Everything is in a sad state of disrepair, overtaken by long wild grass and weeds, some spots inundated by sewer water.Father Patras Mundu, secretary and treasurer of the Ambala Cemetery Committee, insists this is common property belonging to the Christian community and does not belong to any church or individual.Mundu alleges that Shaukatt Masih Bhatti of Alexandra Road, allegedly a self-declared Anglican bishop, has claimed the property saying it belongs to the Church of England.Claiming that he has the documents to prove that the government of India is the landlord and the British High Commissioner holds the occupancy rights, Mundu says the cemetery is a state protected site, but illegal encroachments have come up along the boundary wall.Father Anthony, priest at the Holy Redeemer Catholic Church, alleges some graves had been damaged by a demolition machine “while he (Bhatti) was cleaning the land to sell it.”“In July, he brought in the machine and (damaged) many graves, including war graves. We complained to the police and have shown them the damaged graves too. Teams from Commonwealth War Graves (CWGC), British High Commission and Haryana Archaeology Department have visited the site and have expressed sadness at its unfortunate situation,” says Anthony.Responding to the charges, however, Bhatti refutes the claims, saying “I am the chairman of the Cemetery Committee from the last 15 years and Patras Mundu is not my secretary. I have a registry from 1864 to prove that the cemetery belongs to the Church of England along with some documents by the ministry of defence and other papers to prove my case.”On the allegations of the graves being damaged by machinery brought by him, he adds that the claim is baseless and that the police have investigated the case and found nothing amiss.Commenting on the matter, Rajesh Kumar, secretary of the Ambala Sadar Municipal Council says the land is disputed between two parties that have their own set of documents to prove they own it.Police, meanwhile, say they are investigating the allegation of damage to the graves. “We have received two complaints related to the cemetery. The other party says that the JCB (demolition machine) was brought in to clean the area. We are investigating the claim. Any FIR on the matter is yet to be lodged,” says Vikas Kumar, station in-charge, Ambala Cantonment police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ambala-christian-cemetery-in-ruins-amid-battle-for-possession/story-ImeFX0kYC58twk8Nsh3S0K.html
17-11-2020||Noida||Greater Noida: Underpass proposed at Kisan Chowk||GREATER NOIDA: The Greater Noida authority has decided to build an underpass at Kisan Chowk to make the busy intersection in Greater Noida West free of traffic congestion. The authority has asked RITES, an engineering consultancy company of the central government, to submit a report about this project.The authority has decided to build an underpass after thousands of commuters demanded for a solution to the issue of traffic jam that troubles people daily.“RITES has prepared a presentation about ways to decongest the traffic intersection. It will give its presentation next week. The presentation has details about the volume of vehicular pressure at this intersection and how an underpass will ease out the traffic pangs. Then we will prepare a detailed project report to take the project to the next stage,” said Samakant Srivastava, general manager of Greater Noida authority.According to a preliminary survey done by the Greater Noida authority during peak hours, at least 25,000 motorists witness huge traffic congestion. The survey said that around 1.50 lakh commuters use this stretch daily facing traffic congestion at Kisan Chowk, where Noida’s Master Plan-III road meets 130-metre wide road of Greater Noida. This intersection witnesses commuters who travel from Noida and Greater Noida to Ghaziabad and other areas, said the officials.The underpass will be made on the road that connects Greater Noida West with Ghaziabad.“The proposed underpass will be built on the Greater Noida West-Ghaziabad stretch so that the 130-metre wide road that connects Noida with Greater Noida West going towards Dadri becomes signal free. Once the underpass becomes operational, the commuters will travel seamlessly without facing any congestion at this junction,” said Srivastava.Greater Noida West, earlier known as Noida Extension, is home to dozens of newly built group housing complexes. The region spread over around 4,000 hectares is going to house at least 4 lakh flats once all group housing complexes will be occupied. The authority survey states that in future the traffic pressure will further rise. The underpass project will help in easing out the traffic congestion, said the officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/greater-noida-underpass-proposed-at-kisan-chowk/story-fV4mnP5c6Bt3tjUGzm0CiK.html
17-11-2020||Noida||Noida: Man booked for killing wife||Noida: A person was booked on Monday for allegedly killing his wife over dowry at their rented accommodation in Sector 44. The woman, 22, was killed on November 11, the police said.The woman’s brother had filed a complaint at Sector 39 police station on November 15. The complainant, a resident of Challera village, said that his sister had married the suspect, Gopal Haldar, two years ago. The couple had a love marriage, he said, adding that both the families are from Malda in West Bengal and had shifted to Noida a few years ago. “We were not aware of my brother-in-law’s nature. He was demanding Rs 4 lakh as dowry from my sister since the marriage. He used to harass my sister over the issue. My sister had informed me about the dowry harassment in the past,” the brother said. The complainant said that on November 11, his sister called him and informed that her husband was beating her. “I visited my sister’s house to enquire about the matter. My brother-in-law was furious and he did not allow me to enter the house. He had locked the door from inside and harassed my sister,” he said. He said that in the afternoon his younger brother visited the sister’s house and found her dead. “She had a rope around her neck. It appeared her husband killed her and fled the spot,” he said.According to the police, the suspect lived with his wife and mother in a rented accommodation in Sector 44. His mother had gone for work when the incident took place, the police said. Azad Singh Tomar, SHO of Sector 39 police station, said that based on the complaint, a case has been registered against the suspect under sections 498-A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) and 304-B (dowry death) of the Indian Penal Code and sections 3 and 4 of Dowry Prohibition Act 1961. “We have registered a case and launched an investigation into the matter,” Tomar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-man-booked-for-killing-wife/story-VKEqmnp8TFg1FBNwcZObLL.html
17-11-2020||Noida||Three of a family injured as car hits stationary truck on Yamuna Expressway||Greater Noida: Three persons, including a six-year-old boy, were injured when their car hit a stationary truck in the Ecotech 1 area on the Yamuna Expressway on Monday night. The incident took place around 8pm near Gautam Buddha University, the police said, adding that the victims were coming from Agra to Noida. The victims, identified as Satyendra Kumar, 40, his wife Shalini, 35 and their son Surya, have been admitted in a private hospital for treatment, the police said. Rameshwar Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Ecotech III police station, said that the victims were travelling in Kia Seltos SUV. “The family was travelling from Agra to Noida. When they reached near Gharbhra underpass around five kilometres from Zero Point, their car collided with a stationary truck,” SHO said. The police said that the car’s airbag opened after the accident and the three occupants were saved. However, they were injured and the vehicle was damaged in the accident, they said. Some passersby rescued the three occupants of the car from the damaged vehicle and alerted the police. A team from Ecotech 1 police station soon reached the spot and admitted them to a private hospital in Greater Noida for medical treatment. It appears that the car driver could not spot the truck due to poor visibility on the expressway, the police said, adding that the victims have not filed any complaint in this regard. The truck driver managed to escape with the vehicle after the accident. Meanwhile, in a separate accident in Noida, a 45-year-old man died after he was hit by a speeding vehicle while crossing the road in Chotpur colony in Sector 63 on Monday evening. The deceased was identified as Gurendra Prakash, a resident of Chotpur. Praksh was rushed to a private hospital where he succumbed to injuries, the police said. Jitendra Deekhit, SHO, Phase III police station, said that a case has been registered against unknown person under Section 279 (rash driving) and Section 304-A (death due to negligence) of IPC. “We have registered a case and launched an investigation into the matter,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/three-of-a-family-injured-as-car-hits-stationary-truck-on-yamuna-expressway/story-LPLJjknwJdYnFVf44xM07K.html
17-11-2020||City||Punjab industry on verge of collapse: CICU urges farmers to end stir||Reiterating that the new farm bills have created a sense of panic in farmers due to which the state’s industry is on the verge of collapse, the Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertaking (CICU) urged the farm unions to end their agitation against the union government. “There are numerous unforeseen situations that the manufacturing industry is going through. Since the call by farm unions to stop rail movements in the state, the manufacturers have been suffering a lot. The containers of raw material are either stuck at the inland container depots (ICDs) or gateway ports, resulting in a huge shortage of raw materials. Cost of raw materials has skyrocketed as well,” said CICU president Upkar Singh Ahuja. He also added that the industry hasn’t even recovered from the Covid pandemic yet and, now it has to face this unprecedented situation. JS Bhogal, publicity secretary, and Honey Sethi, organising secretary, CICU, said that if this situation continues, the factories will be forced to shut their operations. There are nearly two lakh MSME units currently operating in the state that employ one crore people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-industry-on-verge-of-collapse-cicu-urges-farmers-to-end-stir/story-NO8cAmZmapmQHPoeFJu8CN.html
17-11-2020||Noida||Noida traffic police issue over 100 fines to violators at Jalvayu Vihar||Noida: The traffic police on Tuesday issued fines to 110 people outside Jalvayu Vihar, a residential society in Noida Sector 21, for violation of traffic rules. The traffic police, along with a traffic volunteer, conducted a special drive in the morning to make residents and visitors of the society follow the traffic rules. Ashutosh Singh, traffic inspector, said that around 2,000 people live in the society. “We had received complaints that some residents ride motorcycles without helmet and drive car without seat belts. They also visit the local market outside the society and sometimes violate traffic rules. Besides, a number of people and delivery boys also visit the society every day. We conducted an enforcement drive from 10.30am-12.30pm at the society’s main gate and fined 110 violators,” he said. The traffic police also inducted 80-year-old retired wing commander BS Bakshi as traffic volunteer on Tuesday. Bakshi joined the police in the enforcement drive outside his society. He was seen sensitising motorcycle users, who were riding without helmet, to follow the rules. Bakshi said that it was a nice experiment. “We issued challans to several violators and also sensitized them. We will conduct an enforcement drive next week. I feel that to improve the traffic situation in the city, the traffic police and the Noida authority should make a better coordination, as road marking, traffic lights and U-turns, among others, are taken care of by the authority while the police are mainly involved in enforcement,” he said.Later in the evening, the traffic police also conducted a similar enforcement drive in Noida Sector 25. The traffic inspector said that last week the Noida police had conducted a study of three black spots at DND Flyway, Rajnigandha Chowk and Mahamaya Flyover and noted some corrective measures for road safety. “There are 32 lanes on both sides of the DND Flyway. The vehicles used to cross the toll plaza in good speed which sometimes led to accidents. We conducted a study at the flyway and put some restrictions of traffic movement there. Now, only three lanes are open for four wheelers and two lanes for two-wheelers on one side of the carriageway. The restrictions automatically slow down traffic that helps prevent unwanted incident,” he said. The police said that due to festivals the study of other black spots was put on hold. “We will again resume the study of rest of the black spots and take necessary corrections to make them accident-free spot,” Singh said. The traffic police and the transport department had identified 35 black spots in February last year. Any stretch of about 500m, where either five crashes or 10 fatalities took place in the past three years, is considered a black spot. Some of these black spots include DND Flyway near Sector 15-A loop, Rajnigandha Chowk, Mahamaya Flyover, zero point of Noida-Greater Noida expressway, zero point of Yamuna Expressway, Gijhore intersection, Sector 137, NSEZ, Yamaha Chowk in Greater Noida, and Jewar Toll Plaza. According to the data from the Gautam Budh Nagar transport department, between March 1 and September 15 this year, the Nagar district recorded 162 deaths in 317 accidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-traffic-police-issue-over-100-fines-to-violators-at-jalvayu-vihar/story-1KoePIpZCpuezjwIzihX9I.html
17-11-2020||Noida||Three dead as speeding truck hits car on Upper Ganga Canal||Three persons, including a couple, were killed and three minors were injured after the vehicle they were travelling in collided with a truch head-on late Monday night on the two-lane road of the Upper Ganga Canal (UGC) near Muradnagar.The truck driver and co-driver were also severely injured in the accident.The dead persons were identified as 28-year-old Mohammad Naseem, who was the driver, and his neighbours 32-year-old Mohammad Altaaf, wife 30-year-old Zeenat Parveen. The couple’s children, aged six to 11 years, and another relative were injured. They were residents of Tekchand Nagar in sector 104, Gurugram.Police said the incident happened close to midnight. Naseem was to attend a wedding at Najibabbad in Uttar Pradesh’s Bijnor district and had offered to drop the family who were headed to their home there.They took the UGC Road near Niwari, when the truck coming from the opposite side hit the car. “As a result of the impact, the front portion of the car was completely damaged and three persons died on the spot. The truck was travelling at high-speed and fell into the empty canal after the crash. The three children were rushed to a nearby hospital and are under treatment. They are stated to be stable. We have received a complaint and FIR will be registered,” said Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, superintendent of police (rural). The canal road is generally safe for plying of vehicles like two-wheelers and cars. It is used as a bypass by thousands of commuters who wish to skip travelling on the Delhi-Meerut Road to reach the UP-Uttarakhand border. The canal is dry as water flow had been stopped for annual maintenance. Altaaf’s brother Mohaamad Faheem said, “Naseem drove an Ertiga while the rest of his family who were heading to Bijnor too were travelling in another vehicle but was quite some distance behind. My cousin 21-year-old Mohammad Shahban too was in the Ertiga and suffered major injuries to his hand. It seems that the truck from the opposite was driven rashly and hit the car. Naseem’s mother who was at the accident site once their vehicle caught up said that someone had taken the mobile phone and ₹15000 that was in Naseem’s pocket during the rescue. We have given a complaint to the police.” The police said that they will probe about the missing mobile and cash and have also admitted the truck driver, Mohammad Saddam and co-driver, Shahrukh, to hospital as they also suffered severe injuries during the accident. The police said that there was no fog or low-visibility during the incident and it is likely that the truck driver was driving rash which finally led to the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/three-dead-as-speeding-truck-hits-car-on-upper-ganga-canal/story-LxATb0k7bIx4UeWKr9PliL.html
17-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh resident held for tearing policeman’s uniform in Mohali||Veer Bahadur, a resident of Chandigarh’s Sector 41, was arrested on Monday for tearing a policeman’s uniform at Kharar.Bahadur was under the influence of liquor when he got into an argument with policemen Harjinder Singh, Gurcharan Singh and Dilbagh Singh, who were controlling traffic at a spot near Airport Road. Even though the three tried to reason with him, Bahadur allegedly tore Dilbagh Singh’s uniform, said assistant sub-inspector Jeevan Singh.Bahadur was arrested and a case registered against him under Sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions) of the Indian Penal Code at the Kharar ( sadar) police station. He was later produced in court and sent to a day’s police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/one-arrested-for-tearing-policeman-s-uniform/story-fLPScyNVMReKSzpizzmPoO.html
17-11-2020||City||Ambernath man stabbed by neighbours for breaking their chair, 2 booked||A 45-year-old man was stabbed by his two neighbours for breaking their plastic chair in Kushivali village of Ambernath taluka. The injured has been identified as Mahadu Khandavi, 45, and accused are Kashinath Bhagat, 40 and his brother Shatrughna Bhagat, 35. According to Hill Line police, on Tuesday afternoon, Khandavi was sleeping when a dog started barking. The victim ran behind the dog with a wooden stick and when the animal hid under the plastic chair belonging to the Bhagats, Khandavi ended up hitting the chair, breaking it. “According to the complainant, the accused first assaulted him and then got a knife from inside their house and stabbed him. We have registered a case against the two accused under sections 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The victim has been admitted to Central Hospital in Ulhasnagar for treatment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ambernath-man-stabbed-by-neighbours-for-breaking-their-chair-2-booked/story-xE0LOIieeu2GiRcIEA4vnO.html
17-11-2020||Noida||Rain and reduced stubble-burning count helps Noida, Ghaziabad air enter ‘moderate’ zone after 42 days||After 42 days, the air quality in Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad improved to “moderate” on Tuesday on the back of widespread rain and fewer farm fires in north-west India helping to bring down pollution.The forecast for the next few days, however, doesn’t expect more rain, but with farm fires too not expected to spike, the focus would now likely shift to controlling local pollution.Since October 6, the three cities, and the national capital region (NCR) in general, saw mostly “very poor” air deteriorating several times to the “severe” category, including on the day of Diwali. Relief came in the form of moisture laden winds from the Mediterranean Sea -- called the Western Disutrbance -- and strong winds that helped to disperse pollutants.The air quality index (AQI) of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) on Tuesday read below 200 for Ghaziabad, Greater Noida and Noida at 166, 186 and 178, respectively. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe.” “The present reduction in pollution levels is due to recent spell of rain and also due to fewer instances of stubble burning that impacted the Delhi-NCR region. With the rain on Sunday, the pollution cover has been dispersed. At local level, we are taking up measures to lower down the pollutants,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of the UP pollution control board. According to the records of System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the share of stubble burning to Delhi’s PM2.5 levels was 3% on Tuesday while it was 1% on Monday. The official statistics of the Consortium for Research on Agroecosystem Monitoring and Modelling from Space (CREAMS) Laboratory, stated that instances of crop residue burning from October 1 to November 15 have been highest this year since 2017 from the states of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. There were total of 83,756 instances (75,904 Punjab, 5,000 Haryana, 2,852 UP including 15 Ghaziabad, 11 GB Nagar) during the period this year while the figure stood at in 2019 it was 55,031, 65,377 in 2018 and 71,444 in 2017. “The wind direction presently is north-westerly and if stubble burning counts increase, these winds will bring in the pollutants. But for now, whatever bad air we are seeing is more due to local pollutants. In the coming 3-4 days we have no indication of any rain,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of Indian Meteorological Department’s Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, New Delhi. Ever since October 6, the pollution levels had risen in the three cities and spiked to “very poor” and further to “severe” categories. During the pre-Diwali period from November 5 to November 10, the three cities suffered “severe” pollution levels. The pollution levels started to drop after November 15 and plunged to “poor” category on November 16. A day later it dropped to “moderate” category. The forecast by SAFAR however said that the significant improvement is “short-lived.” “Stubble burning share in PM2.5 in Delhi’s air is almost negligible and estimated marginal ~3 % for today (Tuesday). However, the significant AQI improvement is short-lived. The AQI is likely to marginally deteriorate and in moderate to the Poor category is forecasted for tomorrow (Wednesday). AQI is forecasted to further deteriorate to the higher end of ‘poor’ to lower end of ‘very poor’ category on November 19 and 20,” the forecast added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/rain-and-reduced-stubble-burning-count-helps-noida-ghaziabad-air-enter-moderate-zone-after-42-days/story-RMxFErvTDttIoOgfIIK3zL.html
17-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chicken, egg prices up as supply runs short in Chandigarh||Chicken and egg prices are up in the city with the advent of the festive season and the winter even as supplies being affected after the lockdown due to Covid-19. Broilers, which were priced at Rs 180 to Rs 190 per kg, are now selling for Rs 240 per kg; and the cost of an egg has gone up from Rs 5 to Rs 7 in the past few weeks.“Demand for poultry items has started picking up with winter almost here, a time when people consume more eggs to boost their immunity. However, not enough supply is coming in and prices in the wholesale market are going up. We have no option but to increase our prices,” says Tejinder Singh Chawla, proprietor of the Sector 46 Chawla’s Chicken outlet.Demand, however, has still not gone up to pre-Covid levels. The lockdown period saw very low sales with broiler prices down to Rs 120 per kg in March.Interestingly, fish and mutton prices are not fluctuating much. “Fish and mutton are associated with the wedding season that normally picks up around this time. However, demand is low this year. More people prefer chicken as it can be cooked easily at home,” Chawla explained. Singhara fish is selling for Rs 650 per kg and mutton for Rs 600 per kg.Bird feed expensive tooWholesalers have also been affected by the rising prices. Ashok Kumar, a wholesaler at the Sector 21 Meat Market, says, “It has become more expensive to rear chickens. Prices of bird feed are going up too.”As the rising prices are putting off customers, shopkeepers are being forced to reduce their own margins to make sure their businesses don’t suffer.Most of the poultry products come to the city from Barwala in Haryana. “There is a supply shortage because during the lockdown many small time wholesalers, most of them suppliers of chicken to Chandigarh, shut shop. They had no funds during the lockdown,” says Harish Mittal, CEO of SS Poultry Farm in Barwala.“Many suppliers had to destroy the poultry (during the lockdown) as they didn’t have enough money to buy feed. This shortage is likely to continue during the winter,” Mittal added||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chicken-egg-prices-up-as-supply-runs-short-in-chandigarh/story-xQmdU8UhzSuJkk59runJIJ.html
17-11-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana police suspect human-trafficking gang behind siblings’ abduction||Six day after a woman kidnapped two children of a couple who provided her shelter and food, police said on Tuesday that they have procured CCTV footage where she can be seen taking the children away. Police suspect that she is hiding in a labourers’ quarter to avoid being traced. The crime branch has been pressed into action to trace the children and arrest the woman.Police said the woman already had two children with her, who she claimed were her sons, when she had taken shelter at the house of Ramesh Singh and Baby Rai.They suspect that she could be member of a human-trafficking gang, and the children she had with her were kidnapped from somewhere else.The accused woman appeared to be in her late 20s. Police have increased vigil at all bus stands so she can be arrested if she attempts to leave the city.Baby Rai had found the woman in miserable condition at Jugiana village of Sahnewal on November 6. Accompanied by two children, aged five and six, she said she had no place to live and nothing to eat. Rai had taken the woman to her home and provided her food and shelter for six days.On November 11, the woman kidnapped her two kids, Sunny, 6, and Jasmin, 3. Ramesh Singh, The children’s father, had lodged an FIR against the woman at Sahnewal police station on November 12.ASI Bhupinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said pictures and details of the children and woman have been sent to all police stations. He added that the police are tracing the trail of CCTV footage to find where the woman is hiding.Another angle to probePolice have found another angle to probe after digging into the family’s past. They said Baby Rani is not legally married to Ramesh. They added that she is married to someone else, with who she has two sons, aged 16 and 18. Due to a strained relationship with her husband, Rai had started living with Singh seven years ago, and had two children with him. Police are investigating to find out if her husband or children have any involvement in the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-police-suspect-human-trafficking-gang-behind-siblings-abduction/story-RSVgs2VgiuZMINrRXAWUlO.html
17-11-2020||City||New building of Govt College Ludhiana (East) nearing completion after three years||Almost three years after laying the foundation stone of the new building of Government College Ludhiana (East), MLA Sanjay Talwar on Tuesday stated that about 75% of construction work was complete and the classes for the next semester will be started in the new building.The MLA was speaking during a visit to the site, situated opposite the Vardhman Mill on Chandigarh Road. He inspected the site and asked the executive engineer of the public works department and contractor to speed up the work and complete it in next three months.The foundation stone of the new building was laid on January 28, 2018, and the construction on the five-acre land started on November 3, 2018.On April 11, 2018, a team comprising the director, public instructions (colleges), former deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal and other officers inspected a community centre at Jamalpur for the conduct of bachelor of arts (BA) classes. However, the higher education department later permitted SCD Government College authorities to conduct the admission process for Government College Ludhiana (East) in 2018. The college admitted 80 students each of first and second years of BA. Classes for the students of Government College Ludhiana (East) have been conducted in the SCD Government College for the past two years. The construction of the new building suffered due to the unprecedented outbreak of Covid-19. In June, the work came to a halt due to paucity of funds. The MLA further said, “The work of the multi-purpose hall, canteen, and landscaping will be completed in the next three months. The state government had sent Rs 2 crore to the contractor before Diwali for completion of the construction work of the new building.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-years-after-laying-of-foundation-stone-new-building-of-government-college-ludhiana-east-nearing-completion/story-5qni31FkRiBgX6J3QwCzUM.html
17-11-2020||Chandigarh||2 men robbed at knifepoint, woman’s jewellery, purse snatched in Chandigarh||A courier delivery boy was robbed of his mobile phone and another man of his purse, both at knifepoint, while an autorickshaw driver snatched his woman passenger’s jewellery and purse in southern sectors of Chandigarh on Monday, police said on Tuesday. An autorickshaw driver taking Mundi Kharar resident Pushpa Devi, 55, to Phase 6 in Mohali grabbed and fled with her gold chain, ring and earrings she was wearing besides her purse with Rs 10,000 and mobile phone when they reached Paddy Mandi Chowk near the grain market in Sector 39. Acting on the complaint by Devi, who runs a shop in Sector 39, a case under Section 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Maloya police station.Gurjinder Singh, a resident of Sector 16 in Panchkula and a courier with an online delivery firm, complained to the police that a man sat on his motorcycle, while he was in Sector 41 to collect a parcel, and pressed a knife against his back. He then asked Singh to drive to Sector 40, and once there, got off the motorcycle and fled with Singh’s mobile phone. Police have registered a case under Section 392 (robbery) of the IPC at the Sector-39 police station.Vinod Kumar, 30, a resident of Buterla village in Sector 41, who sets up tent houses for a living, said he was urinating behind a petrol pump at Sector 39 when a man, also at knifepoint, asked him to hand over his purse, which had Rs 1,500 in cash. A case under Section 392 of the IPC was registered at the Sector-39 police station. No arrest has been made in the three cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-men-robbed-at-knifepoint-woman-s-purse-jewellery-snatched/story-JgiMHh9ncGlgGojnxm3gIP.html
17-11-2020||Chandigarh||Six years on, Ludhiana MC yet to establish vending zones||The municipal corporation is planning to start an extensive anti-encroachment drive in the city to bring relief from the traffic jams. However, the project to establish vending zones in the city has been hanging fire for over six years. Even after a year since the proposal for establishment of over 150 vending and non-vending zones in the city was forwarded to the local bodies department, authorities are still waiting for the final notification.  Vendors have been at loggerheads with the MC over the issue. An agitation was also raised when the civic body had conducted an anti-encroachment drive before the pandemic. The vendors are opposing the MC’s decision to start an anti-encroachment drive without establishing the vending zones. Last week, mayor Balkar Sandhu had said that the MC will soon restart the anti-encroachment drive in the city to free the city roads from traffic jams. The police department will also be involved in the drive and strict legal action will also be taken against encroachers.Harman Singh, a roadside vendors at Model Town Extension, said: “As per a ruling of the Supreme Court, the MC cannot conduct anti-encroachments drives without establishing vending zones. But, the civic body is still planning to take action against roadside vendors even during the pandemic, when everyone is struggling financially. ”President of Rehri Phari Federation, Tiger Singh, said, “Numerous meetings have been held for establishing vending zones, but the MC has done nothing so far. The vendors are forced to pay hefty composition fees to MC to install/station their carts on roadsides. The vendors also face harassment at the hands of some MC staffers. We demand that the MC should establish the vending zones before starting anti-encroachments drives in the city.”As many as 21,000 street vendors were identified in the city during a survey that was conducted by MC around three years back. Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “MC had not taken any strict action against roadside encroachments till Diwali as we understand that everyone is facing financial crises amid the pandemic. But, the traffic jams on city roads due to the encroachments are taking a toll on the commuters. MC is working to establish vending zones. In the meantime, vendors can set-up their stalls at over 100 proposed vending zone sites which have already been identified. Strict action will be taken against the shopkeepers and vendors for encroaching on roadsides and FIRs will also be registered.”In the last week of February, police had announced the third phase of the anti-encroachment drive under which 60 roads of the city were to be covered. In the first two phases, 40 roads had been covered and FIRs were lodged against around 100 shopkeepers and vendors.The drives came to a halt amid the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/six-years-on-ludhiana-mc-yet-to-establish-vending-zones/story-tWitktlpLoOaYiS2cinW3H.html
17-11-2020||Chandigarh||Cow shooting shows who Nirmal Singh truly is: BJP MLA Aseem Goel||A day after Haryana Democratic Front (HDF) leader Chitra Sarwara came out in support of her father and former minister Nirmal Singh, in an alleged case of firing at a cow in Uttar Pradesh’s Saharanpur, Ambala city MLA Aseem Goel on Tuesday said the incident exposed Singh’s true colours.“The society knows his (Nirmal’s) background well. In Indian society, the murderers of cows are not accepted. He has been involved in attacks on humans in the past and now on cows. This shows who he truly is,” Goel said.The BJP legislator also mentioned Sarwara’s statement supporting Singh, adding, “They are giving justifications that are not valid, taking his history on record. Let the law take its course.”Goel was speaking at an event organised by the Saini Sabha after which he appealed to the residents to vote for his party.Sarwara, in a video message on Monday, had said that her father, who was booked under the Cow Slaughter Act, was “a kisan putra (son of farmer), an animal lover and a gau rakshak (protector of cows).” He had not visited the area where the incident took place, she claimed.“The area on the border near Saharanpur has many slaughterhouses and our personal fight has been about how to save our animals. About 24 of our cows were once stolen, and five more were stolen in the second incident. Another theft attempt was made later that led to a scuffle and a goat was lost,” she said.A few Hindu outfits also launched a protest against four-time MLA Singh in the evening. Later, the members of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) and Bajrang Dal burnt his effigy at the Jagadhri gate.“It’s really unfortunate that our holy cows have to bear such torture. All the members who took part today in the protest have demanded a special law on this,” a religious leader said.The controversy comes at a time when Ambala city is gearing up for the municipal corporation polls. Singh’s HDF has recently declared its mayoral candidate for the polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cow-shooting-shows-who-nirmal-singh-truly-is-bjp-mla-aseem-goel/story-rBYdSunQaOO90AN0v3BjYK.html
17-11-2020||Chandigarh||Solid waste management: With NGT deadline approaching, Ludhiana MC chief tightens the noose on officials||With the deadline approaching to implement door-to-door collection of garbage and waste segregation at source in the city, municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal conducted a review meeting with officials of the MC’s health branch and Punjab Pollution Control Board at the MC Zone-D office on Tuesday.In August, the monitoring committee of National Green Tribunal (NGT) had imposed a bank guarantee of Rs 22 lakh on MC. The civic body was directed to implement door-to-door collection of waste, waste segregation at source, establish compost pits in 922 parks of the city, construct a boundary wall and dispose off legacy waste at main dump site among other works by November 30, failing which the bank guarantee will be encashed by the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB).Recently, the monitoring committee had issued a letter to MC directing officials to conduct joint meetings with PPCB for compliance of the NGT orders. During the meeting, health officials were directed to complete the projects within the set deadline to avoid action.Also, a committee of MC and PPCB officials was formed that will look into the working of A2Z company, which has been awarded the contract to lift and process waste in the city. The officials said that a project to deal with legacy waste has already been approved by the city-level technical committee under the Smart City Project. An official, requesting anonymity, said that Sabharwal had earlier directed MC officials to complete the projects within the set deadline, otherwise the amount of the bank guarantees will be deducted from their salaries.“There is an improvement in door-to-door collection and source segregation of waste. However, the work is still not complete. Importance is also being given to other projects. Strict directions have been issued to the officials to complete the projects in time to avoid action,” Sabharwal said. Mayor, MC chief inspect dumping sitesWith residents and councillors raising hue and cry over accumulated waste at the secondary garbage collection points, mayor Balkar Sandhu and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal conducted an inspection at dumping sites in the city on Tuesday evening.  Councillors of the areas that were being inspected also accompanied the officials. Officials of A2Z company have been directed to clear the dumping sites by Wednesday, to avoid action. Heaps of garbage can be seen at the dumping points post Diwali. Lifting of waste was not done properly the next day as MC staffers were celebrating Vishwakarma Day. As per information, around 1,100 metric tonnes of garbage is generated in the city everyday, which increases to 1,300 metric tonnes on Diwali.There are over 50 secondary points in the city where the garbage collectors dump waste collected from houses/properties. From these secondary dumping points, the garbage is shifted to the MC’s main dump site at Tajpur road. Mayor Sandhu said that dumping points including those situated at Field Ganj, behind Vardhman mills on Chandigarh Road and Shingar Cinema Road among were inspected on Tuesday and the A2Z company has been directed to clear the sites by Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/solid-waste-management-with-ngt-deadline-approaching-ludhiana-mc-chief-tightens-the-noose-on-officials/story-x0mefLCrELBo9kWj1V1NyO.html
17-11-2020||Chandigarh||Body of migrant worker, 35, found near Sector 44 in Chandigarh||The body of a migrant worker, Jaspal Singh, 35, was found near the Sector 44 Labour Chowk on Tuesday morning. The man was from Uttar Pradesh and worked as a plumber. He was living in Jagatpura in Mohali. The body was taken to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Sector 32 after a passerby called the police control room vehicle (PCR) to say that a man with blood on his face was lying near the sector 44 and 45 dividing road. Police said the body had injury marks on the head and face, indicating that Jaspal Singh had been hit repeatedly on the head with a heavy object. He had been seen on Monday night drinking with two persons, police added, saying efforts were on to trace them.A case has been registered against unidentified persons under section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code. The body has been kept at GMCH and Jaspal Singh’s family in Uttar Pradesh has been informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/body-of-migrant-worker-35-found-near-sector-44-in-chandigarh/story-NquuWNvYR8mjYQFcuY9bHJ.html
17-11-2020||Chandigarh||35-quintal iron rods robbed from construction site in Ludhiana||A gang of miscreants robbed 35-quintal iron rods from an under-construction factory in Kasabad on Tuesday. As many as 10 unidentified people have been booked by the Basti Jodhewal police.The case has been registered based on the complaint of the owner of the factory, Sanjiv Jain, a resident of Surya Vihar in Rishi Nagar.Jain said construction material was dumped at the site in heavy quantity. He added that 10 people with weapons turned up at the site in a truck, overpowered the security guard, and fled after the iron rods into their vehicle.Following this, the security guard informed him, and he immediately sounded the police.Assistant sub-inspector Ramesh Kumar, who is investigating the case, said the case has been registered under Section 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code. Police are scanning footage from CCTV cameras installed in the area to trace the accused, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/35-quintal-iron-rods-robbed-from-construction-site-in-ludhiana/story-3HUPadNiJx72Z5TA98mMRL.html
17-11-2020||Chandigarh||Two lives snuffed out in road mishaps in Ludhiana||Two men died in road mishaps at Samrala Chowk and Jalandhar Bypass on Monday. In the first case, a 45-year-old man died after an unidentified vehicle hit him near Kailash Nagar. The victim has been identified as Mahesh Kumar of Phullanwal. The FIR has been lodged based on the statement of Dinesh, the victim’s brother. Dinesh said his brother had left the house to buy groceries at 6pm, but did not return. At night, he received a phone call from a driver of an ambulance service, who told him that Mahesh was found injured outside a petrol pump in Kailash Nagar after an unidentified vehicle had hit him. The driver also said that Mahesh died on the way to hospital. ASI Gurmukh Singh, who is investigating the case, said that a case has been registered under Sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of Indian Penal Code at Basti Jodhewal police station. In another incident, a man died after a passenger bus crushed him to death near Tajpur cut. The victim has been identified as Surinder Kumar, 28, of Ram Nagar. A case has been registered against the driver of the bus, Gurbinder Singh of Amritsar. The case was registered based on the statement of Rajiv Malhotra, a friend of the victim. He said Kumar was going towards Samrala Chowk when the incident took place. After the incident, the driver of the bus managed to escape. A hunt is on for the arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-lives-snuffed-out-in-road-mishaps-in-ludhiana/story-Hzq1yG5wNuUu8ZbaKbYGYM.html
17-11-2020||Chandigarh||Computers with Covid data stolen from Panchkula hospital||A number of computers with Covid-19 data were reported stolen on Monday from the Surveillance Programme(IDSP) cell at Panchkula’s Civil Hospital in Sector 6.In a complaint registered with the police, Dr Rajiv Narwal, nodal officer – Covid-19 and CMO of the hospital, said five computers, two printers, four UPS and four CPU systems were stolen from the IDSP cell in the civil surgeon’s building.Insider involvement is expected, hospital officials say.The theft, believed to have taken place during the two-day Diwali break when the room was locked, was discovered by the Covid-19 team members who reported for work on Monday morning.The computers had been borrowed from other departments for storing data, Covid-19 surveillance and to update online portals.An FIR under sections 457 and 380 of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Sector 6 police post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/computers-with-covid-data-stolen-from-panchkula-hospital/story-TB0CzIn4NDYehbger0ylEL.html
17-11-2020||Chandigarh||CISF head constable ends life in Chandigarh||A head constable of the Central Industrial Security Force was found hanging from the ceiling in his barrack in Sector 1, police said on Tuesday. Police said the 41-year-old was posted to Chandigarh about three weeks back. He took the extreme step when his colleagues were on duty on Monday evening. However, no suicide note was found. Police have informed his family and initiated inquest proceedings after ruling out foul play. PU student commits suicideIn another case of suicide, a 24-year-old woman who studied at Panjab University hanged herself to death with a dupatta at her house in Dhanas on Tuesday evening. Her room had been bolted from inside. No suicide note was found. The body has been kept in the mortuary at GMCH, Sector 32. Police has initiated inquest proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cisf-head-constable-ends-life-in-chandigarh/story-pitoR3JABhzmFoL7TpMCtK.html
17-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh clocks 16,000 Covid cases, Panchkula tally reaches 8,000||Chandigarh’s Covid-19 tally crossed the 16,000 mark with 136 people — highest single-day figures in November — testing positive for the virus on Tuesday. The total has reached 16,022. The first case was reported on March 18. Two deaths were also reported on Tuesday, taking the toll to 252. Those who succumbed have been identified as a 61-year-old man from Dadumajra and a 77-year-old man from Sector 44.With 160 patients being discharged, the total of those cured has reached 14,744 (92%). As many as 1,026 cases are still active. In Panchkula, 83 new cases took the count past 8,000 on Tuesday.Among the fresh cases, 59 surfaced in Panchkula city, and included three health workers.The total stands at 8,022, of which 442 cases are active. While 7,461 (93%) patients have been cured, 119 have died so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-clocks-16-000-cases-panchkula-tally-reaches-8-000/story-TZmYrXueiAB88LxaETqpJN.html
17-11-2020||City||Mohali city accounts for 80% Covid cases in district in past two weeks||Mohali city accounts for 80% of Covid-19 cases that have surfaced in the district in the past two weeks. Of 1,248 cases across Mohali, Kharar and Dera Bassi subdivisions in two weeks, 991 have been reported from Mohali city alone. The recovery rate in the district has declined from 93.7% to 90.4% in the same period, compounding the problem. Even on Tuesday, of 84 fresh cases in the district, 63 (75%) were from Mohali city. The district also recorded four deaths, which took the toll to 259.“The high number of cases in the city is due to the non-implementation of social distancing norms. People have stopped wearing masks and exercising caution,” said Dr GB Singh, civil surgeon, Mohali. “In villages, social distancing is automatically maintained and even people are taking precautions.”Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said there has been no decline in sampling being done in the district. “I urge residents to take proper precautions. A second surge can be expected in a week,” he said.Dr Parvinder Chawla, senior consultant, internal medicine, Fortis Hospital, Mohali, said: “At our Flu Clinic, the weekly footfall had shown a steady decline from the maximum of 262 in the second week of September. After falling to 47 in the last week of October, it has started rising again in November.” The district’s infection tally has reached 13,762, of which 1,059 cases are still active. The number of those cured stands at 12,444, including 67 patients discharged on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-city-accounts-for-80-covid-cases-in-district-in-past-two-weeks/story-nhX5xWvhUAHNaqvudPafdL.html
17-11-2020||City||7-yr-old girl drowns in pond in Kharar||A seven-year-old girl learning to ride bicycle drowned after accidentally falling into a pond at Hassanpur village in Kharar subdivision of Mohali district on Tuesday.Identified as Harman Kaur, she is survived by her father Ravinder Singh, an army soldier posted near Baramulla in Kashmir, mother and two siblings. The mishap took place around 3:15pm. A girl standing nearby raised the alarm and villagers who rushed there called police around 3:35pm. Immediate rescue operation was initiated in presence of subdivisional magistrate Himanshu Jain. Swimmers from Morinda and other nearby villages were called, and a motor pump was also installed to drain the pond. In the meantime, a National Disaster Response Force team was also called by the administration as backup, and a green passage was provided to facilitate its quick movement. However, around 5pm, swimmers recovered the girl’s body from the pond. She was declared dead on being taken to the civil hospital. Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said the Punjab chief minister has announced ₹2-lakh ex gratia for the girl’s family. Her body will be handed over to them in the morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/7-yr-old-girl-drowns-in-pond-in-kharar/story-dyKTGLeWgOQPhRDRg7PLdL.html
17-11-2020||City||Navi Mumbai Police arrest nine for duping investors in chit fund schemes||Navi Mumbai Police’s economic offences wing (EOW) has arrested nine people for their alleged involvement in a chit fund scam. The accused created a company and asked people to invest in various lucrative schemes and later closed it without returning people’s money on the pretext of having suffered losses amid the Covid-19 pandemic. According to the police, the fraud came to light after 58-year-old Rajaram Gholap registered a complaint against the accused firm, Smart Vision product Pvt Ltd, for not returning his money, which he has invested in their chit fund schemes. APMC police officers then registered a case under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Prize Chits and Money Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act, 1978. “The accused had taken money from several residents in Thane, Navi Mumbai and Bhandup to invest in chit fund schemes. During the lockdown, they told the investors that they had suffered losses and closed the company. However, we discovered that they had invested all the money in their newly created illegal firm, Reachhood Club. Through the new company, the accused again started attracting people towards their schemes. We laid a trap and arrested nine people involved in the case, but are yet to arrest the owners of the company. We are trying to ascertain the exact number of people who have been cheated by the accused as well as the total amount that has been duped from the investors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-police-arrest-nine-for-duping-investors-in-chit-fund-schemes/story-ZysaY93yrglnTYJm01f1PP.html
17-11-2020||Kolkata||Leave no booth unattended: BJP’s Bengal polls strategy aims to replicate 2019 formula||With less than six months left for the crucial assembly polls in West Bengal, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday prepared a draft blueprint of the campaign strategy the party would adopt in the run up to the 2021 elections. Top BJP leaders said that plans have been drawn up to the booth level, so that each and every ground level worker could be involved during the campaign period and the party could cover the maximum area before the elections are held in April-May, 2021. “While responsibilities have been fixed for the observers of all five organisational zones and district presidents, plans have been so prepared to engage each and every booth level worker. At least one program would be held every week in each and every booth. Instructions have also been given to involve those workers who might have felt disgruntled for some reason and bring them to the forefront during the campaign,” said a senior BJP leader, adding that there shouldn’t be any area left where the party fails to reach ahead of the polls. The BJP, after winning a close electoral race in Bihar, is now eyeing the Bengal assembly where it hopes to clinch at least 200 of the 294 seats. The party had made impressive gains in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections in Bengal, winning 18 of the 42 seats on offer. On Tuesday, some of the party bigwigs including Amit Malviya, the IT cell head and BL Santosh, national general secretary (organisation) came down to Bengal and held a meeting with the state leaders to prepare the battle plan and take stock of the party’s organisational preparedness. Malviya’s appointment as the co-incharge of West Bengal is also being seen as a thrust on social media campaign ahead of the polls. The entire process would be monitored by the central leadership, who would be coming down to Bengal from time to time. Senior BJP leaders hinted that the party would adopt a similar approach to the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The central observers appointed by the BJP in the five organizational zones in Bengal are Sunil Deodhar, Dushyant Gautam, Harish Dwivedi, Vinod Sonkar and Vinod Tawde. Also Read: TMC MLAs question Prashant Kishor; rebel says Mamata Banerjee no more in controlParty leaders who attended the meeting said in the coming days more central leaders, ministers and MPs would be coming down to Bengal. Earlier in November, Amit Shah, the Union home minister, had also come down to Bengal on a two day visit.“Just like 2019, in which central leaders had been given responsibilities for various zones and districts, this time too, they would be coming down to Bengal. This time, however, they would be given more responsibilities up to the booth level,” said a senior leader. Also Read: BSF officer arrested by CBI in Kolkata in cattle smuggling case While central leaders were preparing the draft plan, the state leaders continued their assault on the ruling Trinamool Congress. “This time elections would be held totally under the vigilance of central security forces. We will not allow the state police to come near the booths. Also a lot of people have purchased land and flats. The enforcement directorate would soon be after them. They might land up in jail in the coming days,” said Dilip Ghosh, president of the BJP’s Bengal unit. The ruling TMC, however, said that it was nothing more than a move intended to boost the morale of party workers. “Ghosh has once again spoken in an irresponsible manner. In every election, be it 2011 or 2016, central forces were deployed. He hasn’t said anything new. He just wants to motivate the workers. It is good to dream of winning an election,” said Saugata Roy, TMC MP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/leave-no-booth-unattended-bjp-s-bengal-polls-strategy-aims-to-replicate-2019-formula/story-H1QH3BSWlQoF4dATbFTzbM.html
17-11-2020||Kolkata||TMC MLAs question Prashant Kishor; rebel says Mamata Banerjee no more in control||Causing embarrassment for the Trinamool Congress (TMC) leadership, two more senior legislators of the party have spoken out against election strategist Prashant Kishor, while a third, who was branded a rebel last month, has said that Mamata Banerjee is no more in control of the party. Like heavyweight transport minister Suvendu Adhikari, these legislators too are agitated because organisational matters are being decided at the recommendation of Kishor, who was roped in by Banerjee after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) won 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats in 2019. Kishor works as a team with the chief minister’s nephew and Lok Sabha member Abhishek Banerjee. While two of these MLAs are from north Bengal region where the BJP won seven out of the eight Lok Sabha seats, one is a Muslim leader from Murshidabad where the community comprises 66.28 % of the population and its votes are crucial for the TMC in the coming assembly polls. Mihir Goswami, the senior legislator from Cooch Behar South constituency who relinquished all organizational responsibilities in October and said he was ready to resign from the assembly as well, on Tuesday wrote a long post on social media. He said that he tolerated many insults and adverse situations since 1989 but never left the TMC only because of Didi (Banerjee). “This is no longer Didi’s party. She is aloof. That is why Didi’s men are no longer required. If you have to stay, you have to be a ‘yes man’ or else, leave,” wrote Goswami. Expressing anguish for not receiving a phone call from Banerjee in six weeks, he wrote, “My party is no longer in the hands of my leader. This can no longer be my party.” Ever since BJP’s Cooch Behar Lok Sabha MP, Nisith Pramanik, met Goswami at his residence after Durga Puja, speculations have been rife that he might join the saffron camp. “I am giving everything a deep thought,” Goswami said on Tuesday, when asked whether he would leave the TMC. Though infighting is not new in the TMC, the current spate has its roots in the induction of younger faces in district committees during a reshuffle in July this year. Done on the recommendations of Kishor, the structural changes have made many old-timers insecure. Another senior TMC leader, Jadadish Chandra Barma Basunia, the legislator from Sitai constituency in Cooch Behar, has spoken in support of Goswami and questioned internal changes being made at the recommendation of Kishor and his team. “Responsibilities are being given to leaders who helped the BJP in the last election. This will severely affect the TMC’s prospects in 2021. Goswami is being insulted by some people in the party. There is a conspiracy to throw him out. He is a senior and experienced leader,” said Basunia. Members from Kishor’s team met him on Tuesday. In Murshidabad district, TMC legislator from Hariharpara, Niamot Sheikh openly challenged Kishor’s authority at a rally on Sunday. “Prashant Kishor is the cause of all trouble. Suvendu Adhikari revived the party in Murshidabad. And now leaders who talk to him are facing action,” Sheikh said at the rally. Also Read: After Bihar, it is now focus Bengal and Tamil Nadu for the BJP Murshidabad was traditionally a Congress bastion but Adhikari, who hails from East Midnapore district, changed the scenario after he was given charge of the district organization three years ago. Many Congress leaders switched camps under his guidance. “There are bound to be some differences among members of a big family but Niamot and Basunia should have raised these issues with the leadership instead of speaking in public,” said deputy parliamentary affairs minister and TMC spokesperson Tapas Roy. Meanwhile, leaders close to Adhikari said that he will address a big rally at Ramnagar in East Midnapore on Thursday where he is likely to announce his next step. Senior TMC leaders told HT last week that Adhikari is unhappy with Banerjee’s nephew and Lok Sabha member Abhishek Banerjee and Kishor for making the recent organisational changes and wants the party to field candidates of his choice in 65 assembly seats spread across several districts, including Murshidabad and Bankura. This is unacceptable to the leadership. Also Read: West Bengal: Five injured in an explosion in a house in West MidnaporeKishor drove down from Kolkata to Adhikari’s home at Kanthi on November 12. The minister, who threw a veiled challenge to the TMC in a huge rally on November 10, was not available. Kishor talked to his father Sisir Adhikari, the TMC’s senior most Lok Sabha member, who represents the Kanthi constituency, for over two hours. TMC leaders aware of the development said, Kishor conveyed to Adhikari that the leadership might consider discussing the minister’s demand for assembly poll tickets for some of his followers if he stops acting against the party. Troubled by infighting among district leaders in north Bengal, Abhishek Banerjee and Kishor visited Siliguri last month to iron out differences in the ranks. They discreetly held meetings with leaders from Darjeeling, Alipurduar, South Dinajpur, Cooch Behar and Malda. Goswami skipped the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/tmc-mlas-question-prashant-kishor-rebel-says-mamata-banerjee-no-more-in-control/story-3hgo8o83O0CFmpPZFvWE0H.html
17-11-2020||Noida||Random Covid-19 test for people coming from Delhi to Noida from Wednesday||People coming from Delhi to Noida will be randomly tested for Covid-19 from Wednesday, the administration of Gautam Buddh Nagar, adjoining the national capital, in Uttar Pradesh said.The decision for random sampling came during an online meeting of senior administration and health department officials with District Magistrate Suhas L Y on Tuesday amid a spike in Covid-19 cases in Delhi.There will be no restriction on free movement of people between Noida and Delhi, Suhas told PTI.“In view of the rising cases of coronavirus in Delhi, the district magistrate has directed officials to form teams that would be deployed at Noida-Delhi borders at DND and Chilla to randomly check people coming from the national capital for the infection,” he said.The district magistrate said the recent rise in cases in Gautam Buddh Nagar because of which the strategy to fight the pandemic is being “retuned”.“This rise has been due to cross-border infection from areas like Delhi and others. So, a random sampling of such people will be done and all institutions (here) will be issued advisory to look out for symptomatic people, track them early and provide them with whatever treatment is required,” Suhas told reporters.He said there was an increased cross-border movement of people during the recent days of festivals, hence the coming few days are going to be “crucial” and the health department has also been directed to make adequate preparations in hospitals.He also appealed to the people to follow all Covid-19 protocols like wearing masks or covers, practicing social distancing in public places and avoiding casual approach against the infection.The random sampling will be done by a rapid antigen-based test, the DM said. Gautam Buddh Nagar has recorded 20,566 cases of Covid-19 including 73 deaths, with 1,236 active cases, according to official data on Tuesday.However, Delhi has recorded over one lakh new coronavirus cases and around 1,200 deaths between November 1 and November 16 while nearly 94,000 patients recovered during the same period, according to official data.The national capital has witnessed a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases since October 28 when the daily rise breached the 5,000-mark for the first time and it crossed the 8,000-mark on November 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/random-covid-19-test-for-people-coming-from-delhi-to-noida-from-wednesday/story-Vk1sMaNSFNgEMvfJemAxeL.html
17-11-2020||Delhi||10 mobile testing vans, double ICUs to add serious Covid fighting muscle to Delhi||To curb the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the government will double the number of tests done with a focus on increasing reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests, which gives more accurate results than rapid antigen tests that account for a bulk of Covid-19 testing in Delhi.Ten mobile vans will be deployed and labs under ICMR and other scientific institutions will be roped in to increase testing, said NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul in a press briefing on Tuesday. “It has been decided that the number of tests will be doubled in Delhi between 1 lakh and 1.2 lakh. And, a strategy for the same has been devised. However, we need to ensure that the ratio between rapid antigen tests and the RT PCR is right; it should not become lopsided in the favour of rapid antigen tests,” said Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan at the briefing. On average, the gold standard RT-PCR tests accounted for almost 36% of the total tests done in Delhi over the last seven days, an increase from around 28% the week before. It is necessary to ensure high numbers of RT-PCR tests as the alternate rapid antigen test is known to throw up many false negatives for people who might have the infection. The ratio has been skewed in favour of rapid antigen tests in Delhi since its introduction in mid-June as it is cheap, easy to deploy in dispensaries, and gives results in fifteen minutes. To increase testing in the city quickly, Dr Paul said the entire capacity of laboratories in Delhi will be utilised. “Currently, the city does about 57 thousand tests a day, of which nearly 20,000 are done using RT-PCR tests. Delhi has a capacity of 27 thousand RT-PCR tests. This existing capacity will be utilised,” he said. Other than that, laboratories under the Indian Council of Medical Research and the health ministry will add 10,000 tests to the city’s total. Another 1,000 will be added by scientific institutions in the city. The health ministry will also deploy 10 mobile laboratories for testing as well. “Five of these mobile laboratories will be operationalized in the next four to five days and the others will be added in a week,” said Dr Paul. Also Read: Covid-19 showed our cities are vulnerable, says PM Modi at Bloomberg New Economy ForumIn the briefing, both Dr Paul and Bhushan emphasised that anyone who had symptoms of Covid-19 should get themselves tested. They said it was another Covid Appropriate Behaviour in addition to wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and not going to crowded places, and washing hands frequently. With increase in the number of hospitalisations and the intensive care unit beds almost running full, Dr Paul said that the current 3,500 ICU beds will be increased to 6,000 in the next few days with the help of Delhi government, army and central government. The army-run hospital in Dhaula Kuan will add 537 ICU beds, the central government hospitals 45, and 2,680 beds will be added by the Delhi government, mostly through the order reserving 80% ICU beds in 33 big private hospitals. Also Read: PM Modi seeks funding to build smarter Indian cities post Covid-19 pandemicTo staff the hospitals, 75 doctors and 250 paramedics from central forces are being flown in. “More than half of them have already arrived and the other will also arrive in the next couple of days. Manpower will also be drawn from central government and Municipal Corporation run hospitals,” said Dr Paul. With the number of active cases on the rise in the city, the government has also decided to augment the support system needed for home care to facilitate home isolation of up to 35 to 40 thousand people. “The support system needed for patients in home isolation – telemedicine support, pulse oximeter etc – will be ramped up, as the number of active cases might go up in the future,” said Dr Paul. The number of active cases has touched a peak of almost 44,500 in the city so far, of whom nearly 80% people remain in home isolation as per data shared by the Delhi government. To increase isolation facilities for mild cases not eligible for home isolation, the union government has decided to operationalize 5,000 beds at the Radha Soami Satsang Beas centre in Chattarpur and 800 beds in railway coaches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/10-mobile-testing-vans-double-icus-to-add-serious-covid-fighting-muscle-to-delhi/story-DlRnj8oWsdWcVx6G8jIa0L.html
17-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi Govt declares November 20 as public holiday on account of Chhath Puja||Delhi Government has declared November 20 as a public holiday on account of ‘Chhath Puja’.“Chhath Puja is an important festival for the people of NCT of Delhi. Accordingly, Government of NCT of Delhi, has decided to declare November 20, 2020 as a public holiday on account of ‘Chhat Pooja,” said Delhi government in order.Earlier in the day, BJP Puravnchal Morcha held a protest march towards the residence of Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal against the government’s decision of banning Chhath Puja on the banks of river Yamuna and public ghats.Shouting slogans against the Kejriwal government and demanding that the chief minister should either lift the ban or resign, the protesters claimed that they will celebrate Chhath, no matter what.“The government has opened all the markets. The DTC buses are plying with no social distancing norms. But the government is banning the puja on the pretext of the COVID-19. This is clearly a failure of this government. Rather than banning celebrations, arrangements should have been made to ensure social distancing,” said Adesh Gupta, the President of the Delhi BJP unit.Responding to allegations levelled by BJP, senior Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Durgesh Pathak said that the BJP-ruled Central government has issued guidelines stopping the celebration of Chhath puja but the same BJP is doing politics and falsely accusing the Kejriwal Government of not allowing the celebration. Pathak said that the “AAP demands that BJP should get permission from Home Minister Amit Shah to celebrate Chhath Puja and the Aam Aadmi Party will ensure the celebration.”The Delhi Disaster Management Committee (DDMC) has ordered that Chhath Puja will not be held at any public place this time due to the Covid-19 outbreak. The DDMC has suggested the people can celebrate the festival in private places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-declares-novmber-20-as-public-holiday-on-account-of-chhath-puja/story-vJiMJXwJsZuDpTjQhKEJJP.html
17-11-2020||Jaipur||Night temperatures in Rajasthan dip, Mount Abu coldest||Mount Abu was the coldest place in Rajasthan with a minimum temperature of 4 degrees Celsius on Tuesday.The minimum temperature in Ganganagar, Jaisalmer, Bikaner, Churu, Pali and Barmer was 11.9 degrees Celsius, 13 degrees Celsius, 13.2 degrees Celsius, 13.5 degrees Celsius, 14 degrees Celsius and 15.8 degrees Celsius, respectively, according to the Meteorological Department. The night temperature is likely to fall in the state during the next two-three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/night-temperatures-in-rajasthan-dip-mount-abu-coldest/story-BUboVfrfeITkkLEzyIGsDN.html
17-11-2020||Jaipur||Man kills wife, hangs her body from ceiling fan to pass it off as suicide||A 32-year-old man was arrested hours after he allegedly killed his wife and tried to pass it off as suicide by hanging her body from a ceiling fan in their house in Rajasthan’s Kota district, police said on Tuesday.Mukesh Erwal, who was arrested on Monday evening, had a strained relationship with his wife Santosh (30). They often fought with each other, they said.Santosh was found hanging in her house in Karwad village under Itawa police station on Monday morning. Mukesh claimed she had committed suicide, Station House Officer (SHO) Mukesh Meena said.However, the woman’s family members alleged that she was murdered by Mukesh. A case was registered on the basis of a complaint lodged by the woman’s brother and an investigation launched, he said.During questioning, Mukesh admitted to have murdered his wife. He hanged her body from the ceiling fan to make it look like a suicide, he added.Following his admission of crime, Mukesh was booked under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code, the SHO said.The accused was married to Santosh for 10 years. Their relationship had soured over the last few years. They often go into arguments and scuffles with each other. They have two children aged 8 and 5, he said.The accused was produced before a court on Tuesday which sent him to jail under judicial custody, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/man-kills-wife-hangs-her-body-from-ceiling-fan-to-pass-it-off-as-suicide/story-pCIOeM2vjCSDte1DO0C99M.html
17-11-2020||City||Amit Shah disappointed at us participating in democratic process: PAGD||The People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), which was formed last month to fight for the restoration of Jammu & Kashmir’s special status, on Tuesday hit out at Union home minister Amit Shah for his attack on the grouping calling it is a “global gathbandhan [alliance] against national interest”. It linked Shah’s attack to PAGD’s decision to contest the local elections and said he was disappointed over their move to participate in the democratic process.“Fighting elections in an alliance is also anti-national now. BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party] can stitch as many alliances in its hunger for power but somehow we are undermining national interest by putting up a united front,” former chief minister and PADG vice-president Mehbooba Mufti tweeted. “BJPs stale tactic of dividing India by projecting themselves as saviours and political opponents as internal & imagined enemies is far too predictable now. Love jihad, tukde tukde, and now Gupkar Gang dominates the political discourse instead of rising unemployment and inflation.”Also Read: Indians will not tolerate any unholy ‘global gathbandhan’: Shah on Gupkar allianceShah earlier lashed out at the political parties that have come together under the banner of PAGD and said by supporting the restoration of Article 370, which gave the region the special status, they want to take away the rights of Dalits, women, and tribals. Another former chief minister, Omar Abdullah, said they are not a gang but a legitimate political alliance having fought and continuing to fight elections much to Shah’s disappointment. “Only in J&K [Jammu & Kashmir] can leaders be detained & called anti-national for participating in elections & supporting the democratic process. The truth is all those who oppose the ideology of the BJP are labelled ‘corrupt & anti-national’,” he said.Abdullah said he can understand the frustration behind this attack. “He had been briefed that the People’s Alliance was preparing to boycott elections. This would have allowed the BJP & newly formed King’s party a free run in J&K. We didn’t oblige them,” he said.Jammu & Kashmir Congress president Ghulam Ahmad Mir said that his party does not need lessons on nationalism from BJP. “Anti-BJP is not anti-national,” he said. “Were Omar Abdullah and Mufti nationalist or anti-national when you were in coalition with them. You [Shah] should clear this first.”Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader MY Tarigami said the BJP was frustrated over their decision to trust the democratic process.“What have we done except that we have [decided to] participate in the elections. Does it mean that they expected us not to join [the electoral process]? Does it mean that those who are in authority characterise it as anti-national? Is being part of Indian democracy dangerous for those who are in authority?”The constituents of PAGD are fighting the District Development Council jointly on individual party symbols. Last week, the Congress said it will join hands with PAGD for the elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amit-shah-disappointed-at-us-participating-in-democratic-process-pagd/story-n1RQGXJrMWAmHRiWRJUHVL.html
17-11-2020||Lucknow||In UP, Opposition may fall back on backward class politics in 2022 polls||Not many eyebrows were raised in political circles when the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) appointed Bhim Rajbhar as its new state party chief.The step came after the BSP failed to win any seat in the recent by-elections to seven assembly seats and its vote share went down to 18.97% now against 22.23% in the 2017 assembly elections.The BSP’s move to appoint a backward leader replacing Munkad Ali is also an indication towards the strategy that major opposition parties may attempt to follow as they prepare for the 2022 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. Major political parties including the Bharatiya Janata Party, the Samajwadi Party and the Congress have a backward leader each as its state president and the BSP’s move is in consonance with them.Will the BSP be able to bring the focus back on the politics of the backward and the Dalits ahead of 2022 polls? “Yes, the BSP and all other parties are trying to bring the focus back on the backward classes after trying all other options. They (opposition parties) tried to woo the upper castes and fielded Brahmin candidates in Deoria. The BJP won Deoria, as it has been working for the upper caste community. Others are paying only lip service,” said Om Prakash Rajbhar, former minister and Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party leader, who formed the Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha of smaller parties in 2019. The SBSP now claims about bringing eight smaller parties together. It proposes to rope in leaders like Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar and others into the fold of Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha. The Bhim Army chief’s recent utterances blaming the BSP for “weakening the Bahujan moment” give an indication of the political scenario that may unfold ahead of the 2022 polls.“We are in touch with Bhim Army and some other parties. We have our options open. The political parties have regrouped in the past and will do so ahead of the 2022 polls too. We have brought eight smaller parties together. These include (the parties of) Babu Singh Kushwaha (Jan Adhikar Party), Krishna Patel (Apna Dal), Prem Chandra Prajapati (Bhagidari Aandolan Manch), Baburam Pal (Rashtriya Udai Party), Ram Sagar Bind (Bharat Mata Party), Ram Karan Kashyap (Bharatiya Vanchit Samaj Party) and Anil Chauhan (Janata Kranti Party). These parties have at least two lakh votes in each constituency and will make the difference,” said Rajbhar who broke away from the BJP ahead of 2019 Lok Sabha elections.As various attempts to work out new political equations and caste combinations, including the SP-BSP’s Maha Gathbandhan in 2019 Lok Sabha elections, have failed to work, questions are being raised about the workability of such strategy in future.“An alternative model of development and governance is what the political parties need to focus on to counter the BJP, instead of attempting to work out new political equations and caste combinations,”said SK Dwivedi, former head of department of Lucknow University’s political science department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/in-up-opposition-may-fall-back-on-backward-class-politics-in-2022-polls/story-B8FdUUfnfDfG7nM7A5XGcJ.html
17-11-2020||City||Branded Indian spy, Kanpur man returns home after 28 years in Pakistan||Shamsuddin, 70, finally made it back to Kanpur and his family after 28 years in Pakistan. He spent eight of these years in a Pakistan prison after being branded an Indian spy but was later acquitted of the charge. His return set off Diwali- like celebrations in the congested Kanghi Mohal here.Shamsuddin was quarantined in Amritsar after he was released from a Pakistan jail on October 26. A police team brought him to Kanpur on Monday afternoon and he was handed over to his family after brief questioning, circle officer (Sisamau) Tripurari Pandey said.As he stepped into the narrow lane, his sister Shabeena fainted. His daughters Azra and Uzma cried on seeing him after a long time. There were hundreds to welcome Shamsuddin, who was choked with emotion. “I suffered a lot in that prison; my freedom is the best Diwali gift I could ask for,” he said. A shoemaker by profession, Shamsuddin had left India in 1992 after a tiff with some relatives and went to Pakistan on a 90-day visa.After sometime, he sent his family back to Kanpur and stayed on in Pakistan. In 2012, he was arrested allegedly for being an Indian spy and then spent eight years in a Pakistan prison. He was exonerated of the charge and released from Ladi jail in Karachi on October 26.He entered India via the Attari border, but since the rules required him to complete 14-day quarantine, he was kept in Amritsar.After completing all the formalities, the UP police team reached Amritsar on November 14 and brought him back on Monday morning.“My country is the best; the Muhajirs (Indian immigrants) are not treated well (in Pakistan). I made a huge mistake by going there. The Indians are like enemies to them,” he said.On his return, the policemen gave him a piece of a sweet and put a garland around his neck. He started sobbing and said this was the most memorable Diwali for him. His sister Shabeena said the prayers of the family were finally answered and everyone was elated to have him back.His brother Fahim thanked the Indian government for help. The family, he said, had lost all hope of seeing him ever again at one stage. His two daughters, who were three and four years old when they last saw him, did not leave their father’s side after their return. His wife, who has not been keeping well, could not stop crying.“I cannot explain what I am feeling on seeing him alive. I am going to take such care of him that he forgets all the suffering he underwent,” said Azra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/branded-indian-spy-kanpur-man-returns-home-after-28-years-in-pakistan/story-NUSP67X2H7pcHYtuKXuwTN.html
17-11-2020||City||In Meerut, Muslim family hands over temple land ownership papers to mgmt committee||A Muslim family of the city set an example of communal harmony on Diwali day when they handed over ownership papers of a piece of land, on which a Shiva temple is built, to the temple’s management committee. According to the family members, in 1976 their grandfather had verbally donated the land in the city’s Indira Nagar locality for the temple. The temple was constructed on this donated land almost 25 years ago but land was still in the name of late Kasim Ali of Shakoor Nagar here. Meanwhile, a group of local residents tried to take control of the temple as there was no management committee to take care of it. Another group of local residents, led by Sumit Kumar Sharma, opposed them and formed a committee of 11 members for management of the temple. “We submitted all required documents in the registrar’s office almost a month ago for registration of the committee,” said Sharma, president of the committee. They then came to know that Kasim Ali had verbally donated the land for the temple and the committee members approached Ali’s family last week with a request to hand over the papers of the land. Kasim Ali’s sons Hazi Asim, Sajid and Sabir assured them of handing over the documents of the land soon. Kashif Ali, son of Sajid and a TV artiste in Mumbai, said his family got the papers of the land prepared and handed them over to the committee on Diwali day. Showing their gratitude towards the Ali family, members and officials of the temple committee and local residents felicitated the three brothers and Kashif Ali inside on temple premises on Monday and expressed their gratitude to them for honoring the will of their grandfather. “They set an example of communal harmony by their gesture,” said Sharma Kashif said: “We believe that people should respect each other’s religion and spread the message of harmony and brotherhood.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-meerut-muslim-family-hands-over-temple-land-ownership-papers-to-mgmt-committee/story-lep3mq9kr48PCQfZixPJKJ.html
17-11-2020||Patna||50 flights to operate from Patna airport this winter||There will more flying options from Patna to Delhi, Kolkata, Mumbai, and Bengaluru as the new winter flight schedule came into effect from Tuesday. Six new flights have been added to the schedule, taking the number of average daily departures from 44 to 50. As many as 15 flights will not operate daily. The schedule will be effective till December 31.The number of flights has gone up compared to that before the Covid-19 pandemic. But the number is less than that of last year. As many as 57 flights departed from Patna around this time last year.IndiGo has added three new, GoAir two and SpiceJet one flight as part of the winter schedule. From October 25, there were two flights for Delhi and one each for Mumbai, Pune, Kolkata, and Bengaluru from Patna.The number of daily flights between Patna and Delhi has gone up to 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/50-flights-to-operate-from-patna-airport-this-winter/story-9iIvohCCcKrcxQRuMLMoHO.html
17-11-2020||City||Jammu crime branch registers FIR against suspects in Rs34 lakh fraud||The Jammu crime branch on Tuesday registered a case against suspects for approaching Kathua residents and luring them to invest in Ansh Group of Companies. The fraudsters assured the people that their money would be doubled in 10 months and the company would pay them a bonus as well as gifts. The persons who have been booked for the fraud, cheating and conspiracy are Mukesh of Julana Pauli of Jind, Haryana (director, Ansh Group of Companies), Sonu Rani of Panipat, Haryana, Deepak Malik of Jind, Haryana (CEO, Ansh Group of Companies), and Parveen Kumar of Dera Bassi, SAS Nagar, Mohali, Ranjeet Singh of Mukhtar Sahib, and Jaspal Singh and Sukhwinder, both from Amritsar. The complainants were allegedly encouraged by the fraudsters to transfer a total of Rs34,30,000 into the account of the company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jammu-crime-branch-registers-fir-against-suspects-in-rs34-lakh-fraud/story-D7D9fLIKok0CRzjtJuxFfN.html
17-11-2020||City||53-yr-old raped daughter for 18 months. She finally gets him arrested: Cop||A 54-year-old electrician from a village in Ludhiana has been arrested for allegedly raping his 20-year-old daughter.The survivor, who is the youngest of four daughters, told the police that her father had been raping her for the past one-and-a-half-years.While her eldest sister is married, she, along with her mother and the other two sisters, work as domestic helps. She said that her father used to sexually exploit her whenever her mother and sisters were at work.She said on November 15, her father came home in an inebriated state and tried to rape her, but she resisted. Later, when her sisters came home, she narrated the incident to them following which they decided to lodge a police complaint.Police are now probing if the accused had sexually assaulted his other daughters too. Sadar station house officer, inspector Jagdev Singh said the case has been registered under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/electrician-arrested-for-raping-20-yr-old-daughter/story-DpimA2LAF45V9dKmbJhZ2M.html
17-11-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Rape victim sets self afire in Bulandshahr, critical||A girl allegedly set herself afire in a village in Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr district on Tuesday after an uncle of a man arrested for allegedly raping her tried to pressure her family to withdraw their complaint against the accused.This was the second such incident in the district since Monday. A law student, who was allegedly gang-raped on October 16, died by suicide on Monday in Bulandshahr.Senior police superintendent SK Singh said the girl suffered over 60% burns and was first taken to a local hospital from where doctors referred her to Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital where her condition was critical.Also Read: Rape complainant dies by suicide in UP’s Bulandshahar districtHe said a rape case was registered on the girl’s complaint on August 15 and the accused was arrested the same day. Singh added the accused worked as a caretaker of an orchard in the girl’s village.Singh said the uncle of the accused visited the girl’s family along with the orchard owner on Monday evening and is said to have put pressure on the girl’s parents.“Legal action would be initiated against those who put pressure for a compromise and they would be arrested,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-rape-victim-sets-self-afire-in-bulandshahr-critical/story-zDbtf5JgxygG5e4iKQZnmJ.html
17-11-2020||City||Pakistan must vacate PoK: RSS leader Indresh Kumar||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) leader Indresh Kumar on Tuesday asked Islamabad to vacate Pakistan occupied Kashmir (PoK) as well as Gilgit-Baltistan.“Jammu & Kashmir has got rid of a separate flag, constitution, and citizenship. It has now integrated fully with India. I congratulate people. Now, a voice will be raised for PoK, and Gilgit-Baltistan. They were part of Jammu & Kashmir and hence should be acceded to India,” said Kumar. He was referring to the end of Jammu & Kashmir’s special status last year that provided for a separate flag and constitution for the erstwhile state.Kumar, who was in Jammu for a convention of RSS’s Muslim Rashtriya Manch, said it was now time to make Parliament’s February 1994 resolution about PoK being India’s integral part a reality. “From today, a movement will be launched to get PoK, Baltistan-Gilgit vacated by Pakistan. Pakistan should withdraw its forces and vacate it.”Also Read: ‘Those who oppose BJP’s ideology are labelled corrupt and anti-national’: Omar AbdullahKumar hit out at former Jammu & Kashmir chief ministers Farooq Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti and asked them to leave India and settle in China and Pakistan over their statements seeking restoration of Jammu & Kashmir’s special status. “It is better they leave India and Kashmir and settle wherever they want to. Jammu & Kashmir was, is, and will remain an integral part of India. Now no separatism will work here and separatist leaders are not going to be accepted.”Kumar said when leaders like Mufti and Abdullah were detained in 2019 as the Centre divested Jammu & Kashmir of its special status, the region was peaceful. “None resented their detention and none was sad. When they were released, none went to welcome them.”He said the Congress’s move to join the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, which has been formed for the fight for restoring Jammu & Kashmir’s special status, shows the party does not stand for sovereignty and integrity of India. “It joined those who are trying to disintegrate India... people will not forgive.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pakistan-must-vacate-pok-rss-leader-indresh-kumar/story-7LZJIUw0fPdB4Qm5vZ8bEO.html
17-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: No relief on inflated electricity bills; pay as per reading, says energy minister Nitin Raut||Contrary to the Diwali bonanza hinted at by energy minister Nitin Raut, the power consumers of the state received a rude shock on Tuesday as the minister announced that the government will not be able to provide any relaxation in the inflated electricity bills that consumers received post-lockdown. Electricity consumers in the state will have to pay the full amount, the minister said.However, the state government has provided the facility of payment in three instalments and has also announced an incentive for payment in one go, Raut said. The announcement comes as a shock to thousands of consumers, who have reported inflated bills after the lockdown period.Also Read: Shiv Sena remains a Hindutva party, will not play Hindutva politics: Sanjay RautThe Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government attempted to provide relief to the consumers but the burden on the state exchequer would have mounted, energy department officials said. Raut, earlier this month, had hinted at relief for consumers saying a Diwali gift is in the offing. The energy department had sent a proposal to the finance department seeking relief for consumers.Raut blamed the Centre for not helping the state and seeking interest on the financial assistance sought in the matter. “I tried everything possible to provide relief to power consumers but when we sought assistance from the Centre, they offered to give funds at 10.8% interest. We contended that this assistance was sought to provide relief to the people. The discussion on this has ended. We have already completed 69% bill recovery,” the minister said. He added, “[Consumers] will have to pay as per the meter readings. [After lockdown] correction in meter readings has also taken place.”During the lockdown, the power corporation staff were not able to physically record meter readings and the bills were an approximation based on past usage. Several people, including celebrities in Mumbai and other parts of the state, complained about the bills during the lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Some consumers even reported inflated bills in locked houses.“We provided electricity 24x7 during lockdown and bills have to be paid as per the readings. Even Mahavitaran [Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited] is a consumer, it buys electricity from other sources. Today we [MSEDCL] are facing a debt of Rs69,000 crore, we cannot avail further debt at this stage. Consumers, who have used electricity, and whose bills are found accurate as per the meter reading, must pay the bills,” Raut added.The minister added that there would not be any disconnection of power due to non-payment. He added that the notification issued by his department has allowed payment in parts and announced incentives as well. “We have already given orders to inspect whether the bills are accurate. If found accurate, we have given [residents] an option to pay in three instalments, if they pay it in one go, they would get an incentive of 2%. We have taken the decision keeping people in mind,” he said.The issue of the inflated bills has also gained political traction as the Bharatiya Janata Party and Maharashtra Navnriman Sena (MNS) have raised the issue. BJP leaders held protests in the city in the past few months, while MNS chief Raj Thackeray met governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari last month seeking his intervention in the issue of inflated bills. Thackeray accused the MVA government of dragging its feet on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-no-relief-on-inflated-electricity-bills-pay-as-per-reading-says-energy-minister-nitin-raut/story-rxc97IR1WhNWZw4IoOX9KM.html
17-11-2020||City||PAU raises questions on Delhi’s microbe solution to paddy straw||Ludhiana Days after the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Delhi announced that it had found a solution to the paddy stubble menace in the form of a bio-decomposer, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) scientists have said that just microbes in the form of a decomposer were not the answer.Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI), Pusa, had developed the decomposer. “The microbe-based technologies, promoted and widely advertised, are being offered as stand-alone interventions. It is, however, clear that the application of microbes needs to be integrated with machine-based solutions,” said Dr Shammi Kapoor, dean, College of Basic Sciences and Humanities, PAU.Dr Kapoor and GS Manes, additional director research, have also submitted a study to their vice-chancellor that a multipronged approach is the only way to manage the menace of paddy stubble burning. In the study titled, “Managing paddy straw with machines and Microbes” they cite examples and previous studies, with the central idea being that microbes need to incorporated into the soil with paddy residue.They claim that over the past two years, nine different microbial preparations, including five commercial and four in-house consortia, are under evaluation at different locations (Ludhiana, Ladhowal, Sangrur, Kapurthala and Gurdaspur) that vary with respect to soil and agro-climatic conditions. With an increase in the number of specialised machines like happy seeder, super seeder (around 73,000 in 2020), the need to rely on exclusively microbe-based approach has also become less relevant, their study states.AK Singh, director, IARI, said, “First, we have to see whether the PAU is talking about our consortium or the consortium that it has developed. Second, we have stated that after spraying the consortium, it has to be incorporated with a rotavator with some soil to remain over the paddy stubble. Then, it should be irrigated and left for 25 days. This is most sustainable option for the long-term solution.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pau-raises-questions-on-delhi-s-microbe-solution-to-paddy-straw/story-lqv3mSxoq5k09Zg9W5771N.html
17-11-2020||City||Rebuilding lives; Sangrur dalit family comes to terms with death||Sangrur A year after the murder of a dalit Jagmail Singh, 37, who was allegedly tortured and forced to drink urine at Changaliwala village near Lehragaga, his family have come to terms with life. In fact, they continue to keep their dream alive as well, having migrated to Dhandiwal village in Dhuri sub-division. They have also constructed a three-room house with the compensation amount of Rs 21 lakh they received. Jagmail’s wife is working as a peon at Government Senior Secondary School, Benra, and his 15-year-old son, who is pursuing Class 10, wants to join the Indian Army. On November 16, 2019, Jagmail, a Dalit construction worker, had died in a hospital in Chandigarh, nine days after being beaten up and forced to drink urine by upper caste men. Jagmail was accused of standing outside the doors of houses of upper caste families in an inebriated condition and mouthing obscenities.ruction,” said Kaur, who has son Karanvir Singh, 15, Simarjit Kaur, 12 and Navjot to take care of. “I have joined as peon at a government school, but have not received salary so far due to some paperwork but I was told that I will get entire arrears. Though we have not recovered from the incident, we are feeling secure in Dhandiwal. My children are studying in a safe atmosphere. However, I want exemplary punishment for the murderers,” she added. Karanvir said, “I want to join the army after completing Class 12,” Singh added. Tej Kaur, Jagmail’s elder sister, said she brought her brother’s family to Dhandiwal and stood by them in tough times. “If anyone tries to harm them, they will face consequences” she added. Police had arrested Rinku, his father Amarjit Singh, Lakhi and Beeta, alias Binder, all of Changaliwala village under murder charges. Three accused are on bail and Rinku’s bail plea is pending in Punjab and Haryana high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rebuilding-lives-sangrur-dalit-family-comes-to-terms-with-death/story-Lnm8SjXiwKANxG9r1i42VO.html
17-11-2020||Jaipur||Treat Covid-19 death on duty at par with martyrdom, demands soldier’s family||Body of 35-year old Hari Singh, an Indian Army soldier, who died due to Covid-19 was finally cremated after villagers in Rajasthan’s Bharatpur gave up their insistence to accord state honour to Singh’s cremation. The breakthrough came after negotiations carried out by district administration officials on Tuesday.Singh was deployed in 7 Jat regiment in Bareilly and was admitted to the military hospital in the city for treatment after he was diagnosed Covid-19 positive. He was declared dead by doctors on Monday.When the mortal remains of the jawan reached his native village of Januthar under Deeg police station area, his family members and other villagers refused to cremate the body and demanded cremation with state honour.After a few hours, family members and villagers agreed to cremate his body after they were assured of financial help by the officials.Nem Singh, a farmer leader demanded that all facilities and packages should be provided to any soldier’s family treating him at par with a martyr if the death is due to Covid-19 on duty.Also Read: Daughter of BSF soldier vows to join army as ‘tribute’ to father killed in Pak firingSub-divisional magistrate of Deeg, Hemant Kumar, said Hari Singh’s body was cremated without a guard of honour.11-year-old Krish, son of the deceased, lit the pyre. Hari Singh had returned to duty last month where he fell sick from Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/treat-covid-19-death-on-duty-at-par-with-martyrdom-demands-soldier-s-family/story-7ps17ddtpsUx1wEznoJmyO.html
17-11-2020||Mumbai||Shiv Sena remains a Hindutva party, will not play Hindutva politics: Sanjay Raut||Maharashtra’s ruling Shiv Sena on Tuesday insisted it remains a Hindutva party, which will stand up for the ideology whenever required.“We do not need to get our Hindutva certified from any party. We were; we are and we will always be pro-Hindutva. We do not play Hindutva politics like them. Whenever the country needs us, Shiv Sena will always come forward wielding the sword of Hindutva,” said Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut after paying his respects to the party’s founder Bal Thackeray on his eighth death anniversary.Shiv Sena ended its decades-old alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party last year to form the government with Congress and Nationalist Congress Party’s help in Maharashtra.Also Read: If Shiv Sena digs graves, we will find your skeletons of corruption: MP Sanjay Raut to BJPRaut said Shiv Sena’s leadership was carrying forward Bal Thackeray’s teachings and ideology. Raut added Thackeray spearheaded the issues of “the sons of the soil”, which is now being invoked by political parties across the country. “Balasaheb took up the issues of sons of soil and unemployment 55 years ago. Today, the same issue is the mainstay of all social and political movements. The recent Bihar elections too were centred on these two issues.”Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, his family, and political leaders across party lines paid tributes to the Sena founder.Raut separately slammed demands for renaming New Delhi’s Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) after Swami Vivekananda, calling it vindictive politics.Prime Minister Narendra Modi last week unveiled a statue of Vivekananda on the JNU campus.Raut said the Centre should establish another university and name it after Vivekananda. He added that Nehru’s legacy cannot be undone by renaming institutions. “Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru has always remained the pride of this country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-remains-a-hindutva-party-will-not-play-hindutva-politics-sanjay-raut/story-tYBWfGqmDUqkFnNe6L7nvJ.html
17-11-2020||Bangalore||Bengaluru violence: Karnataka Congress chief alleges ‘agenda’ behind arrest of party leader||In a veiled attack on the Karnataka government, State Congress chief DK Shivakumar on Tuesday said it was their “agenda and plan” to arrest Congress leader and former Bengaluru Mayor Sampath Raj in the Bengaluru violence case.He added that the arrest of Sampath Raj was a clear message of targeting Congress leaders.“It is their agenda to do this, it is a clear message of targeting Congress leaders. They had planned to do this,” Shivakumar told media persons here. Earlier in the day, Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai termed the arrest of Sampath Raj in the Bengaluru violence case as a major development that will lead to “exposure of the conspiracy and people behind it”.”He was accused and was absconding. Had he been innocent, he would not have absconded. We have caught him. There will be a further probe. His arrest is a major development that will lead to exposure of the conspiracy and people behind it (Bengaluru violence),” said Basavaraj Bommai, Karnataka Minister.Sampath Raj was brought to the Central Crime Branch’s (CCB) office in Bengaluru after being arrested earlier in the day in connection with the DJ Halli and KG Halli violence case, police said.Raj had gone missing on October 31 after authorities at a Bengaluru hospital, where he was admitted for COVID-19 treatment, allegedly discharged him without informing the police.Earlier, his lawyer had alleged political vendetta behind the chargesheet filed against him in the Bengaluru violence case and said that the chargesheet had no material to prove any of the charges invoked in the matter.The CCB had last week filed a preliminary chargesheet in the August 11 violence that took place in Bengaluru, naming Congress corporators AR Zakir and Sampath Raj as accused.Violence had broken out in parts of Bengaluru on August 11 over an alleged “derogatory” social media post. At least three people lost their lives, while nearly 60 police personnel were injured in the incident. The police arrested around 415 accused in connection with the violence.An FIR was registered on the complaint of Congress MLA Akhanda Srinivas Murthy at DJ Halli Police station three days after the violence broke out in parts of Bengaluru over an alleged “derogatory” social media post by his nephew, the police said. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/bengaluru-violence-karnataka-congress-chief-alleges-agenda-behind-arrest-of-party-leader/story-5ErpAJvpfrzJhlozL3zJXO.html
17-11-2020||City||Charred body of Tripura woman recovered from home, husband held||The Tripura Police have arrested a man for allegedly killing his 21-year-old wife by setting her on fire. The man allegedly tortured his wife over dowry and also cheated on her, they said.Police said the charred body of the woman, a mother of a two-year-old child, was recovered from her house at Kalikamura on Monday. They added the couple got married three years ago and their relationship had since been soured over dowry. The woman’s father said his daughter suspected her husband of cheating on him. He added his daughter was physically and mentally tortured by her husband and in-laws for dowry.“The woman’s father has blamed her in-laws including her husband for her death. Based on his complaint, we registered a case and arrested the accused on Monday,” said Bijoy Sen, a local police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/charred-body-of-tripura-woman-recovered-from-home-husband-held/story-zrrbXVHMfEpcn2nNodOtIP.html
17-11-2020||Dehradun||UP CM Yogi Adityanath offer prayers at Badrinath shrine, meets ITBP soldiers at Indo-China border||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath offered prayers at the Badrinath shrine in Chamoli district on Tuesday along with chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat before the shrine closes for the winter. Adityanath was scheduled to visit Badrinath on Monday, but the two chief ministers were stranded in Kedarnath due to heavy snowfall. Uttar Pradesh chief minister offered special prayers for around 45 minutes and conducted ved path (recitation of Vedic hymns) at the Badrinath temple. Also Read: Temperatures to dip in northwestern India, says IMDAfter the visit, Adityanath laid the foundation stone of a Uttar Pradesh government tourist house near the shrine. The guest house has been constructed in an area of around 4000 square metres and costs approximately Rs11 crore. The tourist guest house has 40 rooms. It also has rooms for specially-abled tourists. The Uttarakhand chief minister’s office on Tuesday afternoon said that after inaugurating the guest house, both the chief ministers went to Mana, the last village in Chamoli district near the Indo-China Border. Adityanath and Rawat spent time with soldiers of Indo-Tibetan Border Police at Mana. On Monday, Adityanath had visited Kedarnath shrine and offered prayers there before it closed for the winter. On this occasion, Yogi Adityanath said, “All issues of dispute between Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand have been solved and in future also we will continue to work together. There was a case regarding an Alaknanda Guest House in Haridwar, which was pending in Supreme Court, that has also been resolved and it was decided that the guest house will be given to Uttarakhand government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/up-cm-yogi-adityanath-offer-prayers-at-badrinath-shrine-meets-itbp-soldiers-at-indo-china-border/story-NGECsMtiHIDiZ3De0TqRsI.html
17-11-2020||Election:||AIMIM MLA claims threat to life from elder brother who lost polls to him||Newly-elected AIMIM MLA Shahnawaz Alam’s wife, Gazala Khatun, has lodged an FIR at Jokihat police station against her husband’s elder brother Sarfaraz Alam and RJD leaders--Pappu Paswan, Rashik Anjum, Md Babloo, Md Arshad, Firoz Mukhiya, Hazi Khalil, Gaurav Kumar Bittu and seven others—accusing them of assaulting and abusing her and others.“We were strolling in our campus on Sunday evening when about 15 persons led by Sarafaraz Alam arrived here on four vehicles and asked us to vacate the house and leave the village,” she said, adding, “They later assaulted us and made vulgar comments on us.”She claimed that the assailants even threatened to kill the MLA if the family didn’t vacate the ancestral house.Sarafaraz Alam and Shahnawaz Alam are sons of former Union minister, late Md Taslimuddin, and they contested against each other in the recently concluded assembly elections. Sarfaraz Alam contested the Jokihat seat on a RJD ticket but lost to younger brother Shahnawaz Alam, who won as AIMIM candidate.Araria SDPO Pushkar Kumar said, “We have lodged an FIR on the basis of the written complaint from the wife of the AIMIM MLA under sections 147, 148, 323, 342, 354 (A), 447, 448, 456, 477, 504 and 509 of IPC.”“A probe is underway and stern action will be taken against those who were involved in the incident,” he added.Meanwhile security personnel have been deployed at AIMIM MLA’s house at Sisona village. Shahnawaz Alam has also appealed to the state government to provide him with protection.“We appeal to the Bihar government to provide us security” Shahnawaz said alleging his elder brother and his henchmen would harm him and his family. The MLA expressed fear that he could have been killed had he been present during the incident on Sunday evening. Alam has also written to Araria district magistrate and superintendent of police demanding security.Also Read: Congress panel meeting today to discuss organisational mattersShahnawaz has even appealed to RJD leader Tejaswi Yadav to act against his elder brother, who he alleged was involved in criminal acts after being rejected by the people in the election.“How can the RJD hope to revive itself in Seemanchal with the help of such a candidate” Shahnawaz said.Also Read: Bihar: With new faces in Cabinet, BJP keeps focus on young bloodBoth the brothers have been engaged in a bitter dual to lay claim to their father’s legacy. Their tussle also played out in the election where Shahnawaz successfully won the Jokihat seat as an AIMIM candidate after he was shunned by the RJD, which picked his elder brother Sarfaraz Alam as party candidate instead from the seat.“Political and electoral fight has intensified the family feud and this is just the beginning,” sources within late Taslimuddin’s family said, adding “It will go further.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/aimim-mla-claims-threat-to-life-from-elder-brother-who-lost-polls-to-him/story-zBiDy0KKmhpRwqk48x83aN.html
17-11-2020||Chandigarh||HC allows ED appeal against Chautala family for using Dabwali farmhouse for weddings||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday allowed the Enforcement Directorate’s (ED) plea against de-sealing the Dabwali farmhouse of former chief minister and Indian National Lok Dal leader Om Prakash Chautala for a month for the wedding of his grandsons this month-end. The case has been sent back to the appellate tribunal, Prevention of Money Laundering Act, Delhi, for a fresh decision, ED counsel Arvind Moudgil said. The high court bench of justice AG Masih acted on the plea of the ED, which had challenged the October 20 order of the appellate tribunal, ordering the de-sealing of the farmhouse for a month. The detailed order is awaited. The tribunal order had come on the plea of Om Prakash Chautala’s son Abhay Singh Chautala, who sought permission to use the farmhouse at Tejakhera village for the wedding of his two sons on November 27 and 30. The tribunal had ordered that the farmhouse be de-sealed on November 6 and sealed again on December 7. The high court stayed the tribunal order on November 6. The farmhouse has been sealed by the ED as the probe against Om Prakash Chautala for money laundering is underway. The ED had told the high court that there is no provision in the PMLA to de-seal an attached property connected with the proceeds of crime even temporarily. In case it is allowed, it would set a wrong precedent that would be exploited by the accused to enjoy the proceeds of crime till the decision is rendered by the appellate tribunal, the ED argued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-allows-ed-appeal-against-chautala-family-for-using-dabwali-farmhouse-for-weddings/story-BOuvhgcSSCVSWWTzGHoUoJ.html
17-11-2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh to table Bill against ‘forced and fraudulent inter-religious marriages’||The Madhya Pradesh government on Tuesday announced it will bring in legislation against forced and fraudulent inter-religious marriages with a provision for five-year rigorous punishment for anyone found involved in or promoting them.“We are going to table the Madhya Pradesh Dharm Swatantrey Bill, 2020, in this winter session against ‘love jihad’ which means a woman is forced or lured by a person of other religion for marriage and later she is tortured for conversion,” said state home minister Narottam Mishra said.Also Read: In defence of the right to choose one’s loveRadical Hindu groups have popularised the term “love jihad”, which they use to describe what they believe is an organised conspiracy of Muslim men to trick Hindu women into marriages. In February, junior home minister G Kishan Reddy told Parliament the term “love jihad” is not defined under the laws and no such case has been reported by any central agency.Mishra said they will punish the people who promote “love jihad”. “The forceful conversions and marriages will be a cognisable offence and non-bailable. There will be a provision for declaring such marriages null and void,” said Mishra. He insisted they are not against inter-religion marriages but will prevent only incidents of “love jihad”.Mishra said any person wanting to convert for marriage has to inform district magistrates a month in advance.AK Gohil, a retired high court judge, questioned the need for separate legislation, saying there is already a law against forceful conversion. “If the state government wants to bring a specific law against forceful inter-religious marriages, it should first define the meaning of love Jihad because it is more an agenda of the saffron organisation. Forceful inter-religious marriages, which are emerging as a big problem, should be dealt with sensitively with a clearly defined law.”Opposition Congress lawmaker Kunal Chaudhary said his party will support every law brought for the safety of women in Madhya Pradesh. “But before introducing the new law, the home minister should ensure the implementation of existing laws as crimes against women are increasing in the state and the government is not taking any strict steps to curb them.”Ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesman Rajneesh Agrawal expressed his happiness that the state government is serious about these torturous marriages. “The new law will definitely save the lives of many women.”Other BJP-ruled states like Uttar Pradesh and Haryana have also promised to bring in similar legislation. Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on November 2 first announced his government’s plan to introduce the Bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-to-table-bill-against-forced-and-fraudulent-inter-religious-marriages/story-nDKBKHnjM4cLAaKNfQONzJ.html
17-11-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi looks to withdraw relaxation on wedding attendees, shut markets emerging as hotspots||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said the government has decided to withdraw its order relaxing the cap on the number of wedding attendees, which would effectively bring back the number to 50. The move, however, would need the approval of lieutenant governor (L-G) Anil Baijal, who is the chairperson of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA).Kejriwal also said that he would request the Centre to allow the Delhi government to temporarily close markets identified as potential Covid-19 hot spots for the rampant violation of social distancing norms and other Covid-19-related regulations.“A few weeks ago, when the Covid-19 situation had improved, the cap on gatherings in marriages was relaxed – from 50 to 200 individuals. The government has decided to withdraw the order, and bring back the limit on the size of wedding-related gatherings from 200 to 50. The proposal has been sent for L-G’s approval today,” said the chief minister in a video press briefing.Also read | Delhi overtakes Maharashtra in daily Covid-19 count: List of states with high caseloadHe added, “During Diwali, we witnessed massive crowds in markets across the city and in some of them, a large number of people was found neither wearing masks nor following social distancing norms. This has led to the transmission of coronavirus. Even though crowds are expected to reduce in markets now, we will send a proposal to the Central government requesting them to allow us to temporarily close those markets where we see rampant violation of social distancing norms and Covid-19 regulations, which we assess as potential hot spots.”Under the current guidelines of the Union home ministry, states need the Union ministry’s approval to impose local lockdown-like restrictions.Kejriwal, on Tuesday, thanked the Centre for its recent intervention in Delhi’s fight against Covid-19 and specifically mentioned the shortage of ICU beds. “Total beds are adequate in Delhi. Though occupancy in private hospitals in high but there is a crisis of ICU beds. I thank the central government for its timely intervention and the 750 ICU beds they have assured,” he said.As on Tuesday noon, hospitals across the city – including both public and private ones – had 3,564 ICU beds reserved for Covid-19 cases, of which 3,145 were occupied, government records showed.The chief minister also asked people to not let their guards down at any cost. “Covid-19 does not discriminate. It can happen to any of us. You have to strictly adhere to rules and take all precautions,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-delhi-withdraws-relaxation-on-wedding-attendees-some-markets-could-be-closed-temporarily/story-HbinqqfwIiGtSXtbxHVGoL.html
17-11-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal gets more snow, farmers asked to delay rabi sowing||After the recent snow and rain ended a two-and-a-half-month dry spell in Himachal Pradesh, farmers of the state have been advised not to immediately sow rabi crops. State agriculture director Naresh Kumar Badhan said on Tuesday that farmers should avoid sowing rabi crops immediately after the rain. “Farmers should wait for a couple of sunny days after the rain before sowing wheat, pulses and vegetables. The temperature should neither be low nor high for better growth of crops,” he said. Meanwhile, the higher reaches of the state received fresh snowfall on Tuesday, while rain is forecast in the middle and lower hills. Sangla in Kinnaur district got 5cm of snowfall, Keylong 2cm and Kalpa 0.4cm, while Nahan recorded 22.9mm of rainfall. Dalhousie received 10mm of rain and Dharamshala 8.4mm. Light rainfall occurred in Shimla, Solan, Manali, Kufri, Palampur, Bilaspur and Hamirpur. MANALI RECORDS LOW OF MINUS 1.5°C The mercury dropped further in the past 24 hours. State meteorological department director Manmohan Singh said that weather is expected to remain clear for the next few days. Shimla saw a low of 4.8 degrees Celsius on Tuesday, while Kufri, 14 km from the state capital, froze at 0.4°C. The minimum temperature in Manali was minus 1.5°C. Dharamshala and Dalhousie recorded lows of 5.8°C and 3.6°C, respectively. Una recorded a low of 7.6°C, Bilaspur 9°C, Hamirpur 8.2°C, Nahan 12.2°C and Kalpa minus 2.1°C, while Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district was the coldest at a low of minus 6.6°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-gets-more-snow-farmers-asked-to-delay-rabi-sowing/story-fVw8WGYUBlPRDivWoVvwJN.html
17-11-2020||Delhi||BJP to protest govt ban on Chhath Puja outside Delhi CM Kejriwal’s residence||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will hold a protest outside Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence on Tuesday to oppose his government’s ban on Chhath Mahaparva.Naveen Kumar, Delhi BJP’s media in-charge, said Dinesh Pratap Singh and Kaushal Mishra will lead the party’s supporters, who will gather near Chandgiram Akhara and march towards Kejriwal’s house.The Delhi government has banned community celebrations of Chhath Puja at public places like river banks, temples, ghats amid a surge in Covid-19 cases.The number of cases started nearing the 8000-mark daily last week.Also Read: Delhi overtakes Maharashtra in daily Covid-19 count: List of states with high caseloadDelhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said the government should not hurt the religious sentiments of Poorvanchalis and permission should be given to organise Chhath Mahaparva with specific guidelines or alternative arrangements should be made.“There is anger among Poorvanchalis living in Delhi due to the ban on Chhath Mahaparva... Chhath festival is the biggest festival for the Poorvanchalis and Chhath Vrati [those who fast] cannot leave the puja under any circumstances.”He said BJP-led municipal corporations and councillors have got Chhath Ghats cleaned, but it is the responsibility of the Delhi government to arrange electricity and water.Jai Prakash, mayor, North Delhi Municipal Corporation, condemned the ban on Chhath Puja and demanded it be lifted. “We carried out sanitation activities at ghats much before the ban was announced. We can create more ghats to keep the crowd sparse. The government should issue specific guidelines to conduct the puja instead of banning it,” Prakash said.Nirmal Jain, mayor, East Delhi Municipal Corporation, said people will certainly celebrate Chhath if not at public ghats, then in their colonies and societies which would again lead to chaos. “The government should allow bigger ghats to be opened for the puja. The crowd can be regulated. We are all prepared but the government should come up with some guidelines.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-bjp-to-protest-govt-ban-on-chhath-puja-outside-cm-arvind-kejriwal-s-residence/story-5EQeSHjlTpXZXcXWYVY2LO.html
17-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: MMR’s contribution to Covid-19 cases declines to around 800 daily||As the number of Covid-19 cases reduce in the state, the contribution of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), which comprises Mumbai and surrounding areas, to the daily tally is also declining. The MMR has been the most affected region in Maharashtra.Of the total 11,447 cases reported on October 16, as many as 3,630 cases were reported from the MMR. The region’s daily case count has declined to 791 of the total 2,535 cases reported in the state on November 16, shows the data released by the state health department.MMR comprises nine municipal corporations, including Mumbai and the rural areas of Thane, Palghar and Raigad districts. It is also the region most affected by the pandemic in the state.Also Read: Delhi overtakes Maharashtra in daily Covid-19 count: List of states with high caseloadHowever, it is still reporting the highest number of daily infections among all the regions.The region has also reported 607,073 cases, the maximum count, among all regions till November 16.Pune region follows MMR in terms of daily case count. On November 16, it recorded 560 cases, the second-highest contribution to cases in the state. It is also the second most-affected area after MMR with 439,364 cases as of November 16.It comprises five municipal corporations, including Pune and rural areas of Solapur, Satara, Kolhapur and Sangli districts.“There is a decline in cases and we have been observing it in all the areas of the state. MMR is also reporting less than 1,000 cases but it continues to contribute the maximum number of cases as compared to rest of the regions,” said a health official, wishing not to be named.On November 9, the state recorded 2,535 cases, the lowest number since June 16 when 2,701 cases were reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-mmr-s-contribution-to-covid-19-cases-declines-to-around-800-daily/story-PVHmRbFYEAqezgX4WisxPO.html
17-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Fire breaks out at Kidwai Bhawan, no injury reported||A fire broke out at the Kidwai Bhawan in New Delhi’s Janpath on Tuesday morning. The Delhi Fire Services (DFS) said they received information about the fire at 10.01am after which 10 fire tenders were sent to the spot. A fire department officer said no one was injured in the fire. “The fire was doused within half an hour. The cooling process is underway. We cannot confirm the reason behind the fire yet,” an officer at the control room said. Fire officials said the fire was reported from one of the offices of the MTNL inside the building.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-fire-breaks-out-at-janpath-no-injury-reported/story-Xv66JRiXIYxWaEbpQGXpwK.html
17-11-2020||Chandigarh||Five men from Moga burnt alive as car catches fire after colliding with Canter in Sangrur||Five men returning from a wedding reception were burnt alive when their car caught fire after colliding with a Canter on Sunam road on the outskirts of Sangrur town late on Monday.Police said all five victims, including two doctors, belonged to Moga district. “The victims were returning from Dirba and headed for Moga district. Their car collided with a Canter after which it caught fire around 11pm on Monday. We have informed their families,” deputy superintendent of police, rural, Satpal Sharma said.Eyewitnesses said the driver of the Hyundai Eon D Lite was overtaking a truck when the accident occurred. The oil tank of the Canter started leaking and caught fire within seconds.They said the car was locked and the fire spread fast so they could not rescue the passengers.The deceased were identified as Dr Balwinder Singh, Dr Kultar Singh, retired army captain Sukhwinder Singh, Surinder Singh and Chamkour Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/five-men-from-moga-burnt-alive-as-car-catches-fire-after-colliding-with-canter-in-sangrur/story-rnEL26bBDMv4cGICITHKOP.html
17-11-2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Five injured in an explosion in a house in West Midnapore||At least five persons were injured in an explosion in a house at West Midnapore district in West Bengal on Monday. Police suspect that crude bombs were being made in the house. Even though the Bharatiya Janata Party has alleged that the house belonged to a Trinamool Congress (TMC) supporter and crude bombs were being made to spread violence in the area, the TMC has rubbished the allegations saying that miscreants had attacked the house and hurled crude bombs. “Five persons have been injured. We have collected samples from the spot. It appears that crude bombs have exploded. Investigation is going on,” said a senior police officer. Also Read: After Bihar, it is now focus Bengal and Tamil Nadu for the BJPThis is however not the first time that such explosions have taken place in Bengal, which is heading towards crucial assembly polls. West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar had alleged in September this year that the state has become home to illegal bomb-making factories. In October, an explosion in a local club located in the midst of a crowded residential neighbourhood in eastern-suburban Kolkata, had sent shockwaves among the residents. Police said that explosion ripped the roof of the house. The injured were initially rushed to a health centre from where they were referred to a state-run medical college and hospital in the district. Even though the owner of the house, Reyazed Mullick, was not injured in the blast, he was later beaten up by the locals and had to be admitted in the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-five-injured-in-an-explosion-in-a-house-in-west-midnapore/story-Hfa0z2BmCRceCSBiAWV2MP.html
17-11-2020||Delhi||Two Jaish-e-Mohammad suspects held in Delhi: Police||Two terror suspects allegedly affiliated to the Jaish-e-Mohammad and residents of Kashmir were arrested with arms and ammunitions in Delhi on Monday night, the Delhi Police’s special cell said.Sanjeev Yadav, the deputy commissioner of police (special cell), said the two suspects were caught near the Millennium Park in Central Delhi’s Sarai Kale Khan after the police received a tip-off about their presence there.The officer identified the two suspects as Abdul Latif Mir, 22, and Mohd Ashraf Khatana, 20. While Mir belongs to Baramulla, Khatana is from Kupwara, said the officer.Yadav said that two automatic pistols and 10 cartridges have been recovered from them.The police are questioning the suspects to know their past and about the reason they were in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/two-jaish-e-mohammad-suspects-held-in-delhi-police/story-Fk3fw3LNtZlE5egeggQJJJ.html
17-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra forest dept probes poaching angle as decomposed tiger carcass found in Gondia||A mutilated and disjointed carcass of a tiger was recovered from different locations across paddy fields at Lodhitola village in the Mundipaar round in the Gondia forest range by the Maharashtra forest department between Sunday and Monday.Forest officials said the findings were unusual and they had started an investigation. “This seems to be a clear case of poaching but we cannot identify the cause of death at the moment. It could be through poisoning or electrocution. There has been no arrest yet,” said Kulraj Singh, deputy conservator of forests, Gondia.On Sunday evening, the local range forest officer and his team recovered the carcass in a paddy field belonging to one Amarnath Patle, and informed senior forest officials about the incident around 7pm. Following a preliminary inspection through the night, the team kept vigil until the next round of investigation commenced on Monday 6am using sniffer dogs, forest officials said. “One of the dogs was able to find two bags at two separate locations (both located 100 to 150 metres away from each other) that contained the tiger’s hind limbs and pelvic portion,” said Singh, adding that the remains of the tiger were found in fields belonging to Tilakchand Sharanagat and Yograj Nagpure.Also Read: Pregnant leopard killed in road accident on Mumbai’s Western Express HighwaySingh added that some portions of the tiger’s carcass, including one hind leg, claws, nails, and a portion of the forehead were still missing. “Though we conducted an autopsy, we could not ascertain the cause of death as the remains were putrefied. However, it seems that the tiger may have died 12-15 days ago. The organs were collected and sent for further analysis into the cause of death,” said Singh. The tiger’s remains were cremated in a nursery as per the National Tiger Conservation Authority protocol.“The sniffer dog Peter (German Shepherd) played an extremely important role in identifying parts of the tiger’s body. Interrogations with farmers, landowners, and those working in the area are underway,” Singh said.A forest official requesting anonymity said all landowners had some connection with the forest department. “One is a retired forest guard, the other is a former sub-inspector, and the third person’s daughter is presently employed with the forest department,” the official said. There have been 16 tiger deaths in Maharashtra so far this year, with recent cases including the death of a tiger cub after its mother (Mayuri) went missing. The incident took place at the buffer area (Khadsangi range) of the Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve buffer during the last week of October. A tiger poaching via electrocution case was reported from Sindewahi forest range in Brahmapuri where two persons were arrested.In a separate case reported from Supane (west) range in Karad, Satara on Monday, the decomposed carcass of a three-year-old female leopard was found by sugarcane farmers. According to honorary wildlife warden and Wildlife Crime Control Bureau member Rohan Bhate, a post autopsy of the big cat showed that it may have died almost one-and-a-half to two months ago but all organs including the teeth and nails of the dead leopard were intact. “There were no injury marks on the leopard’s body either. This means poaching is ruled out. According to a local animal husbandry officer who conducted the autopsy, the animal may have died due to pneumonia during heavy rain two months ago,” said Bhate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-forest-dept-probes-poaching-angle-as-decomposed-tiger-carcass-found-in-gondia/story-HP6wH4SK6PJNlvpqPKz5RP.html
17-11-2020||Delhi||Strong winds, rain improve Delhi AQI to moderate||The air quality in the national capital on Tuesday improved to reach the moderate category following strong winds and rain in some parts of Delhi. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data, at 6 am, the hourly average Air Quality Index (AQI) in Delhi was 162. The overall AQI on Monday was 221 in the poor category. At least 13 out of the 38 air quality monitoring stations recorded AQI levels below 200.India Meteorological Department (IMD)’s senior scientist, VK Soni, said that in the coming week, Delhi’s air is likely to remain in the moderate to the poor zone.According to the IMD forecast, the wind direction is expected to change again from easterly to north-westerly on Tuesday, which could result in a marginal deterioration in the air quality. The stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana has been reducing now and that is going to improve the quality of Delhi’s air.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/strong-winds-rain-improve-delhi-aqi-to-moderate/story-jByzRVcW9YEnegRBj7EboN.html
17-11-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 situation in Delhi unprecedented, says Niti Aayog but govt won’t impose lockdown||Delhi contributed the most to the country’s fresh coronavirus (Covid-19) cases in the last week. Currently, the national capital has over four lakh cases of Covid-19.It recorded a single-day spike of 8,500 cases and overall 51,000 cases last week. But Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Monday clarified that there were no plans to reimpose the lockdown. “There will be no reimposition of lockdown in Delhi. I don’t think it will be an effective step now; wearing of masks will be more beneficial,” Jain told news agency ANI. He added that Delhi has crossed the peak of the third wave of infections. However, in a meeting chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday, Niti Aayog’s Dr VK Paul described the Delhi situation as “unprecedented” and added that “it is likely to become worse”, according to two officials present at the meeting.Shah, in his meeting, told officials concerned that availability of beds with oxygen facilities had to be increased, the 10,000-bed Chhatarpur Covid centre to be further strengthened and RT-PCR tests had to be doubled, among other things. Mobile testing vans belonging to the Union health ministry and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will also be deployed in vulnerable places in the national capital, it was decided in the meeting.“Chaired a meeting to review the surge in Delhi’s Covid-19 cases and take stock of medical infrastructure here. In May, the Modi government took a series of steps with the Delhi government to save the people from the virus. We all witnessed the positive results,” Shah tweeted on Sunday. Meanwhile, after attending the meeting with Shah, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced that the number of daily Covid-19 tests would be increased to over 1 lakh. “Since October 20, there has been a rise in cases here. There’s sufficient number of Covid beds but ICU beds are exhausting. Centre has assured 750 ICU beds will be made available at the DRDO centre. The number of Covid tests to be conducted daily to be increased to over 1 lakh,” Kejriwal announced.Experts have pointed at the ongoing festive season, onset of winter and an increase in air pollution as the major reasons for the sudden spike Covid-19 cases in Delhi. Rising air pollution coupled with the coronavirus disease could make matters worse for people with lung or breathing-related complications, doctors have cautioned.“It’s a combined effect of the festive season, decrease in temperature and increased pollution. Experts had also suggested that at this time Covid-19 cases could rise,” Jain told news agency ANI last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-joins-hands-with-centre-to-fight-covid-19-but-spike-in-cases-continues/story-dayecGzYKuHGLCBj5OStDN.html
17-11-2020||Kolkata||After Bihar, it is now focus Bengal and Tamil Nadu for the BJP||After winning a close electoral race in Bihar and improving its solo performance, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has set its focus on West Bengal and Tamil Nadu, the two big states that will go to polls in early 2021.Preparations are afoot in these states with home minister Amit Shah visiting West Bengal earlier this month and planning a trip to Tamil Nadu on Saturday (November 21) to take stock of the party’s preparedness.In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the BJP came up with a stellar show in Bengal, winning 18 of the state’s 42 constituencies in its best-ever performance in a fiercely fought contest that was marred by political killings and violence.It, however, drew a blank in Tamil Nadu, where a Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) alliance won 37 of the state’s 38 seats while one went to BJP ally All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK). In 2014, the BJP won the Kanyakumari seat in Tamil Nadu.In its attempt to reap political gains in the southern state, the BJP has been able to draw attention towards its Vetrivel Yatra (“victorious spear march”), which began on November 6.Also Read: Nitish Kumar takes oath as Bihar chief minister for seventh timeDespite the AIADMK government’s denial to the march — citing the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and law and order — BJP workers went ahead with the programme. And now, they are continuing with the month-long rally as planned, courting arrests briefly. Despite differences over the issue, leaders of both parties say that their ties are not strained.According to analysts, the yatra has helped the BJP to become a talking point in the state and the month-long road show is an effort to consolidate the Hindu vote bank by invoking Lord Muruga, a popular deity amongst the Tamils who wields a spear. The BJP decided to hold the solidarity march after YouTube channel Karuppar Kootam in July ridiculed Kandha Sashti Kavasam, a devotional hymn dedicated to Lord Muruga.“It seems like Lord Muruga is being hijacked by the Aryan discourse,” said Ramu Manivannan, head, politics and public administration department, University of Madras.“The BJP is bringing in a Hindu narrative, which may create some dent, but insignificant. While the Ram mandir issue has appeal in the north, people in Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh have been marching for Lord Muruga for a long time, so they don’t need BJP to campaign for them now,” he added.Meanwhile, speculation was rife that M Karunanidhi’s elder son and ousted DMK leader, MK Alagiri, had been in talks with the BJP. But Alagiri dismissed it as a rumour. “I am not meeting anyone. I am not meeting Amit Shah,” he said. “I will be meeting my associates soon (in Madurai). Elections are anyway six months away. There is time.”Alagiri is said to have strong base in the Madurai region and has been looking for political partner to defeat the DMK led by his brother, MK Stalin.In the 2016 assembly elections, the BJP joined hands with some small parties and did not win a single seat in Tamil Nadu. It had a vote share of 2.8%, according to data from the election commission. The AIADMK, under the leadership of its charismatic leader J Jayalaithaa (who died in December 2016), won a consecutive second term with the party bagging 135 out 232 seats (vote share of 40.77%). The DMK won 88 out of the 180 seats it contested with a vote share of 31.6%.Also Read: Why blaming Congress in Bihar is a red herring“Ultimately, people would evaluate the BJP on its potential to become an alternative or a third party,” says Manivannan.In the eastern state of Bengal, the BJP has made a series of organisational changes and the party’s top leaders are arriving there to chart an effective game plan.The BJP’s IT cell chief, Amit Malviya, who has been recently appointed the co-incharge of West Bengal, came calling on Monday. BL Santosh, the BJP’s national general secretary (organisation), is set to arrive there on Tuesday.“For the last two-three elections fought in Bengal, Malviya has managed the social media and IT strategies of the party. He is well aware of the issues in Bengal. Santosh is also arriving to hold some meetings,” said Dilip Ghosh, the president of the BJP’s state unit.On Monday, the BJP upped its ante against the ruling Trinamool Congress. Ghosh, while speaking to the media, said that the BJP aims to transform Bengal into Gujarat.“Chief minister Mamata Banerjee sometimes says that efforts are to transform Bengal into Gujarat. I would say this is 100% true. We would turn Bengal into Gujarat. Now people from Bengal need to migrate to Gujarat to get jobs. In the coming years, people will not have to go to Gujarat. They will get jobs in Bengal,” said Ghosh.The Trinamool hit back. “The problem with Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh is police encounter....So we don’t want Bengal to be turned into Gujarat,” said Firhad Hakim, state minister and TMC leader.During his visit to Bengal in the first week of November, Shah said that the BJP should win over 200 of the 294 seats in the upcoming assembly polls, stressing that the Trinamool government will be ousted.In the 2011 assembly elections, the BJP failed to win a single seat and got a vote share of around 4%. In 2016, it did better, winning three seats and bagging a vote share of around 10%.Buoyed by the Lok Sabha performance last year, the BJP is now focusing on the issues of corruption and nepotism, lack of employment, and law and order in the politically charged state.“There is a popular resentment among some sections of people against the ruling party. The BJP has an even chance. The scenario will get clearer within the next two to three months as situations unfold. But it is a fact that the BJP, over the years, has become the principal opposition party and this time they are eyeing for the Bengal polls,” said Amal Mukherjee, a political commentator and a former principal of the Presidency College.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/after-bihar-it-is-now-focus-bengal-and-tamil-nadu-for-the-bjp/story-de8gd12ckG2yk6jb5sMoxI.html
17-11-2020||Lucknow||Rape complainant dies by suicide in UP’s Bulandshahar district||A 19-year-old woman allegedly died by suicide in Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahar district, three weeks after she filed a gangrape complaint against three men, the woman’s family said. According to Bulandshahr senior superintendent of police (SSP) SK Singh, the woman initially lodged a complaint of kidnapping and threat to life against one of her neighbours and his two associates on October 3 but later retracted the statement, stating that she had lodged the complaint under pressure from her family. She approached the police again on October 24 and accused the three men of rape, Singh said. According to Singh, the woman said that her neighbour called her on her mobile phone, asking her to meet him. According to the woman’s complaint, the accused, his friend and his maternal uncle then raped her in Aligarh’s Charra, Singh said. However, during the investigation the police scanned the accused’s mobile phone records and found that he did not make any call to the deceased, Singh said and added that the accused was traced to another location at the time of the alleged crime.The woman’s father, however, accused the police of dereliction of duty. “On October 16, the accused called her [the woman] to tender apology in person but he raped her with two other men. We lodged a complaint on October 24 but no action was taken against them,” he said. The SSP has suspended the investigating officer in the case and has ordered an inquiry against an inspector and circle officer of Anoopshahar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/rape-complainant-dies-by-suicide-in-up-s-bulandshahar-district/story-BIIQfwAdbgSI7k5shCR2ZM.html
17-11-2020||Jaipur||4 arrested as rape accused sets survivor afire in Rajasthan||A 35-year-old rape survivor has been set ablaze allegedly by her accused who was absconding for seven months, in Jaipur’s Gangauri Bazzar, police said on Monday. The accused, his two brothers and father have been arrested in connection with the case.According to the police, the woman, her minor daughter and the 28-year-old accused have sustained injuries in the incident and have been hospitalised. The survivor has sustained 50% burn injuries in the incident, while the accused sustained 30%.The police have booked the main accused under Section 307 (attempt to murder), while his two brothers and father have been booked under sections 307 and 34 ( an act done by several persons with common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. Later, Additonal chief metropolitan magistrate court remanded them in police custody till November 18.Station House Officer of Kotwali police station, Yeshwant Singh, said the woman had lodged a complaint against the main accused, who is her relative and neighbour, in April this year alleging that he had raped her in 2018. On the night of Diwali, November 14, the accused entered the woman’s house and set her on fire after throwing an earthen lamp on her. According to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data, 88 rape cases were reported on an average daily in 2019. While the national Capital Delhi occupied the pole position in the data with 1,231 reported cases of rape, Jaipur followed with 517 and Mumbai (394).Many experts believe that these figures might not portray the actual ground situation as many cases of violence against women are not reported due to social stigma attached to rape.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/4-arrested-as-rape-accused-sets-survivor-afire-in-rajasthan/story-XR7sqPa0aV36W7KIXQSNmJ.html
17-11-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Losing your job||Jasbir Chatterjee, 54, was working as a customer relationship manager in a car dealership until recently—until the day before Diwali, actually, when she was told that her “services are no longer required.” In a WhatsApp video chat from her home in west Delhi’s Vikaspuri, she tells what it is like to lose a job in these tough times.How did you feel on losing a job, that too a day before Diwali?I was so benumbed that I didn’t think of Diwali at all when it happened. Later at home, I looked at the Diwali photos that my colleagues (I still can’t bring myself to call them ex-colleagues) had put on Facebook. Some of them called me and I fought back my tears to speak to them in a normal fashion.How important is a day job to you?It compels me to take care of myself, to look good, and the same feeling then pervades everything else I do—cooking, gardening, poetry writing, reading, etc. I like to have a fixed routine. As it happens, I also earn the most in my household. My husband, Sukhangshu, is a professional actor and he’s hardly getting any work these days, so it is important for me to earn and save money for our rainy days.What did you do once you were told you were being relieved?I walked out with my head high. I initially did wish I could sit somewhere to let the tears fall from my moist eyes. But that’s a luxury I stopped giving myself after my mother’s death in 2017. I instead told a colleague about what had happened, and asked her to let me know if she heard of vacancies elsewhere. I must confess here that once I was alone outside, my face mask helped me to conceal my distraught condition. I didn’t want to speak to anyone.How was the journey home from the office, that last time?On walking out from the office’s Lajpat Nagar branch, I saw a DTC bus stopping by. It was going to Nehru Place. These days, the Delhi government gives free bus rides to women, and from then on it seemed important to save as much as I could. So I hopped in. I usually go by Metro, but Metro train rides are costlier than before. I was pleasantly surprised to find the bus air-conditioned. After arriving at Nehru Place, I caught another DTC bus (no. 724) going directly to my locality. I decided to enjoy the long ride. This time there was no hurry to reach anywhere. Loud Haryanvi folk songs were playing on the music system. They brought a smile to my masked face. The songs reminded me of my college days and of movie dates with Sukhangshu in my first job. There is so much more to life, after all, than just money, I reminded myself. After having lunch at home with my husband and my daughter, Suroshri, I went to sleep. It gave me a lot of relief.What will happen next?I will look for a new job and be suitably employed again. Meantime, I have plans to meet all the friends and relatives I hadn’t met for long due to my busy schedule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-losing-your-job/story-t2IUY2KyjnMg8GYx5WJtNN.html
17-11-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: 3rd peak over, no new lockdown, says Delhi govt||There will be no new lockdown in the national capital and the peak of the third wave of infections appears to have been crossed, Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain said on Monday, a day after the Union government announced reinforcement of infrastructure and human resources to tackle what has been described as possibly the worst outbreak of Covid-19 anywhere in the country yet. In the last week, Delhi has recorded an average of 7,341 cases every day, compared to 4,174 during its second wave of infections in September and 3,446 during the first wave in June. This number was a mere 2,885 a month ago, before the situation rapidly deteriorated as festive seasons crowds gathered across the Capital. “I can assure that the peak of the third wave of cases in November has been crossed. If you look at the daily positivity rate, it had touched 15% and hasn’t reached that level since. It takes about a week for the numbers to go down from the peak,” said Jain, stating that the peak positivity rate during the surge in June had reached up to 37% and in September to about 14%. But experts said Jain’s contention may be premature, since there are likely to have been fewer tests due to festivities over the weekend. The government’s health bulletin on Sunday – which carried numbers reported on Diwali, the day before – added around 3,200 cases from roughly 21,000 tests. Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe number of tests was close to a third of what they are on a usual week day. On Monday, there were 3,797 new cases reported from the 29,821 tests that were done on Sunday. The death toll rose by 99 to reach 7,713 on Monday.The surge triggered speculation of new restrictions, but the minister denied any plans for it. “The lockdown had been an experiment and what we have learnt that wearing masks can give us the same benefits,” said Jain, citing the examples of hospitals where he said infections are low since doctors take precautions. “If everyone follows precautions the spread of the infection can be prevented. And, when it comes to lockdown, some people still go out and they can bring the infection back to their family members,” he added. On Sunday, Union home minister Amit Shah held a meeting with top ministers and officials from the Centre and the Delhi government, including chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and the two health ministers. The government announced a series of measures, including adding hundreds of intensive care unit (ICU) beds, doubling the rate of testing and the deployment of central paramilitary doctors.  During the meeting, Niti Aayog’s VK Paul opened with a presentation describing Delhi’s situation as “unprecedented” and “ likely to become worse”. The official highlighted a particularly worrying trend: on November 11, a day when it reported 8,593 new cases, Delhi recorded 361 cases per million of population, a level not seen before in India, not even in Maharashtra during its worst days. On Monday, the Union home ministry followed up on these measures by announcing a list of “multidisciplinary teams” that will visit all private hospitals and submit within two days a report of whether they are following protocols on Covid-19 treatment and access to services as per rules.Earlier in the day, Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla met Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan and Delhi’s chief secretary Vijay Kumar Dev to fine-tune other decisions taken on Sunday, according to people familiar with the matter. Among these were ways to strengthen the containment strategy of Delhi as well as using resources of various departments such as the municipal corporations of Delhi, central armed police forces, Indian Council of Medical Research and Defence Research and Development Organisation, one of these officials said, asking not to be named. “Central paramilitary forces will provide 75 doctors and around 250 paramedics to Delhi from their different centres across the country,” this person said. “These doctors and paramedics will be flown into Delhi in the next week .”Also Read: A tipping point in the fight against Covid-19Individual departments involved in the ramping up of the response – from the Delhi as well as the central administrations – too held separate meetings, this person added. The ministry of home affairs will monitor the progress on a daily basis while the Delhi government and these departments — which includes MCDs — will implement the directions issued by the home minister. Bhalla is learnt to have stressed during the meeting on the need for robust public awareness campaigns for people to avoid crowds in markets and public places. Delhi Police has also been asked to assist the Delhi government in its efforts to fight the pandemic, the person quoted above added. Experts said the crisis is unlikely to have passed just yet. “There was a dip in numbers, but it is too soon to say whether the infections have peaked. In fact, I think that it isn’t even true decline. With Diwali, fewer people might have gotten tested. We are likely to see these cases on Monday again,” said Dr Vikas Maurya, director, department of pulmonology and sleep disorders at Fortis Hospital, Shalimar Bagh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-3rd-peak-over-no-new-lockdown-says-delhi-govt/story-9e2AbUxhtUL9X8M4l13ilI.html
17-11-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University panel recommends ₹1.79-crore firefighting systems on campus||Despite suffering a revenue gap this year due to the pandemic, the budget estimate committee of Panjab University (PU) has recommended the installation of firefighting systems at various departments, on both the campuses, for ₹1.79 crore.Terming it essential as per Part 4 of the National Building Code (NBC), the panel had made the recommendation in its last meeting: the proposed amount will be utilised under the budget head “development fund” and will be incorporated in the budget estimates of the 2021-22 financial year.A member of the panel, on the condition of anonymity, said, “Many of our buildings do not have firefighting systems, which are essential.”In 2017, the Chandigarh municipal corporation had found lapses in the firefighting system in several buildings at PU during a check and had issued notices for violations.Down corner system recommendedFor firefighting, the down corner system has been recommended by the panel: a down corner pipe is connected to the terrace tank through pump, gate valve and non-return valve, having mains not less than 10mm internal diameter with landing valve on each floor/landing. It is also fitted with inlet connections at ground level for charging with water by pumping from fire service appliances and air release valve at roof level to release trapped air inside.The NBC dictates that all buildings depending upon the occupancy, use and height shall be protected by fire extinguishers, wet riser, down corner, automatic sprinkler installation, high/medium velocity water sprays, foam, gaseous or dry powder systems.Moreover, the panel has also recommended the carrying forward of certain provisions that were sanctioned for 2019-20, but could not be utilised by departments concerned by the end of March owing to the pandemic, to the next financial year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-panel-recommends-1-79-crore-firefighting-systems-on-campus/story-wIPgcHr9xrtpgLX2tWgZbI.html
17-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Press Club elections on November 29||The voting for the election of the nine office bearers of the Chandigarh Press Club will be held on November 29.The polling will be held from 9am to 5pm for the 739 eligible voters. Besides the president and senior vice-president, vice-president I, vice-president II, secretary general and others office-bearers will be elected. The voters’ list will be displayed on November 20 and the last date of filing objections against the list is November 21 till 12pm after which the final list will be displayed at 7pm.The last dates for filing the nomination papers are November 22 and 23, which will be scrutinised on November 24. Candidates can withdraw their papers till November 25 (12pm to 2pm).The results will be declared on November 29 after 6pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-press-club-elections-on-november-29/story-HFHWKWnmkRTRAGoL8vo9ZM.html
17-11-2020||Chandigarh||HC increases relief to deceased Panchkula banker’s kin by ₹14 lakh||The Punjab and Haryana high court has increased the compensation awarded to the family members of a banker who had died in an accident in August 2016 by ₹14.35 lakh.Victim Kuldeep Kumar Chopra, 57, chief manager with the Oriental Bank of Commerce, Sector 17, Chandigarh, had died from injuries sustained after falling from a rashly-driven Haryana Roadways bus on August 13, 2016, in Panchkula.The Motor Accident Claims Tribunal had awarded a sum of ₹61.47 lakh relief to the victim’s three family members, excluding the son, who, though not a minor, was studying at the time. The family had approached the high court in 2017 seeking ₹2 crore compensation and challenging the MACT order. The three beneficiaries were the victim’s widow, unmarried daughter and mother.In the high court it was argued that the son could not have been excluded as he was dependent on his father. Some other “errors” in the MACT order were also pointed out. The high court observed that the Supreme Court had held that even major, married and earning sons of the deceased, being legal representatives, had a right to apply for compensation and the Tribunal was duty bound to consider the claim irrespective of the fact whether the concerned legal representative was fully dependent on the deceased.The court announced ₹74.98 lakh as the total compensation to the family, increasing it by ₹14.35 lakh to four claimants with an interest at the rate of 7.5% from the date of application till realisation with disbursal within four weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-increases-relief-to-deceased-panchkula-banker-s-kin-by-14-lakh/story-njsJY4VTwA4cM72jFJDhlI.html
17-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC earns 25% more from Diwali stalls this year||The fee collection from Diwali stalls raked in 25% more revenue this year for the municipal corporation than the previous year.The MC generated a revenue of ₹32 lakh from permission charges and challans issued against those operating without permission during Diwali.On account of permission fees, the MC earned ₹29 lakh from shopkeepers and vendors for putting up stalls three or seven days ahead of Diwali. Last year, this amount was ₹23 lakh.The accompanying anti-encroachment drive against illegal hosting of stalls earned the MC an additional ₹2.8 lakh. The enforcement wing and MC staff had carried out the drive.On the increased earnings this year even amid Covid-19 restrictions, an MC official said that since there was a ban on cracker sale in the UT, residents had turned to these stalls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-earns-25-more-from-diwali-stalls-this-year/story-bvNDXGOpnMSg5uqaFW90qK.html
17-11-2020||City||Air quality improves in Haryana cities||Residents of several cities and towns of Haryana on Monday heaved a sigh of relief as the air quality returned to “moderate” and “satisfactory” from “severe” and “very poor” categories, courtesy recent showers that lashed the region. In Monday’s air quality bulletin released by the Central Pollution Control Board, not even a single city out of 20 in Haryana mentioned in the bulletin had “severe” and “very poor” Air Quality Index (AQI).As per the bulletin, the air quality of only four cities — Fatehabad, Hisar, Gurugram and Manesar — was categorised as “poor”.It was the first time since the harvesting of paddy began in October that the AQI of Ambala, Ballabgarh, Kaithal and Panchkula was found “satisfactory”, while that of Sirsa, Panipat, Rohtak, Palwal, Bahadurgarh, Bhiwani, Faridabad, and Kurukshetra returned to “moderate” from “very poor” and “poor” levels.As per officials from the state pollution control board, after a dry spell of about two months, rain has improved the air quality of the entire state.However, incidents of stubble burning were still being reported with the number of farm fires crossing the 9,000 mark. Officials believe that there is very less possibility of air quality getting affected in days to come as the harvesting of crop has already ended. Haryana State Pollution Control Board member secretary S Narayanan said, “The air quality of all cities has improved considerably after rain as there is not even a single city that was in the category of severe or very poor.”On whether there is a possibility that the air quality may deteriorate again, he said, “We hope that the air quality will remain at the same level in future.Our efforts are still on and will sustain for another one crucial week. We expect cooperation from farmers as well.”Putting a check on burning of crop waste still remains a major challenge for the authorities as Haryana has reported 209 incidents of farm fires in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of AFLs to 9,040 against 6,364 incidents reported in 2019. The figure may cross the 10,288 mark attained in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/air-quality-improves-in-haryana-cities/story-5EUDmmP1XTktoZIlsQ8OWO.html
17-11-2020||Chandigarh||Corridors, wards overflow with trash as sanitation workers strike for Diwali bonus at Chandigarh’s GMCH||The corridors and wards of the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32 on Monday wore a picture of gross neglect as the 300-odd sanitation workers, who have been hired through a contractor, went on a strike demanding the grant of Diwali bonus.While the workers held a demonstration on the hospital campus by raising slogans against the administration, the patients and healthcare workers wore the brunt of their absence. The dustbins placed in the corridors, wards, waiting area and other places in the hospital could be seen overflowing with garbage. Even sinks were clogged at some places, and the patients and their attendants were seen navigating through the heaps of hospital waste.Till Monday evening, the floors had not been cleaned and the garbage was not picked for more than 12 hours.‘Bonus not granted first time in a decade’Om Kailash, the chairman of the GMCH-32 Safai Karamchari Union, said it was only three days ago that they were told that the Diwali bonus will not be granted. “The bonus amount had never been suspended in the last decade,” he said.“We immediately started the protest and no worker joined duties, except in the emergency ward, on Monday. We have apprised the authorities that the strike will continue till their demand is not met,” Kailash said.‘Reported to duty despite odds’Kailash said that the contractual sanitation workers had put in extra efforts during the pandemic times, reporting to duties no time despite all odds. The officials of the hospital administration, however, said that there was no mandatory provision for providing a bonus to the employees of hospitals.Jasbir Singh, joint director of the GMCH administration, said, “The workers should resume their duties because the contractors, through which they were hired, are marking them absent and their salaries will not be paid for those days. The workers are being hoodwinked by a few people claiming to be their leaders. They can democratically protest for their demand, but they should resume their duties. The hospital is not liable to pay any bonus to the employees and such is the case in every hospital administered by the UT administration.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/corridors-wards-overflow-with-trash-as-sanitation-workers-strike-for-diwali-bonus-at-chandigarh-s-gmch/story-xWbbLCHgBuhNueZfbyp0IM.html
17-11-2020||City||Rain delays wheat sowing in Haryana||Light to moderate rainfall in several districts of Haryana has delayed the wheat-sowing operations in the state.As per farmers, hailstorm was reported in parts of Karnal, Hisar, Rohtak, Fatehabad and Bhiwani, which damaged several acres of standing crop, especially mustard and vegetables.Though agriculture experts believe that there is no major impact of the recent showers on crops, hailstorm is harmful for mustard and vegetables. The rain, however, has delayed the wheat sowing as it will take farmers about a week to prepare the fields for sowing. ICAR- Indian Institute of Wheat and Barley Research, Karnal, director Gyanendra Singh said, “There is no major impact of the rain on crops, but it has delayed the further sowing. Rain and hailstorm are harmful for the mustard crops, which is in flowering stage, but it is good for wheat that was sown earlier this month and has already germinated.” Farmers from Karnal, Hisar, Rohtak, Fatehabad and Bhiwani districts have, meanwhile, demanded a special girdawari to assess the crop loss.“Hailstorm has damaged my two and half acres of mustard and cattle fodder. We are left with no other option but to sow other crops,” said Dharambir Singh from Ardana of Karnal’s Assandh.Ravinder Singh, a farmer from Dhani Bhojraj village in Hisar, said his mustard crop on seven acres which was sown two weeks ago, was completely destroyed due to hailstorm. “Now, I will have to sow the crop again,” he rued, seeking relief from the government.Professor ML Khichar, head of agriculture meteorological department at Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agriculture University, Hisar, said the hailstorm has damaged vegetables, mustard and in very less area, wheat crops. “But rain is beneficial for wheat and several other crops,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rain-delays-wheat-sowing-in-haryana/story-xaT6d2t8iqKwZIJd2UxmeK.html
17-11-2020||City||Baroda bypoll was fought to defeat arrogant BJP: OP Chautala||After facing humiliating defeat in the recently concluded Baroda assembly bypoll, the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) on Monday held a meeting in Sirsa to discuss the reasons behind the party’s poor performance.Addressing the workers, executive members and district-level office bearers, party patriarch OP Chautala urged them to forget the past results and move ahead.“The bypoll was fought to defeat the arrogant BJP and the people achieved their goal. The Baroda voters were not happy with the Congress even, but they voted for its candidate to ensure the defeat of the BJP candidate. The bypoll has proved that the JJP would be merged with the BJP soon as they have lost relevance,” the former Haryana CM added.Slamming the ruling BJP-JJP government, Chautala said those sitting in power were looting the state and people will oust them from power in the “mid-term elections”.“I have never witnessed such a flop government in my political career. We will launch a statewide agitation against the three farm laws, urging the government to amend these laws,” he added.Ellenabad MLA Abhay Singh Chautala said the farmers were even being looted in the mandis across the state.“The farmers are forced to sell their produce below the minimum support price (MSP) in the state. The chief minister himself is lying by claiming that his government is purchasing crops on the MSP. Our party will fight against the anti-government policies,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/baroda-bypoll-was-fought-to-defeat-arrogant-bjp-op-chautala/story-lINCDbXjEtxQzMcRLsftzO.html
17-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana claims progress on ease of doing business parameters||After slipping to the 16th spot in the ease of doing business (EoDB) rankings couple of months ago, the Haryana government claims to have ramped up efforts, making significant progress towards 100% implementation of State Business Reforms Action Plan (BRAP)- 2020 by November 30. An official spokesperson said eight departments have already achieved 100% compliance with reform points under BRAP. This was informed in a meeting regarding ease of doing business held under the chairmanship of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday. It was informed that the BRAP carries 301 points out of which, 209 points have so far been implemented by the departments concerned whereas 70 points are under implementation. On the basis of the state BRAP, the department for promotion of industry and internal trade decides the EoDB rankings. Khattar reviewed the progress of various departments and directed them to finalise the state BRAP by November 30. He directed the departments concerned to ensure proper coordination and make sure that all services are rendered online within the stipulated time. The issues pertaining to various departments which were taken up in the meeting included services related to home department, digitisation and publishing online land transaction deeds for 20 years, integration of property registration with utilities like electricity and water, online single window clearance for movie shooting licence, timelines notification under the Haryana Right to Service Act and registration under Shops and Establishment and/or Trade Licence to be given through a single form. It was informed that the revenue department has initiated project “Modern Revenue Record Room” to digitise the land record data. It was also informed that a common standardised form is being prepared by the departments of urban local bodies and labour for registration under shops and establishment and/or trade licence. Apart from this, a central inspection system has been made functional for the labour, Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) and boiler so as to ensure that the selection of establishments for inspection is done using computerised risk assessment and allocation of inspectors is undertaken under central inspection system. It was informed that the central government would conduct a user feedback exercise through telephonic interview and/or WhatsApp/SMS/Email based link in May 2021. For this, a complete database of users for the period between November 1, 2020 to March 31, 2021 would be shared with the Government of India by April 30, 2021 for evaluation of the state’s effort and ranking on EoDB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-claims-progress-on-ease-of-doing-business-parameters/story-jVY6KTfL6Vi6VKXFSGMyYN.html
17-11-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal moots proposal to ban public gatherings||On the heels of the festive season, the health department has mooted a proposal to ban public gatherings and cap guests at marriage ceremonies and social functions to mitigate the spurt in Covid cases across the state. Covid cases in Himachal have been increasing at an alarming rate after the government unlocked all activities, reopened schools and relaxed restrictions on social gatherings. Himachal Pradesh recorded 7,674 cases in the first fortnight of November— a 35%jump in infections. November’s fortnightly tally surpasses the cumulative cases recorded in October. The state had detected 7,083 cases in October and 8,938 cases in September.Authorities say lax precautions at marriage ceremonies was one of the prime reasons for sudden spurt cases across the state. Marriage ceremonies have emerged as hotspots for infections in Mandi, Kullu and Shimla district. In Shimla district, the apple belt, comprising Kotgarh, Kumarsain, Jubbal-Kotkhai, Rohru and Rampur, was most affected. Last month, the state government had increased the guest limit in social gatherings from 100 to 200. Shimla, Mandi and Kullu districts have seen the maximum rise in infections. Shimla recorded the highest number of cases (1,812) during this period,registering a spike of 72%. Similarly, Mandi recorded 1,646 cases, recording a spike of 54.4%, and Kullu logged 881 cases, registering a 36.2% hike in cases.Kangra, which is the most dense district in the state, recorded 814 cases in the fortnight, registering a jump of 26.4%.In the last week alone, the percentage of new infections increased to 2.2%. The recovery rate has dropped to 75% from the 85% recorded in October-end. So far, 22,500 people have recovered in the state.1.5% case fatality ratio Meanwhile, there has been a slight increase in the death rate of the state. The case fatality ratio is 1.5%. So far, 441 patients have succumbed to the virus, of which 129 died in November alone.The state has conducted 4, 58,629 tests, which comes to 62,825 tests per million population. There are more than 4,000 positive cases per million population. Lahual-spiti, where residents have barred tourism to prevent the spread of Covid, has also witnessed a steep increase with122 cases reported in a single-day on November 15.The opening of schools had further accelerated the spread of Covid. The government had opened schools and other education institutions on November 2. However, in light of the spike of cases closed all educational institutions till November 25.The decision drew flak from the Opposition parties, which charged the government of mishandling the pandemic. The health department has also sent a proposal to the government asking them to curb social gathering. “We have forwarded a proposal to the government asking them to curb social gatherings,” said a senior health official, requesting anonymity. “The government should set up a committee of experts otherwise the situation will become graver. It is high time that the government re-works its strategy and curbs social gatherings”,said former Shimla mayor Sanjay Chauhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-moots-proposal-to-ban-public-gatherings/story-zjvCZhUxQ80C9UNAJfo5nI.html
17-11-2020||Chandigarh||Virus spread in Haryana again nears peak levels||The coronavirus infection trajectory in Haryana continued its renewed escalation for the third week in a row with the state reporting 3,146 more infections last week (November 9-15) in contrast to the week before. With 17,070 fresh cases last week, the virus spread is close to the all-time high of 17,616 infections reported in the second week of September when the virus spread had hit its peak in the state. After a four-week drop, a fresh increase in cases during the festivities started in October end when 10,576 infections were reported between October 26 and November 1 followed by 13,924 the next week (November 2-8). Additional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora, said only four districts – Gurugram, Faridabad, Hisar and Rohtak — were badly affected at present. “These four districts collectively accounted for about 63% of the total active cases. However, as per the past trends and experience, we expect the virus to move again towards the northern districts after November 25. We are worried because wedding season is also going to commence now,” the ACS said. RT-PCR sampling up The health authorities had last week stepped up the testing, taking 9,000 more samples than the week before. Statistics showed that the number of reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests, considered the gold-standard diagnosis, increased by 35,441 last week whereas the less reliable rapid antigen tests (RAT) showed a reduction of 26,437. The positivity rate from RT-PCR testing is 7.7%, whereas its 4.4% from the RAT, statistics show. “We are going to further step up the testing in the coming days. The entire focus will now be on enforcement of safety measures like mask wearing and social distancing. The biggest consolation is that the fatality rate is 1.01%,” the ACS said. Gurugram, Faridabad at bottom in contact tracingThe health department data showed that while primary and secondary contacts of 94% of the infected persons in the state were traced by the authorities, there are over 11,000 cases where contact tracing is still pending. Contact tracing is an integral part of the strategy to break the chain of virus transmission. The average number of contacts traced per positive person is 6.6. Nuh district with 13.5 average number of contacts traced per positive person tops the chart followed by Sirsa (9.9), Bhiwani and Kaithal (9), Rohtak (8.8) and Sonepat (8.8), according to the data. However, hotspots like Gurugram (4) and Faridabad (4.5) have fared poorly and are at the bottom of the charts in terms of average number of contacts traced per positive person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/virus-spread-in-haryana-again-nears-peak-levels/story-rpiX8p5bEhx1Mz1UEPNkLI.html
17-11-2020||Delhi||MHA forms 10 teams to inspect private Covid-19 hospitals in Delhi||The Union home ministry on Monday formed 10 multi-disciplinary teams comprising doctors and officials from the health and home ministries to inspect 114 private hospitals treating Covid-19 patients in the national capital, a day after a high-level meeting was convened, even as new infections continued their rapid rise in Delhi. Each team has been assigned between 10 and 13 hospitals for inspection, which will begin within two days, as per the order. “The multi-disciplinary teams are constituted to visit all private hospitals in the National Capital Territory (NCT) of Delhi to check the status of compliance of various directions issued by the ministry of health and family welfare for testing and treating Covid-19 patients,” read the order issued by Gauri Shankar Jha, under-secretary to the government of India. The teams have been asked to check whether the number of ward and ICU beds available in the hospitals is as per Delhi government orders so far. The teams will also check whether the availability is being displayed in real-time on LED displays and on the Delhi government’s Corona dashboard. Sunday’s meeting was chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah and attendees included chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, the health ministers of the Centre as well as the state, Delhi’s lieutenant governor and top officials from Niti Aayog, Indian Council of Medical Research and All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).Also Read: Delhi records 3,797 new Covid-19 cases, peak of third wave nearing end, says ministerThe Delhi government had initially reserved 20% of all beds in 117 big private hospitals in the city in May before the first surge, with some hospitals being asked to reserve more than this number. Then, during the September surge, the government ordered 33 of the biggest private hospitals in the city to reserve 80% of their total ICU beds, an order that the high court stayed. The stay was vacated during the November surge in cases. The Delhi government earlier this month also ordered 14 hospitals to reserve 50% of its total bed capacity for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. The multidisciplinary team has also been asked to look into whether the hospitals are following the discharge protocols of the health ministry and whether patients were being referred to other hospitals without ascertaining availability of beds in the said hospital. The teams have also been asked to check whether the RT PCR testing capacity, if available, is being utilised and what the turnaround time of receiving the report is. The inspection order comes on a day when Delhi reported 3,797 new cases of Covid-19, taking the total tally of the city over 489,000. Only half the usual number of tests — 29,821 — were conducted on Sunday, as per the daily health bulletin. The infection also claimed 99 lives in Delhi, taking the toll of Covid-19 to 7,713 as on Sunday. The 10-day case fatality ratio – the number of people who died among those who tested positive – stood at 1.35%. “If you look at the proportion of deaths, it is at about 1%. Even the World Health Organization says that if the mortality rate is at 1%, it is good. At the beginning of winters, there is usually an increase in the number of old dying. If you check data from MCD, the total number of deaths is not going up,” Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Monday.Also Read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe positivity rate remained a high 12.73%, even as the minister claimed that Delhi had crossed the peak of infections in the “third wave”. As per Sunday’s bulletin, the city had recorded a positivity rate of the 15.3% — the highest in 140 days. “If the current level of testing is continued, the number of new cases is likely to remain the same for about one or two weeks. At present, about 60% of the Covid-19 beds in the city are occupied, but the occupancy in the ICUs — both with and without ventilators — is quite high. If the situation continues, there will be a crisis,” said Dr Sanjay Rai, who is also one of the members of the teams that have been constituted to inspect the private hospitals. It was also decided on Monday that around 75 doctors and 250 paramedics of central paramilitary forces will also be flown in from other centres to Delhi to meet the shortage of health workers in the national capital.In another related development, Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla had a meeting with Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan and Delhi’s chief secretary Vijay Kumar Dev to fine-tune the decisions taken during the review meeting on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/mha-forms-10-teams-to-inspect-private-covid-19-hospitals-in-delhi/story-RYeXao3gldOz32sSGuWLbI.html
17-11-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi govt to conduct door-to-door survey to identify high-risk individuals||The Delhi government is likely to initiate by Tuesday an assessment to identify locations where a door-to-door survey may be conducted in the light of the spike in Covid-19 cases, said a senior government official on Monday, adding that the objective of the survey will be to heighten surveillance of high-risk individuals and to scale up Covid-19 testing.The official further said the survey is planned in containment zones as well as in localities with a high Covid-19 caseload.However, a formal order in this regard is yet to be issued by the government.Delhi currently has 4,430 containment zones with the highest number being located in south-west district (740), followed by south district (700), government records showed.Officials from the district health teams and municipal corporation would primarily conduct the survey, said the official who did not wish to be identified. Also Read: MHA forms 10 teams to inspect private Covid-19 hospitals in DelhiThe person further said, “They are supposed to screen all members of the household, take note of the findings, keep a special record of high-risk individuals, which include senior citizens, pregnant women and those with co-morbidities. All symptomatic individuals and high-risk individuals would be asked to get themselves tested.”A standard operating procedure (SOP) for the survey is likely to be drafted in another two days, said the official.The directions regarding the survey came from Union home minister Amit Shah, who had on Sunday convened a meeting with Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal in the light of the severe spike of Covid-19 cases in the capital over the past three weeks. The number of Covid-19 cases started soaring about three weeks ago, with the highest number of cases so far—8,593—being recorded on November 11. Delhi reported 3,235 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Diwali as per Sunday’s health bulletin.A similar survey was conducted once between June 26 and 30 – covering all containment zones at that point, buffer areas around the containment zones and few localities with high population density. More than 350,000 people were surveyed in that exercise.Also Read: Delhi records 3,797 new Covid-19 cases, peak of third wave nearing end, says ministerWhen asked about the survey, Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain said the objective would be to increase testing. “So far, we have taken all necessary steps to scale up testing. That is the reason why Delhi has the highest number of tests conducted per million population as compared to other states,” he said.He did not elaborate on deadlines, SOPs and other detailsAfter Sunday’s meeting with Shah, Kejriwal said that Covid-19 testing in Delhi would be scaled up to around 100,000 to 125,000 per day very soon – as against the current average 60,000 per day – adding that the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has assured them that it would help Delhi in scaling up testing capacity||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-conduct-door-to-door-survey-to-identify-high-risk-individuals/story-BY8SPNuGs1p7C58WcOOZkO.html
17-11-2020||Delhi||70% Delhiites did not burst crackers, says environment minister||Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Monday said around 70% Delhiites did not burn firecrackers this Diwali following the government’s complete ban on all kinds of fireworks till November 30 because of the high pollution levels. Kick-starting the second phase of Delhi’s government’s ‘red light on, gaadi off’ (red light on, ignition off) campaign on Monday, Rai said a solution to the problem of pollution “cannot be found in a day”. “Around 70% of the residents of the city did not burn firecrackers after the government imposed a ban on it. I hope the results will be better next year,” he told the media. The Delhi government had on November 5 banned the sale and use of all kinds of firecrackers till November 30, because of the rising pollution levels and the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the national capital. The National Green Tribunal had also imposed a total ban on sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in Delhi-NCR from November 9 midnight to November 30 midnight. Also Read: As Delhi pollution spikes, AAP launches 2nd phase of ‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off’ campaignJoined Rai at the busy ITO intersection on Monday to urge drivers to turn off their ignition while waiting for the traffic light to turn green, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia also said cracker bursting was negligible this time. “Flouting rules and bursting crackers was negligible in Delhi, but in neighbouring states, there were massive bursting of crackers,” Sisodia said. He said, “The key goal of this campaign is to bring down vehicular pollution. Every day across the city, this campaign is going on and I am sure it is delivering a positive impact on the pollution situation of Delhi.” “...There are various reasons behind air pollution such as stubble burning, vehicular pollution, pollution due to crackers. This is the time when every citizen should come forward and work together to combat air pollution.” Air pollution data shows the air quality index recorded on Diwali night this time was the worst compared to readings since 2015. On Saturday, the AQI reading according to the Central Pollution Control Board was 414. A day later on Sunday, the level rose to 435. Delhi police arrested more than 850 people and registered around 1,200 cases in Delhi on Diwali in connection with the sale and bursting of crackers. Delhi Police seized 1,314 kgs of crackers on Saturday. Also Read: Pollution levels soar on Diwali as cracker ban falls flat in DelhiAnumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) said if the government has based its claims on evidence and data, it is a step in the right direction. She said it is time to rise above blame game and address the problem of air pollution because Delhi-NCR is under the same air shed. “It is not about how many people burst crackers. We could see that the cracker ban was not very successful, and it reflected in the air quality data. Even if cracker bursting happened in neighbouring towns, it has affected our air quality. We need to work on a solution together and not make it a political issue,” Roychowdhury said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/70-delhiites-did-not-burst-crackers-says-del-environment-minister/story-TV4ZYcr6WMAudXaqA94YiO.html
17-11-2020||Delhi||Winter is here: Delhi records season’s lowest maximum temperature||The national capital recorded a maximum temperature of 25.8 degrees Celsius on Monday, the lowest this season so far, following rains under the influence of a Western Disturbance. However, the minimum temperature rose to 16 degrees Celsius, the highest since October 22, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). However, IMD has warned that by the weekend, minimum temperature will fall to 9 degrees Celsius. On Monday, the maximum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung observatory, which is the representative data for the city, was 25.8 degrees Celsius, two degrees below the season’s normal. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said the rise in the minimum temperature was due to the presence of clouds in the region under the influence of a western disturbance. “Until now, Delhi has been witnessing a trend of low minimum temperatures this month due to the absence of cloud cover. But because of the western disturbance, the cloud cover over Delhi-NCR has increased. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downward, warming the ground,” said Srivastava said. Srivastava, however, warned that by November 21, the minimum temperature is expected to fall to around 9 degrees Celsius. Also Read: Rain and winds help Delhi breathe a little easyHe explained that widespread snowfall in Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, upper reaches of Uttarakhand will lead to a fall in minimum temperature by around 2 to 4 degrees over northwest India from Tuesday. “There was snowfall at many places over Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and over Uttarakhand. Rain and thundershowers occurred over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh and some places over north Rajasthan. Today (Monday) the winds are easterly but they will shift to north-westerly from tomorrow (Tuesday). So cold winds will be blowing from the western Himalayas, where snowfall has just happened. We are expecting minimum temperature to drop under 10 degree C in the next couple of days,” he added. IMD data shows that except on Monday, November’s minimum temperatures have been around 2-3 degrees below the season’s normal. October this year was the coldest in 58 years in the national capital, according to IMD data. The mean minimum temperature in October this year was 17.2 degrees Celsius, the lowest since 1962, when it was 16.9 degrees Celsius, the IMD said. Normally, Delhi records a mean minimum temperature of 19.1 degrees Celsius in October. Another IMD scientist said that since September, Delhi did not get a western disturbance up until Sunday, which kept the skies clear. If the sky is clear heat emitted from the earth’s surface freely escapes into space, resulting in colder temperatures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/winter-is-here-delhi-records-season-s-lowest-maximum-temp/story-Rc09skenp9MbcB37cmEjfO.html
17-11-2020||Delhi||Owner of building where 45 died in blaze nabbed after 1 year on run||One of the joint owners of the building in north Delhi’s Anaj Mandi that caught fire last December and left 45 persons dead was caught nearly a year after being on the run, police said on Monday. Mohd Imran, who was held on Saturday, is brother of another arrested suspect Mohd Rehan, and carried a reward of Rs 50,000 on his arrest. Together, they owned one of the two buildings that caught fire on December 8 last year, BK Singh, additional commissioner of police (crime branch) said. Two other suspects have already been arrested by the police, which had registered a case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder and attempt to commit culpable homicide in the case. Singh said Imran had gone into hiding on the day the fire broke out. “He had been hiding at the homes of his relatives in places such as Meerut, Agra, Raipur, Ajmer and Seelampur,” the officer said. Imran was caught on Saturday after the police were tipped off that he would visit Delhi to attend a family function. “We caught him in Azadpur,” Singh said. Police said Imran owned the fourth and fifth floors of one of the buildings that went up in flames. “He himself ran a small plastic products manufacturing unit from the ground floor of the same building and had rented out his floors to other small businesses,” said the officer. Singh said the two brothers had bought the two-storey building in 2007 and had gone on to construct three more floors. “The congested quarters inside the building had exacerbated the effect of the fire,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/absconding-owner-of-anaj-mandi-building-where-45-had-died-in-fire-is-arrested/story-9klzVu2ETsfXovi18iQa6J.html
17-11-2020||Delhi||Rain and winds help Delhi breathe a little easy||Strong winds and light rains in some parts of the city brought the much needed relief to the Delhi residents with the air quality on Monday settling in at the lower end of poor category -- two days after recording the worst air quality on Diwali in the last five years and a 15-day spell very poor and severe air days. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data shows that the overall air quality index of the national capital on Monday was 221, in the poor category. At 7pm on Monday, Delhi’s AQI had reached the moderate zone, with an AQI value of 199 , according to CPCB. At least 13 out of the total 38 air quality monitoring stations had recorded AQI levels below 200. The turnaround was clear since morning. At 9am on Monday, Delhi’s AQI was 300 compared to 467 around the same time the previous day.The neighbouring cities of Faridabad (256), Ghaziabad (292), Greater Noida (302), Gurgaon (314) and Noida (312) recorded their AQI in the poor and very poor categories after suffering severe air quality on Saturday and Sunday.On Sunday, a western disturbance which started impacting the western Himalayas on Saturday brought widespread and moderate rains to Delhi NCR. Delhi recorded 0.4 mm rainfall till 5.30 pm and wind speed of nearly 40kmph on Sunday. From recording severe AQIs of 414 and 435 on Saturday and Sunday—Diwali and the day after Diwali—the gusty wind helped in what was the maximum post-Diwali dispersion since 2015. Unlike previous years when air pollution levels remain very high turning to severe category the day after Diwali, this time air pollution levels gradually reduced due to favourable meteorological conditions, scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. VK Soni, head of IMD’s environment monitoring research centre, said that rain coupled with high wind speed was the reason behind the improvement in the air quality seen in Delhi. “The average wind speed on Monday remained around 18kmph. The impact of the rain and wind on Sunday also showed on Monday’s air. For the past two days Delhi is also receiving easterly winds, which means that the contribution from the stubble fires in Punjab and Haryana has also been negligible,” Soni said. Also Read: Lower air pollution, noise recorded in Chennai on Diwali compared to earlier yearsAnalysis of the PM2.5 levels data from Delhi Pollution Control Committee’s (DPCC) monitoring stations shows a steady decline since midnight Monday till late evening. At several stations the PM2.5 levels were well under the safe limit of 60ug/m3. The average PM2.5 levels at 6pm was 88ug/m3 and average PM10 levels was 135ug/m3. PM10 levels below 100 µg/m3 is considered safe in India and 500 µg/m3 is the emergency threshold. Delhi last recorded such low PM10 levels on September 28, according to DPCC and CPCB data.Soni said that in the coming week, Delhi’s air is likely to remain in the moderate to poor zone. According to the IMD forecast, the wind direction is expected to change again from easterly to north-westerly on Tuesday, which could result in a marginal deterioration, but because the stubble burning counts over Punjab and Haryana have been reducing now, the impact on Delhi’s air quality will not be severe.  Union ministry of earth science’ air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), showed that on Monday 282 farm fires were spotted over Punjab and Haryana. Its impact on the PM 2.5 levels (ultrafine particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) was also only 1% on Monday. “A change in boundary layer wind direction is forecasted by tomorrow (Tuesday) afternoon but since the fire-related emissions have reduced, significant impact is not expected. The AQI is likely to improve. It is forecasted to marginally deteriorate and stay in the very poor category on November 18 and November 19,” the Safar forecast read. In a special report on Diwali pollution released on Sunday, the Central Pollution Control Board had said that almost all pollutants reported higher values on Diwali day this year as compared to 2019. It could be attributed to bursting of firecrackers, higher share of stubble burning and unfavourable meteorology during the festival season, the CPCB said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rain-and-winds-help-delhi-breathe-a-little-easy/story-jT9S2seV77DHBrUHXKYrMI.html
17-11-2020||Delhi||25% traffic violations causing congestion and pollution in Delhi’s bad air hot spots||In the last six months, nearly one-fourth of traffic violations that cause road congestion and add to air pollution were spotted at Delhi’s 13 bad air hot spots, according to data seen by Hindustan Times. The Delhi traffic police said the number of violations such as improper parking or encroachments on the roads was comparatively higher at these 13 places because of strict enforcement to detect rule-breakers, keeping in mind the high levels of air pollution at this time every year. Police said they were working with the Centre and the state pollution board to ensure free movement of traffic at the 13 hot spots to keep the PM 2.5 levels in check. A major source of PM 2.5 -- the most harmful aerosol in Delhi’s air -- is primarily vehicles. According to data, since June 26 police fined 41,809 vehicles for improper parking, which slowed traffic movement and caused congestion, at these spots. Overall, 206,111 fines were issued across the city for haphazard parking.At least 126 of the 547 vehicles caught carrying uncovered construction material across Delhi were at these spots. In the absence of a proper cover, the construction material mixed with the air, aggravating the air quality. Hot spots are areas where air quality reaches hazardous levels and can cause severe health problems. The air quality index (AQI) in these 13 spots -- Anand Vihar, RK Puram, Jahangirpuri, Narela, Ashok Vihar, Dwarka, Rohini, Punjabi Bagh, Bawana, Okhla, Wazirpur, Mundka and Vivek Vihar -- is usually higher than the city average.Also Read| Winter is here: Delhi records season’s lowest maximum tempBetween November 5 and November 10, when Delhi recorded the longest spell of ‘severe’ air days this year, the AQI in at least 10 hot spots touched 500, the maximum value that can be recorded on the AQI scale.Trespassing on the roads in the form of makeshift huts, shops or hawkers, which add to traffic congestion, was high at the hot spots, where police cleared 3,409 such encroachments with the help of civic agencies. Overall, 24,829 encroachments were removed across the city.“The CPCB had identified the hot spots based on the air pollution levels. Our traffic personnel are working round-the-clock to ensure smooth traffic movement at these places. Our officers remove wrongly parked vehicles,” said Taj Hasan, special commissioner of police(traffic).Of the 51,495 people found without valid pollution under control certificates across Delhi, 12,325 were at these hot spots. Police caught 44 persons for driving vehicles more than 15 years old at these hot spots. Overall, 229 such drivers were caught. Pollution caused by the high number of vehicles (at least 11 million are registered in Delhi) on roads had prompted the government and courts to adopt schemes such as the odd-even road rationing plan. The National Green Tribunal also banned diesel and petrol vehicles more than 10 and 15 years old, respectively, from plying. At present, the Delhi government and police are working on an initiative called the “Red Light On, Engine Off,”which been extended till November 30.Also Read: As Delhi pollution spikes, AAP launches 2nd phase of ‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off’ campaignAnumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), these 13 areas were earmarked only because the pollution levels there were higher than the rest of the city. She said the only way to improve air quality is to strengthen enforcement in these areas.“Under the (Supreme Court approved) Graded Response Action Plan (Grap), measures are listed on what needs to done when pollution levels reach a certain category. So the task of enforcing the action plan lies with the agencies. The focus has to be these hot spots,” Roychowdhury said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/25-traffic-violations-causing-congestion-and-pollution-in-delhi-s-hot-spots-of-bad-air/story-HPasNiT2hvRlKNg0JA1FdL.html
17-11-2020||Education||LSR may keep aside a few hostel rooms for second and third year students on need basis||Delhi University’s (DU) Lady Shri Ram (LSR) college for women on Monday deferred until further notice the order asking students to vacate their hostel rooms, and said the college administration is considering keeping aside some rooms in its hostel for the second and third-year students on a need basis. The announcement comes days after a 19-year-old student from the college, who was reportedly struggling to cope with her online classes, died by suicide in her home town in Telangana on November 2. Her parents said that she was stressed as the college had asked second-year hostellers to vacate their rooms by November 10. In 2019, the college had introduced a policy limiting its hostel to first-year students only. This was done to accommodate students from other backward classes (OBC) and economically weaker section (EWS) categories.In a notification issued on its website on Monday, the college said, “Current second-year students of LSRC, whose tenure in the hostel finished in May 2020, and whose belongings were safely kept in the hostel free of charge, for five months, were asked to collect their belongings by October 31. Subsequently, the date was extended to November 10 and beyond for several students in genuine need.” .Also Read: After LSR suicide, DU’s struggling students open up about financial stress of digital divideThe college said in view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases and the difficulties expressed by second-year students, the shifting of their belongings from hostel rooms has been postponed until further orders. “The management and administration of the college are looking at how we can help the girls during the pandemic by enhancing accommodation as a short-term arrangement. The process of removal of luggage has also been put on hold until further notice and a notice to this effect is up on the website,” the notification said. “We are also working on earmarking a few seats for some second and third-year girls to be allotted on the basis of need,” it added.Unnimaya P, general secretary of LSR students’ union, said, “The students have been demanding a complete revocation of the new hostel policy. Earmarking two or three rooms won’t help all students in need.”Despite repeated attempts, college principal Suman Sharma did not respond to calls and texts. However, in its notification, the college said, “There was no way in which LSR hostel could continue to be a hostel for three years and also implement OBC reservation. With the hostel envisaged as a first- year hostel only, about 60 girls from the OBC category could be accommodated. Increasing the number of beds in the existing hostel (an old building) or building a new hostel is not immediately possible (lack of funds).The college administration said implementing the OBC reservations (and subsequently EWS reservations) was the only way to make the hostel more inclusive and less exclusive by providing a cushioning effect to a much larger number of first-year students who needed hostel facilities the most.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/lsr-may-keep-aside-a-few-hostel-rooms-for-second-and-third-year-students-on-need-basis/story-FQHkqq1xca2anEDkAuoBFN.html
17-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi: SDMC plans doorstep property tax collection service||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has decided to provide a doorstep service to help taxpayers file property tax through ‘mobile sahayaks’ (assistants), in a bid to improve revenue collection that was hit by the pandemic. A proposal to launch the service, on the lines of a similar “doorstep delivery of services” scheme being run by the Delhi government, was cleared by SDMC’s standing committee last month.South corporation officials said the service was mooted after residents complained of problems in filling property tax through the updated online system. People were facing problems in uploading documents and server issues. The officials said the move is expected to enhance the civic body’s property tax collection, which “had not been satisfactory” this year.Municipal officials said the estimated number of dwelling units (households) in SDMC’s jurisdiction is around 12 lakh, which include unauthorised colonies, rural and urban villages. They said the target for 2020-21 is around Rs 1,100 crore of which Rs 500 crore has been collected so far.“We held special camps for offline collection of property tax but due to the coronavirus pandemic, people did not turn up in expected numbers. So ultimately we mooted a proposal to introduce a doorstep service to collect tax from citizens. This will help people, especially elderly citizens, in filling house tax,” Rajdutt Gahlot, chairman SDMC standing committee, said.According to the policy, residents will have to make a call to SDMC’s call centre to avail of the facility named the “doorstep service of collection of property tax through mobile sahayaks”. The applicants will get a unique token number for all future references till the final payment is made in SDMC’s account.“It will work on the model of the Delhi government’s doorstep delivery of services. A mobile sahayak, equipped with a tablet and internet connection, will visit the residences of applicants on a given date and time and help the users in filing the property tax. Users will have to pay a facilitation fee after a successful transaction of the tax amount to SDMC,” the official said.After an approval from the House, the corporation would engage an agency for providing the doorstep service, Gahlot said. The deadline to roll out this scheme is January 2021.Gahlot said the scheme would not put any financial burden on the municipality as beneficiaries would have to pay a nominal facilitation fee to the agency assigned the task of doorstep collection of property tax.“On successful completion of the property tax transaction, the mobile sahayak shall collect a nominal facilitation fee from the taxpayer. However, like the Delhi government’s facilitation fees, we have proposed a cap on this fee, which will be not more than Rs.100 per successful transaction. This scheme will help improve SDMC’s tax collection,” Gahlot said.Atul Goyal, president United Residents Joint Action of Delhi — an umbrella body of RWAs — appreciated the move, saying such innovative ideas would not only improve tax collection of the cash-strapped civic body but also make the process hassle-free for citizens. “It’s a good move. A Rs 100 convenience fee is not a problem to avail of benefits of this scheme as residents had to spend more when they go to MCD offices to file property taxes. This decision should be implemented uniformly in the east and north corporations as well,” Goyal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sdmc-plans-doorstep-property-tax-collection-service/story-LZqmxJ0THOUxWRGaP6byJL.html
17-11-2020||Education||Colours and bustle of campus life move online, DU colleges welcome students virtually||Eighteen-year-old Srijani Datta, who was looking forward to experiencing Delhi University’s “thriving student culture” on the North Campus, is now preparing to sit in front of her laptop from November 18 to begin her first year of college under DU.The teenager, who graduated from a private school in Vasant Kunj this year and will be pursuing an undergraduate (UG) degree in sociology at the Hindu College, has even bought a new top for the occasion. “But it will be a classic zoom meeting outfit-- I will be pairing them with old trousers,” said Datta, laughing. “My friends and I used to go out for “college shopping” during our pre-board exams to de-stress. At that time, we had no idea that this was how we would be starting our college life,” she said.Unlike the other years, when the academic session would begin either by July or August, this year, classes for around 67,000 first-year undergraduate students will begin on November 18 – after a delay of nearly four months brought about by the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown. Even the board exams results got delayed and that meant the start of the new academic session was also impeded.Since colleges are still closed to undergraduate students, most of the institutes such as Hindu College, Miranda House, St Stephen’s College, Shri Ram College of Commerce, Ramjas College and others have opted for an online orientation process --- the new students will be introduced to the campus virtually. Class representative elections, college society functions, and other activities, too, have been moved online. “Official and unofficial” WhatsApp groups have also been formed by students. During the orientation ceremony of Hindu College last week, students said they were “texting on the group” about various matters of interest, including which college societies had seemed more appealing.“The whole experience wasn’t the same as sitting with classmates in the auditorium, but it was something. I wanted to get into DU and explore other parts of the city along with meeting new people and joining different societies or sports teams. But now, we know these can’t happen anytime soon. So while talking to my classmates who are not from Delhi, I tell them that the city is beautiful in February and we will have more fun if they get to join the college at that time,” said Datta. So far, the university has not made any plans to reopen colleges for UG students.From the delay in board exam results to soaring DU cutoffs, followed by the lengthy admission process, the year of the pandemic was particularly difficult for young students transitioning from school to college, especially for those who had to change cities.Varanasi resident Chitransh Srivastava, 18, who will be pursuing BA programme in Shivaji College, said many of his friends were not allowed to move to Delhi for their graduation due to the pandemic. “Their parents insisted on getting them admitted to local universities; so I don’t really have a support system in Delhi. We had been excited about coming to Delhi because the culture is completely different here. But now I am a little concerned. Our semester exams are scheduled to take place in March and we will need some offline classes before that to understand the exam culture. Even if we join in December or late January, we will not have enough time to easily adjust and study. ”Vanisha Meena, 18, a resident of Kota who will be pursuing an English degree at St Stephen’s College, however, viewed it differently. “We are sad about missing out on campus life. Outstation students, especially female students, often want to move out of their homes and explore different things which shape their identity. But we are also gaining a new experience -- of getting to know people through online platforms first and then meeting them in person, whenever the college reopens.”Students also said college societies are “reinventing themselves” and creating events that can be done virtually. These events also allow freshers to speak to students of all batches instead of just their classmates. “We often have zoom meetings in the evening where students talk about various contemporary issues -- politics or our writing. We do rant about missing out on campus life and exploring a new city. But at least we can rant together,” said Meena.While St Stephen’s College conducted a communion service and online assembly through YouTube streaming links on Monday, Shri Ram College of Commerce will also conduct a three-level orientation programme for its students. Principal Simrit Kaur said, “Each section of students, comprising around 50-60 students, has two mentor teachers who can be approached for queries. They will also be introduced to societies, alumni, and teachers through virtual platforms. It is a difficult time and we are trying to smoothen the transition for students. We have also introduced them to our psychological and career counsellors who will remain available online.”After the recent death by suicide of an undergraduate student from Lady Shri Ram College, principals are also making efforts to ensure freshers are not left without any support system in their first year of college.Anju Shrivastava, principal of Hindu College, said, “We had our orientation day with freshers on November 11 and did a long session with the college counsellor. She talked to students about when they should seek counselling as it is important for students to identify when they or their friends need help. We have also formed groups of first-year students along with second- and third-year students and teachers as part of a peer mentoring system. That way, students can be more comfortable in posing their queries either to seniors or teachers about courses, books, or anything else regarding the college.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/colours-and-bustle-of-campus-life-move-online-du-colleges-welcome-students-virtually/story-96ARQKM1tgzTYAtgL1bK4J.html
17-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: Missing glasses help court decide bail plea||The Delhi high court has granted bail to an accused in one of the cases of riots in north east Delhi’s Bhajanpura area, on the grounds that even though he had a weak eyesight, he was not wearing glasses in the CCTV footage submitted by the police to establish his presence at the spot as well as the absence of call detail records as corroborating evidence. While granting bail to Saiyad Iftikhar on a personal bond of Rs 15,000, justice Suresh Kait said that it is not in dispute that he had a weak eyesight (-3.75) and he was wearing spectacles when he was arrested even though the CCTV footage did not show him wearing glasses.“It is not in dispute that petitioner’s eye sight is weak (-3.75) and when he was arrested he was wearing spectacles. However, petitioner was arrested on the basis of CCTV footage along with co accused Ali Hasan but admitted fact is that in CCTV footage petitioner is not wearing spectacles.“The alleged incident is dated February 24 at 21:31.50 hour. Thus, it cannot be believed that a person having such weak eye sight would have clear vision at night without spectacles. Moreover, CDR is not on record, whereby it could have been established that the petitioner was available at the site,” the judge said in his order of November 12.According to the plea filed through advocates Mehmood Pracha and Jatin Bhatt, Iftikhar had been falsely and maliciously implicated in the FIR registered at Bhajanpura police station for rioting, unlawful assembly and arson. He has been in custody since April 11.Appearing for the accused, advocate Pracha contended that his client was arrested for alleged arson, looting, and damaging of shops, despite no public and police witnesses. He said his client’s name has also not been mentioned in the FIR.He submitted that the only basis of arrest is the alleged sighting of his client on CCTV footage as well as certain undisclosed secret information. Challenging the orders of the trial court which had dismissed his bail pleas, Pracha stated that no recoveries have been made from Iftikhar and the charge sheet in the case has already been filed.The court after hearing the contentions, said, “Keeping in view the above facts and the fact that petitioner is in judicial custody (JC) since April 11, therefore, I am of the view that the petitioner (ifitkhar) deserves bail”.Communal riots had broken out in the city in February this year claiming 53 lives and leaving over 400 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-riots-missing-glasses-help-court-decide-bail-plea/story-5GV4K9tXqi3cbTxyUPrhyL.html
17-11-2020||Delhi||Family attacked with swords for objecting to lewd remarks||A man and his family members were allegedly attacked with a sword and an iron rod by group of men for objecting to lewd remarks passed on his teenage daughter in west Delhi’s Tilak Nagar on Diwali night, the police said. The attack left the young woman, her sister and brother and their parents with cuts and wounds, but all of them are out of danger, Samir Sharma, additional deputy commissioner of police (west), said. The police nabbed two of the four suspects and obtained their custody for two days to help catch two other alleged assailants. Sharma said the accused men and the victims live in the same neighbourhood in Tilak Nagar. The victim’s family runs a street side stall. Around 11pm on Diwali night, the two sisters -- aged 18 and 20 -- were standing outside their house when a neighbour allegedly said something objectionable to the younger woman, the police officer said. The officer said the woman’s father objected to the behaviour, but he responded by fighting with the family. “Soon, the man was joined by three other men who were armed with a sword and an iron rod,” Sharma said.In the assault that followed, the father of the two women received the most grievous injuries while the other four family members sustained relatively less serious wounds.A caller initially informed the police control room that the hands of the two sisters were chopped off and their father was decapitated, Sharma said. But when the police reached the spot, the injuries weren’t as serious as the caller had made it out to be, the officer said. They were taken to Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital where they are undergoing treatment. The police subsequently nabbed the alleged attacker and another suspect.Police said they initially registered a case of attempt to murder given the nature of injuries to the women’s father and a case of causing hurt with dangerous weapons for wounds received by the other members of the family.Later, on the statement of the woman who was allegedly being harassed, the police added sections of molestation, sexual harassment and criminal intimidation. “The woman’s statement is being recorded in court and the investigation into the assault continues,” Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/family-attacked-with-swords-for-objecting-to-lewd-remarks/story-ZYe1JQSRiQzF1vLYzJ323O.html
17-11-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram reserves 75% of ICU beds for seriously ill Covid-19 patients||At least 75% of the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds in Gurugram hospitals have now been reserved for seriously ill Covid-19 patients, according to an order issued by the district administration on Monday. Additionally, 50% of the general beds across 42 private hospitals have also been reserved for moderately ill Covid-19 patients, as per the directives issued by the deputy commissioner Amit Khatri. Earlier this week, Delhi government reserved 80% ICU beds for Covid-19 patients in 33 private hospitals in the city. With Delhi-National Capital Region (NCR) noticing a consistent upward trend in cases and a proportionate uptick in hospitalisation, Niti Aayog on Friday had directed the state officials to urgently increase bed capacity in the neighbouring states of the Capital. “Under the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897 and Disaster Management Act, 2005, public and private hospitals have been directed to ensure that 50% of the general beds and 75% of ICU/ventilator beds are reserved for Covid-19 cases,” stated Khatri in the order. Till now, only 35% beds in hospitals were reserved for patients infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus. It included both general and ICU beds along with those with ventilator. The bed capacity earlier in September was increased from 25% to 35%. Amid the record surge in Covid-19 cases since the last week of October, hospital beds are fast being occupied by serious new infections. Hospitalisation has consistently increased from 191 on November 2 to 293 on November 7 and further to 408 on November 13. On Monday, at least 417 infected patients from Gurugram were hospitalised. Additionally, 287 outstation patients from Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, parts of Haryana and other states are also undergoing treatment, as per the district hospitalisation data.“There has been a 40% increase in the ICU beds with the spike in Covid-19 cases, which is leading to fast occupancy of beds in hospitals,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. “The decision to increase the number of beds for Covid-19 patients has been taken based on the directives issued by Niti Aayog on Friday to tackle surge of Covid-19 cases in Delhi-NCR in the last three weeks,” he said. Data available on the government website showed that on Monday, 2,095 beds were reserved in 42 hospitals. It includes 312 ICU beds and 139 beds with ventilator support system. Of these 118 ICU beds and 63 ventilators are presently occupied. Also, out of 1,644 general beds, at least 994 are occupied. Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head of community medicine department and school of public health , PGIMER- Chandigarh, said, “There is no specific treatment for Covid-19 except for the supportive care, which should be provided to serious patients immediately. With increased bed capacity, people will not be left without treatment and mortality would be controlled. Some people due to age, poor immunity and co-morbidity issue might succumb to the illness but citizens should not die due to lack of treatment facilities.”On Monday, 546 new infections were confirmed from 2,524 samples collected on Sunday. Due to the festive weekend, overall testing recorded a dip from the daily average of 3,000 tests. But at least 3,501 samples were collected on Monday. Currently, cases are growing at a weekly test positivity rate of nearly 18%. The total tally of Covid-19 has reached to 39,933. Of these, 5,749 are active cases while 33,940 have recovered from the illness. The Covid-19 death toll also reached 244, with three new deaths being reported in the last 24 hours. Presently, 92% of the active cases are home isolated and seven percent of the patients are hospitalised. Yadav said that as part of the strategy, the next action would be to further increase testing to identify new infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-reserves-75-of-icu-beds-for-seriously-ill-covid-19-patients/story-XzlWmEwFDqxYUPrLOLusOL.html
