19-11-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death: Australian national held in drugs case granted bail||A special holiday court on Thursday granted bail to Australian national Paul Bartel who was held in connection with the drug trail linked to actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death.The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) had arrested Bartel on Friday alleging that he was in touch with arrested accused and drug supplier Agisilaos Demetriades, a South African national and brother of actor Arjun Rampal’s girlfriend Gabriella.On Thursday, Bartel’s lawyers Abad Ponda and Subhash Jadhav contended that the agency has no evidence to link him to the drug trail.The agency has relied on the WhatsApp chat of Bartel with two other accused — Demetriades and Nikhil Saldahna, and claimed that Bartel is a drug supplier.The court, however, noted, “In the absence of any substantial material, taking into account the fact that no contraband was recovered from the accused and except the statements of co-accused and WhatsApp messages, there is no substantial evidence to treat the accused as peddler/supplier of drugs; it may not be justified to refuse to extend the concession of bail.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-australian-national-held-in-drugs-case-granted-bail/story-ven41Ijba55e0xpXyS7HiJ.html
19-11-2020||Mumbai||BJP leader Kirit Somaiya targets Aaditya Thackeray; Shiv Sena rubbishes allegations||After targeting chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s wife, Rashmi, over a land deal, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kirit Somaiya on Thursday alleged the CM’s son, Aaditya Thackeray, who is also the state environment minister, violated the office of profit rules by holding a position in a private firm even three months after he was sworn in as a minister.While Shiv Sena rubbished the allegations and said that they do not take Somaiya seriously, Aaditya Thackeray did not respond to the calls and text messages.Somaiya, at a press conference, said as per records with the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Aaditya was designated partner in M/S Hibiscus Food LLP (limited liability partnership) and Eliora Solar LLP until March 31, 2020, before he resigned, almost three months after he was sworn in as a minister in the state cabinet. He was designated partner of the first entity since July 14, 2015, and in the second firm since April 26, 2015, Somaiya said.“Aaditya was actively involved in the real estate business even after being sworn in as a minister last year. This is a clear violation of office of profit law. The family should also clarify whether Aaditya is in partnership with a leading Thane-based developer. The family has been misusing their position for their land and building businesses. In his election affidavit, CM Thackeray has shown three land records twice and it needs to be clarified if there was any intention of hiding other three plots,” Somaiya said. “As per rule 2(1) (X) of the Limited Liability Rules, 2009, an officer of the LLP means all of them who are partners, designated partners, employees and any person under whose directions/instructions the partners of the LLP has been accustomed to act. Aaditya was in an executive position in the firms and it leads to the violation of the office of profit law.”Somaiya said in the affidavit submitted by the CM in his Legislative Council election in May, three survey numbers 42/1/B, 43/1/D/3 and 41/1/A/1 have been shown twice in the column describing the land parcels owned by his wife, Rashmi. Somaiya said the CM should clarify this as the “people of Maharashtra would like to know about the details, the legal provisions, the role of Thackeray family members in these companies and deals”.Sena legislator from Dindoshi and the party’s chief whip in Assembly Sunil Prabhu said, “There is nothing wrong in holding a position in any company and I do not think it has led to any type of violation of office of profit law. I have not gone into the details of allegations, but I am sure there was no violation done by Aadityaji. As far as the land deals are concerned, everything was transparent and shown in income-tax returns and election affidavits. Somaiya has been doing this for publicity.”Somaiya had last week raised questions over the joint land purchase deals by Rashmi Thackeray and Manisha Waikar, wife of Sena legislator Ravindra Waikar. The land parcels were purchased from Anvay Naik and his family in 2014. Naik died by suicide in May 2018, holding journalist Arnab Goswami responsible in his suicide note. Waikar had then clarified that the transactions were mentioned in the income-tax returns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bjp-leader-kirit-somaiya-targets-aaditya-thackeray-shiv-sena-rubbishes-allegations/story-YulXMT2b1XyQPd7GyBSJ6L.html
19-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana’s Health Minister Anil Vij to be administered trial dose of Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin||Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij who had offered to be the first volunteer in the phase three trials for Covaxin, a potential vaccine against COVID-19, will get the dose on Friday. The 67-year old senior Bharatiya Janata Party leader said he will be administered the trial dose of the indigenous vaccine at the Civil Hospital at Ambala Cantt.“I will be administered a trial dose of Coronavirus vaccine #Covaxin a Bharat Biotech product Tomorrow at 11 am at Civil hospital, Ambala Cantt under the expert supervision of a team of doctors from PGI Rohtak and Health Department,” Vij said in a tweet.“I have volunteered to take the trial dose,” he added. Vij, who is an MLA from Ambala Cantt, had on Wednesday said the third phase of trial of Covaxin will begin in the state on November 20 and had offered to be the first volunteer to get vaccinated.Covaxin is being developed indigenously by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Last month, the vaccine maker said it had successfully completed interim analysis of Phase 1 and 2 trials and is initiating Phase 3 trials.Bharat Biotech had on Monday said the Phase 3 trial of Covaxin will involve 26,000 volunteers across 25 centres in India and is being conducted in partnership with the ICMR.It is the largest clinical trial conducted for a COVID-19 vaccine in India.This is India’s first Phase 3 efficacy study for a COVID-19 vaccine, and the largest Phase 3 efficacy trial ever conducted.The human trial of Covaxin had begun at Rohtak’s Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences in July, Vij had said earlier. PTI SUN VSD TDS TDS TDS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-s-health-minister-anil-vij-to-be-administered-trial-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-covaxin/story-SouD3DZraj1UgJFrvJRJDO.html
19-11-2020||Noida||Noida: Woman alleges blackmail by husband over divorce, FIR filed||Noida: A 23-year-old woman has alleged that she was blackmailed by her husband for over Rs 25 lakh when she approached him for divorce, said the police. A case has been registered at the Sector 20 police station in this regard.The woman has filed a complaint against her husband, who is a 32-year-old gym instructor, as well as his maternal uncle and friend. The complainant stated that she first met the suspect in December 2019 at a gym in Delhi.“He was a dedicated instructor and directed me for fitness training and diet control. We were on good terms and would sometimes help him financially. But he never shared details about his family, except to say that his father had passed away. In April 2020 he asked me to marry him,” stated the woman.However, he did not want to include the woman’s family in the wedding. “I kept using the Covid-19 pandemic as an excuse to avoid discussing this but he kept pushing me. One day when I met him in May, he surprised me with traditional wear and took me to a temple in Delhi. I even asked him how the temple was open during the lockdown and he said that the priest was an acquaintance. A friend of his was there who acted as a witness and clicked photos and made videos while we married,” she alleged.She alleged that the man’s behaviour towards her became very aggressive after that. On May 16, the woman said she came back to her family and filed a marriage dissolution application. She said later she found out that he belonged to a different religion and had made fake documents for identity and educational qualifications.“We were then approached by a man who demanded that my family pay him as well as my husband Rs 25 lakh to end the marriage. He threatened to release objectionable photos of mine on social media and demanded Rs 2 lakh in cash immediately, which we paid them after they threatened us with connections to powerful people,” alleged the woman in her complaint.Based on her complaint, a case was registered at the Sector 20 police station for cheating, extortion and criminal intimidation, among others.“The husband is a Delhi resident and is absconding from his house, along with other family members. His parents have different religions, of which he did not inform the woman. A probe in the matter is underway and we will know more once he is nabbed,” said RK Singh, station house officer, Sector 20 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-woman-alleges-blackmail-by-husband-over-divorce-fir-filed/story-CyrnWOggEApLrdYErTg9SM.html
19-11-2020||Noida||Noida: District lawyers strike against police ‘misconduct’||Greater Noida: Lawyers of the Surajpur district court went on strike on Thursday to protest against the alleged misconduct of police personnel with advocates. Lawyers gathered in the morning at the court premises and locked the gates, keeping police personnel from entering the grounds. This comes a day after some police personnel allegedly misbehaved with a lawyer at the executive magistrate’s office in Sector 6. The protesting counsels alleged that the lawyer who had gone to the Sector 6 office with a client, who had been booked under Section 151 (cognisable offences) of the CrPC, was told by police personnel to leave and not interfere with their proceedings. The protesting lawyers alleged that the lawyer in question and an assistant commissioner of police had an argument as well. “They misbehaved with him and the conduct of the police with lawyers is often like that. We get no support from them, are often insulted at police stations and instead of working with us, they often create roadblocks for us,” alleged Ranpal Awana, an advocate with the district court.The lawyers said that they will speak with senior police personnel and if they are satisfied with improvements and developments, the strike will be called off but for now, they will continue to protest.A senior police official, on condition of anonymity, said that the lawyer in Sector 6 was pulled up over his alleged interference in magisterial proceedings despite several warnings.“He kept treating the executive magistrate like a mere cop even though everything was being carried out in the chamber according to procedure, thereby reducing the dignity of the proceedings and the officer. He kept on interfering and was warned several times,” said the police officer.When contacted, the joint commissioner of police of Gautam Budh Nagar district said that the allegations of both sides are being looked into.“We have spoken to the lawyers and are working on rectifying the situation as soon as possible while listening to both sides,” said joint commissioner of police, Luv Kumar.Police said they are also working on installing CCTV cameras at the office to keep from such issues from arising again in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-district-lawyers-strike-against-police-misconduct/story-aMWxSkXYgggsg4lI1gZncI.html
19-11-2020||Noida||Camps proposed for issuance of completion-certificate||The Greater Noida authority on Thursday assured industrial unit owners that their grievances will be addressed on priority and will issue completion certificates.The Greater Noida authority chief executive officer (CEO) Narendra Bhooshan met with industrial unit owners at its main administrative building in sector Knowledge Park-IV via video conference. The CEO directed his staff to address all issues such as park maintenance, road repair, cleanliness and other work on priority basis. He also asked that the work such as issuance of completion, mortgage permission, map approval and other certificates should be issued without any hassle.“The authority will set up camps to issue completion certificate for industrial unit owners in sector Ecotech 2 and sector Ecotech 3 at December 7 at its main administrative office. It will help the industrial unit owners to get their work done hassle free without them needing to go to the authority office,” said Deep Chandar additional chief executive officer of the Greater Noida authority.CEO also directed the health department that the waste should be collected properly from the door to door, transported to the landfill site and then treated scientifically as per the waste management rules-2016.“CEO also has asked the land department to expedite the work on land buying that is required to develop the industrial sector. We need to ready four new sectors as there are demands for the industrial land. The investors are looking for the industrial land to set up their businesses,” said Chandra.The authority does not have adequate land to be allotted for the industrial purposes. The authority will buy the land from the farmers via direct purchase and will develop roads, drains and other facilities before allotting the same to industrial unit owners. “It takes a long time to process certificates related to mortgage permission, map approval and transfer of memorandum of understanding etc. We face issues such as bad condition of roads, poor maintenance of parks and sanitation among others. We hope the authority will provide hassle free services,” said Surendra Nahta president of small, micro and medium enterprise association Gautam Budh Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/camps-proposed-for-issuance-of-completion-certificate/story-y31qxJwn0eSZVFEdhE8PsJ.html
19-11-2020||Noida||New education policy promotes multidisciplinary studies, says HRD minister||Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank on Thursday urged students to work towards nation building in an effort to make India a “vishwaguru (global teacher)”. He said that the newly implemented National Education Policy (NEP) was historic as it promoted regional languages and multidisciplinary studies. “India had great mathematician like Aryabhata and philosopher Nagarjuna. We had the world’s best and oldest universities like Nalanda, and Takshila/Taxila. We need to make India great. We have a tradition of shiksha, diksha and then gurudakshna. We want the students to make India vishwaguru as gurudakshna,” Pokhriyal said 35 minute speech delivered in Hindi during Sharda University’s fourth convocation day.Pokhriyal said that India had an asset of 330 million students. “These students in different colleges and universities have done great research in the recent times. Even in medical fields, the students have done research on Covid-19 vaccine. They have produced PPE kits, masks and other safety equipments and medicines. We have become self dependent in medical sciences due to our young students and researchers,” he said. The education minister said that the former prime ministers Lal Bahadur Shastri and Atal Bihari Vajpayee had given slogans “Jai Jawan Jai Kisan,” and “Jai Jawan Jai Kisan Jai Vigyan” respectively. Pokhriyal added that PM Narendra Modi had added “Anusandhan” in this slogan to promote research. On the NEP, the minister said, “A student of science can opt papers of arts, and vice versa. The students will have options to exit in the middle of the course if they want to due to any problem. The students will be given certificates, diplomas and degrees based on their credit completed. There is also option for them to continue the education later. We will promote education in 22 regional languages through the new education policy. We will also introduce artificial intelligence programmes in schools and colleges... We have seen that Japan, France and Israel, etc. provide education in their own mother languages and excel in different fields,” Phokriyal said. Sharda University on Thursday conferred degrees to 3593 graduate students, 1203 post graduate students, and 51 Phd candidates. Pokhriyal, along with Meghalaya CM Conrad Sangma, and Ravi P Singh, secretary general Quality Council of India were conferred upon honorary Phd degrees by the University. They also inaugurated University’s modern library on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/new-education-policy-promotes-multidisciplinary-studies-says-hrd-minister/story-SyH7yfcbc6VwoQlC3qLyzH.html
19-11-2020||Noida||Banyan tree chopped off: After complaints to UP officials, Ghaziabad forest department initiate inquiry||Following complaints from environmentalists over chopping the branches of a banyan tree on Hapur Road in Ghaziabad, the divisional forest officer has initiated an inquiry into the incident.The district forest officials had earlier given permission to translocate the tree to the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) campus near Govindpuram. However, the NDRF confirmed that they had not given permission to translocate the tree to their campus.Divisional forest officer (DFO) Diksha Bhandari on Thursday said that she is conducting an inquiry and have sought explanation from her subordinate officers. Earlier, Bhandari had said that she had given permission to translocate the tree in public interest citing obstructing traffic.“I am conducting an inquiry and will be submitting the report to chief conservator of forest (Meerut). I have sought an explanation from the forest ranger who had initially given to me in writing that the NDRF had given verbal permission for translocation. But their officials got transferred in between,” she said. But now the tree will not be translocated.“We plan to strengthen the base of the tree and if the public does not want translocation, we will allow it to grow at the same place. Even if NDRF had not given permission in writing we have enough forest areas available with us and could have translocated it elsewhere. So we are now maintaining status quo,” she said. Dr Rajiv Kumar Garg, UP’s principal chief conservator of forest, said he will get the incident inquired in detail and would seek more details whether the procedures were followed or not. “Translocation is always a costly affair and it requires a lot of expertise. There are chances that the tree which is translocated may not survive. It seems there have been some issues for which I will seek details from officials and get the entire incident inquired in detail,” Garg said. Environmentalists have alleged that there were several “procedural lapses” during the incident and have also demanded action. “The permission on November 7 was given for translocation. When there was no permission from the NDRF then why the chopping activity was initiated and what was the motive behind it? If the subordinate officials had given in writing about any such permission (from NDRF) to the DFO it amounts to concealment of facts,” said Akash Vashishtha, city-based environmentalist and a lawyer. “Instead, the DFO should also have demanded a copy of written permission by the NDRF from her officers. We have raised the issue with the PCCF, UP and will raise complaints to the highest level with the Ministry of Forest. There seem to be series of irregularities and action should follow. The inquiry by the DFO will be incomplete if the lapses and motive are not brought to fore,” he added. Ruchin Mehra, another environmentalist, said that he had raised two objections on the Integrated Grievance Redressal System of the UP government on September 5 and September 26 against the chopping of the tree and the chopping activity was stalled and translocation permission was issued instead. “We have failed to understand if there was no permission from NDRF then why the activity was initiated so hurriedly? Now, they are planning not to relocate the tree. By entire sequence it seems that someone had motive to get the tree chopped off by one way or the other. Instead, this is an old tree in the heart of the city and should have been preserved,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/banyan-tree-chopped-off-after-complaints-to-up-officials-ghaziabad-forest-department-initiate-inquiry/story-8NcEytqVgajbhq32prOV5N.html
19-11-2020||Noida||Five cops hurt as police van ferrying inmates for court hearing hit by UPSRTC bus||Ghaziabad: Five personnel of the Hapur police, including a woman constable, were injured while they were travelling in a police van from Hapur to Ghaziabad and their vehicle was allegedly hit from behind by a Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) bus at NH-9 on Thursday morning. Police said that the incident took place around 11am while the police van was on the Masuri flyover. The van was heading from Hapur to Ghaziabad’s Dasna jail to take inmates for a court hearing. “During the incident, the jail van was on the flyover and it was hit from behind by a speeding UPSRTC bus which was also coming from Hapur to Ghaziabad. As a result, the police van hit a divider and its front portion got damaged. Five personnel travelling in the van sustained injuries and were rushed to two hospitals for treatment,” said Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, superintendent of police (rural). The five injured were identified as Sarvesh Yadav, the driver of the police van, head constable Subhash Kumar, who sustained severe head injuries, while three other constables were identified as Roop Kishor, Arun Kumar and Renu Kumari. Sarvesh and Subhash were rushed for treatment at a hospital in Govindpuram while three others were admitted to a hospital in Masuri. “Subhash sustained severe head injuries. The condition of other four is stable now. Our teams nabbed the bus driver who said that he is from Hapur depot. Till late Thursday evening we have not received any complaint so far from the Hapur police. We have all the details of the driver and case will be registered once we get the complaint,” Jadaun added. Officers said that the police van was towed to the Masuri police station from the flyover area in order to avoid any disruption of traffic on the national highway. AK Singh, regional manager of UPSRTC could not be reached for comments. The Masuri flyover is part of the phase 3 of Delhi Meerut Expressway project which extends from Dasna in Ghaziabad to Hapur over a span of about 22km.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/five-cops-hurt-as-police-van-ferrying-inmates-for-court-hearing-hit-by-upsrtc-bus/story-GhjjQYmjpQUPOPIuhyHAmN.html
19-11-2020||Noida||UP Roadway’s Pink Bus hits tractor trolley, 11 injured at Yamuna Expressway||Eleven passengers were injured when a Pink Bus of the UP Roadways hit a tractor trolley and overturned on the Yamuna Expressway near Zero Point in Greater Noida on Thursday morning. While most injuries were minor, two were admitted to hospital.According to police, at around 6am, the bus was trying to overtake the tractor when the accident happened.The bus with 25 passengers and five staff was travelling from Gorakhpur to Delhi via Kanpur, Lucknow, Agra and Noida. Some passengers said that they were sleeping when the accident took place.Manish Kumar, a resident of Lucknow, said that he had boarded the bus at 7pm Wednesday from Lucknow for Noida. “We were expected to reach Noida at 7am. It was early morning and I was getting ready to deboard at Noida when suddenly, the bus hit the tractor and it overturned on the expressway,” Kumar said. “All the passengers were trapped inside the bus and the police later rescued us and sent to hospital. I have received three stitches on my head, besides injuries on my knees and hands,” he said from Yathartha Hospital in Greater Noida. Kimat Lal, another passenger, said that he had boarded the bus at Kanpur at 9:30pm. “I had put on my shoes and collected my luggage to get down in Noida. Suddenly, there was a bang and the bus overturned. I have received injuries in the chest but escaped from any severe injury,” said Lal, who works in a garment export company in Noida. When bus driver Kallu was pulled out from the bus, he had lost consciousness. He was rushed to the hospital with other passengers. Fortunately, his injuries were minor too. Once he regained consciousness, Kallu said that the tractor trolley loaded with bricks was ahead of the bus. “Another bus hit mine (from the rear). I then lost control and hit the trolley,” he said.The passengers could not corroborate the presence of the second bus, but sub-inspector Pushpendra Dixit said that there was no other bus and that the accident happened when the bus tried to overtake the trolley.Bricks from trolley, whose driver Ajay Kumar too escaped with minor injuries, were strewn all over the Yamuna Expressway, affecting traffic for 30 minutes. In the meantime, the police team called in help to clear the road of the wreckage and debris.Ram Kumar Sharma, UPSRTC’s accident officer (Durghatna Lipik) also reached the hospital to initiate an enquiry into the matter. He said he will file a complaint in this regard. Gul Mohammad, spokesperson Yathartha Hospital, said that nine persons were released from hospital after treatment. “Two male patients are admitted to hospital for their chest injuries,” he said. The UP government had launched air-conditioned Pink Buses in 2017 for women under Nirbhaya Fund. However, later men accompanying women were also allowed to board the bus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/up-roadway-s-pink-bus-hits-tractor-trolley-11-injured-at-yamuna-expressway/story-eArZbillNo1SJdrj8EUfdK.html
19-11-2020||Noida||Random Covid tests at Botanical Garden, New Ashok Nagar metro stations, nine found positive||Noida: Gautam Buddh Nagar district health department on Thursday conducted random coronavirus (Covid-19) tests outside the Botanical Garden and New Ashok Nagar metro stations, in which nine persons were found positive for the disease out of a total of 178 tested.Dr Deepak Ohri, chief medical officer, Gautam Buddh Nagar, said: “The health department tested 84 persons near Ashok Nagar and found three of them Covid-19 positive, while 94 persons outside Botanical Garden were tested six were found positive. Two of them are Noida residents. The Delhi residents were sent back and advised home isolation till they recover from Covid-19. The Noida residents were also advised home isolation,” he said. The health department has recorded their names, addresses and contact numbers, and told them to keep in touch for medical care and advice, the official added. A health worker found a 25-year-old man, who had exited from the Botanical Garden metro station and was coughing. Health workers conducted a Covid-19 rapid antigen test and the result was positive. The man is a resident of Noida’s Sector 37. He has been advised home isolation. On Wednesday, the district health department conducted random Covid-19 tests of 165 people coming from Delhi at DND Flyway and Mayur Vihar link road and found three of them positive. The CMO said that the district administration and health department will conduct random tests at different locations. “We will change the locations and visit new places in the coming days. We have also planned to visit slums in Dallupura and conduct tests as a number of people live there,” he said. Dr Sanjeev Manglik, additional CMO GB Nagar, said that the health department teams also conducted rapid antigen tests in non-boder areas in Noida and Greater Noida on Thursday, in which 27 persons were found Covid-19 positive, out of 2,712 tests.Gautam Buddh Nagar recorded 179 Covid-19 cases that pushed the district’s infection tally to 20,749 on Wednesday, official data showed. With a death toll of 73, Gautam Buddh Nagar now has a mortality rate of 0.35%. The recovery rate of patients reached 93.38%, the statistics showed.District administration in a press statement said that Noida’s Covid-19 integrated call centre (1800-4192-211) gets around 400 calls per day. The call centre executives inform people and also coordinate with the departments of health, administration, the police and the Noida authority, when required. The district administration also conducted sanitation drives at 99 locations in Noida and Greater Noida on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/random-covid-tests-at-botanical-garden-new-ashok-nagar-metro-stations-nine-found-positive/story-cULdoyelVJs7O8gA8m7WWN.html
19-11-2020||Noida||In Ghaziabad, those who accompany Covid-19 patients to hospitals to be tested too||Ghaziabad: In order to deal with post-festival rise in the number of coronavirus (Covid-19) disease patients and also to bring the attendants of Covid-19 positive patients under the testing net, Ghaziabad on Thursday issued directions to all hospitals that details of every attendant coming to hospitals along with positive patients be made available to the district administration. Officials said that they have also asked private hospitals to increase the number of ICU beds and also reserve at least 20% of the same.Officials said they are gearing up for any possible spike in Covid-19 cases and have directed for measures. In this connection, district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey held meetings with office bearers of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) along with officials of various private hospitals. “As part of a more comprehensive strategy to deal with high-risk groups, we have asked hospitals to note down details of every attendant who is coming to the hospital along with Covid-19 positive patients. Such persons will also include drivers of any private cabs. Once the details are received at our control room, we will encourage these persons to get tested. Although we already have teams for contact tracing but such persons are at high risk as they come in direct contact with positive patients,” Pandey said. He said that he had also asked hospitals and sought support from the IMA, Ghaziabad for more ICU beds and to reserve at least 20% ICU beds for patients who may need referral from government hospitals. “The hospitals have agreed to 20% reservation as there is already a government order which directs for 50% reservation. But, gauging the present requirement, we have asked them to reserve only 20% at present. In case need be, we will scale the number of reserved beds further,” the DM added. According to the health department, there are 13 private hospitals which provide paid treatment to Covid-19 patients in the district and have a combined strength of 934 beds. Overall, they said, the district has 189 ICU beds which include 34 in government hospitals and rest 155 in private hospitals.“We have assured the administration that hospitals will increase beds and also ICU beds. There is one more private hospital with 100 beds which will start functioning and it also has 30 ICU beds. So, it is estimated that the private setup will be able to add about 50-75 beds in coming days,” said Dr Ashish Agrawal, president of IMA – Ghaziabad. He said that the requirement of reservation of 20% of ICU beds will also be fulfilled. “In case need be, the hospitals will increase the beds and keep 20% ICU beds reserved. So, the 20% of ICU beds will be made available. There is focus on ICU beds as we are witnessing that that severity of the disease has increased in present times and patients require more of L3 category treatment,” he added. The L1, L2 and L3 category hospitals are part of the state government’s three-tier hospital structure to deal with Sars-Cov-2 patients. The L1 are basically for asymptomatic patients while L2 and L3 hospitals deal with patients who suffer moderate and severe symptoms, respectively. The district administration has chalked out a comprehensive “post festival strategy” to deal with any rise in Covid-19 cases. The plan will be put in place after the end of Chhath festivities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/in-ghaziabad-those-who-accompany-covid-19-patients-to-hospitals-to-be-tested-too/story-6nlZCXd3i1UVyFBE78ByvO.html
19-11-2020||Noida||Noida: Plogging campaign begins for Swachhta survey 2021||NOIDA: The Noida authority on Thursday said that it has formed teams for each sector with an aim to ensure proper cleanliness and have sought support from residents to perform better in the upcoming Swachhta Survey 2020-21.The survey is scheduled to be started from January beginning and close by January-end next year. The authority has formed teams of officials so that it can spread awareness about the survey among people and also improve cleanliness in each nook and corner of the city, said officials.“The teams will work in coordination with circle officers, residents’ welfare associations (RWA) and all socially active people in respective areas. The objective is to address all kinds of problems of each sector and improve the sanitation system and other civic services,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer of the Noida authority.The officials said that the authority will conduct the drive to reach out to RWAs, individuals, and other stakeholders under its old campaign – plogging. The authority had started plogging campaign in 2019 before the Swachhta survey 2019-20. Under this, the authority’s teams walk in a particular sector, meet residents and discuss about all issues that prevail in that respective area, and address the issues. Now, the authority will start the plogging campaign for 2020-21 Swachhta survey, said officials.“Under this campaign the authority’s teams for each sector will walk in each sector from 8am to 10am on Saturdays and Sundays of every week. The teams will consist of officials from the civil department, water department, engineering, health and other departments,” said SC Mishra, senior project engineer of the Noida authority, heading the health department.These teams will interact with people and address all issues related with roads, parks, sewers, drainage and sanitation, among others.There are three categories of issues - short term issue, mid-term and long term problem, said officials.“The teams will address the grievances which can be solved in a short time, immediately. The issues such as road repair, park maintenance and other issues will be addressed immediately. If any work needs longer time such as six months to one year then it will be addressed accordingly,” said Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-plogging-campaign-begins-for-swachhta-survey-2021/story-QmpOKBCEPIqIemp9Ja7krN.html
19-11-2020||Gurugram||Wind from snowy regions help cool city||Gurugram recorded a minimum temperature of 10°C on Thursday, the lowest of this season so far. The maximum temperature was recorded at 24.1°C, four degrees below the normal. Weater experts said that recent snowfall in the northern hills and winds blowing in from them helped bring down temperature.India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials said that the minimum temperatures were likely to fall gradually by another 2-4°C over northwest India in the next three days. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that the minimum temperature was expected to drop under 10°C by the end of the week. As per the IMD’s weekly forecast, both the minimum and maximum temperatures are expected to hover around 10°C and 24°C, respectively on Friday. As per the weekly forecast, clear skies will prevail during the day this whole week. Navdeep Dahiya, a Rohtak-based meteorologist, said that the minimum temperature could hover around 7-8 °C from November 22 while the maximum temperature would stay around 23-24°C. “The wind direction has changed from easterly to north-westerly. Cold winds are blowing from the Himalayas where snowfall has taken place. These cold winds from the mountain have brought down the temperature. The temperature will continue to be in a similar range for the next days and will dip further from November 22,” said Dahiya.The air quality in the city deteriorated to the ‘poor’ category on Thursday with a reading of 253 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s air quality index (AQI) bulletin. This is significantly up from Wednesdays AQI reading of 141 in the ‘moderate’ category. Experts said that with the dip in temperature, air quality was expected to deteriorate on account of thermal inversion and lowering of mixing height. According to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the air quality is likely to improve but remain in the ‘poor’ category on Friday. The air quality is likely to stay in the ‘poor’ to ‘moderate’ category on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/wind-from-snowy-regions-help-cool-city/story-9ZX3B1CkSWp3nPlyVPmuEJ.html
19-11-2020||Gurugram||Demolition drive continues, residents protest||Continuing its demolition drive against illegal colonies and encroachment, the enforcement wing of the department of town and country planning on Thursday demolished over 1,500 hutments that had come up illegally on panchayat and private land in sector 58 and 61. The demolition was carried out despite strong protest by owners, who said they had obtained a stay order from the court. The residents of the tenements also gathered in large numbers and protested. Officials said lot of complaints had been received regardingthe illegal hutments set up against all norms. The demolition drive on Thursday witnessed a lot of drama as a few miscreants allegedly set some jhuggis on fire in an attempt to create commotion and stop the drive, DTCP officials said. “Soon after the incident, we called the fire department, which rushed three fire tenders that managed to control the situation. The demolition was carried out with the help of a strong police contingent. Four earth-moving machines and enforcement staff got the land cleared,” said Bhath. DTCP officials said the illegal hutments had come up on the land illegally and generated large amount of money as rent for encroachers. “Around 1,500 tenements were demolished as these had come up on government land. Some local residents told us that they had obtained a stay order from the court but when asked to produce the documents, they failed to do so after which the drive was carried out,” said RS Bhath, district town planner, enforcement. Officials said they reached the location around 11.30 am and asked the residents to remove the household items so that these are not damaged. “We will take action against those individuals who had encroached on this land and also attempted to create ruckus to stop the drive,” said Bhath, adding that the hutments were demolished in a way that household goods of tenants were saved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/demolition-drive-continues-residents-protest/story-xDRoN74n09oA0FgjBBgfcI.html
19-11-2020||City||Covid protocols for Chhath Puja, Gurpurab||The Gurugram administration on Thursday issued orders on Covid-19 protocols to be followed during the Chhath Puja on Friday and Gurpurab on November 30.The instructions, which range from ensuring social distancing among devotees, taking mandatory temperature checks of people entering religious places, ensuring effective crowd control, and sanitisation of surfaces, among others, draws heavily from the administration’s protocol released on August 11 this year, concerning the opening of religious places. Enforcement has been assigned to the police department, along with respective SHOs. “As Covid-19 is not only persisting, but there is a surge in cases day-by-day... preventive and precautionary measures need to be taken in the interest of public health,” stated the order. Related instructions were issued to “Chhatt Pooja management” and Gurudwara Prabandhak Committee in Gurugram. Gururgram police commissioner, KK Rao, said on Thursday, “We have received the order. Since most devotees come to Sheetla Mata Mandir on Chhatt Puja, we are going to deploy about 700 personnel in two shifts around the temple and on Sheetla Mata Mandir road. Action will be taken against anyone found without a mask or not following instructions. Similar deployment will also happen on Gurpurab, where needed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-protocols-for-chhath-puja-gurpurab/story-nyvUEMB3ipRrTP6zhKr7eM.html
19-11-2020||Chandigarh||DNA match found between severed feet and foetus recovered in Chandigarh’s Sector 17||DNA profiles of a pair of severed human feet and a foetus discovered in bushes along a cycle track near the busy Press light point in Sector 17 five months ago, have matched, reports say. Police say these are from the same body. In long-drawn investigations into a major incident of crime after the Covid-19 lockdown, police have so far scanned all the records of pregnant women in the city and reached a dead end.Three-month records of pregnant women from various hospitals had been sought by police to identify the person whose feet had been severed, but no leads have been established.Information shared with Haryana and Punjab too did not yield any results, with investigation delays attributed to skeleton staff in offices and police stations due Covid-19.On June 23, Ajit Kishori, a manager at the State Bank of India (SBI)’s local head office in Sector 17 was walking on the cycle tracks after lunch when he spotted a detached human foot wrapped in a newspaper. Police reached the spot on receiving his call and recovered another foot as well as a foetus close by.Postmortem had revealed that the feet were that of a woman severed from the body after death while the eight-month foetus had died due to haemorrhagic shock (extreme blood loss due to broken blood vessels). It also had injury marks around the head and neck.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dna-match-found-between-severed-feet-and-foetus-recovered-in-chandigarh-s-sector-17/story-UgRsEQkhSx7PvRnMlo0OYN.html
19-11-2020||Gurugram||Schools asked to strictly enforce safety measures in view of cases among students||The state education department has directed schools to ensure that all Covid-19 measures, such as temperature checks and physical distancing, are strictly enforced, after over 150 government school students in Jhajjar, Jind and Rewari districts tested positive for Covid-19 this week. In a directive shared with district education officers of all districts on Thursday, the directorate of school education said that schools needed to comply with the standard operating procedures and share daily data about temperature readings of students and teachers. Reiterating the norms in place, the directorate said that all students needed to undergo thermal scanning on a daily basis at designated spots within the school. Further, the temperature readings of students and teachers need to be shared with the department via a mobile application. The department has also asked schools to share details of students who are being turned away on account of high body temperatures. Gurugram block education officer Sheel Kumari said that while schools were already complying with temperature checks and other procedures, the directive will ensure there is no scope for laxity of any kind. “We have been adopting precautionary measures since schools reopened. Each school has been asked to maintain a record of the daily temperature readings of students and teachers. We have also noticed that many staff members testing positive are asymptomatic. Keeping these things in mind, we asked schools to ensure that daily updates are sent to the department without any delay,” said Kumari. Suman Sharma, the principal of Government Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 4/7, said that the department had asked schools to share details, especially that of teachers and students having high body temperatures, with the health department without delay. “As per the Covid-19 protocols in place for schools, we are required to upload daily data on an app. While we have been doing it without fail since classes started in school, the department has sent a reminder to all schools in view of the rising cases and laxity in some schools. If we find a student with a high temperature, the parents are informed and asked to get the child immediately,” said Sharma.Shyam Raghav, the principal of Government Senior Secondary School, Bhondsi, said that the school had designated staff members for carrying out temperature checks and had not recorded any case of people with high temperatures entering the school. “As per the norms in place, any student with a high body temperature needs to be isolated immediately. Until now, we have not had a single case where students have been found with a high temperature or tested positive,” said Raghav. He said that only 40-50% of students had been visiting the school for classes.Gurugram’s chief medical officer Dr Virender Yadav said that students, teachers and other staff members could get tested at Urban Primary Health Centres (UPHC) if they experienced symptoms or suspected that they had contracted the virus. He said that the department was, however, not carrying out any special drive to test all schools. “The health department had assisted schools in getting teachers tested earlier when schools started academic guidance sessions. Students and teachers are free to visit any health centre for testing. We will get the tests done if people visit the centre. The health department is not undertaking any new testing drive catering specifically to schools,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/schools-asked-to-strictly-enforce-safety-measures-in-view-of-cases-among-students/story-3wsLvYfC73PipwSS7pIZzH.html
19-11-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram hits 6k tests per day, positivity rate down||The district on Thursday, setting a record for the number of tests in a day, tested 6,036 samples for the SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Of these, about 25%, or 1,475 samples, were tested using rapid antigen tests while the remaining 4,561 samples were tested using the Real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method. This development marks a nearly 40% increase in daily tests from the previous record — of 4,300 tests — logged just a day prior.On Thursday, Gurugram reported 645 new infections, taking the total number of cases in the district to 41,825.Officials in the health department attributed Thursday’s spurt in testing to fresh supplies of antigen kits, use of which had slowed down, to between 300 and 400 tests per day, earlier this month due to supply issues. “We are expecting to continue conducting about 6,000 daily tests in the district, with an increase in rapid antigen kits in coming days, since the availability issue has been resolved,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram.Yadav added that this boost in testing would suffice in bringing down the district’s test-positivity rate, which has hovered between 15% to 18% over the past two weeks. This was indeed the case on Thursday. With just 645 samples of 6,036 testing positive for the virus, as against 659 positives out of 4,324 samples on Wednesday, the daily district’s daily test-positivity rate dropped from 15% to 10% in a single day. Officials said this is a positive sign. “We are hoping to see this same trend in the next few days. If the positivity rate doesn’t start climbing again, we can expect the number of daily new cases to start coming down soon. This will also depend on how soon colder temperatures set in, which may cause cases to spike. It’s still too early to say if we are past a third peak,” said Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme’s district surveillance officer, Gurugram. The health department on Thursday also said that it may seek assistance from private laboratories in the district to help boost testing for Covid-19, as the outbreak progresses into the winter. Memorandums of Understanding (MoUs) with three private labs in the district, signed soon after the epidemic hit Gurugram earlier this year, remain valid, with the health department likely to leverage their infrastructure in coming weeks, officials said. The three laboratories with which MoUs have been signed are located in Udyog Vihar, Sector 18 and Sector 34. “In all, these labs can each test at least 3,000 samples per day, and MoUs with them have already been signed months ago. The labs presently are not testing anywhere near their full capacity, so the available resources are on standby for us, when we need it. The department has sent samples to these labs earlier, when its daily capacity had been exhausted. If things worsen in a few weeks, we will not face any resource constraint,” said Yadav.As of Thursday, the total tally of positive cases in the district stands at 41,825. Of these 5,543 are active patients. While 426 active cases are hospitalised, 5,110 are under home isolation and seven are under observation at district Covid care centres. Gurugram also recorded three Covid-19 related deaths on Thursday, taking the total toll to 253.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-hits-6k-tests-per-day-positivity-rate-down/story-xVwhCA5TiltMJMs3ya2jkN.html
19-11-2020||Gurugram||Ardee City residents find power supply cut; discom points to unpaid dues||Residents of Palm Grove Heights condominium in Ardee City were in for a shock on Wednesday evening after the discom Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) disconnected the power supply for non-payment of dues that it claimed collectively ran over ₹1 crore. The residents, however, said that they paid the dues to the developer regularly who did not pay the power utility. The developer has denied this.In the adjacent Ardee City plotted colony too, residents complained that power connection of 15 to 20 houses was disconnected despite them either not having received the bills or had been regular with payment. Colony residents pay their bills directly rather than to any developer.Mayank Agarwal, a resident of Palm Grove condominium, which is a part of Ardee City, complained that the connection was cut despite meeting the DHBVN officials and assuring them that they would make the payment within a day or two. “There are around 20 Covid-19 patients in the apartments and around 2,000 residents were impacted. The payment has not been made by the developer,” said Agarwal. Brigadier (retd) MJS Sandhu, who is the president of apartment owners association, said that the residents have been paying rental to the developer every two months. “Around ₹1.40 crore is pending as bill and due to the power disconnection the residents are facing a lot of problems. The residents had gone to meet the DHBVN officials but there was no solution. This is nothing but harassment,” he said. In Ardee City colony, a number of residents alleged that the DHBVN had disconnected power without giving them any notice or bill. Surinder Kaul, a senior citizen, said, “I didn’t receive any bill since August when I had paid my dues last. We are senior citizens living alone and it is difficult to survive without electricity. I called several DHBVN officials in the evening but there was no response. I spent the whole Thursday trying to meet the officials. I hope this is not repeated.”Pravin Yadav, president, Ardee City RWA, said that no notice was issued to residents for disconnection of power. “The residents are suffering because the bills were either delayed or not issued at all,” he said. The developer of Palm Grove Heights condominium and Ardee City, Ardee Infrastructure Pvt Ltd, when asked about the matter said that residents of Palm Grove Heights condominium had not paid electricity bills for the last eight months. “The consumers have to pay electricity bills and these have remained unpaid for last eight months. As soon as the residents pay the bill, we will make payments to DHBVN and get power restored,” said Anil Hasija, vice president, Ardee Infrastructure Pvt Ltd. Hasija also said that the RWA is not allowing their staff to enter the condominium, which is also causing problem in operations. He, however, said that consumers of plotted area paid bills directly to DHBVN. Sachin Yadav, executive engineer, DHBVN, said that they had disconnect power after repeated notices elicited no payment. “If the payment is not made DHBVN would have no option but to disconnect power. The developer has to make the payment and only then the electricity will be restored,” he said. Referring to the disconnections in Ardee City, Yadav said that it was routine action. “The bills are generated online and consumers must pay these on time to ensure such supply,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/ardee-city-residents-find-power-supply-cut-discom-points-to-unpaid-dues/story-B5mjlMjWyeZnILtVQ6bZNP.html
19-11-2020||Gurugram||1,000 robberies solved with arrest of trio: Police||The police have claimed to have solved over 1,000 cases of armed robberies and snatchings with the arrest of three alleged robbers in the murder of a 26-year-old woman on Golf Course Extension Road. The police said they have recovered an inventory of 1,010 snatched mobiles phones that were sold to a mobile phone shop owner in Nuh over the past year. The gang used to make calls to the victims demanding money on the pretext of misusing their phone data, such as private pictures and videos. Many such cases also went unreported, said police. Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that the suspects used to contact the family members on the pretext of returning their lost mobile phones and later demand money. “In many cases, victims have paid the amount and have not informed the police. The idea of blackmailing was shared by a shopkeeper in Nuh who used to buy these snatched mobiles from them,” he said. The suspects were identified as Irshad alias Golu, of Nuh, Hari Om alias Kuldeep, of Datia in Madhya Pradesh, and Jitender alias Jeetu, of Narnaul in Mahandergarh. A crime team led by sub-inspector Gunpal was able to track the suspects through tip-offs from their informants. The police said the suspects are in their early 30s and are primary school drop outs. They have been involved in criminal activities since 2011 and have been jailed at least thrice since 2013. They were arrested for cases of loot, robbery, snatching, theft and violations of the Arms Act. “Jitender and Irshad had met in Bhondsi Jail and started snatching mobile phones. Later, Hari Om joined them and gave them the idea of procuring weapons from Madhya Pradesh,” he said. Sangwan said that the suspects used to target victims commuting in SUVs and luxury cars on isolated stretches near the Southern Peripheral Road (SPR), which leads to the Golf Course Extension Road and the Faridabad Road. “They used to follow victims and snatch their mobile phones and cash at gunpoint. Later, they sold the phones to a shopkeeper in Nuh for Rs 3,000-Rs 5,000, depending on the condition of the phone. Even newly bought phones were sold at throwaway prices. They used to sell 25 mobile phones per week and made Rs 80,000 from the shopkeeper, on an average. They have sold over 1,000 snatched mobile phones in the last one year and had maintained an inventory of the same,” he said. The shopkeeper used to change the IMEI number and replace the tempered glass screen guards, and then sold it in Uttar Pradesh for higher prices, the police said.According to the police, the gang had a target of robbing at least five mobile phones a day. They used to spend their money on maintaining their lifestyle, besides sending some to their family members. They were fond of expensive clothes, watches and shoes, and used to drink expensive liquor at prominent restaurants, the police said. KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said, “Jitender is the gang’s kingpin. They used to rob people by brandishing pistols and they rarely shot at victims, as they (victims) easily handed over their phones to them. They also targeted women returning from work and they were most active in the stretches around Sohna Road, Golf Course Extension Road, Sector 29, Old Railway Road, Palam Vihar, Sector 57 and Sector 47.” Rao said the gang had bought a second-hand Swift car for Rs 80,000 from the money they made by selling the phones. “Even during the lockdown, they were successful in snatching mobile phones. They have also stolen parked motorbikes from residential areas and sold them in Nuh and Uttar Pradesh. They have conducted a recce of the stretches with low visibility and no CCTV cameras, to evade being identified,” he said. The suspects used to sell gold ornaments to a goldsmith in Nuh and Palwal, and they are also under the scanner, the police said. A crime team has been deployed in Nuh in plain clothes as the shop owner they sold the phones to is at large and his shop has been locked since Thursday morning, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/1-000-robberies-solved-with-arrest-of-trio-police/story-HQotgSAYTiVzaDdebdqFYM.html
19-11-2020||Gurugram||Trio held for murder of woman on Golf Course Extension Road||The police on Wednesday night cracked the case of attempted robbery and murder of a 26-year-old woman near Golf Course Extension Road on November 3, and arrested three persons in connection with the case from a village in Bhondsi.The three are snatchers and had fired at the woman, who was behind the wheel, to intimidate her when she had tried to drive off, the police said. The police were tipped off about the gang and arrested them when they were shifting accommodations.Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said the suspects are involved in more than 1,000 snatching cases and several murders in Gurugram. The suspects were identified as Irshad alias Golu, of Nuh, Hari Om alias Kuldeep, of Datia in Madhya Pradesh, and Jitender alias Jeetu, of Narnaul in Mahandergarh. They lived in a rented accommodation in Bhondsi village and had changed three locations since the incident, the police said.“During questioning, they revealed that they had reached Vatika crossing around 11.20pm and had taken a right turn towards Sector 56, when they saw the car (the victim was driving). The car crossed them at the signal and took a U-turn, when they that there were only two people and would be easy targets. They followed them and stopped at the corner of the road where the victims were looking at an under-construction site and they noticed two guards present there,” he said.The victim, Pooja Sharma, who was driving towards Sector 40 with her fiance, Sagar Manchanda, had applied the brakes when the trio had intercepted them by riding on the wrong side of the road, the police said.Sangwan said that when the suspects threatened them to roll down their windows, Sharma tried to speed away. Then they fired a shot at Manchanda, which missed him, following which they shot at Sharma. “The suspects revealed that they fled the spot within minutes and returned to Bhondsi. Manchanda drove Sharma to a private hospital in his car. A 9mm bullet was lodged in her head, which could not be removed despite surgery,” he said.Sharma worked with the medical claims and insurance department of an IT company in Sector 38, and Manchanda is a software engineer with the same company.Sangwan said the suspects, two of whom met in Bhondsi Jail last year, mostly targeted people on isolated stretches and conducted reconnaissance of the area before targeting their victims. Since lockdown was lifted, they used to snatch at least four mobile phones or gold chains every day.“The suspects used a motorbike with a fake number plate and they had a car too. After the incident, they revisited the spot in their Swift car. They thought the victim had survived. The following day, they did not go out and kept checking news channels for information on the case. They also bought an English daily newspaper for three consecutive days to get updates on the case and was keeping a track on police movement,” he said.KK Rao, the commissioner, Gurugram Police, said that it was a blind case, as the CCTV footage recovered from the spot was of little help. “Our teams had questioned nearly 500 people in a bid to crack the case. Policemen were deployed in civvies at several spots to get leads on the gang. The arrest has solved over 1,000 cases of snatching and at least three murder cases in Gurugram,” Rao said.Rao said it took almost 15 days to zero in on the suspects as they had changed their location three times and had used different autorickshaws to shift their household items. “They were cautious and tried to mislead the police by shifting houses in three vehicles and tried best to avoid getting captured in any of the CCTV cameras. We had activated secret informers and the team had got a lead that this gang might be involved,” he said.The police said they scanned the footage of the area where they used to stay and confirmed that the three were their suspects. Eleven teams were deployed in civvies in areas close to Bhondsi and Rithoj, and they were arrested when they had come to pick their items from their rented accommodation, the police said.Rao said three of them got acquainted last year. “They had bought a .32 bore countrymade pistol from Madhya Pradesh for Rs 51,000 in the last week of October through Hari Om. They used to make nearly Rs 80,000 a week by selling snatched mobile phones. We have identified the shopkeeper in Nuh who helped them in erasing the data and change the IMEI number of the mobile phones,” he said.The police said the gang was also involved in snatching the mobile phone of a 45-year-old woman from a mall in Sector 51 and later trying to extort her for Rs 10 lakh, by threatening to misuse her personal data, as reported by HT earlier. They had also shot dead an acquaintance, Gaurav Kumar, on Diwali night, in Shivaji Nagar, over an argument when they were inebriated, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/trio-held-for-murder-of-woman-on-golf-course-extension-road/story-VbKPFkZ9eLryj1vIvf3W9M.html
19-11-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana police destroy 1.3-lakh litre illicit liquor||Cracking down on illicit liquor trade in the state, a team of Punjab excise department and Ludhiana police on Wednesday conducted a raid along the banks of the Sutlej river in Khera Bet and New Rajapur villages. A senior official of the excise department said 1.3 lakh litres of lahan was recovered and destroyed. Tarpaulins, two drums and a pipe were also confiscated. A case has been registered. The official said strict action will be taken against anyone found indulging in illicit distillation, smuggling of liquor and bootlegging.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-police-destroy-1-3-lakh-litre-illicit-liquor/story-mis4EZhrKOu3NwnbdHEpeM.html
19-11-2020||City||Fleecing at parking lots in Ludhiana: Nexus of MC, pvt staff taking toll on visitors||The staffers of the previous contractors of six parking lots in the city continue to fleece residents. This is being done in presence of the municipal corporation (MC) staffers who have been deputed to manage the lots. Receipts of MC are being issued by the private staff.Private staff can be seen charging visitors at all six parking lots, the contracts for which expired last month, and are currently being managed by the MC. The nexus is taking a toll on the public, and senior MC officials are turning a blind eye to the situation.The lots include multi-storey parking near MC Zone-A office, Model Town Extension (tuition market), BRS Nagar (near Orient Cinema), Sarabha Nagar Market Block-I, Bhadaur House and Feroze Gandhi MarketThe staff is charging upto Rs 50 against the approved fee of Rs 20 for parking a car. Either no receipt is issued, or used manual receipts are given at some of the lots, This is resulting in harassment for residents and a loss to the exchequer. An MC official, requesting anonymity, said that senior officials are aware of the issue, but they can’t take action due to involvement of MC staff and politicians. Also, the MC does not have the number of staffers needed to manage the lots. Most of the time, no receipt is issued to the visitors, and the amount collected is pocketed by private staff and contractors.The MC has also been receiving complaints from residents regarding misbehaviour by the private staff. A resident of BRS Nagar, Gurkirat Singh, said: “The staff at the parking lots are rude to visitors and I have also been a victim of the same. When I questioned them about the overcharging, they misbehaved with me. When people gathered at the spot, they went away. The MC should take strict action against the private staff of contractors and overcharging should be stopped.”MC secretary, Neeraj Jain said, “We have deputed the MC’s staff at the parking lots. Directions have been issued that no private person should be allowed to collect parking fee. Some private persons have also been removed from the lots in the past and I will direct the ground staff to keep a check on the illegal practice.”The finance and contracts committee (F&CC) of MC on Thursday held a hearing for two parking contractors, who were earlier blacklisted by MC, at the mayor’s camp office. Mayor Balkar Sandhu did not participate in the meeting. As per information, the contractors had moved court against MC’s decision and the court had directed them to first take up the case with the arbitrator, who in this case is the MC commissioner. Senior deputy mayor Sham Sundar Malhotra said: “The contractors have been heard, but the decision to blacklist them cannot be rolled back as it has been decided by the F&CC.“||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fleecing-at-parking-lots-in-ludhiana-nexus-of-mc-pvt-staff-taking-toll-on-visitors/story-o7QW3GK84lEuJMr6vb4SLN.html
19-11-2020||Chandigarh||VAT assessment notices: Industrialists in Ludhiana seek more time to submit reply||Slamming the sales tax department over issuing VAT assessment notices to traders over pending cases from 2013-14, members of the Janta Nagar Small Scale Manufacturers Association (JNSSMA) on Wednesday demanded that the state government intervene and give them more time to submit a reply. President of JNSSMA, Jaswinder Thukral, said: “The sales tax department has waken up from its deep slumber after seven years. But, it is very difficult for traders to arrange documents of that time now. Many industrialists have shut down their units and some have even passed away. The state government should intervene and the last date for replying to the notices should be extended from November 20 to March 31, 2021.”Thukral further demanded that the sales tax department should dispose of the cases on a deemed assessment basis by charging 1% tax on per lakh sales.Earlier, the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal had announced that it will raise an agitation if the state government fails to come up with a one-time settlement (OTS) policy to resolve the pending cases.General secretary of the beopar mandal, Sunil Mehra, said: “A state-level meeting of the beopar mandal will be held in Amritsar on December 13. We will announce an agitation against the government if an OTS policy isn’t announced by then. Over 70,000 notices have been served across Punjab and traders are facing harassment at the hands of department officials.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/vat-assessment-notices-industrialists-in-ludhiana-seek-more-time-to-submit-reply/story-0LXFyOjYi5RcbjsDyBKoQO.html
19-11-2020||Delhi||Staff association at Stephen’s asks for help for needy students||New Delhi: In the wake of the recent death by suicide of a student of Lady Shri Ram College due to financial distress and the pressure of online education, the staff association of St Stephen’s College on Thursday wrote to the principal, requesting the formation of a committee to look into the needs of marginalised students.Nandita Narain, president of the Staff Association at St. Stephen’s College, said that in a meeting held on November 17, the staff council had made recommendations to assist marginalised students during the Covid-19 pandemic. The former Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) president wrote to college principal John Varghese in connection with the matter on Thursday.“The Staff Association would like to request you to set up a committee comprising the Heads of all 11 courses taught in college to consider the needs of students for financial support and disburse all scholarships, financial aid and bursaries urgently,” Narain wrote in her letter to the principal.The staff association pointed out that, “faculty members have been receiving requests from students for help with both the payment of fees and for obtaining devices to attend the online classes.”Despite repeated calls and messages, Varghese did not comment on the matter. The faculty members highlighted the need for devices such as laptops to successfully pursue online education. “Some years ago, Delhi University had sent a large number of laptops to each college for use by the students and the faculty. If some of them are still functional, they could be made available to students in need. We request the college administration to reach out to students and let them know of the availability of these devices,” Narain wrote in the letter. In 2013, the university had decided to provide laptops to all undergraduate students irrespective of their courses.The association also recommended that the laptops be sent to students to their place of stay by courier. “Requiring the students to come to Delhi to collect these devices would not be advisable due to the added risk of infection as well as the substantial cost of travel,” they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/staff-association-at-stephen-s-asks-for-help-for-needy-students/story-evAXDomsmgeqxfBIK7tGaI.html
19-11-2020||City||Sisodia launches helpline number for construction workers||New Delhi: Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday launched a helpline number -- 1076 -- for construction workers across the city to register with the government for various schemes. The registration and renewal of construction workers with the labour welfare board will now be done through a ‘doorstep delivery system’, wherein workers can just dial the helpline and an executive will pay a visit at their homes for the paperwork.“Workers will no longer have to stand in long queues. The Delhi government has launched a helpline number, which is functional from today itself. It is our priority that workers receive benefits of all schemes in time,” Sisodia said in a statement.He said workers can now just dial 1076, and tell their details such as name and area of work. A government executive will go to the worker’s home at a suitable time, and relevant documents will be uploaded there. It’ll be approved online, and he/she will receive the acknowledgement SMS and a call, confirming his registration.Construction workers’ welfare cess is collected from construction companies, and this amount is used for the welfare of workers. To avail this amount, a construction worker needs to be a registered worker with the government labour welfare board.“Due to the complex process of registration and renewal, middlemen illegally ended up taking anything between Rs 1,000 and Rs 2,000 from the labourers in the name of filling up their forms. Moreover, the workers had to repeatedly go to the labour office on several days and spend hours in queues, which resulted in loss of daily wages. To provide relief to workers, and ease this process, we have started the doorstep delivery of registration and renewal of workers,” the deputy CM said.Now with just a phone call, a member of the Delhi government will visit the worker’s house, fill up their documents. The workers will just have to pay Rs 25 and a service charge of Rs 50, he added. Until now, only 111,000 workers have been registered in Delhi even though the city has an estimate of 10 lakh construction workers, said Sisodia. The Delhi government had in September organised a 12-day camp across assembly constituencies to help construction workers register. However, the camp was not a hit, as it was also marred by long queues and technical glitches in uploading and verification of documents.Construction workers include beldar, painter, concrete mixer, tiles and stone fitter, whitewash and POP worker, blacksmith, crane operator among others. Watchmen at construction sites, plumbers, carpenters, electricians, fitters, welders, shuttering workers, pump operators and bar winders are eligible for the same.Registered workers can avail of different schemes such as an amount of Rs 35,000 to Rs 51,000 for their children’s marriage, health benefits and maternity benefit of up to Rs 30,000, monthly pension of Rs 3,000 for workers over the age of 60, among others. Besides, a compensation of Rs 2 lakh in case of accidental death, one lakh in case of natural death, a cover of Rs 1 lakh for disability and Rs 10,000 for covering the costs of funeral.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sisodia-launches-helpline-number-for-construction-workers/story-M6IYcy8RFaV1AYLw1RH54I.html
19-11-2020||City||Ludhiana doctor booked for endangering ASI’s life||The Jamalpur police booked a female doctor on Wednesday for allegedly endangering the life of a patient.The victim Ram Chandar, 53, of Baba Deep Singh Nagar, who is an assistant sub-inspector deputed in the security of Congress district president Ashwani Sharma, developed an infection after getting treated by the accused.The victim stated that he went to a private hospital on May 17, 2019, to get treated for some health issues. Dr Simranpreet Kaur had administered an injection to him then.The ASI added that his skin had got infected and, his health had also started deteriorating after the treatment. He had to undergo surgery at Fortis Hospital, Ludhiana, later. Further, he alleged that due to his deteriorating health, his wife Geeta Rani had suffered from depression and died on October 27, 2019.“I had filed a complaint with Jamalpur Police but no action was taken. Following this, I filed a complaint with commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal on December 3, 2019,” he said.ASI Baldev Singh, who is investigating the case, said that an FIR, under Sections 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the doctor on Wednesday after investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-doctor-booked-for-endangering-asi-s-life/story-gKZlNVUfduRbXL4PyQvLaI.html
19-11-2020||Chandigarh||Dismissed Punjab Police commando, accomplice held for snatching in Ludhiana||A dismissed Punjab Police commando and his accomplice were arrested on Wednesday for their alleged involvement in multiple snatchings, police said. Two mobile phones were recovered from their possession.The accused have been identified as Jagjit Singh, 35, of Sidhwan Bet, and Dinesh Raju, 32, of New Partap Nagar. Jagjit is currently living with his widowed mother at the police quarters in Jamalpur.Police said they were arrested from Rajpura Road during a special checking when they were roaming around on a scooter with the intention of committing snatchings.Inspector Jarnail Singh, station house officer at division number 8 police station, said the accused committed snatchings for easy money and two cases have been traced back to them. He added that police are conduction investigation to tie them to other cases.The inspector added that Jagjit’s father was a police officer. After his death, Jagjit got a job as a constable in the commando wing of Punjab Police on compensation ground in 2008. He was dismissed in 2012 for being absent from duty without information.As the department provides quarters to widows of police personnel, the accused was living there with his mother, the SHO said.A case under Section 379-B (snatching and use of force) of Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused at division number 8 police station. The police are also investigating to find out if the scooter recovered from the accused was stolen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dismissed-punjab-police-commando-accomplice-held-for-snatching-in-ludhiana/story-UpMmzS3jvnW85uujmc49iL.html
19-11-2020||City||Ludhiana MC told to consider contractor’s application for bus fare hike||Amid a tussle between municipal corporation (MC) and the city bus service contractor over the proposed hike in fare, the court of additional district judge Atul Kasana has stated that the civic body can consider the application of the contractor in which he has sought a fare hike. Meanwhile, the court continued the stay on termination of the contract. Earlier this year, the contractor: Horizon Connect Transways Private Limited had submitted an application with the MC in which he had sought an increase in the fare by₹2 to 5, citing the increasing fuel rates. The MC refused to increase the fare stating that the court had ordered a stay in the case.The contractor, however, had stated that the court had only ordered a stay on termination of contract and that the application could be entertained. As the civic body remained adamant, the company moved court. The court has now ordered that municipal corporation can consider the application seeking fare hike as no stay had been issued for the same. Last year, the civic body had served a termination notice to the company as it had failed to submit dues to the tune of around ₹4 crore and its failure to run the service at full capacity. Following this, the company had moved the court against Ludhiana City Bus Service Limited, after which the court ordered a stay on termination of the contract.MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said that a meeting regarding the city bus service had been scheduled for Friday, wherein the matter will be discussed.The city bus service was put to a halt in March after the imposition of the curfew and, it resumed in July. As per the information, the MC had purchased 120 buses under the project, of which 83 have been transferred to the company. The remaining 37 buses are gathering dust in the depot situated at Tajpur road. At present, only 27 buses are plying on city roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-told-to-consider-contractor-s-application-for-bus-fare-hike/story-e7itRl6AJv2R7lRm2d2woN.html
19-11-2020||Chandigarh||10 incoming passengers at Chandigarh ISBT test positive||As many as 10 incoming passengers at the Inter-State Bus Terminal, Sector-17, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday.On Day 3 of testing, samples were collected from 210 passengers and 10 returned positive results. Majority of these patients were from Delhi, officials said.Earlier on Tuesday, 66 passengers were tested and two were found infected. However, none of the 126 samples collected on Wednesday was found positive.“The contact tracing exercise has been strengthened, along with increasing the number of daily tests as compared to September. However, people who travel regularly outside of Chandigarh and those reporting here from other cities are requested to voluntarily get themselves tested at the ISBT itself or report to GMSH, Sector 16,” said Dr Amandeep Kang, director, UT health department. “A separate room for testing has been earmarked at GMSH for people who are not ill, to avoid their intermingling with symptomatic patients,” she added.The department has already issued an advisory to Chandigarh residents to avoid travelling to high-risk zones, such as Delhi NCR.The probability of getting infected increases substantially when people are in these high-risk zones, the department stated, adding that people coming back from Delhi should follow precautions and report for testing voluntarily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10-incoming-passengers-at-chandigarh-isbt-test-positive/story-LGQsO3spAwmCzZdtsl2R9O.html
19-11-2020||City||Cyclist attacked with knife, robbed of wallet, phone in Panchkula||Four motorcycle-borne men robbed a cyclist of his wallet and mobile phone after attacking him with a knife on the Ramgarh-Panchkula road on Wednesday night.Victim Mukesh Kumar, 35, a resident of Sector 25, Panchkula, told the police that he sells tobacco products in Sector 28.He was cycling back home at 9.50pm on Wednesday, when four men on a black motorcycle waylaid him on the Ramgarh-Panchkula road and tried to snatch his wallet.When he resisted, they attacked him with a knife on his thigh and fingers and fled with his wallet and a Samsung mobile phone. On Kumar’s complaint, a under Sections 379-B (snatching), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 34 (acts done in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Chandimandir police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cyclist-attacked-with-knife-robbed-of-wallet-phone-in-panchkula/story-pBmoUVglvQKDPuF8V83wQK.html
19-11-2020||City||Labourer killed in freak elevator mishap in Mohali, employer booked||A 24-year-old labourer was killed after an iron rod pierced through his neck while using an open industrial elevator at a medicine warehouse in Phase 8-B, Industrial Area, on Wednesday evening.Police have booked Vibhag Sethi, owner of Romsons Warehouse, for culpable homicide not amounting to murder under Section 304 of the Indian Penal Code.The victim, Abhishek Kumar, was a resident of Jagatpura village, and had been working at the warehouse for the past three months. The unit has two elevators, one for workers and another to lift goods, which has no protective walls. “Despite his manager warning him against using the goods’ elevators, Abhishek took it to go to the third floor around 6pm. As the elevator got moving, Abhishek stuck his head out to look down and an iron rod pierced his neck near the ear,” said inspector Manphool Singh, station house officer, Phase 1 police station.A severely injured Abhishek was rushed to a private hospital in Sohana by the police, but was declared brought dead.According to sub-inspector Avtar Singh, in-charge, Industrial Area Phase 8 police post, the open lift was set up illegally and had no boundaries for protection. “The victim’s employer has been booked and will be arrested soon. The body was handed over to the family after autopsy on Thursday,” he added.Abhishek is survived by his parents and two siblings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/labourer-killed-in-freak-elevator-mishap-in-mohali-employer-booked/story-VBr0463HOo9BZqJavzpVgI.html
19-11-2020||City||HP to receive fresh snowfall from November 22||Fresh snowfall and rain in isolated places of higher reaches are likely to occur in Himachal Pradesh from November 22 to 25. However, the weather is said to remain dry in the lower hills of the state.Director, of the state’s meteorological department Manmohan Singh, said that snowfall is likely to occur in isolated places of Lahaul-Spiti, Kinnaur, Kullu and Chamba as a fresh western disturbance may affect the Western Himalayan region from November 22.Temperatures are also going to drop during this time period, he added.Maximum temperatures were two to three degrees below normal while minimum temperatures were one to two degrees below normal during the last 24 hours while weather was mostly dry throughout the state on Thursday.The minimum temperature in the state capital, Shimla on Thursday was 4.6°C while Kufri recorded 2.5°C temperature. Manali, Dharamshala and Dalhousie recorded 3.4°C, 6.6°C and 3.9°C, minimum temperature respectively.The minimum temperature in Una was 7.2°C, Bilaspur 9°C, Hamirpur 8.2°C, Nahan 11.3°C and minus 1.2°C in Kalpa while Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district is the coldest place in the state as it recorded a low of -2°C.Another spell of snow, rain likely in J&KAnother spell of rain and snowfall is likely to occur in Jammu and Kashmir in the next 24 hours by Friday, the MeT officials said on Thursday.November is considered the beginning period of four months of harsh winter in Kashmir, especially in the upper reaches where temperatures go down below sub-zero throughout this period. Only last week, the Valley received snowfall.“There is a possibility of another wet cycle in the coming days,” said a senior MeT official, adding that there could be snowfall in the upper reaches of Kashmir in the next 24 hours.Srinagar and its adjacent towns could observe cloudy weather-like conditions on Friday and there is a slight possibility of rain and snowfall in the upper reaches of the Valley. On Thursday evening, many parts of north Kashmir received rainfall.The tourist resort of Gulmarg recorded the lowest minimum temperature of -6°C, while Jammu and Srinagar recorded their minimum temperatures at 9.8°C and 0.6°C respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-to-receive-fresh-snowfall-from-november-22/story-itMgAgxAUHs9iTYqOk5MeK.html
19-11-2020||City||CPI(M) slams HP govt for failure to control Covid-19 spread||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) has expressed serious concern over the increase in the number of Covid-19 infections and number of deaths due to the virus in the state and slammed the state government for failing to make concrete efforts to deal with the situation.“There has been a rapid increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in the state in the last few days even as only 4,200 tests are being done daily, which is not enough,” the CPI(M) said in a statement issued here.More than 600 cases were being reported in Himachal every day and fatalities have also rapidly increased.To date, more than 460 deaths have been reported in the state whereas, in May, the number of active cases had come down to just one, said CPI(M) leader and former Shimla mayor Sanjay Chauhan. He said that four districts of the state including Lahaul-Spiti, Shimla, Mandi, and Kinnaur were among the top ten districts in the country with the highest infection rate which was a matter of concern.“CPI(M) demands government formulate comprehensive strategy and constitute a task force in order to prevent the rapidly growing infection, provide adequate resources and; increase the number of tests to at least 10,000 per day,” said Chauhan.He said that new quarantine centres should open up and those which have been closed shall be reopened immediately.An adequate number of beds should be increased in dedicated Covid hospitals and appropriate steps should be taken to overcome the shortage of doctors, nurses, lab technicians as well as make available an adequate number of ventilators and other equipment.In view of the rapidly increasing number of infected patients in Shimla, the new OPD blocks of Indus Hospital and IGMC should be made Covid Hospital to treat the infected patients, he said.To prevent community spread in the state, the government should conduct a door-to-door survey and isolate the infected people and work on war footing to break the infection chain, Chauhan suggested.He alleged that there is no ceiling on gathering in social, religious and other events and the government is running away from its responsibility that has led to the spike in infections.He alleged that the chief minister officers and other people associated with the ruling party in the government were gathering crowds in political rallies and flouting the norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cpi-m-slams-hp-govt-for-failure-to-control-covid-19-spread/story-iLtdIHl2WMiFeU0sC9hPQI.html
19-11-2020||City||Govt schools in HP to conduct online exams for Classes 9 to 12 from Dec 1||Second term examinations of Classes 9 to 12 of government schools will be conducted online from December 1 due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The state’s education department has released the examination datasheet. Students will be sent question papers locked with a password on WhatsApp and they will have to click the pictures of their answer sheets after completing the exam within the allotted time. Students will have to send the answer sheets to teachers via WhatsApp. For students who do not have a mobile phone, question papers will be sent to their doorstep.Parents and guardians will be entrusted with the responsibility of supervising the students during the examinationExaminations of Classes 9 and 10 will start from December 1 and will conclude on December 8 while examinations of students who have opted for the arts and commerce stream will start on December 1 and will conclude on December 9. Examinations of the science stream students will conclude on December 8.The results will be declared on December 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-schools-in-hp-to-conduct-online-exams-for-classes-9-to-12-from-dec-1/story-G5hUGlsMBnJaRUiRst3atL.html
19-11-2020||Chandigarh||48 chairs reported missing: PU panel wants heritage furniture identified||After the sociology department of Panjab University (PU) reported that 48 of its chairs had gone missing, a special panel at the institute has asked for the identification and verification of heritage furniture.The panel, which has been set up for verification and identification of heritage furniture in the university, made the observation at a meeting on Wednesday after a complaint about the missing chairs by the superintendent of the sociology department on November 12 was sent to the station house officer (SHO) at the Sector 11 police station. The missing furniture included 36 chairs from the department’s seminar hall at the ground floor, 10 chairs from the second floor hall and two chairs from the department’s office.After deliberations on the case, the panel headed by Navdeep Goyal on Wednesday asked for the verification of heritage furniture by experts from PU’s architecture office.Further proceedings after verificationA member of the panel on condition of anonymity said, “The physical verification of the furniture will be done as per the respective official records to find out if any heritage furniture is missing at the departments, based on which we will proceed further.”The inspection report will be placed in the next meeting of the panel that’s scheduled for Friday. The panel has also requested the chairpersons of the sociology and political science departments (both departments are situated in the same block) to attend the meeting on Friday and furnish records that include stock entry register and details of dealing officials. Commenting on the matter, the chief of PU security, Prof Ashwani Koul said, “On November 1, the (sociology) department informed our office that some chairs were missing but said they would themselves investigate the matter first.”The complaint addressed to the SHO of the Sector 11 police station from the department was received by us on November 12. It was immediately sent there (police station), Koul added.International marketsAccording to a list compiled by the Chandigarh Heritage Inventory Committee in 2012, there are 12,793 heritage items, of which a large number are in the possession of the Government Museum and Art Gallery, Sector 10, besides a huge stock of chairs and tables at the Punjab and Haryana civil secretariat and Vidhan Sabha, and the high court. The physical verification of these items has yet to be completed. Panjab University too owns a number of such items.Some of the heritage furniture has turned up mysteriously in international markets to be auctioned at exorbitant prices to bidders across the world.The UT administration has been struggling to stop the auction of these items and those stolen from different departments and institutions||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/48-chairs-reported-missing-pu-panel-wants-heritage-furniture-identified/story-o4swDzJ5S9aiMjqI6yjdXO.html
19-11-2020||Chandigarh||Single-day cases rise to 155 in Chandigarh, one dead||There was no let-up in Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh on Thursday, with 155 people testing positive and one person succumbing to the virus.On Wednesday, the city had recorded 145 cases after 45 days since October 3.With this, the case tally climbed to 16,322 and the death toll to 254. The latest fatality was a 75-year-old man from Sector 46. He was brought dead at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, and found infected.The city still has 1,105 active cases, while the recoveries increased to 14,963 with 130 patients being discharged on Thursday.Three dead in Mohali, 135 positiveMohali reported three Covid deaths, taking the toll to 263, while 135 people were also found infected. The case count now stands at 14,032.Mohali city led with 110 cases, followed by Gharuan with eight cases, Dera Bassi seven, Kharar six, Dhakoli three and Boothgarh with one.Meanwhile, 75 patients recovered from the disease, bringing down the number of active patients to 1,154 in the district. Till now, 12,615 patients have been cured. Another fatality, 87 new cases in PanchkulaPanchkula’s death toll rose to 121 with another casualty due to Covid-19, while the case tally reached 8,136 with 87 new cases.The deceased was a 67-year-old woman from Sector 7. She also suffered from hypertension and diabetes.Majority of the fresh cases are from Panchkula city, Amravati Enclave, Mansa Devi Complex and Pinjore. One case each was also reported from Bataur, Bhareli, Saketri, Rampur Seuri, Ramgarh, Raipur Rani and Kalka.There 414 active cases in the district after 7,601 recoveries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/single-day-cases-rise-to-155-in-chandigarh-one-dead/story-dlT82o0QlOr1bjwtITDisM.html
19-11-2020||City||Moga among 60 districts in country to implement ODF Plus programme||The Union ministry of drinking water and sanitation has selected Moga among 60 districts in country in which ODF (open defecation-free) Plus programme is being implemented.Moga received national award from the central government on World Toilet Day on Thursday. The district was lauded for making Swachh Bharat Mission (Rural) a success with public participation. The event was held online across country and Moga deputy commissioner Sandeep Hans received the award from Union Jal Shakti minister Gajender Singh Shekhawat.Shekhawat lauded the efforts of Moga district administration for making rural areas open defecation-free (ODF) and said that others should take inspiration.Hans said the Union ministry of drinking water and sanitation has also selected Moga among 60 districts where ODF Plus programme is being implemented.He said this programme will be implemented in every village of Moga.He said all 364 villages of Moga have been ODF. “According to a survey conducted by the World Bank, Moga has become 100% open defecation-free. Apart from this, the rate of sanitation and awareness in the district is over 98%,” he added.The district was also honoured with the national award for Gandgi Mukt Bharat on October 2 this year. Earlier, in a function held in New Delhi in February this year, the Union ministry of Jal Shakti had also felicitated Moga with a national award for its performance in making Swachh Bharat Mission a success.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/moga-among-60-districts-in-country-to-implement-odf-plus-programme/story-kgztr6J9o3EooWsnyWsO9L.html
19-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh feels the chill as day temperature drops to 22°C in season’s lowest||The city’s maximum temperature decreased to 22.5°C on Thursday, 4 notches below normal and the lowest this season.“Due to partly cloudy weather on Thursday, the day temperature went down from 24.1°C on Thursday to 22.5°C on Friday. It may rise by 1 to 2 degrees in the next few days. However, as the end of November is approaching, both the maximum and minimum temperatures will drop further,” said an official at the India Meteorological Department (IMD).The minimum temperature also decreased slightly from 11.7°C on Wednesday to 11.2°C on Thursday. As per IMD, Delhi, due to a low pressure area forming over the Arabian Sea, the night temperature in the region may decrease by two to four degrees in the next three days. Due to relatively higher humidity, fog and mist are also likely, especially in the open areas in the morning and evening.Through the weekend, the day and night temperatures are likely to remain around 23°C and 11°C, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-feels-the-chill-as-maximum-temperature-drops-to-22-c-in-season-s-lowest/story-hVUNubbR7GEbirhEt73d7J.html
19-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to participate in Safai Mitra Suraksha Challenge||The Chandigarh municipal corporation is participating in the Safai Mitra Suraksha Challenge to be held among 243 cities throughout the country from November 19 to May 2021.The competition was launched on Thursday by Hardeep Singh Puri, MoS, housing and urban affairs, through a webinar in New Delhi, which was attended by MC commissioner KK Yadav.The challenge, launched on World Toilet Day, is aimed at preventing hazardous cleaning of sewers and septic tanks, and promote mechanised cleaning.Yadav said the challenge will focus extensively on creating citizen awareness on this critical issue, along with infrastructure creation for mechanised cleaning and capacity building of workforce.He said the on-ground assessment of participating cities will be conducted in May 2021 by an independent agency and results will be declared on August 15, 2021. Winning cities will be awarded in three sub-categories, with total prize money amounting to Rs 52 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-participate-in-safai-mitra-suraksha-challenge/story-dbmanQKP5tSGjoAg2rtwWM.html
19-11-2020||Chandigarh||Tiff over ₹10 led to plumber’s murder, three arrested: Chandigarh Police||A brawl over Rs 10 led to the murder of plumber Jaspal Singh, 35, who was found dead near Labour Chowk in Sector 44 on Tuesday morning. Police claim to have cracked the case with the arrest of the victim’s three friends, identified as Dinesh, 40, of Dhanas, Anil Kumar, alias Neelu, 37, of Sector 52, and Parvinder Singh, 36, who lives near the Labour Chowk. All accused are migrant labourers and used to have drinks together regularly. They were arrested following information that they were seen drinking with Jaspal on Monday. According to investigators, Jaspal, Dinesh, Parvinder and Anil were having drinks near Labour Chowk since 5pm on Monday. Before dispersing, they decided to have one last drink each, for which Jaspal gave one of the accused Rs 50 to get a 250ml liquor bottle. As the accused returned, Jaspal asked for the Rs 10 balance, as he said the bottle cost Rs 40, while the accused insisted it was for Rs 50. This led to an argument between them, following which Dinesh and Anil bludgeoned Jaspal’s head and face with a stone as Parvinder restrained him.Accused jumps of police station’s first floor, fractures feetFollowing his arrest, Dinesh landed in hospital after he jumped off the first floor of the Sector 34 police station in an attempt to escape. He was rushed to GMCH, Sector 32, with fractured feet, and was later referred to PGIMER. A court sent Parvinder and Anil to two-day police remand, while Dinesh was sent to judicial custody. While the trio is facing a case of murder, Dinesh has also been booked under Sector 224 (resistance or obstruction by a person to his lawful apprehension) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/tiff-over-10-led-to-plumber-s-murder-three-arrested-chandigarh-police/story-th7f6r8dwYjzA4BWh3rcsL.html
19-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi police arrest six more for fraud of Rs 42,000 crore in Bike Boat Ponzi scheme||Delhi Police have arrested six additional directors of M/S Garvit Innovative Promoters Ltd on Thursday on charges of cheating people in the tune of around Rs 42,000 crore in different states by luring victims with good returns in a ponzi scheme called ‘Bike Boat’. The office is registered at Dadri.Earlier in September, the Economic Offence Wing had arrested Sanjay Bhati, chief managing director of the company and director Rajesh Bhardwaj of the who baited people with an assured payment of Rs 9,500 per month with the principal amount and a rental income on bikes for one year, if they made an investment of Rs 62,000 for a two-wheeler.In January 2019, the company also started a new misleading scheme called e-bike scheme, wherein people needed to invest Rs 1.24 lakh for a bike that was supposed to reap them Rs 17,000 monthly for a year.Numerous people were conned through their false schemes. The accused were able to gain trust by initial payments of the assured amount for some time and later they fled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-police-arrest-six-more-for-fraud-of-rs-42-000-crore-in-bike-boat-ponzi-scheme/story-a3Rn46PkQdYhZaY9BtI1WP.html
19-11-2020||City||Two killed, 10 hurt in Fatehabad collision||Two persons were killed and ten injured in a collision between an auto-rickshaw and a truck near Fatehabad’s Samain village on Thursday, police said.The deceased have been identified as auto-rickshaw driver Ajay Kumar, 29, and Sumitra Devi, 50. Six of the injured people are undergoing treatment at a hospital in Tohana, while the other four have been referred to the Agroha medical college in Hisar owing to their serious injuries. Sandeep Kumar, an occupant, said all of the occupants, including two kids, belonged to Hisar’s Rawalvas village and were going to Dabhi village in Fatehabad to take part in a condolence meeting.“When we reached Samain village, a speeding truck rammed into our auto-rickshaw, killing the driver and a woman on the spot. The truck driver managed to flee the accident scene,” he added.A case under sections 279 and 304-A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against the truck driver, who is at large, the police said, adding that they have launched an investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-killed-10-hurt-in-fatehabad-collision/story-93sYUZ9Ywbk4ZIqxLj6jZM.html
19-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi LG Baijal, CM Kejriwal deem increased fine necessary to create effective Covid-19 deterrence||Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal on Thursday met chief minister Arvind Kejriwal at Raj Niwas to review the prevalent Covid-19 situation in the national capital. During the meeting, Baijal emphasised the need to implement the decisions taken in a meeting, chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah, in a time-bound manner. The decisions were pertaining to enhanced testing, augmenting of hospital infrastructure and human resources, house to house survey, and review of home care arrangements among others. The Lt Governor also emphasised that as Delhi witnesses unprecedented trying times due to Covid-19 pandemic, IEC (Information, Education Communication) activities through all modes of media should be effectively utilised to inform, sensitise and persuade people to strictly adhere to the Covid-19 safety norms.The duo appealed to the residents of Delhi to strictly adhere to Covid-19 measures, however,they considered it necessary to increase the fine, from the existing Rs 500 to Rs 2000, for not wearing face masks, with an aim to create effective deterrence. The decision was taken as an extraordinary measure in the face of a sudden surge in the coronavirus cases in Delhi during the last fortnight.They felt that some people were disregarding the measure with impunity and, in turn, it was not only exposing them to the deadly virus but was also putting others at risk due to their irresponsible behaviour. In a situation already made complex by the onset of winters, high levels of air pollution, seasonal respiratory disorders and crowding caused by the ongoing festival season, they believe that such disregard of preventive and protective measures to has significantly contributed to the uncontrolled spike in the number of Covid-19 infections, hospitalizations and deaths in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/delhi-lg-baijal-cm-kejriwal-deem-increased-fine-necessary-to-create-effective-covid-19-deterrence/story-Q9plw964bwZKo6pcYMgI3H.html
19-11-2020||Delhi||Mask up or get fined: Delhiites say ₹2,000 penalty is OK, but not sufficient||The pandemic continues to have a steady presence in the Capital, and assumingly after observing a sea of people crowding public places, that too without wearing masks, it has now been announced that a fine of ₹2,000 will be levied instead of a penalty of ₹500, for those caught without masks. But, the question that this arises is: are fines enough to stop people from being lax or do we need stricter measures to control this surge of Covid-19?Pulkit Chhabra, a resident of Shalimar Bagh, says the increase in fine will definitely increase mask compliance but Delhi needs to do much more to tackle the alarming situation. “People have lowered their guards and are behaving like the pandemic is over! And what’s the use of wearing masks if half the population doesn’t wear it properly People roam around with their masks down to the neck, and pull them up only when cops are nearby. This defeats the whole purpose of wearing masks in public... it has become like wearing a customary helmet while riding a two wheeler, to avoid challan,” he adds.Many denizens like Chhabra are of the opinion that fines aren’t sufficient as non-monetary penalty has become the need of the hour. “I think there needs to be more vigilance on the ground, to ensure social distancing norms are adequately followed in crowded areas. Deployment of more Police is needed to keep people in check,” says Anysha Kumar, a third year student of St Stephen’s College, Delhi University. “There are so many people who can pay the fine and get away with it. We need to have non-monetary penalties to straighten people who can afford to pay these fines,” she says, highlighting the need for better provisions to avoid people from stepping out for essentials.But Greater Kailash based Pooja Bhateley concurs that the steep fine will indeed make people more cautious. “I was charged ₹500 when I forgot to wear my mask in public, and that made me careful for the next few days. So a fine of ₹2,000 will definitely make me think again since it’s not a small amount for sure,” she says, adding that personal vigilance is need of the hour. She shares, “I genuinely forgot my mask at home, but I know people who have stopped wearing masks since they say it’s inconvenient to them. Human error is inevitable, but in Delhi, the repercussions for these lapses can be huge. We all need to be more careful, and ideally step out only when necessary, and definitely not without masks!” And some denizens feel that it’s hard to enforce rules when enforcement agencies themselves don’t abide by them. Aman Saxena, a Delhi-based lawyer, says, “Everyday I travel from Faridabad to Delhi, and rarely do I see police officers wearing masks. Near various markets, I have seen policemen sitting in small groups and talking. There is laxity all around... There was a strict compliance initially when fines were being levied, but people are now congregating in huge numbers in clubs, markets and public places, and barely a handful of them are being pulled up for not following the norm. We certainly need more measures to deal with the pandemic than simply higher fines for violations.” Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/mask-up-or-get-fined-delhiites-say-2-000-penalty-is-ok-but-not-sufficient/story-rYBShjF7BA2UZRlSlqAzzK.html
19-11-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Badrinath shrine closes for winter||The Badrinath shrine in Uttrakhand’s Chamoli district closed for the winter on Thursday following traditional rituals as chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat extended his best wishes to the devotees on the successful conduct of the Char Dham Yatra this year.Over 5,000 devotees were present at the shrine for the closing ceremony. Earlier on Thursday, the temple opened for worship at 4.30am. After daily prayers, a special Aarti started at 12.30pm. Maa Lakshmi Pujan was held later followed by another Aarti at 1pm.The process of closure was started by chief priests of the shrine and a special blanket made by the women of Mana village was offered to Lord Badrivishal.Also Read: Trivendra Singh Rawat, Yogi Adityanath visit Badrinath templeRavinath Raman, chief executive officer of Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board, said this year over 145,000 pilgrims visited Lord Badarvishal and 310,000 pilgrims came for Char Dham Yatra. “Of the total pilgrims, 134,000 pilgrims visited Kedarnath, 23,837 Gangotri, and 7,731 Yamunotri. The Board issued 350,000 e-passes for Char Dham.”BD Singh, additional chief executive officer of the Board, said all safety norms related to the Covid-19 epidemic were followed throughout the Char Dham Yatra season.On Monday, following special prayers amid snowfall, the Kedarnath shrine in Rudraprayag district closed for the winter in the presence of Rawat and his Uttar Pradesh counterpart, Yogi Adityanath. The Yamunotri shrine in Uttarkashi district also closed for the winter on Monday.On Sunday, on the occasion of Annakoot-Govardhan Puja, the Gangotri shrine in Uttarkashi district was shut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-badrinath-shrine-closes-for-winter/story-30C9t7oh6LLoyH5zHnGhFJ.html
19-11-2020||Kolkata||No Chhath puja at two main water bodies in Kolkata, rule Supreme Court, Calcutta HC||The Supreme Court (SC) on Thursday ruled that Chhath puja will not be allowed at the Rabindra Sarobar lakes in south Kolkata, which is considered the lungs of the densely populated city because of its greenery. In a simultaneous development, a division bench of the Calcutta high court (HC) banned Chhath puja at Subhas Sarobar, a water body of equal importance and located in the north-eastern parts of the city. The puja will be held on Friday. Amid allegations by opposition parties, including the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), that ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief and Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is eyeing the votes of Hindi-speaking people in the upcoming assembly polls slated to be held in April and May, 2021, the Kolkata Municipal Development Authority (KMDA), the custodian of these water bodies, moved both the SC and the HC with appeals to allow the puja at these sites, albeit, in a regulated manner. Also Read: Chhath puja 2020: Delhi’s Anand Vihar railway station makes special arrangement for safety of women commutersOn September 17, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had ruled that Chhath puja cannot be held under any circumstance at Rabindra Sarobar. On November 10, a single bench of the Calcutta HC had passed a similar order in regard to Subhas Sarobar. The KMDA had moved the SC against the NGT and Calcutta HC orders. On Monday (November 16), the SC refused to order a stay on the NGT’s ruling and listed the matter for hearing on November 23. The KMDA appealed for an early hearing since the puja will be held on Friday (November 20). Both appeals of the KMDA came up for hearing on Thursday in Delhi and Kolkata. While green activists in Kolkata welcomed Thursday’s court orders, CM Banerjee appealed to the Hindi-speaking population to observe Chhath puja at home or in their respective neighbourhoods, using artificial water tanks that the government created over the past few days. “We have created 300 artificial water bodies for your convenience. In case you need to visit a river bank please follow health protocols related to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and travel in small groups. Follow court orders and do not form processions,” Banerjee said in a televised message. The word Chhath means six. The festival is dedicated to Lord Surya (Sun God) and Chhathi Maiya, who is known to be the sister of Lord Surya. The festival is celebrated mostly in Bihar, Jharkhand, eastern Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Delhi. Devotees express their gratitude towards Lord Surya and perform intricate rituals over a span of four days. The NGT had passed an order in 2018, banning Chhath puja at Rabindra Sarobar after environment activists and wildlife lovers had started a movement. The petition was moved by environment activist Subhas Dutta, who is also a party in the case heard by the SC. Covering 192 acres of artificial lakes and with 7,000 trees, some of which were damaged by cyclone Amphan in May, Rabindra Sarobar is a birders’ paradise. At least 200 species of resident and migratory birds have been sighted in the water body by birders. It is also home to several species of fish. Hundreds of devotees had flouted the ban and broke open the gates of Rabindra Sarobar in front of the police in November 2019 to perform the puja. They had even used loud crackers and played songs on loudspeakers even though the state government had earmarked alternative water bodies in the city. The incident made headlines and had triggered a huge row. Anticipating that its appeals might be turned down by both the courts, the KMDA started putting up fences around Subhas Sarobar a few days ago. Exposed portions of the boundary walls around Rabindra Sarobar were also covered with metal sheets and cordoned off with bamboo poles. Sumita Banerjee, a green activist and a part of a movement to save Rabindra Sarobar, said, “We welcome the court order but the government must ensure that there is no repetition of last year’s chaos. We are surprised to see the KMDA, which is the custodian of this site, move the apex court to seek permission for destroying nature.” Dilip Ghosh, the president of the BJP’s Bengal unit, took a jibe at the ruling TMC. “Hindi-speaking people in Bengal had been performing Chhath puja for decades, but the TMC never bothered about them. Today, the government has moved the SC because assembly elections are round the corner. It is the TMC’s political compulsion,” he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/no-chhath-puja-at-two-main-water-bodies-in-kolkata-rule-supreme-court-calcutta-hc/story-VT6jgxiuCDwJC9SEQj7C6I.html
19-11-2020||Patna||I want self-reliant Bihar; Sushil Modi is our guardian, says new deputy CM Tarkishore Prasad||Tarkishore Prasad (64), who was born in Saharsa district in Bihar’s Kosi division and worked in the Seemanchal division, has surprised several political pundits following his overnight elevation to deputy to chief minister Nitish Kumar.Prasad was never a front-runner in the race for Bihar deputy CM, where Sushil Kumar Modi was firmly ensconced since the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) came to power in alliance with the Janata dal (United) in October 2005.Prasad, a four-time BJP lawmaker, is yet to be defeated since being elected to the 243-member Bihar legislative assembly from the Katihar seat in the Seemanchal division 15 years ago.Though Prasad was born at Salkhuwa in Saharsa district in 1956, his family had settled at Mirchaibari in Katihar and was engaged in a small business. Prasad was reluctant to join his family business and instead joined the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the ideological parent of the BJP, during his formative years and held several posts in Katihar district.Later, he joined the BJP’s students’ wing, Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), in the 1980s.The BJP awarded him a party ticket from the Katihar assembly in 2005 because of his dedication to politics. He did not disappoint his party and its leaders. Excerpts from an interview with the Prasad:Though you were born in the Kosi division, you chose Katihar in Bihar’s Seemanchal division for politics?Yes. I am related to both the Kosi and Seemanchal regions. However, now, I’m only thinking about Bihar. It’s true that people from these divisions are hopeful after I was elevated to the deputy CM’s post and I will never disappoint them.How did you enter politics?It was not accidental. I have been an RSS worker and was active in the ABVP and held several posts in the latter. In 1982, I was made BJP nagaradhyaksha in Katihar. I am fortunate that I have never disappointed my party and its leaders. In my maiden assembly election in 2005, I won the Katihar seat by a slender margin of 116 votes. However, I bettered my margin in 2010 and won by over 20,000 votes. In 2015, though the JD (U) and the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) had formed an alliance, I managed to retain my seat.Don’t you think your RSS background will affect your relationship with CM Kumar?No. RSS is an organisation, which always thinks about the nation, about the well-being of its people and the nation. There will be no question of any difference between me and CM Kumar over the RSS. Besides, most BJP leaders have an RSS background. Did you ever think of being elevated to a coveted post such as deputy CM?No. I never hankered after power and post. I have worked all along for my party. It is up to my leaders, who have reposed faith in me. I am grateful to them for entrusting me with the responsibility for this onerous task.What are your priorities?My priorities are clear. I have to carry forward Prime Minister Narendra Modiji’s Aatmanirbhar Bihar dream. I shall also realise CM Kumarji’s seven-resolve 2:0 in the state. I want a self-reliant Bihar in line with both the PM and the CM’s cherished dreams.Isn’t unemployment the biggest challenge in Bihar? I have just started my job and we are drawing up a roadmap. Everything will be in the right direction and on the right track. There are several other issues related to joblessness. Plans are afoot to boost all things that can lead Bihar’s holistic growth and development.What do you think about your predecessor Sushil Kumar Modi?I have learnt a lot from Modiji and he is still the party’s guardian in Bihar. I gather that the party will give him some key assignments in national politics.What do you think about his abrupt removal from state politics?I can’t say anything on this. But I can say that Modiji will be assigned an even bigger task in the coming days. It was the party’s decision. At the end of the day, we are all workers of the party. Our duties and responsibilities are assigned by our leaders in the interests of the party and the nation.What are the immediate major challenges before you as the deputy CM?Any new role comes with challenges at every step. The biggest challenge in political life is to live up to the public’s aspirations, who have voted you to power. I have been a public figure for long. I have been associated with various social and political organisations during my political journey. I have done quite a bit of work on infrastructure such as building schools and healthcare centres. Now, we need to think about many big projects for our state’s growth and development. I admit that there are many challenges, but we are determined to make Bihar self-reliant under the leadership of PM Modiji and CM Kumarji.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/i-want-self-reliant-bihar-sushil-modi-is-our-guardian-says-new-deputy-cm-tarkishore-prasad/story-JpUVa9XpDnKP1lO8GGI3pK.html
19-11-2020||City||Yogi asks Cong to clarify stand on Gupkar alliance||LUCKNOW Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday took potshots at the Congress, saying the party was playing with the integrity of the nation by supporting the restoration of Article 370 and demanded that the party makes its stance clear on the issue. “The presence of Jammu and Kashmir Congress leaders at Gupkar meetings proves that the Congress, which calls itself a national party, is double-faced. It says something in Delhi and something else in Kashmir,” said Yogi while addressing a press conference at his official residence. “The Congress’ double standards have been exposed in J&K. It has been playing with national unity and sovereignty by encouraging those involved in separatism and terrorism. The Congress is responsible for not letting Ek Bharat, Shreshth Bharat (one country, great country) concept become a reality. For its politics at the local level, the party is undermining the nation,” Adityanath told newspersons.“Senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad talks about the restoration of Article 370. The Congress leadership needs to clear its stand on Gupkar alliance. The nation also wants clarity from the Congress on Article 370,” he said.The UP chief minister said the Congress was creating hurdles in the development works and empowerment of local bodies started in J&K after the abrogation of Article 370 last year.“Statements by Mehbooba Mufti, Farooq Abdullah and separatists’ leaders are dangerous. The Congress party’s association with them is a dangerous indication. Their leadership needs to clarify that how are they tolerating their leaders’ attempts to play with India’s sovereignty and integrity in the garb of the Gupkar alliance,” he added.Yogi said while the development dream of Jammu and Kashmir, as envisaged by the Prime minister Narendra Modi and union home minister Amit Shah, was being realised, the Congress was not able to digest it. “Under the leadership of Narendra Modi and Amit Shah, evil designs against the unity and sovereignty of the nation will not be allowed to succeed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/yogi-asks-cong-to-clarify-stand-on-gupkar-alliance/story-3ssQH5gN7KzoK3T5L2cyPN.html
19-11-2020||Chandigarh||Anurag Thakur jibe at HP CM over Central Varsity deepens rift among rivals in BJP||At a time when the party is gearing up for panchayati raj elections, Union minister of state for finance and corporate affairs Anurag Thakur’s jibe at chief minister Jai Ram Thakur at a public function in Kangra over delay in transfer of land to the Central University of Himachal Pradesh (CUHP) appears to have widened the rift between rival factions within the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party.Anurag Thakur at the function blamed the state government for delay in transfer of land for the university that he identified as his “dream project.” Hitting out at the bureaucrats for dragging their feet in completing the project allocated to the state 11 years ago during former CM Prem Kumar Dhumal’s tenure, he also suggested that the CM hold them accountable for it.The CM, however, felt the issue should not have been raised by Anurag Thakur on a public platform. Underplaying the Union minister’s angry outburst, he said he was unaware of the technical realities of the matter related to the university, which is split into two campuses – Dhauladhar in Dharamshala and Beas, which has yet to come up in Dehra.Kangra DC asked to transfer landEven as additional chief secretary RD Dhiman on Wednesday ordered the Kangra deputy commissioner to transfer the land to the university, Hoshiar Singh, Dehra independent legislator, said matters related to the institute were the concern of the Central government.A first time legislator and an associate member of BJP, Hoshiar Singh trained his guns on Anurag Thakur, urging him to see to it that the available funds of Rs 500 crore for the university were released immediately for Dehra.Singh also questioned why the foundation laying of a part of the campus at Dehra was done just ahead of the Lok Sabha elections.Meanwhile, the Congress launched a fresh offensive against the ruling BJP with state party chief Kuldeep Rathare saying the internal feuding signified the power struggle within the party.How it startedFormer prime minister Manmohan Singh announced the decision to set up CUHP on August 15, 2007, and it became functional in 2010 with a temporary campus at Shahpur.In the same year the then BJP-led state government proposed two campuses at Dehra and Dharamshala.In 2013, the Congress led state government proposed a unified campus and identified land for it at Indrunag Hill and then again in 2016 it identified 600 acres of land for another campus at Jadrangal, both in Dharamsala.Former HRD minister Prakash Javadekar then laid the foundation stone of the CUHP at Dehra and Dharamshala ahead of the general elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/anurag-thakur-jibe-at-hp-cm-over-central-varsity-deepens-rift-among-rivals-in-bjp/story-42tZYq4u2sWN6tb1c5NkJN.html
19-11-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan’s Ranthambore tiger returns from Madhya Pradesh’s Kuno after 8 years||A tiger named T-38 has returned to Rajasthan’s Ranthambore Tiger Reserve from Kuno National Park, a little over 50 km away in Madhya Pradesh, after eight years. The tiger had left the reserve in 2012 when it was four years old.Forest officials said they were initially surprised when they spotted the tiger first on October 19 in the reserve’s Bhadlav area. They added they became sure it was indeed T-38 when it was again caught on camera on October 24 near Chiroli and later on November 15 in Taleda area of the reserve.The department officials then started analysing the camera footage to confirm the T-38’s presence in the reserve, where it is currently in the Kundera range.Ranthambore Tiger Reserve’s field director, TC Verma, confirmed T-38’s return and said it moved to Kuno in 2012 and was caught on cameras installed there. Thereafter the tiger remained there until it was spotted in the reserve in October.Also Read: Delhi zoo’s 15-year-old tiger B-2 diesA forest official the tiger was tracked till Madhya Pradesh in 2012 and the Kuno administration was accordingly informed about its presence there. “Many tigers might have moved towards Madhya Pradesh by crossing Chambal but he [T-38] was tracked from the beginning until he reached there,” said the official, who did not want to be named. He added around two years later another tiger named T-56 moved to Kuno and its movements were also tracked. “He has not returned. Then another tiger, T-91, moved but he returned from border villages of Madhya Pradesh.”Officials said rain or another tiger may have pushed T-38 to leave Kuno. “The Ranthambore Tiger Reserve administration has written to the Kuno National Park about the tiger’s arrival and asked its administration to ensure effective monitoring and camera installation... one or two tigers may have migrated from there,” said the official cited above.Ranthambore Tiger Reserve’s former field director, YK Sahu, said the return of T-38 is surprising as the tiger would have made Kuno its territory. “It might have returned either due to territorial fight or due to human disturbance.”Six tigers left Ranthambore between 2002 and 2013. Some of them went to Kuno. Only one of them returned, while three were found dead later.Ranthambore Tiger Reserve has around 74 tigers, including 27 cubs and sub-adults. This month, two tigresses gave birth to six cubs there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-s-ranthambore-tiger-returns-from-madhya-pradesh-s-kuno-after-8-years/story-RzfPjgbBGq8GODHjjbaN6J.html
19-11-2020||City||Anti-Bru resettlement protests: Tripura Police register case against protesters for violating prohibitory orders||The Tripura police have registered a case against the organisers of an indefinite strike against the Centre’s move to have Bru migrants settled in a particular subdivision in the state.Nagarik Suraksha Mancha and Mizo Convention have come together under the banner of Joint Movement Committee and started the indefinite strike from Monday demanding that the migrants be settled in all the eight districts of the state.The local administration imposed restrictions on the public movement on the second day of the strike on Tuesday following an assault on a water supply operator. The strike continued despite the prohibitory orders, prompting police to file the case.“We have registered the case against the protesters for violating the prohibitory order. Legal action will be taken against them. We will share details after a meeting,” said police superintendent Bhanupada Chakraborty.An official said the police and Tripura state rifles personnel have been deployed in the area to avoid any untoward incident. “The restriction on public movement is in force since November 18. But the protesters violated the norms and stuck to their protest though in a peaceful manner,” said the official.Over 32,000 Bru migrants have been staying in six relief camps in Tripura after fleeing Mizoram over two decades after an ethnic clash in 1997.The Centre in January signed an agreement with the governments of Tripura and Mizoram for a permanent settlement of the migrants in Tripura. The Centre has announced Rs 600 crore package for the resettlement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/anti-bru-resettlement-protests-tripura-police-register-case-against-protesters-for-violating-prohibitory-orders/story-FLcKBIQA7r9S40RWRj94RM.html
19-11-2020||Patna||Bihar: Couple elopes in Darbhanga, woman’s family assaults, tonsures man’s mother||The family of a woman’s daughter-in-law allegedly assaulted and shaved her head in Bihar’s Darbhanga district, police said. They were angry as her son got married to their daughter without their consent and also uploaded pictures of their wedding on social media.Police said the woman was assaulted on November 14 and the incident came to light on Wednesday when the video of the assault went viral. They said they have registered a case against 20 people including five women.In the video, a mob can be seen dragging the woman from her house and shaving her head.Ashutosh Kumar Jha, a local police officer, denied reports that the woman was stripped and paraded in the village. He added the woman’s head was shaved.Also Read: In Bihar, how caste shapes politics and governanceThe woman’s neighbours and husband maintained she was stripped and paraded and forced to leave their village. Additional police forces have been deployed in the area.The woman has been admitted to a hospital in Darbhanga where she told police she was stripped and paraded.Sub-divisional police officer Dilip Kumar Jha, who rushed to the scene, recorded statements of some eyewitnesses. He said a case has been registered against the accused.Darbhanga’s senior police superintendent, Babu Ram, said about five to six women were also involved in the incident. He added two named accused were arrested on Wednesday.Ram said the woman’s son eloped with his neighbour on November 12 and later got married.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-couple-elopes-in-darbhanga-woman-s-family-assaults-tonsures-man-s-mother/story-XKPqJrTN1VmtKyFwhfhy4M.html
19-11-2020||Pune||Stripped hyena falls into open well in Otur village, rescued by Maha forest dept, wildlife SOS team||Members of the Maharashtra forest department and Wildlife SOS team rescued a five-year-old male striped hyena from 15 feet well in Ane village, Otur, taluka Junnar, Pune district, on Tuesday (November 17).Junnar Taluka has more than 200 hyenas in the area. Hyenas are seen as dangerous animals and they are widely misrepresented in culture, folklore and even in movies. The striped hyena is the only hyena species that is found in the Indian subcontinent and are protected under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. Their estimated populations are under 10,000 and are classified as ‘Near Threatened’ in the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) red list.Yogesh Ghodake, range forest officer, Otur, said, “This striped hyena was foraging in the night, when he fell into an open well. It was the local farmers who alerted us, thus with the help of four-member rescue team operating out of Wildlife SOS run Leopard Rescue Centre in Junnar to assist, we began rescue operations.”“This hyena was probably in search of food, especially any cattle, sheep or goat. They tend to be near human settlements, like agriculture fields which are often their hiding place,” he said.The villagers who have been trained by Wildlife SOS and the Forest Department in conflict mitigation and awareness workshops, cordoned off the area for the team to conduct the rescue operation.Ghodake added that after a quick assessment of the situation, a trap cage with food bait was lowered into the nearly 15 feet deep well to lure the hyena into a trap cage.“Once safely inside, the team carefully lifted the cage out and they conducted a detailed on-site medical examination of the hyena, following which it was released back in the wild,” he said.“The animals trapped in such situations are already stressed so ensuring their safety and comfort is our priority. Open wells are a common threat to wildlife around villages, and our teams are vigilant constantly to provide any assistance when it comes to rescuing animals in distress,” he further added.Nikhil Bangar, wildlife veterinary officer, Wildlife SOS, said, “The male hyena was about five-year-old and did not sustain any severe injuries from the fall. We provided topical treatment for minor abrasions on the face and limbs before the animal was released back into the wild.”Major threats to hyenas in India include man-animal conflict, poisoning, habitat destruction, hunting and poaching for body parts.“Their skin is illegally traded and body parts are used in traditional medicine. The striped hyena is an underrated species that deserves more conservation attention as the survival of this species is crucial for the survival of a healthy, well-balanced ecosystem. Therefore, it is imperative to educate the local communities about conservation ethics and to inspire them to coexist with the wildlife that lives in close proximity to human settlements,” said Kartick Satyanarayan, co-founder and CEO, Wildlife SOS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/stripped-hyena-falls-into-open-well-in-otur-village-rescued-by-maha-forest-dept-wildlife-sos-team/story-BK8BG6LzjYeB0bWykVtwcL.html
19-11-2020||Pune||“Safety first” puts small car segment on the top during Diwali||Vehicle sales have seen a significant rise during this Diwali despite the Covid-19 pandemic, and majority of the buyers have preferred for small cars compared to bigger ones. A similar trend of buying smaller segment cars under Rs 20 lakh was seen during the Navratri period too. Although the total number of vehicles sale is slightly less than last year’s sale during the Navratri period as per the Pune Regional Transport Office’s (RTO) new vehicle registration data, the sales seem to be rising. Interestingly the revenue generation has increased by almost Rs 4 crore this year. Last year a total of 16,200 new vehicles were registered during the Diwali period starting from October 8 to 27, 2019 with total revenue of Rs 70,66,02,718 whereas this year starting from October 25 to November 14, 2020, new vehicle registrations have gone down to 14,794 but the revenue increased to Rs 74,49,72,232, which means there is an increase of Rs 3,83,69,514 revenue this year. In the car segment last year, a total of 2,878 cars were registered and this year it has risen to 4,068. According to Pune deputy regional transport officer Sanjeev Bhor, there has been a steady rise in the sale of smaller cars below Rs 20 lakh since Navratri. “Post lockdown as the Covid situation continues people prefer the safety of family first and so go to buy cars. So, there is a drastic rise seen even during the Diwali period this time and we hope that the rise in sales continues until New Year. Also, our revenue generation has increased by almost Rs 4 crore compared to last year,” Bhor said. While in the motorcycle sale, last year the new motorcycles registered were 11,562 which went down to 10,044 this year. Similarly, there is a drastic drop in the sale of tourist taxi vehicles this year, last year 311 tourist taxis were registered during Diwali period and this year only 28 of them were registered. Also, there is an impact on the auto-rickshaw and commercial vehicle sale which has also reduced this year compared to last year’s sales. Pawan Dahinje, automobile car sales expert said, “There was a very good response during the Navratri period for car sales and it continued during the Diwali period too, as across the car brands smaller segment cars were sold at a good range. We are expecting the market to increase from now, as people are preferring safety first for travelling within the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/safety-first-puts-small-car-segment-on-the-top-during-diwali/story-b3kLBIS7vsK2ky8BXn7BJP.html
19-11-2020||Mumbai||Will thwart BJP design to make Mumbai ‘doormat of Delhi’: Shiv Sena||The allies-turned-rivals – the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Shiv Sena – are warming up to an intense fight to control the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the richest civic body in the country, which goes to polls in early 2022. On Thursday, the Sena lashed out at the remarks of Devendra Fadnavis, the leader of opposition and former Maharashtra chief minister, on the previous day that the BJP would win the 2022 civic polls and wrest control of the BMC, which remained the former party’s bastion over the last three decades. The Sena said it would thwart the BJP’s design to make Mumbai, “a doormat of Delhi”, alluding to the Narendra Modi-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government.Also Read: Fadnavis hits out at MVA government, calls it anti-developmentIn the last civic polls in 2017, the BJP and the Sena had contested against each other, despite sharing power in the Fadnavis-led government.The Sena had fared marginally better than the BJP, and kept its sway over the 227-member BMC intact. But, the BJP, which has been kept off the frame since last year’s assembly polls, is spoiling for an electoral fight.Fadnavis was his belligerent self during the BJP’s Mumbai unit’s executive meeting on Wednesday.“It’s a certain sign of downfall, when power goes to people’s heads. We should be prepared to fight the corrupt Sena, while keeping in mind the welfare of the Mumbaikars,” he urged his party colleagues at the meeting. He asserted that a saffron flag would fly atop the BMC headquarters after the civic body elections in 2022, which would weed out Sena’s corruption.Sanjay Raut, Sena’s chief spokesperson and a member of the Rajya Sabha (RS), took the battle to the opposition BJP’s camp on Thursday. He told media persons in Delhi that Mumbaikars would never hand over control of the BMC to a party, which back people, who had insulted Mumbai and equated the Maximum City to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK), while taking a veiled dig at the BJP’s support to actor Kangana Ranaut’s uncharitable remarks. Raut alleged that the BJP would like to control Mumbai in a bid to usurp its land and businesses. “The people at the Centre do not want to keep Mumbai in Maharashtra, and we are their biggest hurdle… An actress, whose [structure] was demolished by the BMC recently, is a BJP worker. She called the Mumbai Police mafia and equated Mumbai to Pakistan. The people of Mumbai and Maharashtra opposed it. But who supported her? It was the BJP. Will the public allow Mumbai to be controlled by such people? We stood with the late architect and interior designer Anvay Naik’s family. But these people supported that TV anchor (Arnab Goswami) and held relentless protests. Does this show their love for the Marathi people?” Raut asked.Raut made an impassioned plea whether Maratha legend Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj’s saffron flag atop the BMC headquarters implied unholy. “Mumbaikars decided which saffron is pure and which one is not. They have hoisted Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj’s saffron flag for the last 30 years,” he said.Sena minister Anil Parab said that Mumbaikars always supported his party and would continue to do so. “Several people came, made statements and went away, but Mumbai remained the bastion for the Sena. History is witness to our party’s hold in the city,” said Parab in an oblique reference to Fadnavis.Raut took a swipe at the BJP top brass over its alleged bids to cut off Mumbai from the rest of Maharashtra. “They [BJP] are interested in the BMC because they want Mumbai’s land, it’s businesses and a hold over it’s booming stock market. This has been the pattern for the past 50 years. They want to make Mumbai the slave of Delhi and a doormat of the national capital. But we won’t let it happen. Mumbai belongs to the working class, not only industrialists and businessmen … Many have tried to remove the saffron flag [atop the BMC] and failed miserably. They will not be able to succeed for the next 100 generations,” he dared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/will-thwart-bjp-design-to-make-mumbai-doormat-of-delhi-shiv-sena/story-zOkFw779AZlsj4SLY31aZJ.html
19-11-2020||Pune||Pune District Chess Association chairman dies at 57||A doyen of Pune’s chess fraternity, Joseph D’souza, chairman, Pune District Chess Association, passed away in the early hours of Tuesday (November 17). D’souza (57) who played a multidimensional role – coach, arbiter and organiser - was admitted to hospital on Saturday with burn injuries suffered due to a leakage from a bathroom geyser. He is survived by his wife and 19-year-old son. “D’souza was our centre and the finest promoter of the sport, not only in Pune, but across the nation. A big loss to the chess fraternity,” said Rajendra Konde, secretary, Pune District Chess Association. D’souza has been coaching players for the past 31 years, not only from Pune, but also online sessions to players from overseas. A winner of Maharashtra’s Shiv Chhatrapati Award, Joseph in his playing days was a “candidate master”. As an arbiter, Joseph has conducted an 300 tournaments since 1984. In the city he used to run the Joseph D’souza Chess Academy near Perugate Police Chowky, Sadashiv peth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-district-chess-association-chairman-dies-at-57/story-vNCT9ltp6jwDsXUI4zNR7I.html
19-11-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand Congress disowns senior leader’s promise of free power and water, rift shows||As Uttarakhand Assembly elections draw near, differences within state Congress are emerging over senior party leader and former chief minister Harish Rawat’s promise to provide 100 to 200 units of electricity and 25 litres of water free to people in the state if the Congress was voted to power in 2022 state elections. The state Congress leadership has distanced itself from Rawat’s stand, maintaining that it has not been discussed by the state party leadership. Harish Rawat, who is party national general secretary and in-charge for Punjab, said he had made the promise for free power and drinking water given the robust power generation network developed in the state over the years and good availability of water resources in the Himalayan state. “I am firm on my stand as we have the capacity to provide free electricity in the range of 100 to 200 units. Our power distribution and generation capacity has developed over the years to the extent that we can provide it free to some extent. In case of drinking water supply, with the hill state having good water resources, we can provide 25 litres of pure water to each family free of charge. All this is possible,” he insisted. When questioned about his party leadership’s reluctance to endorse his view citing the poll manifesto had not been prepared yet, Rawat said, “Ideas are floated first and then made part of the manifesto. In this case also, I will present it before the party, discuss it with them, so that these could be made part of the manifestos” he said. State Congress has distanced itself from Rawat’s promise, emphasising the issue has not been discussed by the party yet. Pritam Singh, Congress state president, said, Harish Rawat is a senior leader of the party who has come up with this idea. “But as a party president in the state, I can tell you it is not the party stand, nor has the party come up with the manifesto yet. As the idea has been floated, in the coming time, we will discuss it in the party and take appropriate action,” he said. Also Read: Chhath Puja banned in public places in Dehradun due to Covid-19 surgeSuryakant Dhasmana, state Congress vice president, said, Harish Rawat’s suggestions are valuable given his vast political experiences but such announcements are made by the party and not by any individual leader. “Our poll manifesto committee will decide what promises the party needs to make. The party will discuss this idea also, but we have to ensure that we make promises that the party can fulfil in future. Otherwise, it will be very embarrassing for the party,” he said. Also Read: Work on to get UNESCO World Heritage Site tag for Adi Kailash in UttarakhandBansidhar Bhagat, state BJP president said the promise made by Rawat was an election gimmick.“The state is not in a position to do such things at present. Congress is desperate and it is showing. I want to ask Harish Rawat, what has he done for the state when he was in power. Now, he is making empty promises to people. Congress needs to do some introspection first,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-congress-disowns-senior-leader-s-promise-of-free-power-and-water-rift-shows/story-HqV9YCE8kXTMILjm89QwVI.html
19-11-2020||Pune||Temperature will continue to rise in Pune city till November 23: IMD||The minimum temperature in the city continues to rise after cold weather in the initial weeks of November. From 9.8 degrees Celsius on November 12 it has risen to 18.5 degrees Celsius on Wednesday (November 18).“The minimum and maximum temperature will continue to rise till November 23. After that, there will be a partial moist shift and as a result, northern components of wind will start reaching northern parts of Maharashtra including Pune so from November 24 morning there is a slight chance of fall in minimum temperature,” said Anupam Kashyapi, head, weather department, India Meteorological Department, Pune.The rise in the temperature is due to consecutive western disturbances affecting the western Himalayan region and strong easterly wind flow over southern peninsula due to which northeast monsoon is active so IMD models have suggested that night temperatures will be on the higher side.“On Thursday (November 19), there may be an interaction (confluence) between easterlies and westerlies even over central, northern parts of Maharashtra, viz. Konkan, Madhya Maharashtra and Marathwada,” he said.“As a result, IMD, Pune has forecast clouds over Pune city and district around November 19, 20, 21 with a chance of isolated very light rains over the district even in the city. Therefore, night temperatures are predicted to be in the range of 16-18 degrees Celsius in Pune till at least November 21-22,” said Kashyapi.There is also strong easterly wind influence over peninsular India, which is causing moisture incursion and clouding over areas of Maharashtra, even in Pune district and city.“Humidity level in the air is on the high side during the day with maximum temperature will be near to 31-32 degrees Celsius,” he said.Cloudy weather during the night is causing a rise in minimum temperature as clouds to prevent the escape of longwave radiation from the earth’s surface into the atmosphere.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/temperature-will-continue-to-rise-in-pune-city-till-november-23-imd/story-pM3dPWcdcjugC9BLdolJbP.html
19-11-2020||Lucknow||Radha Mohan Singh to begin new role as BJP UP in-charge with Prayagraj visit today||Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) new Uttar Pradesh (UP) in-charge Radha Mohan Singh will visit Prayagraj on Thursday to begin his latest assignment as part of streamlining the party’s strategy for the teachers’ and graduates’ constituency polls to the Legislative Council. The BJP is actively contesting these elections for the first time. Radha Mohan Singh, who is also the BJP’s national vice-president, was the union agriculture minister during Narendra Modi’s first term as Prime Minister. The Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council has 100 members, of which 52 are with the Samajwadi Party and 19 with the ruling BJP. The BSP has eight members while Congress has just two, with one of them, Dinesh Kumar Singh, having already joined the BJP. While there are 14 vacant seats in the Legislative Council at present, polls have been announced for 11 seats of the graduates’ and teachers’ constituencies. Polling will take place in December. Also Read: UP CM welcomes SC order on assistant basic teachers recruitmentThe two previous UP in-charges, JP Nadda and Amit Shah, went on to become party chiefs following their resounding success in the 2019 and 2014 Lok Sabha polls, respectively. The BJP will now contest the 2022 UP assembly polls with Singh as the state in-charge. “Radha Mohan Singhji will be in Prayagraj for meetings over the Allahabad-Jhansi graduate seat polls,” said UP BJP general secretary Amarpal Maurya, the in-charge of graduates’ and teachers’ constituency polls. BJP general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal will accompany Radha Mohan Singh. The Allahabad-Jhansi graduates’ constituency spans 10 districts, including Prayagraj, Kaushambi, Fatehpur, Chitrakoot, Banda, Hamirpur, Mahoba, Jalaun, and Jhansi. It is among the five graduates’ constituency seats which will go to the polls on December 1, along with six teachers’ constituency seats. The tenure of 11 MLCs – five from the graduates’ constituency and six from the teachers’ constituency – ended on May 6, but the elections to these seats had been delayed due to the Covid-19 outbreak, officials said. The Allahabad-Jhansi seat is prestigious for the BJP as party candidate Yagya Dutt Sharma, 78, has been winning it for the past four terms. Each stint has been six years long. Sharma had served as principal of the Sewa Samiti Vidya Mandir Intermediate College from 1980 to 2001 in Prayagraj (then Allahabad). After Prayagraj, Radha Mohan Singh and Bansal are expected in Varanasi on November 20 to strategise the party campaign. The duo will visit Moradabad on November 21 to campaign for the Bareilly-Moradabad teachers’ constituency seat. On the same day, Bansal, along with UP BJP vice president Braj Bahadur, will go to Bareilly for the party campaign there. State BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh would be in Kannauj on Thursday while additionally visiting Agra and Meerut, Maurya said. On November 22, Swatantra Dev, along with the party’s UP vice-president Santosh Singh, will campaign in Sitapur for the elections to the graduates’ and teachers’ constituency in Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/radha-mohan-singh-to-begin-new-role-as-bjp-up-in-charge-with-prayagraj-visit-today/story-ozulGKoC2rkp1fm2jm0jsI.html
19-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chautala gets access to Teja Khera farmhouse in Haryana for wedding of grandsons||Former chief minister Om Prakash Chautala’s family has finally got access to their farmhouse at Teja Khera village in Dabwali tehsil of Sirsa district from November 23 to December 7 to organise the wedding of his grandsons this month-end. The appellate tribunal for the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) on Thursday directed the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to de-seal the Teja Khera farmhouse by November 23 and hand over its possession to the Chautala family for the limited purpose of holding the wedding of the grandsons of the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) leader. The counsel for the Chautalas has given an undertaking that the possession of the attached property will be handed back to the ED by December 7. The Punjab and Haryana high court had on Tuesday allowed the ED plea, challenging the tribunal’s October 20 order to de-seal the property for a month. The high court bench of justice AG Masih asked the appellate tribunal for a fresh decision. Om Prakash Chautala’s son Abhay Singh Chautala had sought permission from the tribunal to use the farmhouse for the wedding of his two sons on November 27 and 30. The initial tribunal order said that the farmhouse be de-sealed from November 6 to December 7. The high court stayed the tribunal order on November 6. The farmhouse has been sealed by the ED in view of the ongoing probe against Om Prakash Chautala for money laundering. The ED had told the high court that there is no provision in the PMLA to de-seal an attached property connected with the proceeds of crime even temporarily. In case it is allowed, it would set a wrong precedent that would be exploited by the accused to enjoy the proceeds of crime till the decision is rendered by the appellate tribunal, the ED had argued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chautala-gets-access-to-teja-khera-farmhouse-in-haryana-for-wedding-of-grandsons/story-024AhSMPb8CflUB3uOEmSJ.html
19-11-2020||City||Financial situation improving, will lift austerity measures: Goa CM Pramod Sawant||The Goa government will lift its freeze on recruitment that was announced as part of austerity measures rolled out in March this year. The moratorium that included banning fresh recruitment and postponing all new projects will be lifted by the end of this month, chief minister Pramod Sawant said. “The office memorandum was issued in March because of Covid-19, which had weakened the financial situation of the state. We have taken a review now and the financial situation has improved considerably. The memorandum will be lifted from November 30, and from December 1, new projects will be undertaken,” Sawant told reporters.Also Read: Hotels must have one isolation room, Goa to issue new SOPIn measures announced earlier this year, the Goa government banned fresh recruitment and foreign and domestic tours in government departments and government-funded autonomous bodies until December 2020. The government had also deferred expenditure sanctions for capital projects except those that were partly or wholly funded by the central government, besides deferring project-specific borrowing for all government departments, autonomous bodies, state PSUs, and local bodies till December 2020.“There are around 10,000 vacancies in various departments right now. Most departments have vacant posts. We will issue advertisements for recruitment to the new posts soon,” Sawant stated.Sawant is eager to cement his legacy as he has completed nearly 18 months as chief minister and is eyeing the state assembly elections scheduled for early 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/financial-situation-improving-will-lift-austerity-measures-goa-cm-pramod-sawant/story-TC25axp1vj51OOgFUsAsYL.html
19-11-2020||Delhi||Penalty for not wearing mask in public in Delhi raised from Rs 500 to Rs 2,000||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said that the penalty for not wearing masks in public places will be increased from Rs500 to Rs2,000 in light of the severe spike in Covid-19 cases in the capital.Kejriwal also said that the government has issued directions to all private hospitals to reserve 80% of their ICU beds and 60% of non-ICU beds for Covid-19 patients and postpone dates of non-critical surgeries.“I met the lieutenant governer today [thursday] and briefed him about the Covid-19 situation. We have agreed that a lot of people don’t wear masks so the penalty for not wearing masks will be increased from Rs500 to Rs2,000. I appeal to social, religious and political organisations to distribute masks and urge people to wear masks. Masks are a major saviour against Covid-19,” said Kejriwal in a video press briefing, after convening an all-party meeting with political leaders to discuss the Covid-19 situation.Also Read: Covid-19: ICU beds with ventilators not available at nearly 60 hospitals in DelhiA notification in this regard will soon be issued, said a government official. The police and the government’s revenue department are the enforcement agencies which can prosecute individuals for not wearing masks in public places.The chief minister said that at the all-party meeting on Thursday, he urged political leaders to join hands in the fight against Covid-19 and direct their volunteers to distribute masks across the city.“Today, 7,461 non-ICU beds and 446 ICU beds available across Delhi. Recently, the Supreme Court allowed the Delhi government to issue directions to reserve 80% ICU beds in 33 private hospitals for Covid-19 patients. This direction would now apply to all private hospitals. Also, till now, private hospitals had to reserve 50% non-ICU beds for Covid-19 patients. That would be increased to 60% for now. And, hospitals have been asked to postpone all non-critical surgeries that have been scheduled,” said Kejriwal.Similar directions were issued in May and June as well, when the city had witnessed the first sharp rise in Covid-19 cases but later some of them were relaxed when the cases went down.The chief minister appreciated the role of healthcare professionals in Delhi during the pandemic and urged people to celebrate Chhath Puja at home this year.“There have been arguments regarding Chhath Puja in the past few days. We want people get to celebrate Chhath Puja in Delhi, but this year there is a pandemic and there is an immense amount of health risk. Imagine how much transmission can happen at the Chhath ghats where people take dips in water bodies. Water can make the transmission worse. The prohibition this year is only in public places. Let’s celebrate Chhath Puja in our residences this year. Gujarat, Maharashtra and Haryana too have imposed such prohibitions,” said Kejriwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-penalty-for-not-wearing-masks-in-public-increased-from-rs500-to-rs2-000/story-74dUKlHTkcUjetggRsAMyH.html
19-11-2020||Mumbai||After Sena leader’s ‘nudge’, Mumbai man covers ‘Karachi’ on sweet shop’s name||Owner of a sweet shop in Mumbai covered the word ‘Karachi’ on his establishment’s hoarding with a paper on Thursday after a Shiv Sena leader allegedly asked him to drop the Pakistani city’s name, news agency ANI reported. Shiv Sena leader Nitin Nandgaonkar had asked the owner of Karachi Sweets to change the name of the shop to something “Marathi.”“You have to do it, we are giving you time. Change ‘Karachi’ to something in Marathi,” Nandgaonkar was quoted as saying by ANI. In a viral video, the Sena leader can be heard telling the shop owner to change the name to anything “but Karachi, which reminds one of Pakistan.”  Mumbai: Video of Shiv Sena leader Nitin Nandgaokar goes viral, where he's allegedly asking Karachi Sweets shop owner in Bandra West to change the name 'Karachi'."You have to do it, we're giving you time. Change 'Karachi' to something in Marathi," says Nitin Nandgaokar in video. pic.twitter.com/PfmM4B65acHe told the ‘Karachi Sweets’ owner that he will visit again in 15 days and asked him to reach out for any assistance that may be needed in getting the name changed at the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/after-sena-leader-s-nudge-mumbai-man-covers-karachi-on-sweet-shop-s-name/story-QyN5oLNDPFchoYmxgRCJxK.html
19-11-2020||City||23-year-old Chhattisgarh woman kills self over death of pet dog||A post-graduate student (23) died by suicide in Chhattisgarh’s Raigarh district, as she was overcome by grief because of the death of her beloved pet dog, the police said on Thursday.Her last wish, which she had mentioned in her suicide note, was not to be cremated as per the Hindu rituals, but buried next to her pet dog, who was called Babu. Babu (5) had died in Gorkha village at around 9pm on Tuesday (November 17) due to natural causes, said DP Bhardwaj, assistant sub-inspector (ASI) and the investigating officer (IO) of the case. Also Read: West Bengal: Man kills parents, attempts suicide; rescued from Howrah apartment“The family was shattered after Babu’s death and they stayed awake late at night on Tuesday. The deceased went off to sleep with her sister in a room at around 1 am, while her parents slept in a separate room of their house. She was found dead on Wednesday morning. A suicide note, which recounted her grief over the irreparable loss and pain over Babu’s death, was recovered,” the ASI said. Shocked neighbours said Babu was the love of her life.“Babu was a mixed breed of German shepherd. Everyone is shocked in our village. She was a humble soul and generous towards animals and children. She would teach the children of the village for free,” said Pappu Chauhan, one of her neighbours.Chauhan said Babu was buried in the deceased’s family farm near her house, while she was cremated on the outskirts of the Gorkha village on Wednesday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/23-year-old-chhattisgarh-woman-kills-self-over-death-of-pet-dog/story-viZUnyYtWMBwkdDovVMd0N.html
19-11-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: ICU beds with ventilators not available at nearly 60 hospitals in Delhi||Amid spiralling cases of Covid-19 in the national capital, the number of available Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds equipped with ventilators is shrinking fast at several hospitals here, with zero vacancy at nearly 60 facilities, according to official data.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19 The rise in cases of the infection has happened at a time when approaching winter and severely deteriorating air quality in the city have worsened complications in people with respiratory illnesses.According to the online Corona dashboard of the Delhi government at 12:30 pm on Thursday, only 131 Covid-19 ICU beds were available out of 1,362 such beds at various facilities here.There was no vacancy at Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH), Max hospital’s facilities at Saket, Patparganj and Shalimar Bagh, Batra hospital, Fortis hospital’s facilities at Shalimar Bagh and Vasant Kunj and Fortis Escorts Heart Institute, and Venkateshwara Hospital in Dwarka, among others, as per the data.The RGSSH, a dedicated coronavirus facility under the Delhi government, has 200 ICU beds with ventilators, all occupied, while at the LNJP Hospital, another dedicated facility, only seven such beds were available out of 200 at 12:30 pm.Seven of 71 ICU beds with ventilators were available at AIIMS Trauma Centre, at the Safdarjung hospital, seven such beds were available out of 65, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital has eight such beds available out of 45 and RML Hospital has only two ICU beds with ventilators available out of 28, as per the data.At other Delhi government facilities such as the BSA Hospital, nine beds were free out of 12 and at the SGMH hospital, four beds were free out of six, the data showed. There was no vacancy at the DDU hospital.The non-Covid-19 ICU beds were also getting occupied at many hospitals in Delhi and their count is shrinking at other facilities too.The national capital has witnessed a spurt in coronavirus cases since October 28, when the daily rise breached the 5,000-mark for the first time, and it crossed the 8,000-mark on Wednesday.Also Read | ‘You were shaken out of slumber’: High Court raps Delhi govt over Covid-19 surgeDelhi recorded 7,486 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the city’s infection tally to over five lakh, even as 133 more fatalities, the highest single-day death count till date, pushed the toll to 7,943, authorities said.These fresh cases came out of the 62,232 tests conducted the previous day, while the positivity rate stood at 12.03 per cent amid festive season and rising pollution in the city, according to Wednesday’s bulletin issued by the Delhi health department.The highest single-day spike till date here -- 8,593 cases -- was recorded on November 11.The National Centre for Disease Control, in a report drafted recently, had warned that Delhi needed to be prepared for about 15,000 fresh cases of Covid-19 per day, taking into account the upcoming winter season-related respiratory problems, large influx of patients from outside and festive gatherings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-icu-beds-with-ventilators-not-available-at-nearly-60-hospitals-in-delhi/story-U2uzFhSdJRcDyOEPYnlphN.html
19-11-2020||Kolkata||Five dead, four injured in an explosion inside a factory in West Bengal||Five persons were killed and four others injured in an explosion that took place in a recycling factory at Malda in north Bengal on Thursday morning. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has directed Firhad Hakim, the state urban development minister, to rush to the spot in a helicopter. He will reach in the evening. “Efforts are being made so that family members of the dead receive a compensation of Rs2 lakh at the earliest. The injured will get a compensation of Rs50,000. The situation is being monitored from the state secretariat at Nabanna,” Alapan Bandyopadhyay, the chief secretary of West Bengal, told reporters at the state secretariat in Howrah. Police are yet to identify the persons who were killed, as the bodies are charred. The injured were shifted to the state-run medical college and hospital. Also Read: Girl’s body dumped in a sack on Kolkata street, questions abound“While four persons died on the spot; one succumbed later in the hospital. The preliminary investigation revealed that the explosion took place because of some fault in the machines. A forensic team is on its way,” said Alok Rajoria, the superintendent of police of Malda. Locals said that the blast took place around 11am when nearly 20 workers were working inside the factory, which recycled plastic, iron and brass. “The explosion was so powerful that people staying at least two kilometres away could also hear the noise. Not only did the walls of the factory collapse and its roof blow off, but a few houses in its vicinity were also damaged,” said Sohurul Biswas, a local resident. “The factory is owned by one Amlu Sheikh. One Ketabuddin Sheikh used to look after the daily activities in the factory,” said a local resident who refused to be identified. Police said that they are now searching for the factory owner. A section of the locals, however, alleged that crude bombs may have been stored in the factory and the premises had become a meeting place for miscreants over the years. Police said an investigation was going on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/five-dead-four-injured-in-an-explosion-inside-a-factory-in-west-bengal/story-BVUxY4GA4ve9S8HYNGkLoM.html
19-11-2020||Jaipur||Senior Rajasthan police officer transferred for lathicharge on Congressmen||Superintendent of police (SP) Kota city, Gaurav Yadav, has to pay the price for ordering a lathi charge on Congressmen before the mayoral polls in Kota with a transfer from the city.Rajasthan government has appointed IPS officer Dr Vikas Pathak as the new SP of Kota city.More than half a dozen Congressmen were injured and hospitalised in a baton charge by Kota city police on November 10 at Command area development (CAD) circle when Congressmen tried to stop a bus carrying BJP corporators and independent corporator Lekhraj Yogi, who Congressmen were claiming had been abducted by the saffron party.Urban development and housing minister Shanti Dhariwal was in Kota during the mayoral polls and he had also objected to the police lathicharge on the Congressmen.Later the Rajasthan government asked home secretary NL Meena to probe the police lathicharge. He arrived in Kota and took statements of policemen and the affected Congressmen.Also Read: Rajasthan police uncover murder dressed as highway robbery; husband plotted itAfter submission of Meena’s report, Rajasthan government has transferred Gaurav Yadav to the criminal investigation department-crime branch (CID-CB) Jaipur.While the ruling party has hailed the shunting, opposition has described it as an attempt to pressurise bureaucrats into kowtowing to the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/senior-rajasthan-police-officer-transferred-for-lathicharge-on-congressmen/story-c7HWYfzsk0epzq0RLC26CJ.html
19-11-2020||Delhi||No big fat Delhi wedding: Wedding industry wary of 50 guest cap, again||With the wedding season round the corner, the wedding industry was hoping to recoup losses incurred during the year due to the pandemic. But now with the acceptance of Delhi government’s proposal to cap the number of wedding guests at 50, those associated with this industry say it has once again cast a shadow on their survival. “We were getting requests for wedding planning every day. So many people who had postponed their wedding due to the lockdown are planning their nuptials in the coming weeks. What will happen to their plans now? Will they uninvite people now?,” says Tushar Malik, a Delhi-based wedding planner. He adds that this is the wrong time for this decision since there is just a week left for the wedding season to kick start in the Capital. “The season for weddings this year falls between November 24 and December 12. From an average of 300-400 guests, people have reduced the gatherings to 150-200. We have made plans as per the previous guidelines, and are taking all precautions. But now the new order leaves little room for improvisation,” says Malik, sharing how he has been advising people to opt for destination weddings since the Covid-19 situation in Delhi is pretty grim. Even banquet owners are in dismay, due to the return of 50 guest rule for weddings. Community Welfare Banquet Association in Delhi had met with authorities, asking for concessions. “From florists to vegetable sellers, cleaners, cooks — there are so many people associated with us. This decision adversely impacts everyone,” says Sandeep Madan, who owns a banquet hall in north Delhi, adding, “This is the peak wedding season, lasting barely two weeks. We make a bulk of our earnings in this period. There are over 10 lakh families associated with our business, many of whom we had called back from their home towns when the business picked up after restrictions were relaxed. The return of this cap might mean the death of our business!” Those who capture intimate wedding moments, that is the photographers, are also at the threshold of losing a major chunk of their earnings. “Booking for any wedding is made in advance, and according to the scale of the wedding we make investment in equipments and employ staff. All of this goes waste when we face last minute cancellations! Not everyone wants to have a small scale wedding; many might thus postpone their plans, and it will certainly mean that our business will be hit,” says Akanksha Verma, a Delhi-based wedding photographer. Although most associated with the wedding business are anxious, some admit that the curb is necessary to control the rising number of cases in the Capital. Varinder, a tent house owner in Ashok Vihar says, “Even after restrictions were lifted, we did not get much work since people are choosing banquet halls over tents now. We will continue to suffer, but it’s important to deal with the virus first. What if we send our employees to a wedding and they contract coronavirus? Pehle se hi markets kholne ki wajah se cases badh gaye hain. Kya fayda hoga paise kamane ka agar zinda hi na rahe? So it’s better that marriage gatherings are restricted in the city for now.”Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/no-big-fat-delhi-wedding-wedding-industry-vary-of-50-guest-cap-again/story-fpzFTba0F4oJHUepZocwFK.html
19-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi zoo’s 15-year-old tiger B-2 dies||B-2 (Bittu), a 15-year-old tiger at the Delhi zoo breathed his last on Thursday morning. The tiger was suffering from acute symptoms of chronic kidney disorder (CKD), Delhi zoo officials said in a statement. “The tiger had not been well for the past few months and breathed his last at 9.25am,” Delhi zoo director Ramesh Pandey said. He added that the tiger had been brought from Van Vihar Zoo, Bhopal in 2014 and had completed his average life span. “The best possible treatment was being given to the animal in consultation with experts from Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI), Izzatnagar, Bareilly. The animal was under intensive care for over 20 days. The autopsy of the animal will be conducted by a panel of veterinary doctors and viscera will be sent to lVRI for histo-pathological and other examinations to ascertaining the cause of death,” the director said.Also Read: Elephants to birds: Delhi zoo provides special care, food for 200 old animalsMeanwhile, the Delhi zoo also got a Royal Bengal tigress, the first in six years, from the Kanpur zoo for conservation breeding under an animal exchange programme, said officials. “The tigress, Barkha, is six years old. She will be paired with tiger Karan, who is also around six years old,” said a senior official, who did not wish to be named. The zoo now has only one male Royal Bengal tiger (Karan). The Delhi zoo had three Royal Bengal tigers till a year ago. One of the three tigers, eight-year-old Rama, died at the zoo in September last year due to kidney failure. He had been brought from the Mysore zoo in 2014.There are around 88 species of animals in the Delhi zoo at present and efforts are being made to increase the number up to 100, said officials.The conservation breeding programme involves conserving a species by preventing imminent population collapse in the wild due to a large number of eliminative pressures such as habitat loss, habitat fragmentation, industrialisation, poaching, illegal trade and climate change among other factors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-zoo-s-15-year-old-tiger-b-2-dies/story-1LSdimhs0zHMP8NIkod2NO.html
19-11-2020||Kolkata||Girl’s body dumped in a sack on Kolkata street, questions abound||A 20-year-old woman’s body was found dumped in a polythene sack on a road in Kolkata’s Ekbalpore area in the early hours of Thursday. Police said that it was around 2:30am that locals spotted a white-coloured polythene sack dumped on the road. A woman’s leg was jutting out of the sack. The victim was later identified as Saba Khatoon. “There was a non-continuous ligature mark around her neck which suggests death by strangulation. There were some abrasion marks on her elbow,” said a senior police officer. The body was sent for autopsy and the police are scanning the footage of CCTv installed in the area from where the body was recovered. Preliminary investigation revealed that the woman used to live with her friend. Her mother had long died and her father used to live separately. Earlier, she used to live with her grandmother but later started living with a friend. Also Read: West Bengal: Man kills parents, attempts suicide; rescued from Howrah apartmentPolice said that according to a family member, Khatoon was addicted to some drugs. On Wednesday, she received a call on her mobile phone around 7:30 pm and went out of the friend’s house with whom she was staying over the past few months. Thereafter, her phone was found to be switched off. “Further investigation by homicide wing officials of the detective department is on. The woman’s friends and family members were being questioned,” said a senior officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/girl-s-body-dumped-in-a-sack-on-kolkata-street-questions-abound/story-aedKxrIk5Fb8n340I16LVO.html
19-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC asks Centre to respond to plea seeking legal recognition of same-sex marriages||The Delhi high court on Thursday sought the Centre’s response to a plea seeking legal recognition of same-sex marriages. The plea has contended that the Hindu Marriage Act does not distinguish between heterosexual and homosexual marriages if one were to go by how it is worded. It added the Act very clearly states that marriage can be solemnised between “any two Hindus”.The court has tagged the matter with two similar pleas and posted them for hearing in January.Four members of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and intersex community filed the plea in September saying there is nothing in the Act that mandated that a marriage can take place only between a Hindu man and a Hindu woman.The petition referred to the 2018 Supreme Court order that read down Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code, which criminalised homosexuality.“The non-recognition of the rights of gay couples, especially when their sexuality has been recognised as such as valid by the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India is violative of various provisions of the Constitution of India as well as various conventions that India as a sovereign state is a signatory to,” the plea said.Also Read: EU launches LGBT protection strategy as homophobia rises in eastThe petition said it will be against the Constitutional mandate of non-arbitrariness if the right is not extended to homosexual apart from heterosexual couples.“…the denial of this right to homosexual couples is also against the mandate of various international conventions that India is a signatory to. Finally, the eponymous Golden Rule of Interpretation also states that plain 7 meaning has to be imparted to words in a statute, unless such interpretation were to lead to an absurdity,” the plea said.This is the second petition to be filed on the issue of same-sex marriage rights. In January, a couple filed a petition in the Kerala high court challenging the Special Marriage Act.In October, the Delhi high court sought responses from the Centre and the Delhi government to pleas by two same-sex couples seeking legal recognition of their marriages under the Special Marriage Act and the Foreign Marriage Act. It observed that “laws are gender-neutral” and are for the rights of “every citizen”.Two mental health professionals filed the first petition saying they had been living together as a couple for eight years, took care of each other’s parents, are in love but unable to get married.“The petitioners are like any other couple you might meet, except they are both women,” their petition said.Two men, who got married in 2017 in the US where same-sex marriages are legal, filed the second petition. An Indian consulate refused to register their marriage this year under the Foreign Marriage Act.The two had been in a relationship since 2012 and are supported by families and friends. They said during the Covid-19 pandemic, India’s non-recognition of their marriage prevented them from travelling to India as a married couple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-hc-asks-centre-to-respond-to-plea-seeking-legal-recognition-of-same-sex-marriages/story-tzCktdDL717Awgb42BGB4J.html
19-11-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Why did you wait for court order to start taking action, Delhi HC asks govt||The Delhi High Court on Thursday pulled up the Delhi government for its delayed action in controlling the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the national capital while seeking to know why it was waiting for the court’s order to reduce the number of attendees at the weddings.A bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad said that the Delhi government cannot blame the Centre for non-cooperation and that both the authorities should put their heads together to tackle the situation. It said that the situation has worsened in the last 18 days and it was only after the court pulled the Delhi government up that it set things in motion.“Why did not you wake early? The alarm bells should have rung loud in your head. Why did you wait for a court’s direction to reduce the number of people? The city is reeling and you allowed the transport in full capacity. Tell us the rational object behind this decision. Why didn’t you wake up even after the situation worsened since November 1?“You were shaken out of slumber, you turned turtle after we asked questions. Do you know about the number of lives that has been lost in the last 18 days? Yesterday there were 134 deaths in a single day and the government is claiming that you were alive to the situation. The ground is full of dead bodies. Why were you have to look at the Centre and the Lieutenant Governor (L-G) for directions,” the bench said.Also Read: Delhi: Wedding curbs back as coronavirus cases hit 500,000The court was hearing a plea by advocate Rakesh Malhotra seeking directions to the Delhi government to ramp up the number of tests in the city.On Thursday, senior advocate Sandeep Sethi, appearing for the Delhi government, told the court that they have reduced the number of wedding attendees. He said that people are being fined for not wearing masks and not maintaining social distancing norms.However, the court said that even fining people is not acting as a deterrent and people who have not stepped outside of their houses due to the fear of the infection have also contracted the virus.The court said that there should be a strong deterrent and fine collection is not for revenue.“It should be a strong deterrent so that the people abide by the rules of wearing a mask,” the bench said.The court said that it is disheartening to note that the number of deaths have been increasing on a daily basis with the highest number of deaths shooting up to 134. Justice Kohli asked the Delhi government to indicate the steps they are taking to ensure that there are adequate facilities for victims of Covid-19 at the burning ghats and crematoriums.“What steps are you taking to manage the crematorium grounds? They are overflowing and funeral pyres are working throughout the night….Considering the steep rise in the death rates in the last 14 days, the Delhi government is directed to indicate the steps it has taken for adequate arrangements for those who have lost their lives to Covid-19,” the court said in its oral order.The court also said that the Delhi government should be cognizant of the fact that rapid antigen tests are no longer helping because of the large number of asymptomatic persons, while adding that more RT-PCR tests should be conducted for better results. The judge also noted that only about 50% RT-PCR tests have been conducted as against over two lakh rapid antigen tests between November 9 and November 17. The court said that testing via RT-PCR should be increased.During the proceedings, the court noted in its order that the Delhi government is not conducting the fifth sero-survelliance stating that the third wave of Covid-19 is still in progress, even though the government told the press that the third wave has already peaked in the city.“The Delhi government has informed us that the fifth sero survey has not taken place because the city is reeling under the third wave. However, statements have made to the press where the government has stated that the third wave has already peaked even though it has not been reflected in the ground situation,” the court said.When additional standing counsel of the Delhi government Satyakam objected and urged the court not to take not of anything that has been published in the press, the court said, “Why would not we take this? We can take judicial note of the statements made by your ministers in the court. If you retract from whatever you have said in the media, I would remove it.”The court also asked the Delhi government to properly publicise its order of September 12 order reserving 80 ICU beds in 33 private hospitals in the city both in print and electronic media.During the hearing, ASC Satyakam told the court that the government would be adding 663 ICU beds (both ventilator and non-ventilator) to the existing number of 1,167 ICU beds in government hospitals. He also told the court that about 750 ICU beds are being added after assistance from the Centre, and a decision to shut down a few busy markets is yet to be taken pending confirmation from the Union government.The court directed that the ICU beds in the government hospitals should be made functional within the next week.During the proceedings, the court also remarked that the Delhi government had anticipated the situation and still chose to open all the activities.“You had very well anticipated the situation because you had passed the September 12 order (reserving 80% ICU beds in the city). The cold wave along with the pollution during the winter months is a cocktail of death for the citizens, especially those who have breathing issues,” the court said.The matter will be now heard on November 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-why-did-you-wait-for-court-order-to-start-taking-action-delhi-hc-asks-govt/story-dPivbX9u2dPBvIuFCzgMJL.html
19-11-2020||Gurugram||Snatchers in Gurugram had shot woman driving back home at night, case solved: Police||Gurugram Police on Thursday morning said it has solved the murder case of a young woman (26), who was shot in the head by three men, when the victim was driving back home with her fiancé near Golf Course Extension Road at night on November 3. Police arrested the three suspects from Bhondsi village in Gurugram on Wednesday night. The trio, who are hardened criminals, had allegedly fired at the victim in a bid to intimidate her after she had tried to beat a hasty retreat.Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Gurugram Police, said the suspects were involved in over 1,000 snatching cases and at least three murders in the millennium city.“The suspects revealed during questioning that they had intercepted a car to rob the occupants, but the woman at the wheel tried to speed away following which they shot at her to threaten the duo. Unfortunately, the bullet hit the woman and she collapsed,” he said.Also Read: Woman gets extortion call seeking Rs 10 lakh for lost phone with sensitive dataPooja Sharma, the victim, was driving towards Sector 40 with her fiancé, Sagar Manchanda, when the accused on a motorcycle allegedly asked them to stop and step out of their vehicle. Manchanda had told the police that the attackers fled soon after the shooting incident following which he drove Sharma to a private hospital, where she passed away a day later. Sharma had sustained a bullet injury in her head, which could not be removed, despite a surgical procedure, the police said.She worked for an information technology (IT) company’s medical claims and insurance department. Manchanda, a software engineer, was his colleague. The accused belong to Nuh, Mahendergarh in Haryana and Madhya Pradesh (MP) and shared a rented accommodation in the village. They used to rob the public in Gurugram after dark.Sangwan said the accused largely targeted people at isolated stretches and conducted reconnaissance of the area before targeting their victims. “The trio used a motorbike with a fake number plate and they own a car as well. They had visited the spot in their car soon after the shooting incident. They were under the impression that Sharma had survived. The following day, they gave their evening exploits a miss and vigorously scanned TV news channels for any information on the incident. They also bought an English daily newspaper for three consecutive days to get updates on the case,” he said.KK Rao, commissioner, Gurugram Police, said that it was a blind case, as the closed-circuit TV (CCTV) footage recovered from the spot was of little help. “Our teams had questioned nearly 500 people in a bid to crack the case. Policemen were deployed in civvies at several spots to get leads on the gang. The arrest has led to the cracking of over 1,000 cases of snatching and at least three murder cases in Gurugram,” Rao said.Police said the gang was also involved in snatching the mobile phone of a woman (45) from a mall in Sector 51 and was later trying to extort Rs 10 lakh from her. They had threatened to make her pictures, videos and other content stored in her smartphone public, if she did not cough up Rs 10 lakh.The woman had lodged a complaint at Sector 50 police station on October 2, but the police had failed to trace the suspects.The accused had even shot dead one of their friends on Diwali night at Shivaji Nagar in Gurugram, the police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/snatchers-in-gurugram-had-shot-woman-driving-back-home-at-night-case-solved-police/story-GwTCtksQNUisKXpwf8ShdO.html
19-11-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan police uncover murder dressed as highway robbery; husband plotted it||Kota Rural Police have nabbed a man along with his friend and two contract killers for murder of the man’s wife in Ayana region of Rajasthan’s Kota district five days ago.Busting the murder mystery, SP Kota Rural, Sharad Chaudhary, said Gopal Gautam (34) was found injured while his wife Neelima Gautam (32) was found murdered near Parvati river along the border of Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh in Ayana region of Kota in wee hours of November 13.The couple, police said, were returning to their home in Bamorikalan village of Mangrol region in Baran district on a bike.“Family of Gopal had informed police about the incident after which Gopal was admitted to Baran hospital while his wife Neelima was cremated after autopsy”, he said.Gopal and his family told police that some persons assaulted Gopal and Neelima, robbed them when they were returning to their home.However, police probe including analysis of CCTV footage and other evidence led to doubts over Gopal’s version. Police later arrested Gopal and his friend Munna Ali (25) and two contract killers, named Asif (23) and Sohail (21), who all conspired and later stabbed Neelima to death in a deserted place in a forest near Parvati river.Also Read: Educational institutions to remain closed till November 30 in RajasthanChaudhary said Gopal and Neelima, married two years ago, used to have regular fights due to which Gopal conspired to get Neelima murdered and hired Asif and Sohail for Rs two lakh to carry out his wife’s killing.Gopal later pretended as if some highway robbers murdered his wife and left him injured after assaulting the couple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-police-uncover-murder-dressed-as-highway-robbery-husband-plotted-it/story-s3pARw0wgowVkz6X496gyM.html
19-11-2020||Mumbai||Bhima-Koregaon case: Varavara Rao shifted to Nanavati Hospital, condition stable||Poet-activist Varavara Rao (81), who has been booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), 1967, for his alleged involvement in the Elgar Parishad and Bhima Koregaon case, was shifted to the general ward of Nanavati Hospital on Wednesday night for the next 15 days from Taloja Jail in Navi Mumbai, as per the instructions of the Bombay high court (HC). “He is stable, but needs to undergo a series of diagnostic tests before we can comment on his health condition. He is undergoing treatment in the general ward and does not require any oxygen support,” said a doctor from the hospital, requesting anonymity.Also Read: Bhima Koregaon case: HC asks Maharashtra government to provide Varavara Rao’s medical report to his wifeIn July, Rao had undergone treatment at the state-run St George Hospital after he had tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19). His neurological complications had flared up during the course of the treatment for the viral infection. Neurologists from JJ Hospital had diagnosed him with delirium, a state of mind characterised by restlessness, illusions, and incoherence.Later, he was shifted to Nanavati Hospital, as he needed specialised neurological and urological treatment.Rao has been booked under the anti-terror law, UAPA, 1967, a non-bailable offence, by the special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court in the Elgar Parishad and Bhima Koregaon case, which was transferred from the Pune Police to NIA in February -- a few weeks before the Covid-19 pandemic broke out in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bhima-koregaon-case-varavara-rao-shifted-to-nanavati-hospital-condition-stable/story-MLfuLeMNR1yM39YqWvpRrO.html
19-11-2020||Dehradun||Chhath Puja banned in public places in Dehradun due to Covid-19 surge||Dehradun district administration on Wednesday decided not to allow devotees to perform Chhath Puja at public places near rivers or other water bodies in the district due to rising number of Covid-19 cases. People have been asked to celebrate the festival at their homes.An order issued by the Dehradun district administration on Wednesday states also warns against large gatherings even at homes. “All devotees should strictly wear masks, follow social and physical distancing while celebrating Chhath Puja. People should not gather in large numbers even while celebrating at home. No celebrations will take place in containment zones. Special care should be taken for children below 10-years of age and those above 65-years during celebrations.” Uttarakhand on Wednesday reported 420 fresh Covid-19 positive cases taking the state’s tally to 69,307. The state also reported death of nine Covid-19 positive patients, taking the tally of total deaths to 1128. Out of 69,307, who have tested positive so far, a total of 63,420 have recovered successfully, taking the recovery rate in the state to 91.51%. The positivity rate in the state now stands at 5.77%. On Wednesday, 425 Covid-19 positive people, who had recovered, were discharged from hospitals in different districts with the maximum of 149 from Dehradun district. Also Read: Work on to get UNESCO World Heritage Site tag for Adi Kailash in UttarakhandAccording to the health bulletin issued on Wednesday, a maximum of 153 Covid-19 cases were reported from Dehradun district. With one positive case, Uttarkashi district reported the least number of cases on Wednesday. Dehradun district has so far reported the maximum 19,369 Covid-19 positive cases followed by Haridwar (11,562), US Nagar (9,978) and Nainital (8,022). The state health department has so far tested 12.02 lakh people of which results of over 16,000 are pending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/chhath-puja-banned-in-public-places-in-dehradun-due-to-covid-19-surge/story-obeNnO5NvvPIYN5yKOH1oM.html
19-11-2020||Mumbai||Second Covid-19 wave in Mumbai likely around New Year’s Eve||The number of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai may have come down, but the second wave of infections is likely in the run-up to New Year’s Eve. Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials said a final decision on whether New Year celebrations will be allowed in hotels and restaurants will be taken next month following a review. They added in case of a surge in the cases in December, several restrictions may be imposed on the celebrations.Officials were anticipating a surge in the number of cases post Diwali and the BMC on Wednesday appealed to people to continue with precautions as it feared the second wave of infections.Also Read: Covid-19 negative report gives false hope, don’t go out yet: Experts“If there is a second wave or surge in the cases in December, we might limit the New Year celebrations accordingly. If the cases are stable, celebrations might be allowed with certain restrictions,” said a BMC official.Restaurants and bars have been allowed to operate at 50% capacity in Mumbai. There is also a limit of 50 people for gathering at events like marriages.The BMC had allowed the implementation of a 24x7 nightlife plan for Mumbai two months before the pandemic forced measures for social distancing in March. Malls and restaurants were planned to be allowed to stay open through the night as part of the plan in non-residential areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-second-wave-of-infections-likely-around-new-year-s-eve/story-S2L0sei4XTVCk7MbYgOMtN.html
19-11-2020||Kolkata||Howrah in West Bengal tops the list of most polluted cities in India||West Bengal’s Howrah topped the list of the most polluted cities in India on Wednesday. Its air quality was much worse than Delhi and other cities in the National Capital Region, which have seen an improvement in the situation over the last few days because of rain and wind.Bhiwadi in Rajasthan was the second-worst polluted city followed by Kolkata in terms of the Air Quality Index (AQI), a colour-coded tool used to monitor air quality in major Indian cities on a real-time basis.According to the daily AQI bulletin of the Central Pollution Control Board, the 24-hour average AQI value of Howrah at 4pm on Wednesday was 285, followed by Bhiwadi (267), Kolkata (266) and Delhi (211).Also Read: To make Yamuna pollution-free by 2023, DJB working out a concrete plan: CMOn the AQI scale, a value of 0-50 is considered good quality air; 51-100 satisfactory; 101-200 moderate; 201-300 poor; 301-400 very poor and 401-500 severe. On May 1, during the pan-India Covid-19 lockdown, both Kolkata and Howrah registered AQI values of less than 50.According to West Bengal Pollution Control Board (WBPCB) data, the level of PM10 (coarse pollutants that are seven times finer than the human hair) at Ghusuri in Howrah shot up to 852 micrograms per metre cube around 6 am and to 915 micrograms per metre cube around 10 am on Wednesday. The PM10 should not ideally go above 100 micrograms per metre cube.“Ghushuri is an industrial area, densely populated and registers heavy traffic movement. We have asked the police and local authorities to sprinkle water on the roads so that pollution levels could be kept under control,” said a WBPCB official.Most of the monitoring stations in Kolkata recorded PM10 two times above the safe limits.The level of PM2.5 (finer particles that can reach up to the lungs) also shot up three to four in some places during the night, primarily because of temperature inversion in winter that traps pollutants close to the surface.“Steps have also been initiated to keep pollution levels under control in hot spots of Kolkata. Fire tenders have been deployed at the dumping sites to douse flames which often break out because of methane gas. The leather units which burn scarps leading to severe pollution in east Kolkata have been closed down,” said the WBPCB official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/howrah-in-west-bengal-tops-the-list-of-most-polluted-cities-in-india/story-2ekPGATV6csRI7n0LttvhL.html
19-11-2020||Delhi||Businessman killed in Delhi, body thrown off train in Gujarat||A 46-year-old businessman was killed in north Delhi’s Adarsh Nagar, his body packed in a suitcase and loaded on a Rajdhani Express and then thrown off the running train somewhere in Gujarat by the fiance of a woman he was in an extramarital relationship with, the police said.The man’s head was first smashed with a brick, after which he was stabbed thrice and his neck slit, said Vijayanta Arya, deputy commissioner of police (north-west).“The businessman had objected to the woman getting married to someone else,” said the DCP. The victim, Neeraj Gupta, ran a finance firm in Karol Bagh and lived with his wife and children in Adarsh Nagar.On November 14, one of Gupta’s friends filed a missing complaint when he didn’t return home. That was followed up with Gupta’s wife filing a first information report (FIR) on Wednesday about his disappearance, said the DCP. “Gupta’s wife told us that for the last 10 years he had been in an extramarital relationship with his 29-year-old employee, Faisal,” said the DCP. Also Read: Delhi policewoman promoted for tracing 76 missing kids in last 3 monthsThe police began probing the disappearance from that angle and soon arrested Faisal, her fiance Juber, 28, and her 49-year-old mother, Shaheen Naaz. “It turned out that Faisal had recently got engaged to Juber. When Gupta got to know, he discouraged her from getting married and landed up at her rented home in Azadpur on the night of November 13,” said the DCP. There, an argument ensued in which Gupta allegedly pushed Faisal. “An enraged Juber first smashed his head with a brick. He then stabbed him thrice and slit his throat using a knife,” the DCP said. To dispose the body, they allegedly purchased a large suitcase, stuffed the body inside, hired an app-based cab and took it to Nizamuddin railway station. “Thereafter, Juber took over and loaded the suitcase on a Rajdhani train headed towards Goa. He works in the pantries of trains and that made his work easier,” said the DCP. While the train was passing through Bharuch in Gujarat, Juber allegedly threw the suitcase out. The police have recovered the knife and brick allegedly used in the murder. “We are making efforts to recover the body,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/businessman-killed-in-delhi-body-thrown-off-train-in-gujarat/story-qmd4qy9RfuNSqroo8VGhmK.html
19-11-2020||Mumbai||Mandatory Covid test for Maharashtra school teachers triggers rush, inconvenience||As the Maharashtra education department has made it mandatory for teachers to undergo an RT-PCR test for Covid-19 before schools reopen for classes 9 to 12 from November 23, some teachers have raised concerns about the process. On Wednesday, some teachers shared their difficulty in getting tests done from public hospitals in different parts of the state. “At the civic hospital, where a few of us went, we were first told that tests will happen only if a doctor prescribes or if patients have any symptoms. After we insisted on a test and showed the government rule mandating the test, we were finally allowed to take one. It was a terrible experience,” said the teacher of an aided school in suburban Mumbai. On Wednesday, the education department asked principals of schools to ensure that all the teachers are tested before school reopens. Principals said teachers were under immense pressure.“Priority should be given to the teachers who teach English, maths and science first, as classes for those subjects will begin first after reopening. After that, other teachers can be tested,” states the circular.Also Read: Mumbai’s Covid-19 cases continue to slide after the peaksAnil Bornare, president of the BJP teachers’ cell said more centres need to be made available for teachers testing without any hassle. “In some parts of the state, there are very few testing centres and relatively a high number of teachers and teaching staff that need to undergo the tests. We request the government to make additional centres available so that they can all be tested before schools reopen,” added Bornare. Also Read: HSC, SSC supplementary exams: Maharashtra board announces Covid-19 pandemic rules On November 7, state education minister Varsha Gaikwad announced that the government would start schools for classes 9 to 12 from November 23. The decision subsequently got a clearance from the state government and a revised set of SOPs for school reopening was thus released on November 10. As per the SOPs, parents would have to sign a written consent before students attend school. Similarly, students can study from their homes with the consent of their parents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mandatory-covid-test-for-maharashtra-school-teachers-triggers-rush-inconvenience/story-AJVCc8iWIbig2HCzFuaPuI.html
19-11-2020||Bhopal||14 tribal families ostracised for donating Rs 50 less for Durga Puja in MP||Fourteen tribal families were ostracized in Madhya Pradesh’s Balaghat district, 431 km north east of Bhopal, for donating Rs 50 less for installation of Durga Puja pandal in the village, said police. Home minister Nirottam Mishra ordered an inquiry and asked police to take tough action against villagers for boycotting these families. The matter came to light after a month when the residents of Mote village lodged a complaint with Balaghat additional superintendent of police Gautam Singh Solanki on Wednesday. A villager, Dhan Singh Parte, said, “The musclemen of the village were setting up a pandal for Durga puja in October. They asked all the villagers to donate Rs 201 for the puja pandal but a few families, who were already facing financial constraints, donated Rs 151. But the organisers didn’t accept the donation and announced a social boycott of 14 such families.” Another villager Saghan Singh said, “The villagers stopped us from grazing our cattle and working in the other people’s farms. They even banned us from availing medical facilities at the primary health centre of the village. They stopped inviting us for functions in the village.” Balaghat, additional superintendent of police (ASP), Gautam Singh Solanki said, “The representatives of 14 families had come to lodge a complaint on Wednesday alleging that some villagers boycotted them for not paying donation for Durga puja pandal as demanded by them.” Also Read: Madhya Pradesh to get ‘gau cabinet’, announces CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan“They said they lodged a complaint at the nearest Lamta police station a few days ago. The police station in-charge warned the villagers but they didn’t listen to him and started harassing the complainants,” said Solanki. Mishra said, “Sub-divisional officer of police (SDPO) Paraswada has been asked to inquire into the matter and punish the villagers, who called for boycott of the 14 families.” Congress spokesperson JP Dhanopia said, “The law and order situation has collapsed in MP. Scheduled caste and scheduled tribe and women are being harassed in MP but BJP-led state government ministers are busy in making hollow announcements. A team of Congress leaders will go to the village and stage a protest, if police don’t take any action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/14-tribal-families-ostracised-for-donating-rs-50-less-for-durga-puja-in-mp/story-OOWrQuuo5sNXTkOmYybO2O.html
19-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi policewoman promoted for tracing 76 missing kids in last 3 months||Delhi Police head constable Seema Dhaka, 33, did not take a single day off for almost three months she worked to trace and reunite 76 missing children with their families. She would go home for two-three hours on most days and even if she got a clue about a child in the middle of the night, Dhaka would leave to follow it up at that hour.Dhaka, who is now an assistant sub-inspector, was on Wednesday awarded for her feat with an out-of-turn promotion under a new initiative that promises quick promotions for constables and head constables for tracing missing children. Also Read: Businessman killed in Delhi, body thrown off train in GujaratDhaka said some of the children have developed a special bond with her and a few of them wept when she handed them over to their families. “There were these two children whom I traced. While accompanying them to their homes in West Bengal, they developed a special bond with me during the train journey. They were crying when it was time for me to leave them with their parents,” said Dhaka.Watch: Delhi woman head constable awarded ASI rank for tracing 76 missing kids Being a mother, it was easier for her to bond with the children. “I have an eight-year-old son. I could feel what the children felt on being separated from their parents, what the parents felt on losing their children. That motivated me to work harder,” said Dhaka.She said a child she helped reunite with his family in Bengal after travelling on two separate boats in flood-hit areas in October did not want to go back to his stepfather.“The boy said that his stepfather was abusive. I had to ensure that the mother knew of it and that she would take care of the boy after I was gone. I ensured that the boy and the parents were counselled,” said Dhaka.Dhaka said that a lot of the children she helped reunite with their parents had been separated for long. She added some of them had quarrelled with their parents before running away from their homes.“Every tracing; every reunion posed its own challenges. It was often so difficult to make children help with the details of their parents and homes. But my senior officers lent all possible support. Police in different states also helped my work.”Dhaka even tested positive for Covid-19 and had to be isolated for three weeks in July. She returned to work as soon as she recovered. “The happiness on the faces of the parents of children upon their reunion motivated me.”Delhi police spokesperson Eish Singhal said Dhaka traced the 76 missing children to states like Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, and West Bengal.“Dhaka traced these children since August 7 this year when police commissioner SN Shrivastava announced incentives for those tracing a large number of children,” said Singhal. She said 56 of the children Dhaka traced are aged under 14.The Delhi police have traced 1,440 missing children since August 7 even as 1,222 were reported disappeared during this time.According to the incentives announced, constables and head constables, who trace 50 or more missing children in 12 months, are eligible for the out-of-turn promotions.In 2019, of 5,412 children reported missing, 61.64% of them were traced. This year, so far, the number of missing children is 3,507 while the recovery rate is 74.96%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-policewoman-promoted-for-tracing-76-missing-kids-in-last-3-months/story-kHBp092luFX6m84AduJYHI.html
19-11-2020||Delhi||After a short breather, pollution levels rise in Delhi||The national capital’s air quality remained in the “poor” category on Thursday morning, the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) data showed. Delhi’s Air Quality Index (AQI) reading at 7am stood at 267. Thursday’s AQI reading was higher, as compared to Wednesday, when the 24-hour average stood at 211 based on the data collected from 37 monitoring stations across the city. An AQI reading between 0 and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.Delhi’s AQI has fluctuated between poor and severe and moderate from November 13 to 17. On November 15, the AQI reading was 435, which fell in the “severe” category and improved to poor (221) the following day and further improved to moderate (171) on November 17. Also Read: Covid-19: CM Kejriwal calls all-party meeting as Delhi records highest deaths in single dayRain, good wind speed and low farm fire counts in neighbouring Haryana, Punjab and parts of western Uttar Pradesh (UP) after Diwali, which was celebrated on November 14, led to a significant improvement of the AQI. An analysis of the AQI data showed that Delhi experienced a moderate air quality day between November 13 and 17 for the first time since 2017. The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), an initiative of the Union Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES), said the farm fire count rose to 427 on Wednesday, as compared to 98 on the previous day.The farm fires contributed to a spike in Delhi’s PM 2.5 levels -- ultrafine particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres – and had peaked to around 40% in October, which came down appreciably after Diwali.“The stubble burning share in PM 2.5 levels in Delhi’s air is estimated at 8%. AQI may further worsen to the higher end of ‘poor’ to the lower end of the ‘very poor’ category on November 21 (Saturday), as the conductive meteorological environment created after rainfall is gradually retreating,” the SAFAR bulletin stated.V K Soni, the head of the environment monitoring research centre of India Meteorological Department (IMD), said wind speed is likely to remain high over the next two days and no significant deterioration is expected.“The average wind speed is likely to remain between 12 and 15 kilometres per hour (kmph), which will allow continuous dispersion of pollutants. Wind speed is likely to reduce Saturday, when the AQI may plunge to the lower end of the ‘very poor’ zone,” Soni said.The temperatures are also likely to dip in the national capital this week and are expected to be in single digits between Saturday and Monday (November 21-23).According to the IMD forecast, Delhi is likely to have a foggy Thursday morning, which may clear during the course of the day. The minimum and maximum temperatures are likely to be 10 and 26 degrees Celsius (C), respectively. On Wednesday, Delhi’s minimum temperature, recorded at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official reading for the city, was 10.6 degrees C --- two notches below the season’s average. While the maximum temperature was 25.4 degrees C-- two notches below normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/after-a-short-breather-pollution-levels-rise-in-delhi/story-sNgefjtvB5fPUSOnHW3TZJ.html
19-11-2020||Dehradun||Work on to get UNESCO World Heritage Site tag for Adi Kailash in Uttarakhand||National Parks, Dehradun based Wildlife Institute is now working on a report to be sent to the Central government for getting a UNESCO World Heritage Site tag for Adi Kailash or Chota Kailash in Pithoragarh district. Nanda Devi and Valley of Flowers National Parks from Uttarakhand have already been added to the list of world heritage sites by UNESCO in 1988 and 2005 respectively. Dhananjay Mohan, director of Wildlife Institute of India (WII), said that the institute is preparing a report about the importance of the Adi Kailash area which will soon be sent to the Centre. “We conducted a preliminary survey of Adi Kailash and nearby areas in the month of October, to learn more about the place. Adi Kailash is an important site both from the point of view of wildlife and cultural aspects. We are now working to prepare a report which will be sent to the Centre for writing to the appropriate authorities for getting a UNESCO World Heritage Site tag for it,” said Mohan. Also Read: UNESCO declares Panna Tiger Reserve a biosphere reserve At a distance of approximately 120 km from Dharchula sub-division of Pithoragarh district, Adi Kailash is situated at a height of around 6000 metres. It is an ancient holy site for Hindus in the Himalayas, similar to Mount Kailash in Tibet. To reach Adi Kailash, one has to trek from Gunji village to Kuti village, near the border along Tibet in Pithoragarh district. The trek usually takes over 10 days to cover a distance of over 75 km. Adi Kailash is also known as Om Parvat as it has an impression of the Om sign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/work-on-to-get-unesco-world-heritage-site-tag-for-adi-kailash-in-uttarakhand/story-U1s7p3Vlsx2ubf8MMidBSI.html
19-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Wedding curbs back as coronavirus cases hit 500,000||Only 50 people will be allowed at weddings in Delhi, down from a cap of 200, according to an order by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) that has accepted the first of two suggestions by the Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s government to reinstate some curbs in a bid to control the spread of the coronavirus disease.Delhi has been in the grip of a third, and the deadliest yet, wave of Covid-19 infections, with latest data showing 131 more people died due to the disease -- the most number of fatalities in a 24-hour period. According to the Delhi government’s health bulletin, there were 7,486 new infections, taking the total number of cases to above 500,000. The caseload has already stretched thin Delhi’s hospitals, with ICU and ventilator bed availability running at the risk of being overwhelmed.The tighter limit on weddings follows a request sent by Kejriwal on Tuesday to Union government authorities, from whom he has also sought the permission to lock down market places if they seem to be turning into infection hot spots. The request has been sent to the Union home ministry via Delhi’s lieutenant governor (LG) Anil Baijal. Officials aware of the process said they are yet to hear back from the central authorities. Also Read| Coronavirus in Delhi: Feluda test kit set to hit the market today“In closed spaces, the maximum of 50% of the hall capacity will be allowed, with a ceiling of 50 persons… In open spaces, keeping the size of the ground/space in view, subject to a ceiling of 50 persons,” said the order, a copy of which HT has seen.Kejriwal said the move should not be seen as a lockdown as such.“For the next few days, we will observe the situation on the ground, especially violation of Covid-19 regulations and assess if any particular market can turn into a hot spot. It is not that we are shutting down markets. Saving economy is equally important for us as fighting against Covid-19. We will try all means. We will not close any market unless it is extremely necessary,” he said.The situation has been described as alarming by officials and experts. “The situation is as bad as it was a week ago; almost every hour I get a call to arrange a bed. Even though more beds have been added, there is still a shortage, and I do not see any signs of the situation improving any time soon. Probably 10-12 days later we may see a decrease in numbers but not right now,” said Dr Rajesh Chawla, senior consultant, respiratory and critical care medicine, Indraprastha Apollo Hospital.The CM has called an all-party meeting on Thursday to discuss the situation.It was on October 31 when Delhi, in line with recommendations from the Union government, raised the ceiling on wedding guests to 200. A little over a week later, the city added 8,593 cases – the highest it has recorded so far. As new cases poured in, the Capital’s vacant hospital beds – particularly intensive care units (ICUs) and ventilator beds – dwindled. On November 15, the Union home minister Amit Shah held a meeting with top officials of both administrations and decided to augment the infrastructure and double the rate of testing.Also Read: Covid-19 pandemic fears kill the rush on trains, buses, many prefer to drive home for ChhathAccording to officials aware of the preparations, orders are likely to be issued to lay down a road map of how tests will be increased from the current 60,000 odd to about 100,000-120,000. A core challenge would be to increase the proportion of RT-PCR tests that require labs.“Currently, the city does about 57,000 tests a day, of which nearly 20,000 are done using RT-PCR method. Delhi has a capacity of 27,000 tests. This existing capacity will be utilised,” Niti Aayog member (health) VK Paul said on Tuesday. “Also, laboratories under the ICMR and the health ministry will be used to add 10,000 tests. Another 1,000 will be added by scientific institutions in the city,” Paul added. On Wednesday, the Delhi government issued fresh orders to hospitals under its control to increase the number of ICU beds. Kejriwal said this will add around 663 beds in these institutions and, along with the 750 committed by the Union government, it will increase the number of such beds in the Capital by around 1,400.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“This will be accomplished by day after tomorrow. [Delhi] Health minister has met authorities in other hospitals. We will increase 663 ICU beds in the coming days in hospitals of Delhi government including the GTB Nagar hospital. Centre has assured us 750 additional beds in DRDO facility I am thankful to them. So around 1,400 beds will be ready,” he said while visiting the GTB Hospital.He reiterated his assurance that while there is a spike in cases, there are enough hospital beds available. But, he added, “there is a shortage of ICU beds and we are looking into it”.According to figures tracked by the government and updated daily, of the 3,600-odd ICU and ventilator beds, less than 450 remain available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-wedding-curbs-back-as-coronavirus-cases-hit-500-000/story-bdhAnXAbfS4Qq57rEr3ogK.html
19-11-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: CM Kejriwal calls all-party meeting as Delhi records highest deaths in single day||As the national capital grapples with a spurt in Covid-19 cases, the Delhi government is working to add 660 ICU beds in its hospitals in the next few days and the Railways will be providing coaches with 800 beds, while an all-party meeting has been called by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday to discuss the situation. Delhi recorded 7,486 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the infection tally in the city to over five lakh, while 131 new fatalities, the highest single-day death count till date, pushed the toll to 7,943, authorities said. With medical facilities under strain, as many as 45 doctors and 160 paramedics of the paramilitary forces have also arrived in the capital to serve the people.Also Read | Coronavirus in Delhi: Feluda test kit set to hit the market today A day after Kejriwal spoke of reimposing certain restrictions, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority on Wednesday reverted to the earlier cap of 50 guests at marriage functions instead of 200 allowed through its October 31 order. The national capital has been witnessing a spurt in coronavirus cases since October 28 when daily cases breached the 5,000-mark for the first time. The single-day rise in cases crossed the 8,000-mark on November 11. The city had recorded 104 deaths in a day on November 12, the highest in five months. On Thursday, Kejriwal will hold the all-party meeting to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the city, even as Opposition parties said that they would raise issues like “inadequate” testing and press for proper enforcement of precautionary measures. An AAP leader said discussions would be held on the rising cases of Covid-19 cases, and the chief minister would seek cooperation from all party leaders, MPs and MLAs in spreading awareness and advocating Covid-appropriate behaviour in their constituencies. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said he will attend the meeting, but added the move has come late. “I will suggest the AAP government strictly enforce Covid-19 safety measures like using face masks and social distancing in the markets instead of talking about lockdown. I will also ask the chief minister to improve facilities like ICU beds at its hospitals in Delhi so that more patients can be treated there,” Gupta said. DPCC chief Anil Chaudhary will also attend the all-party meeting on Thursday. “We have been raising the issue of inadequate testing. Besides this, we will also raise the issue of ban on Chhath Puja at public places in the meeting,” Chaudhary said. Meanwhile, the chief minister visited GTB Hospital and said that over 660 ICU beds will be added in various Delhi government hospitals in the next few days in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases in the city. He said, “We had a meeting with doctors at GTB Hospital and they have agreed to add 238 ICU beds in the next two days.” “In all, 663 ICU beds shall be added in various Delhi hospitals in the next few days,” he said. Also, the Union Home Ministry on Tuesday said that 45 doctors and 160 paramedics of the paramilitary forces have arrived in Delhi while the Railways is making available coaches with 800 beds at a station here to be used as health and isolation centres. The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) is going to add 250 ICU beds to the existing 250 in addition to creating 35 BIPAP beds in the next 3-4 days at its Covid-19 hospital near the Delhi airport, a home ministry spokesperson said. These developments come in the wake of 12 decisions taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday following concern over the spurt in Covid-19 cases. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, however, said that the Delhi government has no plan to impose a lockdown. It may press for certain restrictions in market areas for some days to prevent the spread of Covid-19, if such a need arises, he said. Lockdown was not a solution to the pandemic. It could be tackled through proper medical arrangements which the government was doing effectively, he said while interacting with reporters at the Delhi Secretariat. While capping the number of 50 guests at wedding functions, Chief Secretary Vijay Dev, in an order, said that the decision was taken in view of the sudden surge in the number of Covid-19 cases in the city, which has further been aggravated due to rising pollution levels owing to various factors. “In closed spaces, a maximum of 50 percent of the hall capacity will be allowed, with a ceiling of 50 persons. Wearing of face masks, maintaining social distancing, provision for thermal scanning and use of hand wash or sanitizer will continue to be mandatory,” Dev said. He also said, “In open spaces, keeping the size of the ground/space in view, subject to a ceiling of 50 persons and with strict observance of social distancing, mandatory wearing of face masks....” On Tuesday, Delhi recorded 6,396 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the infection tally to over 4.95 lakh, while 99 more fatalities pushed the death toll to 7,812. PTI VIT KND ACB BUN RT||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-cm-kejriwal-calls-all-party-meeting-as-delhi-highest-deaths-in-single-day/story-GpnBrWS90AXxTGVaKqVWCN.html
19-11-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Dancing in the park||A romantic pair is holding hands, etc. An overly-dressed couple is posing for pre-wedding photography. A noisy family is busy over chips packets. Two guys are playing badminton. A jhaal muri seller is watching a Haryanvi music video on his mobile. A woman in a track suit is walking purposefully in circles. A bunch of sweating male athletes are playfully tossing cuss words at each other. So far, so Lodhi Garden. It is early evening in the central Delhi public park.Suddenly something unusual surfaces, not part of the park’s regular sights. This is a group of young women, wearing the same kind of saris, same kind of bangles, but not the same kind of face masks. Each of them has her eyes heavily lined with kohl. They are walking along the narrow track running between the Bara Gumbad and Sheesh Gumbad monuments. Every eye turns to look at them. But the women keep walking. The women are heading to the lawn that faces the western wall of Bara Gumbad. They take off their sandals. All feet are decked with what appears to be henna.Members of a Mehrauli-based troupe, the women are Bharatanatyam dancers. They came to Lodhi Garden to make a dance video for their group’s Instagram handle, @team__maugdha__. Everyone in the group, including the cameraman—Vishnu Sathish, an aspiring videographer—is a native of Kerala. Mr Sathish’s principal equipment is his mobile. “Lodhi Garden is just the right place for our sequence... it is full of greens, and flowers, and there’s a lake with ducks.” By now it is getting dark. The women remove their masks and help each other apply a fresh layer of lipstick. Minutes later they put back the masks and start to rehearse their dance steps for the day’s last shoot. But before that, on request, they pose against the backdrop of centuries-old Sheesh Gumbad, making dance mudras inspired from the life of Lord Krishna. It is a beautiful moment, and also very poignant because of the masked faces reminding one of the horrors of the ongoing pandemic coronavirus. The women leave the park an hour later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-dancing-in-the-park/story-WJBA5HeKW8p9bbWlTFfZoO.html
19-11-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab farmers refuse to end rail blockade||Punjab’s farmer unions on Wednesday decided against lifting the blockade on passenger trains, drawing criticism over their “unyielding” stance from chief minister Amarinder Singh who has otherwise been sympathetic to their cause. After a meeting, the farm bodies said they would consider allowing passenger trains to run in the state if the Centre started running goods trains first. The decision came five days after a meeting with Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar (agriculture) and Piyush Goyal (railways) in Delhi. During the meeting, the farmer bodies were asked to move away from railway properties as a precondition for resumption of goods trains.Though the farmer bodies’ meeting with the ministers was said to have been held in a conducive environment it failed to reach a fruitful conclusion. The farmer unions demanded that new central laws detrimental to farmers’ interests must be repealed.In a statement, the chief minister called the farmer unions’ decision “extremely unfortunate”, saying their blockade of passenger trains was obstructing the movement of goods trains as well. He said he had expected them to back down from their “unyielding” approach, particularly in view of the state government’s absolute support for their cause. “They should realise things cannot continue like this ad infinitum, and if rail transportation continues to remain suspended any longer, the state will be plunged into an irreversible crisis,” he said.On November 13, the unions had said they would take a call on allowing passenger trains on November 18. “All farm bodies unanimously decided that the moment the Centre will allow passage of goods trains to Punjab, the farmer unions will allow passenger trains,” said Jagmohan Singh, general secretary of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Dakounda). According to him, all aspects were discussed in the meeting but leaders of the farmer unions wanted the Centre to show a good gesture. On September 24, farmer organisations had blocked trains, including freight carriers, against the new laws. On October 1, the unions again started a ‘rail roko’ (stop trains) movement for five days. They announced allowing passage of freight trains from October 6, but said passenger trains would continue to be blocked. The movement of freight trains was halted by the railway board on October 7 and the ban has been extended till November 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-farmers-refuse-to-end-rail-blockade/story-yH5MHnCaKFPZ94mLcBIllJ.html
19-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Bad air days retreat, but next spell may not be far||Delhi has registered a drastic improvement in its air quality in the last couple of days. The PM2.5 concentration was in the moderate and poor categories on November 16 and 17. This was a welcome relief after 25 days of severe and very poor PM2.5 concentration days in a row. What explains this sudden improvement? Does it mean that the rest of the winter season will be pollution-free? An HT analysis of historical trends suggests that Delhi’s pollution status depends on a mix of meteorological, outside (such as farm fires) and local factors. As the importance of farm fires will come down for the rest of the season -- the process of stubble burning is almost over – the pollution situation will depend on the first and the third factors. As temperatures drop further, air quality is expected to worsen again after what is at best a temporary respite. 1. How bad was pollution this year? In terms of the seven-day average of PM2.5 concentration, the first two weeks of November were much worse this year than November 2019 and slightly worse than November 2018. A long-term comparison shows that air pollution usually starts rising in October, peaks sometime in late October or early November, and then comes down before rising again in December. . To be sure, the average PM2.5 concentrations used in this analysis are based on just three of 38 air quality stations for which the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) provides historical data on its website. This is because only these three stations; IHBAS Dilshad Garden, RK Puram and Shaidpur, have consistent data available for the September to November 17 period from 2016 onwards. 2. Is there a direct correlation between farm fires and pollution in Delhi? The number of fires detected in Punjab and Haryana this year between September and November 17 were 77,703, according to satellite data. This number was 46,649 in 2019, and 60,536 in 2018. The 2020 number is the third highest since 2012, the earliest period for which comparable data is available. The number of fires detected in the same period was 97,985 in 2016 and 79,511 in 2014. The fires did, however, start earlier this year. The 1,111 fires detected in September are the highest for the month since 2012. The role played by farm fires in air quality in Delhi can, however, be assessed when we have comparable air quality data, which is available from 2016. A seven-day rolling average of farm fires since 2016 shows that it is only in 2016 that farm fires were almost consistently higher than in 2020, except a brief period in late October when the 2017 figures were also higher than those in 2020. Also Read: Air quality falls to poor as stubble fires rise againAlthough there is no long-term data on this, the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR) publishes a chart on contribution of farm fires to Delhi’s air pollution during the stubble burning period. This chart shows that the highest contribution that farm fires have made to Delhi’s air pollution (42%) this season was on November 5. HT’s analysis shows 5,239 fires on the day in Punjab and Haryana, the second-highest number for a day this season. On the day the highest number of fires was recorded (5,316 on November 7), the contribution of farm fires was 32%. 3. Meteorology and local factors Delhi’s air improved to moderate quality after two days of Diwali this year. A comparison since 2016 shows that this is an extremely rare event. What explains this? The answer is rain and wind. Delhi received a rainfall of 1.2 millimetres a day after Diwali, something that has never happened since 2016. Even though the wind speed was lower than what it was in earlier years, it was blowing from east to west (Delhi to Punjab) rather than west to east. This means that Delhi was spared the limited impact of even the reduced farm fires in Punjab and Haryana. And one of the biggest reasons why air quality worsened relatively earlier this year was the lack of rains and low wind speed in Delhi from September onwards. The 20.4 mm rainfall recorded in Delhi in September is lower than all the years since 2016.  Unless meteorology continues to favour Delhi, the improvement in AQI will not stay. Then there are local factors -- the burning of bio-mass, traffic, industrial pollution, and dust from construction activities. The SAFAR (System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research) app predicts deterioration in air quality from November 20 to 21 for Delhi from “poor” to the lower end of the “very poor” category. This is where the challenge of controlling pollution persists, even after farm fires are over.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-bad-air-days-retreat-but-next-spell-may-not-be-far/story-0YjFZyj6JHG5QfEoP62gQK.html
19-11-2020||Chandigarh||Cracks of mistrust visible in coalition, says Deepender||Rajya Sabha member Deepender Hooda on Wednesday said there were “cracks of mistrust” in the BJP-JJP coalition in Haryana.Addressing a press conference, Deepender said the mistrust between the two allies was visible following the impressive win of the Congress in Baroda bypoll. “The chief minister had to publicly say that the BJP candidate did not get the JJP vote,” he added. The MP said the JJP should clarify if it agreed to or discarded the chief minister’s remarks. “The bypoll result has created a crisis of confidence among the ruling coalition. During the elections, the BJP candidate had lost confidence in the CM as his photograph was missing from party posters,” he added.Deepender said the state government has passed the ‘Right to Recall’ law for sarpanches, but it should first apply this law to its MLAs and they should resign and get re-elected. “The people of Baroda have used their right to recall against the government. The public has passed a motion of no confidence against the government and we will go to different parts of the state with this message,” he said.Abhay slams ‘anti-conversion law’INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala on Wednesday said that the “anti-conversion law” proposed by the BJP-JJP regime will create an atmosphere of fear in the state. The proposed legislation has been termed a law against “love jihad” by home minister Anil Vij. “The BJP has already weakened the country economically. Now, it wants to damage the social fabric of this nation,” Abhay said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cracks-of-mistrust-visible-in-coalition-says-deepender/story-do1o4phgfMZkyxrWHCcKgM.html
19-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Covid-19 cases continue to slide after the peaks||After witnessing two peaks in its Covid-19 cases graph, since the pandemic began in March, Mumbai has seen a steady decline in infections over the past few weeks. The city has recorded fewer than 1,000 Covid-19 cases daily since November 1. The dip comes after infections in Mumbai spiked in May, September and the first half of October, with 2,848 cases being reported on October 7 – the highest so far in 24 hours in the city. While the drop in cases can partly be attributed to reduced number of tests being conducted, health experts said the positivity rate coming down to 15.9% this week from 18.7% in September also indicates an overall dip in infections in Mumbai. Positivity rate is the number of Covid-19-positive cases from the total tests conducted. Mumbai has so far conducted 1,707,237 tests (as of November 17), and has 270,660 cases. In September and October, there were around 17,000 tests conducted daily in the city, and in the past few weeks, this number has dropped to around 4,000.“We should be testing more in Mumbai if we compare the number of tests to the city’s population. Mumbai’s maximum capacity to conduct tests is around 20,000. In the past week, testing has reduced, but that is also because there are fewer infections. Who will you test, if there are fewer people infected,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, member of Maharashtra government’s task force to reduce Covid-19 mortality in the state.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in-charge of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) public health department, too, said the situation in Mumbai has definitely improved. “We are seeing fewer Covid-19 cases every day in November. We also have more vacant hospital beds. But we are in wait-and-watch mode right now.”As of Wednesday, Mumbai has 71%, or 12,529, of 17,467 hospital beds vacant, while 4,938 beds are occupied. A senior civic official, on condition of anonymity, said the burden on hospitals has also reduced as cases have gone down in November. “We have informally directed all hospital administrations to grant doctors leave of absence if they apply for it and wish to rest and recover from the fatigue of the previous eight-nine months. Right now, they have scope to do so, as after the festival season, post-Diwali, Christmas and New Year’s, cases may go up again,” said the official. Kakani, too, said the next month will be crucial. “Despite the present scenario, we are on alert owing to unlock of restrictions and the festival season. Our core strategy – of testing, quarantining and ensuring sufficient hospital beds are available – remains in place. I would say we have to wait and watch until the end of December,” said Kakani.The civic administration is expecting yet another peak in cases in the coming weeks. Another senior civic official, who did not wish to be named, said, “Although we thought September was the second wave, BMC is not categorising it as a wave. It was a peak. This is because prior to September, Mumbai’s daily cases did not drastically fall. Only cases being reported over the next few days will determine if there will be the second wave, or it will be yet another peak in Mumbai.”While the administration is hoping herd immunity kicks in and helps keep Covid-19 cases fewer, officials have also noticed that citizens, who tested positive in the first few months after the pandemic broke out in March, still have antibodies to fight the infection. Herd immunity is used to describe the indirect protection conferred to a population in which the majority of people have natural or acquired immunity to an infection.The BMC conducted two rounds of sero survey in Mumbai’s slum and non-slum residences in Chembur, Matunga, Sion and Dahisar. The results of the survey conducted in August indicated that 45% among those tested in slums had Covid-19 antibodies and 18% among those tested from non-slums had antibodies. The results of the survey conducted in July indicated that 57% among those tested in slums had Covid-19 antibodies and 16% among those tested from non-slums had antibodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-covid-19-cases-continue-to-slide-after-the-peaks/story-xufQ3I3lQqXJYme6wvQsqL.html
19-11-2020||City||Paddy payment of about 50,000 Haryana farmers stuck, officials blame wrong bank details||Despite the tall claims of the government of disbursal of money within 72 hours, thousands of farmers in Haryana are still awaiting the payments of the produce they had sold to the government a month ago. As per the information provided by the Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board, as many as eight lakh farmers had registered themselves on the ‘Meri Fasal Mera Byora’ portal to sell paddy to government agencies this kharif season.But till date, about 50,000 farmers did not get their payment, which is reportedly stuck as the farmers furnished wrong account numbers and Indian Financial System Code (IFSC).“I had sold my produce of six acres to government on October 9 in Ladwa grain market of Kurukshetra district. Forty days have passed, but I did not get a single rupee of my payment of Rs 4 lakh from the government,” said a farmer, Balbir Singh, of Rajepur village in Karnal district.“Farmers, who adopted payments via commission agents, have already got their money,” he added. Amit Kumar, a small farmer from Kandroli village of Yamunanagar district, has filed a complaint on the CM Window as he did not get his payment of Rs 5.32 lakh for 282 quintal parmal variety he had sold between October 6 and 16.As per the information, the payment of those farmers is stuck, who had adopted direct payment option, while the farmers who had sought the payment via commission agents did not face any problem.Officials of the Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board said that payments were stuck as the farmers provided wrong information either about their bank accounts or IFSC at the time of registration on the ‘Meri Fasal Mera Byora’ portal.Haryana food, civil supplies and consumer affairs department additional chief secretary PK Das said, “Yes, payments of about 48,000 farmers could not be disbursed due to wrong bank account details and the issue came to the fore during the disbursement process.”He said have been sent to these farmers to get their bank account details updated so that the payments could be disbursed without any further delay. Das said that officials have been deputed and the issue will be resolved within a week. As per the figures of the Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board, the government agencies have so far procured around 54.8 lakh MT of parmal varieties of paddy and procurement was still going on in some mandis. Officials expect that the procurement may reach around 56 lakh MT this year. Out of the total paddy procurement of over Rs 10,000 crore, the procurement agencies have so far made the payments of around Rs 9,016 crore, including Rs 4,390 crore by Haryana Food and Supplies Department, Rs 3,119 crore by HAFED and Rs 1,607 crore by Haryana State Warehousing Corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/paddy-payment-of-about-50-000-haryana-farmers-stuck-officials-blame-wrong-bank-details/story-rjf3uGRhBFPW6hmSKvyY3J.html
19-11-2020||Chandigarh||Over 150 Haryana government school students test positive for Covid-19 in a fortnight||More than 150 Haryana government school students have tested positive for Covid-19 in Jhajjar, Jind and Rewari districts since the educational institutions reopened after eight months for Classes 9 to 12 on November 2. Seventy-eight students of government schools were found infected in Rewari, at least 30 in Jind and 34 in Jhajjar. Rewari district education officer (DEO) Rajesh Kumar said of the 78 cases reported since the reopening, 25 students tested positive in the past two days. “We have sealed the Government Senior Secondary School at Kund village for two weeks after 19 students tested positive for Covid-19. According to norms, a school is closed for 48 hours for sanitisation if one positive case is detected. The school is closed for two weeks if the contacts of the students are found positive,” he said. Dr Gopal, deputy civil surgeon Jind, said as many as 49 people, including 10 teachers and over 30 students, have been found infected so far in the district.“ We have been asking the school management to follow safety guidelines and inform us if any of their student and staff experience any symptom of the disease. It is not advisable to shut down the schools as the students have suffered a lot. If the school will follow safety guidelines, the students will able to continue their studies,” he added.Dr Sunil Lakhra, the district medical officer at Jhajjar, said samples of 1,197 students from 12 government schools have been collected in the past two weeks. Of them, 34 tested positive. “Most students found positive are asymptomatic. We have sanitised their schools,” he said. Senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala tweeted, “It is a sign of worry that a total of 149 students and 12 teachers have tested positive for the virus.”“Will CM and education minister take cognisance of the situation. Is government adhering to social distancing and other guidelines in the schools? Does CM have any plan to stop the spread of the virus?” he questioned.Social distancing norms violatedWhen this reporter visited the Government Senior Secondary School at Kheri Asadh village on the Rohtak-Delhi road last week, most students were found violating social distancing norms. Students had not been provided coloured masks and badges to segregate them into groups for distancing. At the Government Senior Secondary School for Girls at Bohar village, students said that they were being allowed to enter only after checks, including thermal screening. Tanu Nandal, a student of the school, said, “Thermal scanning is done at the gate itself and we observe distancing in the classroom. We carry our own water bottles and tiffins. Only one student is allowed to go to the toilet at a time.” Three students had tested positive for the virus at a government school in Jind’s Narwana on November 6, four days after schools reopened amid the pandemic. Haryana on Wednesday reported 30 more coronavirus deaths, its highest single-day fatality count so far, even as 2,562 fresh cases pushed the state’s infection tally to 2,07,039. So far, 2,093 people have died from the infection in the state, according to a health department bulletin.Bharat Biotech will start the phase 3 clinical trials of its Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, at Rohtak’s PGIMS from Friday. PGIMS V-C Dr OP Kalra said the trial will be conducted in partnership with ICMR. “The phase 3 trials will involve 1,000 volunteers from Haryana out of 25,800 across India. The trial has been registered and approved. We will administer two intramuscular injections, about 28 days apart. Participants will be randomly assigned to receive either two 6microgram injections of Covaxin or two shots of a placebo. The volunteers will be 18 years and above. This time, patients suffering from other diseases can also take part in the human trials,” he added.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/112-haryana-government-school-students-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-a-fortnight/story-NIlIlT3qkQBXprxog2kVHP.html
19-11-2020||Chandigarh||11 arrested for grabbing HUDA plots in Faridabad||Haryana state vigilance bureau has arrested 11 people allegedly involved in fraudulent grabbing of HUDA (now Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran) plots, which were meant to be allotted to slum dwellers in Faridabad. The 11 people are in addition to the 15 others arrested earlier by the vigilance bureau. A bureau spokesperson said the accused acted in collusion with a HUDA official in Faridabad. The spokesperson said that the matter pertained to allotment of 36 square yard plots to slum dwellers near Badarpur border in Faridabad. In 1993, HUDA got the land occupied by the slum dwellers vacated and allotted 36 square yard plots in lieu to 388 slum dwellers in Sector 30, Faridabad. However, possession of 38 such plots was allegedly taken by ineligible persons in a fraudulent manner. The spokesperson said the matter was inquired by the vigilance bureau. After obtaining permission from the state government, a criminal case under sections 448 (house trespass), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/11-arrested-for-grabbing-huda-plots-in-faridabad/story-jLn5sNPdMHlwSdoRIhrZkL.html
19-11-2020||Chandigarh||J&K government to implement Forest Rights Act||The Jammu and Kashmir government will implement the Forest Rights Act, 2006, which was not applicable in the union territory for the last 14 years, to grant and safeguard the rights of forest dwellers, an official spokesperson said on Wednesday.The Forest Rights Act provides for the granting of rights of forest lands to forest dwellers. However, the rights conferred under this act shall be ‘heritable but not alienable or transferable’, he said.This step is being taken in view of the large scale encroachment of huge forest lands and its illegal sale in Jammu and Kashmir.Chief Secretary B V R Subrahmanyam on Wednesday chaired a meeting to review the implementation of the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers Act and Rules, which became applicable in the union territory post the enactment of the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, 2019, the spokesperson said.He said departments of tribal affairs, and forest, ecology and environment started working on its implementation in October this year.“It may be pointed out that the Forest Rights Act of 2006 provides for granting of rights to forest dwellers across the country,” the spokesperson said.This central Act was, however, not applicable or implemented in Jammu and Kashmir in the last 14 years. It became applicable only after October 31, 2019.On August 5, 2019, the Centre revoked the special status of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir and split it into two union territories -- Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh.The two UTs came into existence on October 31, 2019.The spokesperson said it was decided that the ‘survey of claimants’ by the forest rights committees for assessing the nature and extent of rights being claimed at village level be completed by January 15, 2021, for their further submission to the respective sub-divisional committees.The sub-divisional committees shall complete the process of scrutiny of claims and preparation of ‘record of forest rights’ by or before January 31, 2021.Similarly, district level committees shall consider and approve the record and grant forest rights by March 1, 2021.The spokesperson said it was decided that the forest dwelling Scheduled Tribes and other traditional forest dwellers will be provided with the rights over forest land for the purpose of habitation or self-cultivation, livelihood, ownership, access to collect, use, and dispose of minor forest produce, and entitlement to seasonal resources among others.“However, the rights conferred under this Act shall be heritable but not alienable or transferable,” he said.The Act also provides that on the recommendation of the gram sabha, forest land up to one hectare can be diverted for the purpose of developing government facilities including schools, hospitals, minor water bodies, rainwater harvesting structures, minor irrigation canals, vocational training centres, non-conventional sources of energy, roads, etc.It also empowers the holders of forest rights, and gram sabhas to protect wildlife, forest, biodiversity, catchment areas, water sources and other ecologically sensitive areas besides ensuring that the habitat of forest dwelling STs and other traditional forest dwellers is preserved.Chief Secretary Subrahmanyam impressed upon the forest department to immediately constitute the four-tier committees -- state level monitoring committee, district level committee, sub-divisional level committee, and forest rights committee -- to implement the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006 in the UT.For periodic review of the process and procedures associated with the Forest Rights Act and Rules, the forest department was asked to devise a suitable review mechanism along with monitoring formats, the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/j-k-government-to-implement-forest-rights-act/story-7v4PLQG5h55lIUtZwOKjWJ.html
19-11-2020||Education||Maharashtra HSC, SSC supplementary exams: MSBHSE announces Covid-19 pandemic rules||The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) announced the rules for conducting the supplementary exams of HSC (Class 12) and SSC (Class 10) which begin on November 20. Allowing only 12 students in every classroom, sanitising classrooms, providing hand sanitisers and hand wash to students are some of the rules.While supplementary exams of students who failed to clear the February-March round of regular exams are held in July every year, this year due to the Covid-19 outbreak and the resultant lockdown, the exams will be held in November-December. Supplementary exams for HSC will be held between November 20 and December 10 while those for SSC will be held between November 20 and December 5. In Mumbai division, which consists of Thane, Raigad and Palghar and usually has the highest number of students appearing for the exams, more than 22,000 students have registered for HSC exams and around 12,000 students have registered for SSC exams this year. Sandeep Sangave, secretary of Mumbai divisional board, said several precautions are put in place to ensure that exams are safely conducted. “We have provided hand sanitisers to centres and have also provided them allowance to get the premises sanitised. Hand wash and thermal guns are also provided in each centre. Similarly, instead of 25 students per class, this time we have allowed only 12 students in a class to ensure physical distancing,” Sangave added. HSC exams will be held in 103 centres while SSC exams will be held in 95 centres across Mumbai division. Teachers from schools in the state are required to get RT-PCR tests done before schools reopen for Classes 9 to 12 from November 23. “So almost all teachers will be tested before the exams begin,” said an official from the state education department. While the board does not have any specific instructions for students with suspected Covid-19 or those with symptoms, Sangave said that permissions with respect to separate seating might be granted depending on the case. “If such a case comes to us and a student has to be isolated, we shall ensure he/she writes the exams with proper care and isolation,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hsc-ssc-supplementary-exams-maharashtra-board-announces-covid-19-pandemic-rules/story-HFeYGZwFIxTmKiSv9ab4wM.html
19-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s KEM, Nair hospitals to conclude phase 2 of Oxford Covid-19 vaccine clinical trial||BYL Nair Hospital and King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital are set to conclude the second round of phase-2 human trials of the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 (Covishield) vaccine. Hospital authorities said they expect phase 3 of the trial to begin by the first week of December.In August, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) selected the two hospitals to conduct the phases 2 and 3 clinical trials of Covishield vaccine. As per ICMR rules, after completion of 28 days from the first dose, volunteers are given the second dose, following which hospitals have to wait for another 28 days before starting phase 3 with the approval of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (the national regulatory body for medicines).Nair Hospital was initially instructed to administer the first vial of the vaccine to 100 volunteers. Later, with a nod from ICMR, an additional 48 volunteers were selected for the first round of phase 2. “A total of 148 volunteers have been given the first dose, of which 96 have been given the second dose. Phase 2 of the clinical trial will conclude in the next week,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean, BYL Nair Hospital.According to sources, KEM Hospital is also in the last stage of the second round of phase 2 of the trial. “We have given the first vial to 100 volunteers. We have administered the second vial to more than 95 volunteers. In the next one to two days, it [phase 2] will conclude,” said a senior doctor from the hospital. Despite repeated calls, Dr Hemant Deshmukh, dean of KEM Hospital was unavailable for comment.After phase 1 of the clinical trial, Covishield vaccine was found to induce a strong immune response. It provokes a T cell (white blood cells that can attack cells infected with the coronavirus) response within 14 days of vaccination, and an antibody response within 28 days.“Phase 3 will mostly be initiated by the first week of December. The same volunteers will have to participate in the next phase,” said Dr Bharmal.Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), which is the world’s largest manufacturer of vaccines in terms of volume, and British-Swedish pharmaceutical giant AstraZeneca partnered to manufacture the experimental Covid-19 vaccine candidate formulated at the University of Oxford, United Kingdom.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-kem-nair-hospitals-to-conclude-phase-2-of-oxford-covid-19-vaccine-clinical-trial/story-rzUMI4TAHdanw07xpLNWVP.html
19-11-2020||Mumbai||BMC to focus on Mumbai slums with possibility of Covid-19 surge due to reverse migration||Anticipating reverse migration after Diwali and a resurgence of Covid-19 cases, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will refocus its Covid containment efforts on slums, where the spread of the infection has been brought under control. BMC says it is preparing to handle a surge of 40,000 active cases in the city and health infrastructure set up for Covid-19 will not be deactivated despite the current dip in recorded cases.In a meeting undertaken by guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray on Wednesday, it was decided that along with a focus on high-rises, attention upon slums will be increased. Thackeray posted on Twitter about the review meeting, saying, “We discussed multiple scenarios, our preparations to control an expected surge in Covid-19 cases in a review meeting. Post the festival season and a lot of reverse migration going on, we must ramp up our surveillance, awareness and screening.”BMC officials said facilities would be ramped up to handle around 40,000 active cases at a time. The highest number of active cases in Mumbai so far was over 34,000 in September.Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “We have decided to be ready for 40,000 active cases in the city, in case there is a surge post-Diwali.” He added, “We have around 150 facilities active and around 400 facilities are on standby for handling any possible surge. The focus will also be on slums considering there is a possibility of reverse migration post-Diwali. We will be stationing mobile testing vans in areas with a high population of slums.”Areas like Borivli, Kandivli, Malad and Andheri were also reviewed at the meeting. Kakani said, “In western suburbs, we used to earlier have 500-550 cases daily, but that has now gone down to 200-250. This indicates it has gone down, but the numbers are still high, and we are taking measures to control the spread.”Testing figures, which reduced in November, will be increased to around 12,000 to 15,000 tests daily. Till now, 17.07 lakh tests have been completed, and the positivity rate is 15.85%. The average period of doubling of Covid-19 cases is 320 days, and the average growth rate is 0.22%.Dr Siddarth Paliwal, a city-based physician, said, “It has been a global trend that post unlock, a surge or second wave is witnessed in three to four months. In the case of Mumbai too, there is a possibility of a surge unless we take proper precautions. However, authorities need to ensure that daily testing is the same or increased in the coming days. If we test less during cross migrations, we might miss out on cases.”Two weeks ago, the state had warned of a possible second wave in January and February, owing to relaxation of lockdown restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-to-focus-on-mumbai-slums-with-possibility-of-covid-19-surge-due-to-reverse-migration/story-to0Z9qnxr47IDnxjUY7j5N.html
19-11-2020||Chandigarh||Wedding curbs back as Himachal Pradesh braces for winter surge||With the state witnessing a spurt in Covid cases, the government has decided to restrict the number of guests allowed in wedding ceremonies to 100. Social functions, particularly, weddings have proved to be one of the primary virus hotspots in the hill-state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wedding-curbs-back-as-himachal-pradesh-braces-for-winter-surge/story-puKUu2dzTBWU308vMjJ6gN.html
19-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government issues guidelines for Chhath Puja celebrations||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday issued guidelines to be followed while celebrating Chhath Puja in the state. As per the standard operating procedure (SOP) chalked out by the state home department, which was approved by chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday, citizens have been urged to not crowd the waterfronts and beaches to celebrate the festival, and instead, celebrate it from their homes.This year, Chhat Puja celebrations started on Wednesday and will end on Saturday morning. The festival is observed mostly by Bihar natives along with people from Jharkhand and eastern Uttar Pradesh. The guidelines of the state came a day after the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) announced restrictions on Chhath Puja celebrations near natural water bodies in the city, and asked devotees to avoid crowding, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Thackeray, according to a statement from the CM’s office, has directed local administrations to set up artificial ponds across the city to ensure that people can conduct rituals without crowding. The state government has banned bursting of firecrackers and use of loudspeakers at the sites where artificial ponds will be set up. According to the SOP, celebrants have been urged to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour, including using masks when in public and ensuring that social distancing is followed.After the BMC denied public celebrations, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) called it an injustice to devotees. It demanded Chhat Puja celebrations be allowed with some restrictions like those issued for Ganesh Utsav and Durga Puja. The state government is expecting a surge in Covid-19 cases after Diwali, and hence, largescale public gatherings at such festivals are not permitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-issues-guidelines-for-chhath-puja-celebrations/story-ZaqvQ36t1mUHLmS9y8zT3O.html
19-11-2020||City||92-year-old Covid patient discharged after 28 days on ventilator at Thane facility||A 92-year-old Covid-19 positive patient who recovered from the infection successfully was discharged from the Thane Municipal Corporation’s (TMC) Kausa Covid Care Centre after a month-long battle with the virus. The patient was suffering from pulmonary issues and was on the ventilator for almost 28 days. Sandeep Malvi, deputy commissioner, TMC, said, “The 92-year-old woman facing breathing problems but our doctors efficiently handled the critical case and discharged the patient on Wednesday after she recovered. Similarly, a few policemen were also discharged on Wednesday after they tested negative.” The nonagenarian was admitted to the Covid care centre built within Maulana Abdul Kalam Stadium in Kausa, Mumbra in the first week of October. “She was having breathing problems and there were other age-related issues as well. Although she was under medication, her lungs had become weak. This is a common phenomenon among Covid-19 positive patients as the virus affects the lungs. We put her under Bipap, which is a type of ventilator that helps to push air into the lungs. This positive-pressure ventilation was done for almost 28 days, and helped her become healthy and fit again,” said a medical officer from the Covid care centre in Mumbra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/92-year-old-covid-patient-discharged-after-28-days-on-ventilator-at-thane-facility/story-vx83NpdLkhcntg2h7zZcDJ.html
19-11-2020||Mumbai||Palghar lynching case: BJP demands CBI inquiry, Congress says demand made to save party workers||The Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have again engaged in a faceoff over Palgar lynching case after the later demanded a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe in the case and announced a protest march at the spot where the lynching took place. The Congress, in turn, accused the BJP of politicising the issue and creating communal tension by raking up the issue. BJP leader Ram Kadam had announced to take out a protest rally from Mumbai to Palghar on Wednesday to condemn ‘inept handling’ of the case. As part of the protest, he also announced lighting of diyas and staging a hunger strike in Gadchinchale, where the two seers and their driver were killed by the mob in April this year. Demanding that the probe be handed over to CBI, he asked as to why the state government was opposing the move. “The Sadhu fraternity kept quite over the lynching because of the pandemic. But it’s time; they want justice and will take to the streets for the same,” Kadam said before he and his supporters were detained by the Mumbai Police from his Khar residence on Wednesday when they were about to begin Jan Akrosh Yatra. The Congress has hit back at the BJP and said CBI probe was being demanded to save BJP members involved in the lynching case. “Accused number 61 and 65 and most of the other persons arrested are related to the BJP. Gadchinchale village, where the incident took place, is the citadel of the BJP and has been represented by the party’s sarpanch for the last 10 years. The party is demanding the CBI probe just to save the accused,” said Maharashtra Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant.“The police have arrested more than 225 people in Palghar mob lynching case. Of the arrested accused, 154 have been arrested for alleged involvement in the lynching and 75 for violating prohibitory orders. A few police officers, too, have been suspended for negligence in their duty. The case is currently being probed by Maharashtra crime investigation department (CID) and the judicial process has begun,” Sawant said. He added, “Despite this, the BJP has been raking up the issue after seven months for political reasons. Why did BJP leaders keep mum when the sadhus were killed in BJP-ruled states like Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka? Three sadhus were killed in Karnataka, but no BJP leader raised questions over it. The party has been using such incidents for politics by linking them with the religion.”Leader of Opposition in legislative Council Pravin Darekar said the state government has been suppressing the voice of the people seeking justice. “We will continue to fight for justice and for Hindutva what may come. The autocratic rule of the Thackeray government would not be able to stop us from speaking up for Hindutva and in the interest of Maharashtra,” he said. On April 16, three men — two seers and their driver — were dragged out of their vehicle outside Gadchinchale, around 110 kilometres from Palghar, and beaten to death by a mob on suspicion that they were child-lifters. The incident occurred when the victims were going from Mumbai to Surat to attend a funeral.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/palghar-lynching-case-bjp-demands-cbi-inquiry-congress-says-demand-made-to-save-party-workers/story-HrLdGno91P4HnbdleSh78I.html
19-11-2020||City||Ludhiana: 5 more Covid deaths ahead of Chhat Puja raise worry||Two days after seven deaths due to Covid-19 were reported in the district, as many as five more deaths were reported on Wednesday. Another three deaths due to the pandemic had been recorded on Tuesday. The deceased include a 60-year-old woman of Jagraon, who suffered a cardiac arrest while battling the virus, a 78-year-old resident of Samrala, besides an 84-year-old man, and a 52-year-old man and a 35-year-old man of Ludhiana city. As many as 85 fresh cases have been reported in the last 24 hours. The district now has 767 active cases.A total of 153 patients were sent for home quarantine on Wednesday.Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma stated that people have become callous and are not wearing masks which is a very dangerous trend, especially in the festive season.“I would urge all residents to wear masks and refrain from going to crowded places. With Chhat puja round the corner, people are requested to not make a crowd of more than 50 persons while performing the rituals,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-5-more-covid-deaths-ahead-of-chhat-puja-raise-worry/story-pIeYtNoKIklswJUEia9zIN.html
19-11-2020||City||SCD colleges mourns death of its Olympian alumnus||SCD Government College in Ludhiana mourned the demise of its alumnus Jagmohan Singh, a former Olympic athlete, who died in Patiala following a cardiac arrest on Tuesday. He was 88. Jagmohan Singh, who represented India at the 1960 Olympics in Rome, was a hurdles champion during his prime. Known to be a multi-faceted sports personality, he introduced scientific fitness training methods in athletics and other sports during his long stint at NIS Patiala. The SCD Government College Alumni Association members, including Amarjit Singh Sandhu, Prabhjot Singh and Brij Goyal, along with college principal Dharam Singh Sandhu, mourned the demise of the illustrious alumnus who made the college proud. Teja Singh Dhaliwal, general secretary of Punjab Basketball Association, said that Jagmohan was born on April 1, 1932, at Rajoana Kalan of Ludhiana.A science student, the 6-ft tall Jagmohan created a new record of 15.5 seconds in the hurdles race, while representing the college at the inter-university championships in 1952. His grooming and passion in him secured a berth on the Indian Athletics Team in Rome Olympics, where he cut the tape in 14.5 seconds, creating a record.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/scd-colleges-mourns-death-of-its-olympian-alumnus/story-vpPpHKHwYOwXHuIcdhY7VL.html
19-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray pushes for rehabilitation of Sardar Sarovar dam project PAPs||Maharashtra has expressed its discontent with the report on compliances of relief and rehabilitation and other issues arising out of the Sardar Sarovar dam project, saying it cannot agree to it unless rehabilitation was completed.Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray, in a meeting with Union jal shakti minister Rajendra Singh Shekhawat and chief ministers of three other stakeholder states, categorically pressed on the rehabilitation issue on Wednesday and said that the rehabilitation of the project affected persons (PAPs) is the priority.The meeting via video conference was held on the order of the Supreme Court (SC) which had asked CMs from all four states — Maharashtra, Gujrat, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh — to discuss the five contentious points related to relief, rehabilitation among others. The SC had refused to accept the compliance report submitted by Narmada Control Authority last year. The court had, last October, asked the Centre to submit a fresh report with clarification on the points raised by the organisations representing PAPs. During the meeting, Thackeray said that 230 families who have been waiting for rehabilitation for years should be given shelter first. He also reminded that Gujarat has failed to pay ₹352 crore towards rehabilitation. Thackeray sought firm assurance from Gujarat before agreeing to the compliance report to be submitted in the Apex court, said an official privy to the developments.Thackeray also expressed discontent with Gujarat government for its failure to provide Maharashtra’s share of electricity generated from the project. Shekhawat is expected to speak to Thackeray separately over the reservations expressed by him. Medha Patkar of Narmada Bachao Andolan said hundreds of families affected due to the dam project in Maharashtra are yet to be rehabilitated while infrastructure works such as bridges and roads are yet to be completed. “Rehabilitation and completing the infrastructure works are responsibility of Gujarat government. Hundreds of families from Maharashtra are still waiting for their rehabilitation. Despite of this, the dam was filled at its fullest capacity. Other states, such as Madhya Pradesh, have raised concerns over losses to them because of Gujarat’s failure to provide its share of electricity and charging excessively towards their share in the project cost. We had requested CM Thackeray to raise all these issues during the meeting with Union jal shakti ministry,” she said. She has a meeting with Thackeray on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-pushes-for-rehabilitation-of-sardar-sarovar-dam-project-paps/story-9Wf3eaZVd39JqWe3K5EAUP.html
19-11-2020||City||SAD accuses Bains brothers’ of possessing ‘disproportionate income’||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Wednesday demanded an ED and CBI probe against Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) chief and Atam Nagar legislator Simarjeet Singh Bains, for allegedly amassing disproportionate income and “running a parallel mafia in connivance with the ruling Congress”.Addressing a press conference, former jail and tourism minister Hira Singh Gabria questioned how Simarjeet, who used to work at a brick kiln, and his elder brother Balwinder Singh Bains, who Gabria claimed worked as a driver, managed to amass so much wealth.Extend support to woman who accused Simarjeet of rapeSenior SAD leaders Maheshinder Singh Grewal, Harish Rai Dhanda and Sharanjit Singh Dhillon also addressed the conference and extended support to the woman who had leveled rape allegations against Simarjeet. The SAD leaders said that the LIP leader had raped the woman, who is a widow, when she had approached him for help. Dhanda said the Ludhiana police should follow Supreme Court guidelines and register a case instead of marking an inquiry into it. Grewal and Dhillon further added that it was an open secret Simarjeet is shielded by the Congress and chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh as he is a close friend of food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu.“The Congress has also been trying to woo the Bains brothers to join them,” said Grewal.The SAD leaders also lambasted the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) for keeping mum on the issue. They said it was “shocking that a party which was fond of talking about morality and ethics in public life was supporting a rape accused” simply because Simarjeet was in an alliance with the AAP during the last assembly elections.The SAD also said that they would launch an agitation if justice is not delivered to the victim.Claims baseless, says Simarjeet Simarjeet Bains, meanwhile, claimed that the rape allegations were baseless and alleged that the SAD leaders had pulled a “cheap political stunt” on a day when he started the “Punjab Adhikar Yatra” from Harike Pattan to secure the river waters of Punjab.“It is not the first time that flimsy allegations have been levelled against me. I have been accused of running mafias, amassing wealth, but I have always come out clean. It is unfortunate that instead of standing with the farmers of the state, SAD is busy playing cheap politics,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sad-accuses-bains-brothers-of-possessing-disproportionate-income/story-77ltVS9wKh5wlO71qihbGJ.html
19-11-2020||Chandigarh||Mobile-based survey rolled out in Himachal to assess Covid’s impact on mental health||With around 500 people committing suicide during the lockdown, the Himachal Pradesh State Mental Health Authority in collaboration with the Himachal Pradesh University department of psychology is conducting a mobile-based survey in Shimla, Mandi, and Chamba in order to formulate a strategy to deal with mental health issues and suicidal tendencies arising due to the pandemic. Around 75,000 people from the three districts will be sent a questionnaire. Respondents will be asked to answer 10 questions such as whether they had lost their job due to the pandemic and if they had experienced suicidal thoughts or suicidal tendencies during the pandemic. The survey sample will include respondents below the age of 25, people between the age of 26 to 60 and above 60 years, residing in both rural and urban areas. Within the five categories, the sample will include government employees, self-employed people, unemployed people, and students. The survey will be conducted over three weeks. ‘Expect at least 5,000 responses in first week’ HP State Mental Health Authority chief executive officer (CEO) Dr Sanjay Pathak said the study will be used to plan, design and implement strategies to tackle mental health problems.“The questionnaire is anonymous and the responses will be kept confidential. We will first wait for a week to see if we are getting sufficient responses. If we receive less than 5,000 responses, the questionnaire will be sent to another set of people,” he said.Since the Covid outbreak in Himachal and the lockdown imposed to contain its spread, there has been a spike in suicides in the state with around 500 people taking their lives during the lockdown. The weekly suicide rate had increased from 10 in January to 25 in July. Police said most suicides had taken place in Shimla, Hamirpur and Kangra districts. 18-25 age group most vulnerable: Police As per the police people between the ages 18 and 35 are most vulnerable to suicide. The most common reasons for taking the extreme step are financial crisis, unemployment, marital issues, bankruptcy, drug addiction, health issues or illness, failure in examinations, love affairs, or family problems.Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) psychiatry department head Dr Dinesh Dutt Sharma said mental health problems, including suicide, had increased during the pandemic. “Unfortunately, most people do not seek treatment due to lack of awareness, stigma associated with mental disorders and limited availability of treatment.”  ‘70%-80% people who die by suicide have psychosis’Sharma said, “Approximately 70–80% people who commit suicide are likely to have psychosis. Depression is the most common psychiatric condition associated with suicide. Therefore, early detection of depression and suicidal behaviour is important for prevention. Some early signs of suicidal tendencies are being alone, talking about suicide, threatening to kill oneself, searching for ways to commit suicide and saying goodbye to close family members and friends, and distributing valuable possessions.These signs should be taken seriously and such people or their relatives should immediately seek assistance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mobile-based-survey-rolled-out-in-himachal-to-assess-covid-s-impact-on-mental-health/story-10Ebn8RfTGYqtkdRwyF0YI.html
19-11-2020||City||Speeding SUV mows down 3 men on Sherpur flyover||In an early morning tragedy, three men, including a pedestrian and two cyclists, died after being hit by a speeding SUV on Sherpur Flyover on Wednesday.The SUV was being driven so recklessly that one of the cyclists fell off the flyover while the other was dragged on the car’s bonnet. All three men died on the spot.The car driver, who was later identified as Dharminder, a serviceman from Uttar Pradesh, tried to escape after the accident but passersby nabbed him.The police has so far been able to identify only one of the victims—Ritesh Miglani, 45, a yarn trader from Durgapuri of Haibowal. Ritesh was walking towards Sherpur Chowk, with his cousin when the mishap took place. His cousin, Vishal, told the police that they were returning after collecting some payments at the time. “We were crossing the Sherpur Flyover on foot to get a bus to reach Samrala. Ritesh was walking a few steps ahead of me. Suddenly, a speeding Tata Safari crossed me and hit a cyclist, who fell off the flyover and died immediately. The SUV then hit Ritesh before hitting another cyclist,” he said.Police said that the two cyclists appear to be migrants but have no leads on their identity. After being caught, the car driver is said to have revealed that he was returning to Uttar Pradesh from Pathankot, with his wife and daughter. Assistant sub-inspector Dhanwant Singh, who is investigating the case, said the FIR has been lodged against the accused for reckless driving and causing death due to negligence, on the statement of Vishal Miglani. Police are also trying to identify the other two victims, but have so far not found any documents or identification cards from their pockets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/speeding-suv-mows-down-3-men-on-sherpur-flyover/story-VOaUGnpsZQUfHKprv1My4K.html
19-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees jump in fresh Covid-19 cases to 5,011||Maharashtra on Wednesday recorded 5,011 Covid-19 cases, a 5,000-plus spike after nine days, pushing the infection count to 1,757,520. Active cases in the state further reduced to 80,221. The toll reached 46,202 as 100 more casualties were reported. Of them, 51 were from the past 48 hours and 26 were from last week. The remaining 23 deaths were from before last week, health officials said. The case fatality rate (CFR) stood at 2.63%.Wednesday was the 32nd day the daily caseload was below the 10,000-mark. Compared to the last week of September, when daily cases were above 20,000 a day, the number of fresh cases is on a decline. The state reported 76,886 cases this month till date, whereas last month, over 200,000 (212,809) cases were recorded in the corresponding period. The average number of cases per day, too, has declined to 4,271, from 11,782 in the corresponding period last month, according to statistics issued by the state health department.However, the concern of a surge in cases by November or from December still persists.Dr Rahul Pandit, member of the state-appointed task force for the clinical management of critical patients, said they were worried over a possible second wave. “Coronavirus rises well in winter. With Delhi, we have the same experience in the country where spurt in cases is being observed after Europe and the United States. Festive seasons have just sort of slowed down when meeting and visiting people was very often. That helps increase the spread and now Christmas and New Year is also coming up,” he said.“Third and most important reason is testing. The overall number of cases has come down and so have testing figures. We need to keep our guard up, by increasing testing and contact tracing. Even in Mumbai, testing has come down to 4,000-5,000 per day, against 15,000-16,000 used to be carried out before. We need to get back on track,” he added.Mumbai saw 871 new cases and 16 deaths, taking the tally to 271,531 and the toll to 10,615.Following Mumbai, Pune registered the second-highest number of cases at 339, and six deaths, followed by Nagpur city, which saw 269 cases and three deaths.Along with a fall in the daily caseload, the number of institutionally quarantined cases and home quarantined people has also come down significantly. As of Wednesday, only 5,354 people in the state are institutionally quarantined and 750,992 people are quarantined at home.A look at the previous figures showed that 36,827 people were institutionally quarantined while those quarantined at home were 1,770,748 on September 17. A month later, on October 17, the number of institutionally quarantined people declined to 23,749 and 2,395,552 people were home quarantined.Infected patients without symptoms or mild symptoms or their close contacts are institutionally quarantined at the Covid-19 facilities set up by the state government in all districts. Similar is the case with people quarantined at home.“The decline in the number of people institutionally quarantined and quarantined at home is because the cases have reduced. Since fewer people are testing Covid-19 positive, consequently, the number of their close contacts has also reduced, thus fewer people are quarantined at home and at institutional quarantine facilities,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer.The state has completed 9,900,878 Covid-19 tests, with 53,400 tests conducted on Wednesday. The positivity rate for the day was recorded at 9.38%, against the overall positivity rate of the state at 17.75%.The number of recovered patients reached 1,630,111 with 6,608 recorded in the past 24 hours. The recovery rate was recorded at 92.75%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-jump-in-fresh-covid-19-cases-to-5-011/story-Thmqf2PcM9JtneiI1bmMwK.html
19-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: ₹500-crore properties of late gangster Iqbal Mirchi forfeited under SAFEMA||Three buildings in Mumbai, worth ₹500 crore, belonging to gangster Dawood Ibrahim’s aide Iqbal Mirchi have been declared forfeit by the competent authority under Smuggling and Foreign Exchange Manipulators (Forfeiture of Property) Act (SAFEMA). Officials of competent authority under SAFEMA in Mumbai told HT that earlier Mirchi and his associates had managed to avoid forfeiture of the properties by misleading the court. “Once it was established that the said properties belonged to Mirchi, we have started forfeiting proceedings,” the officer said.In a statement issued on Wednesday, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) said, “The investigation conducted by ED revealed that, in 2005 Iqbal Mirchi, in connivance with Sir Mohamed Yusuf Trust, misrepresented…the ownership of these buildings before the Competent Authority (SAFEMA/NDPS Act).” The three properties are Rabia Mansion, Mariam Lodge and Sea View, all located in Worli. The order for the forfeiture was issued on November 9 under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substance (NDPS) Act. All transactions with respect to these properties have been declared null and void.Mirchi, who died in 2013, and his associates had managed to avoid forfeiture by misleading the competent authority (SAFEMA/NDPS Act), the chief metropolitan magistrate (CMM) and the additional CMM. The properties were falsely claimed by Sir Mohamed Yusuf Trust on the pretext that Mirchi had not been given possession because of incomplete payment. Consequently, the court released the properties from attachment on March 11, 2005.On November 6, 2019, ED officials established Mirchi’s ownership of the properties before the competent authority by presenting evidence collected while investigating a money laundering case linked to Mirchi. The evidence includes complete payment receipts issued by the trust along with corresponding bank entries; a letter issued by the trust handing over possession to Iqbal Memon; and submissions to the income tax department admitting the sale of these properties, said ED sources. According to ED, Dewan Housing Finance Corporation (DHFL) had extended loans to Sunblink Real Estate Pvt Ltd, which purportedly routed money to Mirchi. Mirchi used this money to buy the three properties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-500-crore-properties-of-late-gangster-iqbal-mirchi-forfeited-under-safema/story-Rq4f77lA55kR9xlkLxWIRJ.html
19-11-2020||Noida||After being moderate after six weeks, air quality dips again in Noida, Ghaziabad||Noida: The air quality of Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad fell back into the “poor” category after being in the “moderate” zone for one day.Favourable weather conditions ventilated or washed away the toxins from the area that had accumulated over past few weeks and that spiked on Diwali.Meanwhile, the India Meteorological Department predicted that temperatures is expected to drop as another spell of snowfall in the northern regions. Weather analysts believe that the fate of city’s air quality for at least next three days will depend directly on the number of farm fires in neighbouring states from where the winds are now entering the national capital region (NCR).“The wind direction has changed from easterly to north-westerly on Tuesday night, which means that additional smoke is set to enter the region. Now even though the wind speed will increase over the course of next few days till November 22, the dispersion of pollutants will be difficult because the temperatures are also set to fall by three to four degrees in the same time. When temperatures are low the air becomes heavier and traps the pollutants well, making it difficult for winds to ventilate them easily. So the course of city’s air quality will depend on the number of farm fires in neighbouring states as well as the local emissions. The wind speed on Wednesday was around 6 kmph and this will increase and could reach upto over 15 kmph till November 22,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, India Meteorological Centre (IMD).On Wednesday, Noida recorded a minimum temperature of 14.8 degrees Celsius against 15.6 degrees a day earlier. The maximum temperature, as per the the automatic weather station installed in Noida was 24.5 degrees Celsius against 26.2 a day earlier.“By November 19, the minimum temperature for this area could hover around 9 or 10 degrees Celsius because of good winds coming from well snowed mountains of Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Jammu and Kashmir,” said Srivastava.According to the central pollution control board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Wednesday dropped to 207 or ‘poor’ against 178 or ‘moderate’ on Tuesday. The AQI of Greater Noida was 228 against 186 a day earlier. The AQI of Ghaziabad saw the worse drop amongst three cities falling from 166 on Tuesday to 236 on Wednesday.The AQI between 0 and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and above 400 is ‘severe’.The last time ‘poor’ category air quality was recorded in Noida was on November 2 with an AQI of 299, while the last ‘moderate’ air quality for Noida was recorded on October 06, when the AQI was 176 The pollution mass also aggregated marginally in the city due to plumage of additional smoke from farm fires in Punjab and Haryana where the winds are currently coming from. The PM2.5 levels in the past 24 hours in Noida dropping to 92.81 microgrammes per cubic meters (µg/m³) against 83.69µg/m³ a day earlier. The PM2.5 for Greater Noida also dropped to 101.79µg/m³ against 84.86µg/m³ on Sunday.According to the System of air quality and weather forecasting and research (SAFAR), the AQI may improve drop towards Thursday.“Surface winds are calm and boundary layer wind direction is North-Westerly (favorable for intrusion). Effective Stubble fire counts with sufficient potential estimated from SAFAR-multi-satellite products are marginally increased and are around 427...The AQI is likely to marginally deteriorate and forecasted to be in moderate to the Poor category for tomorrow. AQI is forecasted to further deteriorate to the higher end of the Poor to the lower end of the Very Poor category on 20th and 21st November,” said a statement from SAFAR on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/after-being-moderate-after-six-weeks-air-quality-dips-again-in-noida-ghaziabad/story-LFsqUxPVrS4uvrkNYdl4rJ.html
19-11-2020||Delhi||Districts with high number of containment zones have most number of Covid cases: Govt data||Two of the revenue districts with the highest and the second highest number of containment zones in the national capital also account for the highest and the second highest number of active Covid-19 cases, prompting experts to call for a revisit of Delhi’s containment policies. The figures tabled in a meeting chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday showed that as on November 15, the south-west district, which has the highest number of containment zones in the national capital at 740, also has the highest share of active cases at 6,391. The south-west is followed by the south district with 5,815 active cases and 700 containment zones. The north-west district, which accounted for the highest share of active Covid-19 cases till last month, now stands third with 5,225 active cases, the records show. Overall, Delhi has 43,774 active Covid-19 cases and 4,430 containment zones across its 11 revenue districts, as on November 15, records show. Also Read: 131 Covid-19 deaths, highest spike in a day so far in DelhiAlso, 35.35% of Delhi’s total active cases, as on November 15, were reported from the 4,430 containment zones. The remaining were isolated cases reported from outside the containment zones.In light of these figures, experts argue that Delhi’s containment policy may need to be tweaked to contain the surge in cases.  Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the epidemiology and communicable diseases department in the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said, “Delhi definitely needs to revise its containment policy because the current one is evidently not working at its best in the light of the current surge in Covid-19 cases. The transmission rate is too high now and containment efforts have to be scaled up.These figures were tabled on Sunday in a meeting convened by Union home minister Amit Shah to discuss the surge in Covid-19 cases in Delhi, said senior government officials. The meeting was attended by Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal.In the meeting, Shah directed the Delhi government to scale up its containment efforts. A senior official of the revenue department said a new strategy is being drafted and it will be finalised within the week.Also Read| ‘Saving the economy is equally important’: No lockdown, assures KejriwalOn September 12, around 19% of the city’s total active cases were from containment zones. The share had increased to 33% on October 18, the records show. The data was tabled at two separate meetings chaired by Baijal, which HT had earlier reported.The government had attributed the increase to a change in policy which focuses on micro containment zones, the records said. The change in policy is reflected in the numbers. For instance, in late-June, Delhi had around 300,000 people residing in 421 containment zones. On the other hand, around 160,000 people are currently residing in the 4,430 containment zones, as on November 15.The policy, senior officials said, has allowed the government to spread containment zones across the city and cover more proportion of active Covid-19 cases. Currently, some of the containment zones are limited to a single unit of residence – equivalent to home isolation for cases in which at least three members of a residence are infected, said officials.The government spokesperson refused comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/districts-with-high-number-of-containment-zones-have-most-number-of-cases-shows-govt-data/story-rtAxoWYWFruZtzzftEnidO.html
19-11-2020||Delhi||AAP writes to air quality panel, points role of farm fires in Delhi’s pollution||Senior Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and legislator Atishi on Wednesday wrote a letter to the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in the National Capital Region and adjoining areas, highlighting how stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana relates to the increase and decrease in pollution in Delhi. Addressing a press conference on Wednesday, Atishi said instances of stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana have come down to around 100 from 2,000-3,000, which has improved the air quality in Delhi. “We want to appeal to the air quality commission, as well as the Supreme Court, to take a suo-moto cognisance of the matter and file cases of criminal negligence against the chief ministers of Haryana and Punjab, who have put the entire north India in a public health emergency,” Atishi said. Also Read| Delhi: Bad air days retreat, but next spell may not be farShe said due to the “criminal negligence” of chief ministers of Punjab and Haryana, the people of Delhi-NCR have been suffering for the last 1.5 months from pollution due to stubble burning. Atishi said that on October 28, the central government got an ordinance signed by the President, and a commission for air quality management in Delhi NCR and adjoining areas was formed because, “it was noticed that there is a lack of a permanent, dedicated and participative mechanism that can adopt a collaborative and participatory approach involving all relevant central ministries, state governments and other stakeholders to tackle air pollution.” Also Read: Air quality falls to poor as stubble fires rise againAtishi said, “Today, I wrote a letter to the chairperson of the commission, showcasing the data regarding pollution in Delhi, how stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana relates to this, and how when the instances of stubble burning increase, the AQI of Delhi crosses 300 and how when the instances eventually decrease, the AQI of Delhi decreases. Therefore for the mandate of Delhi-NCR, it is extremely clear upon whom the onus of pollution in Delhi falls.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/aap-mla-atishi-writes-to-air-quality-panel-points-to-role-of-farm-fires-in-delhi-s-pollution/story-PRS8A78xsykIx4hZ5L1ejO.html
19-11-2020||Education||JNU should encourage innovation in research on epidemiology: Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday said universities such as Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) should encourage innovation in research on epidemiology keeping the current Covid-19 pandemic in mind.Speaking during the fourth annual convocation of JNU on Wednesday, the president congratulated the institute for its high-ranking accreditation and appreciated “every person associated with JNU for setting high standards”.Due to the pandemic, the university held its convocation in the virtual mode this time, conferring degrees to 603 students from 15 schools and centres. Kovind was the chief guest at the occasion while education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal was the guest of honour. Around 430 students were conferred the degree during last year’s convocation, which saw high drama due to the students’ protests over the hostel fee hike.Stressing on the importance of research in areas such as infectious diseases, epidemiology, virology, diagnostics, instrumentation, vaccinology in the Covid-19 era, President Kovind said, “The related social issues need to be studied, preferably with the multi-disciplinary approach. In this endeavour, universities like JNU should be at the forefront to develop specific hand-holding mechanisms and promote innovation among student communities.”He said the varsity represents “blending of inclusion, diversity and excellence” and should “be at the forefront” to promote innovation among student communities. “Students aspiring for very different career paths come together in JNU. The university represents the blending of inclusion, diversity and excellence,” Kovind said.The President congratulated JNU for receiving the highest-ranking grade from the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) and ranking second among all the universities under the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF).“The university has produced many eminent personalities and has been guided by some of the greatest minds...I appreciate every person associated with JNU for setting high standards in various academic domains. Ranging from social sciences to science and technology, both teaching and research have made an impact in the world of academics. That is why JNU attracts students from all parts of the country and even from abroad,” said Kovind.“It must be a matter of pride for students of the university that finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and minister of external affairs Dr. S. Jaishankar are its former students. From among the over 80,000 former students of JNU, many have made an impact in India and abroad through contribution in the civil services, academia, politics, social work, science and technology, media and communications, fine arts and business leadership,” he said.President Kovind said while dealing with present-day challenges, one can draw inspiration from the ancient universities of Takshashila, Nalanda, Vikramshila and Vallabhi which had set high standards of teaching and research.Vice-chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar said, “Despite the Covid-19 pandemic, we decided that this tradition of convocation should continue using digital technology to hand over degrees to research scholars through the online ceremony.”Pokhriyal also asked students to stick to Indian values and update, upgrade and educate themselves.Talking about innovative work at the varsity, Kumar said, “Several products have been developed within the university such as the Learning Management System (LMS) by two students from School of Engineering to conduct and manage classes online. Last month, a start-up company of JNU launched a cloud-based biological data analysis platform, which will be of great use in understanding pandemics like Covid-19.”Education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal said the Atal Innovation Centre and several start-ups being set up by the university will contribute to realising “Make in India, Digital India and Atmanirbhar Bharat.”Several students, however, boycotted the event on Wednesday to protest against the administration’s decision to allow a phase-wise entry to only science students. Former JNU students’ union president Ashutosh Kumar, who completed his PhD from Centre for Russian and Central Asian studies this year, said, “The administration has had anti-student policies for the past few years now. Current students have been protesting for months now demanding a return to campus but they have not done anything on it and are organising virtual convocations instead where the graduands are asked to pay Rs 800 to attend the convocation. This is what prompted us to boycott the event.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/jnu-should-encourage-innovation-in-research-on-epidemiology-kovind/story-jLnS1JxGLhFbtKZmsoUfDM.html
19-11-2020||Delhi||Private car not a personal zone, mask is a must: Delhi govt submits in HC||The Delhi government on Wednesday said in the Delhi high court that a private vehicle is a public place and not a personal zone and thus every person moving around in his private or official vehicle must “compulsorily” wear a mask. The submissions were made before Justice Navin Chawla during the hearing on a plea by a lawyer who challenged the Rs 500 challan issued to him for not wearing a mask while he was driving alone in his private car. In his plea, the petitioner, Saurabh Sharma, said that on September 9 while driving to work he was stopped by Delhi Police officials and was fined for not wearing a mask even though he was alone in the car.In an affidavit filed through advocate Devesh Singh, additional standing counsel of the Delhi government, the court was told that “it is true that the public may not have access for such private vehicle, as a matter of right, but the public have the opportunity to approach the private vehicle when it is on a public road”. It also said that the Supreme Court has held that a private vehicle is a public place.The government submitted that wearing masks while driving was made compulsory in April and the order remains in force till date.Representing the petitioner, advocate Joby P Varghese told the court that subsequent to the April 4 office order of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), the Union health ministry held a press conference where it said persons driving alone in a car are not required to wear a mask.Advocate Farman Ali Magray, appearing for the ministry, sought time from the court to place the correct position before the court. Justice Chawla granted the time but warned that no more time would be given on the next date of hearing.Sharma, in his plea, has sought quashing of the challan, refund of the Rs 500 paid as fine and compensation of Rs 10 lakh for alleged mental harassment suffered by him.In his plea, Sharma claimed that the officials who issued the challan to him failed to provide any executive order to establish that it was mandatory to wear masks while travelling alone in a private vehicle.They also did not heed his request to write on the challan that he was driving alone and he paid the “illegal” fine under protest, the petition said.The court listed two other similar pleas by Aditya Kaushik and Deepak Agarwal on January 7, when the matters would be heard together.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/private-car-not-a-personal-zone-mask-is-a-must-delhi-govt-submits-in-hc/story-znDt0IhHFFq3tVFZd60WpI.html
19-11-2020||Delhi||131 Covid-19 deaths, highest spike in a day so far in Delhi||Delhi on Wednesday crossed the psychological mark of 500,000 Covid-19 cases, adding 7,486 new cases to its daily count, according to the Delhi government’s daily bulletin.The city also recorded 131 deaths due to the infection, highest even seen in a day. Before this, the highest single-day death toll of 104 was reported on November 12.This pushed the seven-day average case fatality ratio (CFR) – the proportion of deaths among those who test positive – to 2.12%. This is much higher than the cumulative CFR – calculated on the basis of total number of cases and deaths so far – indicating that the recent deaths are driving up the CFR.The city’s total Covid count now stands at 503,084. A total of 43,147 rapid antigen tests were conducted and 19,085 of the more reliable RT-PCR tests, with a positivity rate of 12.03 %.On Tuesday, NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul had said Delhi had shown “dramatic improvement” in reducing deaths due to delay in admissions. Also Read| ‘Saving the economy is equally important’: No lockdown, assures Kejriwal“Initially, when the pandemic had started – till about June – nearly 60 to 70% of the deaths in hospitals happened within the first 72 hours. Half of these deaths happened within the first 24-hours of admission. In Delhi, there has been a dramatic change since. We are still monitoring the mortality as it shows the efficiency of the system – mobilising patients from home, ambulance service, access to beds, and efficiency of the treatment,” he had said.Eleven Delhi government-run hospitals will add 663 intensive care unit beds to the city’s existing 3,600 beds over the next few days, with 232 beds at Guru Teg Bahadur hospital being operationalised in the next two days, according to Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. “In view of … increased demand of ICU beds in hospitals… directors of Covid hospitals… are directed to augment ICU beds by upgrading existing oxygenated beds at their respective hospitals,” read an order by the special secretary (health) SM Ali. The order was issued after the health minister Satyendar Jain met directors and doctors of various Coivd-19 hospitals on Wednesday.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe increase in the number of beds comes after a meeting of Delhi officials with union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday where the Centre had also promised to increase ICU beds in its makeshift hospital in Dhaula Kuan. Health ministry officials during a press briefing on Tuesday had said the ICU bed capacity will be increased to 6,000, with the army-run hospital in Dhaula Kuan adding 537 ICU beds, the central government hospitals 45, and 2,680 beds by the Delhi government, mostly through the order reserving 80% ICU beds in 33 big private hospitals.“Overall, there are Covid beds available but there is a shortage of ICU beds. We are making all efforts to increase these. Today, I met doctors of GTB hospital and the doctors immediately agreed to increase 232 beds; it is very difficult to do this in just 48 hours but our doctors have responded to the need,” said Kejriwal. With the third surge in cases paralleling many cities from the West and Europe, the CM said, “If you look at places like New York, Sweden, Italy and France, when they had as many cases the videos that emerged showed patients in the corridors and street. There were no beds available. In New York, when 6,300 cases were reported in a day, there were 550 deaths at that time. Our doctors have managed the pandemic very well.” Also Read| ‘Centre yet to provide 250 ICU beds facility for people in Delhi’: AAP spokesperson Saurabh BhardwajEven though Delhi had seen a dip in the number of new cases for the last three days owing to fewer tests being conducted during the festivals, the number of hospitalisations due to the infection continued to rise. There were 9,343 Covid-19 patients in various city hospitals as on Tuesday, the daily health bulletin shows. Despite the government continuously increasing the number of beds, 56% of all beds earmarked for Covid-19 were occupied as on Wednesday night, showed the Delhi Corona app. The situation is worse for ICU beds, with almost 89% being occupied.“The situation is as bad as it was a week ago; almost every hour I get a call to arrange a bed. Even though more beds have been added, there is still a shortage, and I do not see any signs of the situation improving any time soon. Probably 10-12 days later, we may see a decrease in numbers but not right now,” said Dr Rajesh Chawla, senior consultant, respiratory and critical care medicine, Indraprastha Apollo Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-records-7-486-new-cases-131-deaths/story-fNKNVtcCyuHPZK1EtcKOAJ.html
19-11-2020||Noida||11 test positive for Covid-19 on Noida, Ghaziabad borders||Noida/Ghaziabad: Eleven people entering Noida and Ghaziabad from Delhi were found positive during random testing for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) by officials from the two cities on Wednesday. Even though the Gautam Budh Nagar district administration had announced on Tuesday that commuters from Delhi will be randomly tested at roads and Metro stations connecting Noida and Delhi, Ghaziabad officials launched testing as part of a new strategy to curb the surge in Covid cases post festive season. Of the total 11 -- three tested positive on their way to Noida. Eighty-one tests were conducted at the DND Flyway where one person tested positive, while two out of 84 tests returned positive at the border on the Link Road. In Ghaziabad, 72 people were tested near the UP Gate of whom eight were found positive. All tests were conducted using the less reliable rapid antigen method. Also Read| Districts with high number of containment zones have most number of Covid cases: Govt dataA team of three lab technicians each had been deployed at DND Flyway and Noida link road.Dr Deepak Ohri, chief medical officer, Gautam Budh Nagar, said, “If those who test positive are Noida residents, they will be sent to the hospital or home isolation depending on the symptoms. The rapid antigen test results come out in 4-5 minutes, so there is no hassle for commuters.” Ohri said that the health department was told to not pressure commuters into being tested. “If they are not willing, we will not force them and let them go,” he said. He added that the exercise will go on for a few more days and did not commit to an end date.District Magistrate Suhas LY said this is being done in order to assess spread of infection and would help in issuing advisories to employers and organisations, where large number of people work and commute between Noida and adjacent areas. Ganesh Saha, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), Noida, said traffic was not hit during the exercise.Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said though they have not chosen particular border points but teams were being deployed in areas where most commuters come from Delhi. He said testing teams have been deployed in areas such as Indirapuram, Vaishali, Khoda and Loni, which are close to Delhi. Also Read: Delhi logs 131 Covid deaths, highest single-day fatality count till date; 7,486 new cases“We are not focussing on testing at borders with Delhi at all. But our teams are already deployed in bordering areas and they have been asked to increase testing. The teams are deployed at places where we know of people who come from Delhi. So, our teams are testing them, as well as locals. Further, we have chalked out a comprehensive post festival strategy which will come into effect from November 21, a day after Chhath Puja ends,” Pandey said.A health department official said of the eight who tested positive, four were travelling in a car. “We will adhere to Covid-19 protocols with regard to those residing in the city, while Delhi authorities will be informed about the status of their residents,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/11-test-positive-on-noida-ghaziabad-borders/story-JCuLf54KqD0eV8VsNpyFVL.html
19-11-2020||Delhi||RWA president, his German Shepherd, killed in toilet wall collapse in Vasant Kunj||The 67-year-old president of the Vasant Kunj Enclave B Block residents’ welfare association and his German Shepherd dog were crushed to death after a portion of the wall adjacent to their building collapsed on them on Monday evening, the police said. The elderly man, Pratap Singh Tanwar, had recovered from Covid-19 just last week and was relaxing in the lawn of his bungalow with his family when the mishap took place around 7pm on Monday, said his son Siddharth who escaped with minor injuries. Siddharth accused the builder who constructed the four-storey building, as well as the owner of that floor, of negligence as well as not paying heed to their requests for safety. “In the past, construction material falling from the under-construction building had damaged our cars twice. This time, it claimed my father’s life,” said Siddharth. The police have registered a first information report at Vasant Kunj South police station under Indian Penal Code sections pertaining to causing death by negligence, negligent conduct with respect to repairing buildings and causing hurt by a rash act, said Ingit Pratap Singh, deputy commissioner of police (south-west).The officer said that the house owner, Pankaj Singh Pundhir, has been arrested. “He is an ex-serviceman working with a private firm in Gurugram,” said Singh. The Tanwar father-son duo ran an engineering instrumental company. Years ago, they had constructed a single-storey house and a lawn. “Ten years ago, my father had started the RWA here. He had been its president ever since,” said Siddharth. Other RWA members said Tanwar was an active man who worked hard to get basic facilities to the neighbourhood. “He would constantly complain about illegal constructions in the neighbourhood and about structures being erected beyond the permissible height, but no one cared to stop it,” said Manish Aggarwal, the RWA general secretary. Tanwar’s family alleged that problems began soon after the construction of the neighbouring building commenced about three or four years ago. “The builder didn’t follow the safety norms. We would complain about construction materials falling on our property, but he didn’t listen. They would also use substandard construction material,” alleged Siddharth in his police complaint. Sometime last year, Siddharth alleged, the top floor was purchased by a man who about three months ago began constructing a toilet on the terrace. “The construction material continued falling on us, but he didn’t care about our request,” said Siddharth. Around 7pm on Monday, the family was sitting in their lawn and had ordered food from a restaurant for the first time since the lockdown when a large portion of the wall of the bathroom on the top floor suddenly fell. “The food was 15 minutes away when I heard a loud sound. I managed to jump away from the falling wall, but my father and our German Shepherd were crushed to death. My mother had a lucky escape as she had walked away from the lawn just moments earlier,” said Siddharth. Siddharth and his father were rushed to the Indian Spinal Injuries Centre where the elderly man was declared brought dead. The DCP said that further probe into the death is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/rwa-president-his-german-shepherd-killed-in-toilet-wall-collapse-in-vasant-kunj/story-xkl7BMIT9UcqKdrrJMZcEN.html
19-11-2020||City||Fraud call centre busted in Rajendra Place||New Delhi: A fraud call centre in central Delhi which was being used to dupe British citizens was busted last week with the arrest of two people, police said on Wednesday.Deputy commissioner of police (central) Sanjay Bhatia said the operators at the call centre, which was being run from two offices in the Gagandeep building in Rajendra Place, posed as UK tax department officers to cheat people. Bhatia said two men identified as Parvinder Singh,36, and his relative Pankaj Kapoor,40 have been arrested. At least 13 men and six women were working at the call centre. The DCP said Prasad Nagar police station was informed about the call centre on November 7. A police team raided two offices on the sixth floor of the building and caught the employees while they were calls to the UK. “They were making and receiving calls over the internet through their laptops. One person, whom we later identified as Parvinder Singh was supervising the operations there. He was also making the calls. We found out that they were posing as UK tax department officials and cheating people,” said Bhatia adding that police are probing how many persons have been duped so far. After the raid on November 7, police had registered a case of cheating the following day and started probe. DCP Bhatia said police found Singh was running the call centre with his accomplice Pankaj Kapoor, who was arrested later. “Our probe revealed that the two got the contacts of the UK residents from different websites, social media companies and other fraud call centres. They had set up the call centre about one and a half years ago. They recruited employees through advertisements in newspaper and other means. They ran the call centre discreetly between 1.30 pm and 9.30 pm under the cover of a travel agency,” the DCP said.Singh’s employees would randomly call the UK ciitzens and tell them that they were calling from Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs and warned them of dire consequences if they would not pay their tax dues immediately, Bhatia said. They would receive money through online transactions in various accounts. Police said they suspect Kapoor of running Hawala transactions. Police recovered Rs 19.64 lakh in cash and 32 laptops apart from other equipments that was being used to run the call centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fraud-call-centre-busted-in-rajendra-place/story-N8J4NY6owLcNdvTZdJ1SUK.html
19-11-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 pandemic fears kill the rush on trains, buses, many prefer to drive home for Chhath||This Chhath would be the first time in two decades when Delhi-based businessman Shashi Kaushik did not go home to Bihar. For his family of four, that includes two children, trains and buses were unsafe with the pandemic is tightening its grip on the capital, and flights were too costly. Driving down to Bihar was the only feasible option he had, but he couldn’t muster the courage for the long journey. “My brother drove home with his family, but I regret not being home for Chhath,” said Kaushik, 45.“The festive fervour seen at railway stations during the previous Chhaths was on the highway this time. There were so many cars heading to Bihar and Jharkhand,” said Ritesh Shekhar, who drove to his home in Gaya. The trains and buses plying to these areas did see a reduced rush this Chhath season, said stakeholders.Deepak Kumar, spokesperson for Northern Railway, said the number of passengers seeking train tickets for Bihar and eastern states this time were fewer and he attributed this to the pandemic and people’s concerns about social distancing.Another railways officer, who didn’t want to be identified, pegged the decrease at almost 40% when compared to last year, but HT could not independently verify this.Buses to Bihar too saw a decrease in passengers. GS Yadav, who runs the Jai Mata Di Travels and operates buses from Delhi to Bihar, said the number of passengers have dipped by 20% compared to the Chhath last year. But sufficient arrangements were in place to cater to the festive rush, insisted the railways spokesperson. “To cater to the rush, we planned over 1,000 train trips from Delhi to the Northern states since October 15 to November 30. For Chhath alone, we ran around 700 train trips during the festive period from November 8 to 20,” said Kumar, adding that a number of special trains were introduced to cater to the increase in demand. Also Read| ‘Saving the economy is equally important’: No lockdown, assures Kejriwal“Those with wait-listed tickets are not being allowed on trains as we have to ensure one seat is just for one passenger,” said Kumar.But passengers had more problems even then. Chanda, who managed to find a berth on a train to Katihar, said that she had to make compromises to ensure her safety. “I didn’t use the toilet during the 21-hour journey,” said the woman. Bus operators said that though there was a dip in the overall number of passengers this season, they had to turn away many. “To ensure social distancing, we allowed only one passenger every two seats. So, many of those waiting at bus stops without a confirmed ticket were turned away,” said Anand Sharma, who operates buses from Delhi to Bihar. “There may have been separate seats for each passengers, but toilets are shared by many during a long journey. It wasn’t a risk I was willing to take,” said Satyendra Sinha, an advocate who drove 1,200km to Banka in Bihar.Dipak Jha, a Delhi-based journalist, said he found travelling by car to his home in Jamshedpur the safest for his family of four. “We only got out of the car during the 24-hour journey to use toilets. We even carried our own meals. This ensured that we hardly ever exposed ourselves during the journey,” said Jha. And as Jha drove on, he realised that he wasn’t alone on the journey. “One five-seater car had eight occupants stuffed inside. That is how desperate people were to get home for Chhath,” said Jha.HC upholds celebration banMeanwhile, the Delhi high court on Wednesday refused to entertain a plea which had challenged the Delhi Disaster Management Authority’s (DDMA) decision of banning Chhath Puja celebrations at public places in the city due to the Covid-19 pandemic.While dismissing the plea, a bench of justice Hima Kohli and justice Subramonium Prasad, remarked that “it appears the petitioner is not alive to Covid-19 situation in Delhi” and “any such permission if granted would necessarily result in such function turning into a super spreader”.Also Read| Districts with high number of containment zones have most number of Covid cases: Govt dataMayor writes to L-G for Chhath celebrationsBharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Jai Prakash on Wednesday wrote letters to lieutenant governor Anil Baijal and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and request them to reconsider their decision to ban Chhath Puja at public places in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. He said that he had request them to allow the puja with certain riders and guidelines.“I have written letters to the CM and the L-G and requested them not to ban celebrations of Chhat Puja at public places in the city. Puja should not be completely banned instead special arrangements should be made to organise it,” the mayor said.Police issues advisoryDelhi Police Wednesday said they have held meetings with different organisers and residents urging them to avoid public places and follow social distancing rules while celebrating Chhath Puja. In a press statement, police said they have also sensitised their personnel while dealing with citizens. “All station house officers have been told to hold meetings with puja committees and ensure there is strict compliance. Residents are advised to celebrate the festival at their homes during the pandemic,”said a police spokesperson. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/pandemic-fears-kill-the-rush-on-trains-buses-many-prefer-to-drive-home-for-chhath/story-pAZPyeBqzxqBVmtei1rkYO.html
19-11-2020||Delhi||Govt orders hiring of medical students to ramp up staff for Covid patients||The Delhi government on Wednesday allowed medical directors of its Covid hospitals to hire medical students, interns, and dentists to assist duty doctors in taking care of patients with coronavirus disease (covid-19). “In view of…increased demand for ICU beds and medical HR in hospitals of (Delhi government) for management of Covid-19, all directors … are permitted to engage 4th and 5th year MBBS students, interns, and BDS (Bachelor of Dental Surgery) pass to assist the duty doctors,” an order from the special secretary (health) SM Ali issued on Wednesday read. The medical students, interns, or dentists who are hired will be paid Rs 1,000 for an 8-hour shift and Rs 2,000 for a 12-hour shift. The interns will receive this “honorarium” over and above their stipend. It is difficult to work longer hours with the personal protective equipment, the order read. Also Read: 131 Covid-19 deaths, highest spike in a day so far in DelhiThe government also allowed hospitals to get CT scan at DGHS approved labs under its Delhi Arogya Kosh scheme, if the facility is not available in a hospital. The newly constructed hospitals in Burari and Ambedkar Nagar had already been directed to do so for any laboratory tests. The government has also instructed hospitals to get the expensive IL-6 test from the four government hospitals that perform it Guru Teg Bahadur, Rajiv Gandhi Superspeciality hospital, Lok Nayak hospital, and Deen Dayal Upadhyay hospital. The test is done to check inflammatory markers to predict a cytokine storm, a condition in which the body’s immune response goes into an overdrive and starts attacking its own tissues and organs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-orders-hiring-of-medical-students-to-ramp-up-staff-for-covid-patients/story-n9cbpzMQleudWsiKqFiYxM.html
19-11-2020||Delhi||Covid: Experts suggest early discharge of stable patients to ease burden on hospitals||New Delhi: With hospitalisations from coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on the rise in Delhi, experts from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) have suggested early discharge of stable patients who can then continue home isolation.Doctors from AIIMS, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences-Rohtak, and Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Lucknow participated in a discussion on protocols to be followed for home isolation during the National Grand Rounds, a virtual platform for doctors across the country to discuss challenges in Covid-care. “In one of the cases presented, the patient was discharged early after he stabilised. In places like Delhi, where the number of cases are high, this is a policy we are more aggressively looking at. This will decrease the burden in hospitals and the home isolation will continue as an extension of the hospital service,” said Dr Randeep Guleria, director, AIIMS. He, however, warned that such patients have to carefully monitor their signs and symptoms as there is a possibility that they are brought back to the hospitals with a cytokine storm. Cytokine storm is a condition where the body’s immune system goes into an overdrive and starts attacking its own tissues and organs. Also Read: Govt orders hiring of medical students to ramp up staff for Covid patientsThe case referenced by Dr Guleria was that of a 53-year-old man with controlled diabetes, who had to be admitted to the hospital because his oxygen saturation had dropped to 93%. The normal oxygen saturation is between 95 and 100%. The patient was given low-flow oxygen and steroids and he stabilised in 72 hours. As he did not have any other symptom, he was advised home isolation. Currently, nearly 60% of the total active cases or those with the infection in Delhi are in home isolation, 20% admitted to hospitals, with the rest – who did not have proper isolation facilities – being in Covid care centres. The suggestion by experts was proposed a day after the union health ministry announced that home isolation in Delhi will be augmented to support up to 35,000 to 40,000 people. “The support system needed for patients in home isolation – telemedicine support, pulse oximeter, etc – will be ramped up, as the number of active cases might go up in the future,” NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul had said during a press briefing on Tuesday. He had also said that Delhi had dramatically improved when it came to early admissions of patients who needed hospital-based care. “Initially, when the pandemic had started – till about June – nearly 60 to 70% of the deaths in hospitals happened within the first 72 hours. Half of these deaths happened within the first 24-hours of admission. In Delhi, there has been a dramatic change since,” Dr Paul had said. The necessity of close monitoring and timely shift to the hospital was demonstrated in another case presented during the grand rounds. A 43-year-old man with no comorbidities who was in home isolation noticed that his oxygen saturation had dropped to 86% on the sixth day of symptoms. He had what is called happy hypoxia where patients do not have apparent breathlessness despite low oxygen saturation. In hospital, the doctors found that he had a pulmonary embolism, a clot that blocks the blood vessels in the lungs. The condition can be fatal if not treated in a timely manner. Also Read: Delhi logs 131 Covid deaths, highest single-day fatality count till date; 7,486 new casesPatients in home isolation must rush to a hospital if they have any breathing difficulty, drop in oxygen saturation, persistent pain or pressure in chest, confusion, slurred speech, any weakness or numbness, or bluish discolourations, the doctors said. The doctors also added that antiviral medicine Remdesivir should not be given to patients in home isolation. Doctors advised that drugs such as anti-malarial hydroxychloroquine, anti-parasitic ivermectin, and anti-viral Favipiravir that are thought to prevent viral replication to be given cautiously. “Remdesivir should not be given to patients in home isolation because it may lead to several complications such as kidney or liver injury. Unfortunately, it has become a common practice among medical professionals in smaller cities. Many are prescribing all three – hydroxychloroquine, ivermectin, and favipiravir – together and sometimes along with steroids. This will cause more harm than good,” said Dr Dhruv Chaudhary, head of pulmonary and critical care medicine at PGIMS Rohtak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/experts-suggest-early-discharge-of-stable-patients-to-ease-burden-on-hospitals/story-fzRRYiBSpOQUffHc91XX1H.html
19-11-2020||Delhi||50% Covid-19 patients in Delhi hospitals from UP and Haryana: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday said around 50% of Covid-19 patients in Delhi hospitals are from Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, which shows the state of health care infrastructure in the two states. The party criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) governments in the two states for the health infrastructure there, and claimed the central government was yet to provide 250 ICU beds in a facility assured on Sunday.“More than half of the Covid-19 patients in Delhi hospitals are from Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. We are happy to provide them with quality health care but this shows the utter failure of the BJP government in these two states in the field of quality health care. Delhi, on the other hand, has a proper strategy in place,” AAP’s national spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj said in a press conference at the party’s head office.Also Read| Delhi: Wedding curbs back as coronavirus cases hit 500,000He said, “Despite promising, the Central government is yet to provide 250 ICU beds for the people of Delhi. BJP ministers found time to put up posters promoting their advocacy, but they could not comply with our request to increase ICU beds.”After his meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said the central government assured 750 ICU beds for Delhi, of which 250 would be added in the next two days. The ICU beds are supposed to be added in the central government’s DRDO facility.Neeraj Daftuar, principal officer on special duty to the Haryana chief minister, said AAP’s assertion was “preposterous”. He said, “Covid-19 patients from Delhi are regularly getting admitted in Gurugram hospitals like Medanta. What does that indicate? It seems the Delhi government needs to look at their own health infrastructure rather than do nitpicking on us.” Also Read| Covid-19: CM Kejriwal calls all-party meeting as Delhi logs highest deaths in single dayThe CM’s aide said 58% of the total active infections in Haryana were confined to four national capital region districts bordering Delhi. They are Gurugram, Faridabad, Rohtak and Sonepat. Out of the four, Gurugram and Faridabad alone accounted for 48% of active infections. “It’s so unfortunate that instead of taking proactive measures and self-introspection, the Delhi government is getting into the blame game,” he said.The Centre and Uttar Pradesh governments did not respond to requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/50-covid-19-patients-in-delhi-hospitals-from-up-and-haryana-aap/story-7PcFt6e33fYUWk3xjXbOXK.html
19-11-2020||Delhi||‘Saving the economy is equally important’: No lockdown, assures Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday allayed fears that the government may enforce another lockdown as coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases surge in the capital, saying saving the economy is equally important as fighting Covid-19 even as he called an all-party meeting to discuss the pandemic situation in the city. Kejriwal had said on Tuesday that he has sought permission from the central government to allow the Delhi government to temporarily shut down markets, which are assessed as potential Covid-19 hot spots from time to time due to rampant violation of social distancing norms and other Covid-19 regulations. The CM said that his decision should not be seen as a move to enforce “lockdown”. A day earlier, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain had said that a lockdown was out of the question.Under the current guidelines, states need the approval of the Union home ministry for imposing any local lockdown-like restrictions.The file concerning the Delhi government’s proposal was sent to the office of Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Anil Baijal and later forwarded by him to the Union home ministry. A response from the Centre is awaited, said a senior government official.“It should not be called a lockdown. For the next few days, we will observe the situation on the ground, especially violation of Covid-19 regulations and assess if any particular market can turn into a hot spot. It is not that we are shutting down markets. Saving economy is equally important for us as fighting against Covid-19. We will try all means. We will not close any market unless it is extremely necessary. As of now, we have only sought permission,” Kejriwal said.Also Read: Delhi logs 131 Covid deaths, highest single-day fatality count till date; 7,486 new casesDeputy chief minister Manish Sisodia also weighed in. He said, “We believe the solution to Covid-19 is in better management of healthcare resources and not in a lockdown. We have done our best in terms of healthcare management so far and we would continue our efforts. If needed, regulations would be increased in some markets. We have sought permission for that from the Centre. It should not be seen as a lockdown.”While the Delhi government is yet to chalk out the modalities in this regard, Kejriwal’s announcement has led to concern among traders.Brijesh Goyal, president of the chamber of trade and industry, said: “Due to the news of the lockdown in Delhi and the closure of the Delhi markets, there has been restlessness among the traders of Delhi. We convened a video conference today with more than 200 trader bodies and they opined that there should be no lockdown in Delhi nor should any market be closed.”Praveen Khandelwal, national secretary-general of the confederation of all India traders, said: “The Delhi CM did not consider it appropriate to talk to the traders of Delhi before sending yesterday a proposal to the central government, seeking permission to close the Delhi markets. It is a unilateral decision of Delhi CM which has caused a lot of resentment among the traders. The fast-spreading Covid-19 epidemic in Delhi is a matter of concern and the trading community is more eager to play an active role. But certainly at this stage instead of temporary solutions, an effective and comprehensive strategy is required.”On Wednesday, the Delhi government issued a notice for an all-party meeting in the light of the Covid-19 situation in the Capital, said a senior government official.Delhi on Wednesday recorded 7,486 new Covid-19 cases and 131 more deaths, said the government’s health bulletin.Also Read: ‘Measures being taken to address shortage in number of ICU beds’: Kejriwal“The chief minister has desired to convene an all-party meeting of major political parties,” said a notice issued by the additional secretary to the CM. Government spokespersons, however, did not elaborate on the agenda.The meeting is scheduled at 11 am in the premises of the Delhi Secretariat.Leader of Opposition in Delhi Legislative Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said, “No further decision should be taken till the all-party meeting is convened on Thursday.”Bidhuri, a BJP MLA, further said that he has written to the L-G, urging him to postpone the implementation of the cap of 50 guests in wedding-related gatherings, and also requested him to delay the proposal regarding markets.Chaudhary Anil Kumar, president of Delhi Congress, said, “The Congress will participate in the all-party meeting and submit suggestions that would contribute to the fight against Covid-19.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/saving-the-economy-is-equally-important-no-lockdown-assures-kejriwal/story-37tCbtMhJ2wTwJyhVVjHzN.html
19-11-2020||City||Child sexual abuse case: JE targeted kids from deprived families, say CBI officials||LUCKNOW/KANPUR UP irrigation department junior engineer Ram Bhawan, who was arrested by the CBI from Banda on Monday for allegedly sexually abusing about 50 children, used to target children mainly from unprivileged families, said senior police and CBI officials.The JE clicked photographs and made video clips while sexually abusing children, all aged between five and 16 years, and later sold the content on the dark net to other paedophiles across the globe, said CBI officials.The CBI team had prepared a list of children who had been victimised by the JE in the past. The accused targeted children of street vendors, daily wagers, pavement dwellers and domestic helps who worked at his house, said a senior CBI official. Sleuths were verifying the details of nearly 50 victims who were seen in photographs and videos recovered from Ram Bhawan. Of these, 11 children had been found, he said.He said the children on the victims’ list were mainly from three districts of Uttar Pradesh -- Chitrakoot, Banda and Hamirpur. The engineer, a native of Banda, was posted in adjoining Chitrakoot district and many of his relatives were from Hamirpur. The CBI team was trying to trace the victims to further record their statements and prepare a strong case against Ram Bhawan, said the official.“During interrogation, the accused revealed that he targeted children who could easily be lured with money, electronic gadgets, eatables or any other thing they were deprived of. Ram Bhawan believed that he could easily handle the families, if the children shared these details with their kin,” the official stated while explaining modus operandi of the accused.The official said the JE remained successful in his approach as no major complaint was made with the police in the past 10 years and he continued to sexually abuse children after luring them into his trap. He said the engineer was about to be exposed at least twice in the past when the sexually abused children complained to their parents, but he managed things by paying some money to them.The accused was a humble and shy person for his colleagues and others he met outside. He was staying in a two-room rented house in SDM colony of Chitrakoot for the past seven years. Prior to this, he lived in another rented house in Chitrakoot for around three years, added the official.The official said Ram Bhawan would have continued to sexually abuse children had he not come on the radar of the CBI’s special unit ‘Online Child Sexual Abuse and Exploitation Prevention/Investigation (OCSAE)’ constituted for matters pertaining to online child sexual abuse and exploitation.The accused came on the CBI radar after the location of uploading child pornography content was traced. The scrutiny of emails of the accused revealed that he was allegedly in constant touch with several individuals (Indian and foreign nationals) for the purpose of sharing child sexual abuse material, said the official. The JE allegedly created and shared a huge quantity of child sexual abusive material, over the years, using various social media platforms and websites over dark net etc, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/child-sexual-abuse-case-je-targeted-kids-from-deprived-families-say-cbi-officials/story-vHtKtNjtZUTrXx2pGGBi3H.html
19-11-2020||City||HC junks plea challenging ban on Chhath Puja in public places||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Wednesday refused to entertain a plea which had challenged the Delhi Disaster Management Authority’s (DDMA) decision of banning Chhath Puja celebrations at public places in the city due to the Covid-19 pandemic.While dismissing the plea, a bench of justice Hima Kohli and justice Subramonium Prasad, remarked that “it appears the petitioner is not alive to Covid-19 situation in Delhi” and “any such permission if granted would necessarily result in such function turning into a super spreader”.“The right to health must be respected first. The person has to live to be able to practice any religion,” the bench said while hearing a plea by Durga Jan Seva Trust, challenging the DDMA’s November 20 order.The petition had also sought permission to hold a gathering of 1,000 people for Chhath Puja.However, this did not go down well with the court which remarked, “Oh really! Today when the Delhi government is not allowing marriages with over 50 persons, you want only 1,000 persons.” It said that the authorities have passed the order after considering the spread of infection in Delhi and the petition was without merit.“In today’s day and time, such a petition is belied by the ground reality,” the court said while noting that the petitioner should have taken into consideration the current circumstances in the city.“The infection rate is hovering between 7,800 to 8,593… the death rate is in double figures. There are 42,000 active cases,” it noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hc-junks-plea-challenging-ban-on-chhath-puja-in-public-places/story-J6iXBGAlUbTSrF3pA7P78I.html
19-11-2020||Delhi||North Delhi mayor writes to L-G, CM; asks them to reconsider ban on Chhath Puja||New Delhi: The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Jai Prakash on Wednesday wrote to lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, requesting them to reconsider their decision to ban Chhath Puja at public places in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Prakash said he had requested them to allow the puja with certain riders and guidelines.“I have written letters to the CM and the L-G and requested them not to ban celebrations of Chhath Puja at public places. The puja should not be completely banned and instead, special arrangements should be made,” he said.Prakash said a huge number of people from Bihar and eastern Uttar Pradesh live in Delhi and Chhath is one of their most important and popular festivals. He said the ban on the Puja in public places will force people to celebrate the festival locally, which can lead to a spread of the virus. “It is better that we allow Chhath Puja with strict guidelines about crowd control and social distancing at ghats.”In the letter, Prakash suggested that a limit of 50 people at a ghat can be set and devotees can be allowed on the basis of cards issued by their Chhath committees. He said to control crowds, the number of ghats can be increased by creating temporary pools in municipal parks, which are available in almost every colony. “Only devotees who observe fast should be allowed at these ghats. These precautions can really help in managing crowds. We are ready to extend our full support to the government if it allows Chhath Puja,” Prakash said.There are nearly 1,200 Chhath Ghats across the city where devotees would celebrate the festival annually.The Delhi government has banned community celebrations of Chhath at public places such as river banks, temples, and ghats to control the spread of the virus. The move came after a sudden spike in the number of Covid-19 cases.The BJP on Tuesday had staged a protest to oppose the ban.Ruling Aam Aadmi Party leader Durgesh Pathak said the BJP-ruled central government had issued guidelines to stop the celebration of Chhath Puja. He accused the BJP of “falsely accusing” the Delhi government of disallowing the celebration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/north-delhi-mayor-writes-to-l-g-cm-asks-them-to-reconsider-ban-on-chhath-puja/story-LxVxY42QhR84EcpaY0e0yM.html
19-11-2020||Delhi||High-tech business park to come up near IGI airport||New Delhi:The Delhi government will set up a high-tech business park at Rani Khera on 150 acres of land. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday directed DSIIDC officials to finish the first phase of the work by August 31, 2022. This business park, a first of its kind, will be located just 15 minutes from the Indira Gandhi international airport. It will have various IT services and high-tech industry services.Chairing a meeting of the Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd (DSIIDC), Kejriwal directed that the first phase of this work should be completed within the stipulated timeline. The Delhi government said in a statement that it was working to install modern technology to treat industrial waste coming out from the treatment plants. In the meeting, DSIIDC officials presented a detailed plan for the construction of the business park.The statement quoted Kejriwal as saying, “The first phase of the construction should be completed within the stipulated timeline. Every project should be done in a time-bound manner. Industrial waste coming out from the common effluent treatment plants should be treated with modern technology.”This business park will have large size workspaces on every floor and multipurpose business facilities will be available. “This business park will have a generous landscape and also pedestrian plazas. The Delhi government will provide adequate parking facility. This first-of-its-kind business park will be developed in seven different phases. The first phase of the work will be completed by August 31, 2022. In the first phase, a multi-storey building with an area of 15 lakh square feet will be built,” the government said in a statement.In the meeting, DSIIDC also presented a report on various other ongoing development projects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/high-tech-business-park-to-come-up-near-igi-airport/story-xaUVNmoTSII5Qtvdewo3RM.html
19-11-2020||Mumbai||MU’s Mumbai School of Economics and Public Policy gets ₹5-crore donation for research centre||The Mumbai School of Economics and Public Policy (MSEPP) will soon get a centre for research and training in finance, thanks to a donation of ₹5 crore. The MSEPP – formerly the department of economics – is an autonomous body of the University of Mumbai (MU). AS Dave, an alumnus of the department and former chairperson of the Unit Trust of India donated ₹5 crore to set up and develop a centre for research and training in finance. MSEPP director and professor Mala Lalwani said that the centre will be set up at the Kalina campus of the university at the earliest. “The cheque has already been deposited. We have the corpus. All we need is to sort out the formalities of the university to get the centre started,” said Lalwani. The centre will collaborate with the industry and carry out research in the financial sector. Apart from research, the centre will also offer certificate and diploma courses in the emerging fields of data science, quantitative finance and business analytics, among others.In 2017, the autonomous department of economics was relaunched as MSEPP, along the lines of the Delhi School of Economics, to promote research and policy interventions. Since then, the school has partnered with several initiatives of the state government to implement and measure the effectiveness of government schemes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mu-s-mumbai-school-of-economics-and-public-policy-gets-5-crore-donation-for-research-centre/story-9kYwygXETnSHziq4rxhMvO.html
19-11-2020||Delhi||Transfer, promotion of judges in district courts may affect pace of cases||The transfer and promotion of 140 judges posted in Delhi’s district courts in the past week stand to affect the pace of several legal cases, including those pertaining to the North East Delhi violence, the Tablighi Jamaat congregation and the criminal defamation case brought by former union minister MJ Akbar against journalist Priya Ramani.A notice dated November 18 issued by the Delhi high court listed the postings and transfers of 124 judges and the appointment of 90 newly inducted officers in the Delhi Judicial Services.Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Vishal Pahuja, whose court was designated to hear cases against parliamentarians and legislators, was hearing the criminal defamation suit filed by Akbar pertaining to a sexual harassment allegation made by Ramani in October 2018. He has been transferred to Karkadooma and Ravindra Kumar Pandey will replace him.ACMM Pahuja had not reserved the order in the case, though lawyers of both parties had finished their final arguments.On November 13, the high court listed 16 promotions to the post of Delhi Higher Judicial Services. Prominent among them were promotions of Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Purshottam Pathak who was hearing cases pertaining to the North East Delhi riots and Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Gurmohina Kaur who was hearing cases pertaining to the foreign nationals who had participated in the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz in March. The transfers, though routine, are likely to delay the cases where in some cases the pleadings would have to be heard again due to the reshuffle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/transfer-promotion-of-judges-in-district-courts-may-affect-pace-of-cases/story-zvaNec7UIy60JVNEOiKmIP.html
19-11-2020||Education||First year students log in to college life as DU’s new session begins||“Come join us as we try with all our hope filled hearts to turn your laptop screens into a warm passage into a new beginning,” read a poster shared by Miranda House students with their juniors as they logged in to a new phase of their lives on Wednesday.Thousands of first-year undergraduate students in colleges across the Delhi University (DU) had a very different beginning to their college life as a new academic session began virtually on Wednesday in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.The usually busy roads of DU’s North Campus were deserted and the colleges remained unusually silent -- quite unlike the bustle and colours of the first day of an academic session during the previous years. The orientation programmes were held online, and students were introduced to departments, different societies and clubs; the new semester timetable and other nitty-gritty of college life virtually. Some colleges, including St Stephen’s and Hindu, started online classes for the first-year students on Wednesday. Radhika, an 18-year-old from Charkhi Dadri in Haryana, who started her Political Science (Honours) at Daulat Ram College, said she missed the chance of going to college on the first day. She and the other students attended an online orientation organised by the college. “We were told about the college alumni and societies through recorded videos. The virtual orientation was nice because parents also get to see everything. We also enjoyed the music and dance performances by our seniors during the online introduction. While I do miss coming to college, teachers have assured us that they will help us with whatever we need.”Also Read| Give date by when OBE results will be declared: Delhi HC to DUFalit Sijariya, 17, a resident of Meerut in Uttar Pradesh, who enrolled in BA Programme at St Stephen’s College, said he and his new classmates are in touch over WhatsApp groups. “We created the group because we did not know when we would get the opportunity to meet in person. It’s a very different experience but we will have to accept the reality. We have also created an Instagram handle for first-year students so that they can introduce themselves and share their interests. We have also organised a talent show next week for students to get to know each other better,” he said. The experience was very different for colleges well. At Miranda House, the college administration has begun a week-long orientation programme for their first-year students on Wednesday. The college had given a virtual tour to students on Wednesday and the principal also addressed them remotely. From Thursday onwards, there will be live performances of all the societies and clubs available in the college for the first-year students. College acting principal Bijayalaxmi Nanda said the personal feel was missing on the first day. “It’s a challenge but also an opportunity to connect with so many people. The college auditorium can accommodate 500 students at a time but through the online mode, we had about 700 students connected on the online platform and many more had watched the live streaming on Youtube. But I missed the face-to-face connection. So, starting tomorrow, I will have online office hours for them. Students can log in and interact with me personally and we can discuss their future,” she said. At Ramjas College, all departments held their individual orientation programmes online on Wednesday. College principal Manoj Khanna said, “It’s a very different experience. The campus completely missed the colours and energy of the first day of college.”Hindu College, which had managed to complete their orientations earlier, began full-fledged classes on Wednesday. College principal Anju Shrivastava said, “We had our orientation day on November 11 and also held a long session for new students with the college counsellor. They were informed about when they should seek counselling as it is important for students to identify when they or their friends need help. On Wednesday, we started full-fledged classes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/du-first-year-students-logs-in-to-college-life/story-ThhepqvgAJaFWlkBdBXOkJ.html
19-11-2020||Delhi||L-G orders installation of CCTVs, removal of debris from Yamuna||Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal has directed the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) to remove debris from the Yamuna floodplains and install CCTVs for surveillance.The directions were issued to DDA officials in a meeting on Wednesday where the L-G reviewed the progress of the ongoing restoration work of the riverfront.The L-G tweeted, “Chaired meeting with @official_dda to review progress of Restoration and Rejuvenation of Yamuna River Front. Emphasised upon time bound completion of landscaping, greening and plantation in the area to restore wetlands & riverine ecosystem.” Also Read: To make Yamuna pollution-free by 2023, DJB working out a concrete plan: CM“Directed removal of malba on top priority, CCTV based surveillance for protection of floodplains,” Baijal posted in another tweet.DDA officials say that routine drives are being carried out to remove encroachment from the river floodplain. “We already have 78 CCTV cameras installed at 26 different locations on the floodplain. We are in the process of installing 18 CCTV cameras at six different locations. As for removing the debris from the floodplain, a majority of the agencies have already done that. We will be taking action against those who are yet to remove the debris,” said a DDA official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/l-g-orders-removal-of-debris-from-yamuna-floodplain-installation-of-cctvs-for-surveillance/story-FM0Ln3jKkCrd18TayHkjJO.html
19-11-2020||Education||Give date by when OBE results will be declared: Delhi HC to DU||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday directed Delhi University to give details of courses whose results for the online Open Book Examination (OBE) have been declared and sought to know by when the rest of the results will be declared. The court said that taking into account the grievances of students, it will have to monitor things again like it had done during the conduct of the examinations in August.Justice Pratibha Singh asked the University to file an affidavit within five days on the declaration of the results of various subjects after DU did not file its affidavit on the data retention policy. On October 12, the court had sought to know from the varsity about its stand on legal issues that arise with respect to data of students, privacy, etc., after some data was leaked from a student’s admit card.The court had asked DU to place on record, its contract with the cloud service provider, with whom the data related to the entire examination process, including answer papers. etc., has been stored.A section of final-year undergraduate students of various colleges had raised concerns over a possible breach of privacy on the varsity’s online portal for issuing admit cards for the online exams conducted in August.  Students had alleged that anyone can access a student’s admit card that carries personal details such as their mobile phone number, address, date of birth and email id.Expressing concern over the leak, the court had said, “In order to adjudicate legal issues that arise in respect of the data of the students, privacy etc., DU is directed to place on record, its contract with the cloud service provider, with whom the data, in relation to the entire examination process, including answer papers etc., has been stored…”“DU shall also place on record, its policy, if any, in respect of retention of answer scripts both in physical and electronic forms, before the next date of hearing,” the court had said on October 12 after several students had raised grievances of their data being leaked on social media.The high court was hearing students’ plea that results of their final-year exams, which were conducted in August, have not been declared yet and due to which they are unable to join higher studies.In an affidavit filed through advocate Prateek Sharma, some students said it is pertinent to mention that after making payment, the students got their confidential result along with “No Backlog Certificate”, but despite the certificate, students have been marked as absent in the final results declared by the university. On Wednesday, the court was displeased with the non-filing of an affidavit on DU’s data retention policy.“There is non-compliance by Delhi University. It is really shocking. It is happening every time,” it said, adding, “now we will have to monitor things again”.The court asked the varsity to file an affidavit before November 25 and posted the matter for further hearing on November 26. It asked professor D S Rawat, Dean of Examinations, to be present in the next video hearing.A division bench of the high court had earlier directed the university to declare results of all post-graduate courses by October 31 and to upload the marksheets on its website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/give-date-by-when-obe-results-will-be-declared-hc-to-du/story-1KIZLDSBdgx2NkDwlrsREP.html
19-11-2020||Delhi||To make Yamuna pollution-free by 2023, DJB working out a concrete plan: CM||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said his government is working on a concrete plan to reduce 90% pollution in the Yamuna river by 2023. The CM had chaired a meeting of the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) where a detailed action plan to clean up the Yamuna, including the use of innovative technology and reuse of treated water, was discussed.The water utility presented a plan to reuse 436 MGD (million gallons per day) of treated wastewater, against the current utilisation of 90 MGD only. The DJB treats 520 MGD of wastewater on a daily basis at its 35 sewage treatment plants (STPs), out of which only 90 MGD is used. This wastewater will be reused to fill water bodies and lakes, for irrigation, gardening, forests, groundwater recharge, etc.The DJB plans four major interventions to clean up the river, said a statement issued by the CM’s office. In the first major intervention, the Delhi government will use natural wetlands and aeration methods to treat around 150 MGD (million gallons per day) of polluted water coming from the states of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, it said.Secondly, wastewater in small or big drains will be tapped into STPs. Third, steps will be taken to improve the quality of the existing STPs, including upgrading all the equipment. Also Read: L-G orders removal of debris from Yamuna floodplain, installation of CCTVs for surveillanceFourth, sludge and septage from the septic tanks (mostly used in unauthorised colonies where sewer lines have not been laid) across Delhi will be collected and reused in bio-gas plants to generate electricity and gas.The river remains heavily polluted inmost parts of the year mainly because of a huge volume of untreated sewage and industrial effluents being discharged directly into it.Five major outlets carry wastewater into the Yamuna, including Najafgarh drain, Shahdara drain, Barapulla drain, Delhi Gate drain, Mori Gate drain. The Najafgarh and Shadhdara drains, apart from receiving wastewater from within the city, get polluted water from Haryana and UP.“All the interventions will have different timelines, to be completed by March 2021, 2022, and 2023,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/to-make-yamuna-pollution-free-by-2023-djb-working-out-a-concrete-plan-kejriwal/story-LTOr7uRC0gbepeUsY94YXM.html
19-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi logs 131 Covid deaths, highest single-day fatality count till date; 7,486 new cases||Delhi’s coronavirus (Covid-19) tally on Wednesday climbed to over 500,000 after 7,486 fresh cases and 131 new fatalities were recorded in the last 24 hours. Wednesday’s deaths are the highest single day death count till date, authorities said. The total 503,084 cases include 42,458 active cases, 452,683 recoveries and 7,943 deaths. As per the health bulletin issued by the Delhi health department, the positivity rate stood at 12.03 per cent amid the festive season and rising pollution in the national capital and a total of 62,232 Covid-19 tests were conducted on Tuesday.  7,486 new positive cases 6,901 recoveries and 131 deaths reported in #Delhi in the last 24 hoursThe total number of #COVID19 cases in Delhi stands at 5,03,084 including 42,458 active cases, 4,52,683 recoveries and 7,943 deaths pic.twitter.com/Jexqx9sTOTOn November 11, the national capital had recorded its highest single-day spike of 8,593 coronavirus cases. For the past several days, Delhi has been adding the maximum number of cases towards the country’s daily Covid-19 tally. Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicIn a meeting chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday, Niti Aayog member Dr VK Paul described the coronavirus situation in the state as “unprecedented” and added that “it is likely to become worse”. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, who was also a part of the meeting said that the daily virus tests would be increased to over 100,000. Meanwhile, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday said that the Union government failed to deliver on its promise of providing 250 ICU beds in Delhi. “The Centre is yet to provide 250 ICU beds for the citizens of Delhi. You will have ample time to put up posters, but please comply with the promises you make to us,” AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj said. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-logs-131-covid-deaths-highest-single-day-fatality-count-till-date-7-486-new-cases/story-fd1JVqleArbPMF1kP8jx0M.html
19-11-2020||Mumbai||Actress, her sister booked for television actor’s death in Mumbai||Amboli police on Tuesday booked a struggling actress and her sister for allegedly killing a 26-year-old television actor Akshat Utkarsh from Bihar.Utkarsh was found dead in his rented apartment at Andheri on September 28. Police said a case was registered after victim’s father Vijaykant Chaudhary submitted a written complaint at a police station in Muzaffarpur, Bihar. However, since the incident took place under the jurisdiction of Amboli police station, the case was transferred to Mumbai for further investigation. Chaudhary in his complaint has alleged that a struggling actor who was a friend of Akshat wanted to marry him. But when he refused to marry her, she with the help of her sister killed him, said Amboli police officers. Someshwar Kamthe, a senior inspector said, “A case under section 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered by Bihar police. The case was then was transferred to Amboli police station. We are investigating the case.” According to Amboli police, Akshat was under depression and died by suicide. His family, however, dismissed this claiming that the aspiring actor was murdered. The police officers said Utkarsh lived with his friend in a flat at the Andheri RTO lane where the incident happened. According to the friend’s statement, they had their usual conversation before having dinner and he then went to sleep. “At around 11.30pm when she woke up to use the washroom, she found Utkarsh dead in his room, after which she immediately called the police,” said an officer from Amboli police station. A team of police officers rushed him to a private hospital where he was declared dead before arrival. After which the body was shifted to Cooper Hospital for the autopsy report, added the officer. “We have registered an accidental death record (ADR) and were inquiring the matter. Preliminary inquiry and autopsy report do not indicate any foul play. The doctor informed us that cause of death was asphyxia due to hanging,” Kamthe said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/actress-her-sister-booked-for-killing-television-actor-in-mumbai/story-jRfNaO0N37N52CQgrGyy0I.html
19-11-2020||Chandigarh||Covid: Vitamin D deficient people on supplements less likely to test positive, finds PGIMER study||A study conducted on asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic Covid positive individuals by researchers at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has found that vitamin D deficient individuals on a high dose of oral supplementation tested negative for Covid-19 in a greater proportion than those who were not taking the supplement.The study was conducted by doctors from endocrinology department including, Ashu Rastogi, Anil Bhansali and Naresh Sachdeva, doctors from internal medicine department including, Niranjan Khare, Vikas Suri, and Pankaj Malhotra and doctors from anaesthesia department including, GD Puri and Narayana YaddanapudiDuring the study, individuals with SARS-CoV-2 infection without comorbidities (hypertension, diabetes mellitus, chronic obstructive airway disease, chronic liver disease, chronic kidney disease) admitted to the institute with vitamin D deficiency, were randomised to receive a daily dose of cholecalciferol in the ‘intervention arm’, while individuals of the control group (placebo) were given distilled water.As many as 89 SARS-CoV-2 RNA positive individuals were evaluated out of which 40 were subsequently randomised (16 in the intervention arm and 24 to the control arm). In the study, it was found that 10 out of 16 (62.5%) participants in the intervention group achieved SARS-CoV-2 negativity compared to five out of 24 (20.8%) participants in the control arm.Also, the level of fibrinogen (a blood plasma protein and one of the factors for normal blood clotting, levels of which spike in patients due to Covid) in individuals who had achieved normal vitamin levels compared to vitamin-D deficient individuals had a significant difference, suggesting a possible immunomodulatory effect of vitamin D.However, the changes in the fibrinogen level, though statistically significant, were modest and may not be clinically meaningful, the researchers stated.The researchers noted that the recommendations by the Centre for Disease Control and other regulatory bodies including the Indian Council of Medical Research do not mandate repeat SARS CoV-2 RNA testing to document SARS CoV-2 negative before the discharge of asymptomatic individuals, hence achieving SARS CoV-2 negativity in greater proportions is likely to be beneficial.However, certain limitations of the study included that only mildly symptomatic and asymptomatic individuals were enrolled in the study which limits the generalisability of the results, and the placebo used in the study was not exactly matched with regard to the taste and consistency with the cholecalciferol nanoformulation. Also, the dose of cholecalciferol used in the study is high compared to conventional treatment, which warrants close follow-ups to look for vitamin D toxicity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/vitamin-d-deficient-individuals-put-on-supplement-test-negative-for-covid-in-greater-proportion-finds-pgimer-study/story-pYScyGfryygYbxKS4idIoL.html
19-11-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana high court asks GMCH-32 to keep proceedings of NRI-seat counselling sealed||The Punjab and Haryana high court has asked the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, (GMCH-32) to keep proceedings of NRI-seat counselling for MBBS course in a sealed cover. The high court was hearing a plea from one candidate, Aanchal Setia, who had demanded that the first degree relatives of NRIs be eligible for the NRI category seats offered by the institute. The petitioner had brought before the court the contradiction in the eligibility criteria laid down in prospectus by the college stating that for the admissions to MBBS / BDS courses for students under the NRI category, Harvansh Singh Judge Dental College, Panjab University, has expanded the scope of the definition of NRI candidates to include first degree NRI relatives like uncles and aunts of the candidate in the NRI category, but GMCH excludes first-degree blood relatives and limits the criterion for candidates who resided in a foreign country for a certain period or have their parents or grandparents residing in other nations. Both the institutes are affiliated to the Panjab University therefore, there can’t be two different sets of rules for admissions for the same course, the court was told. The girl has studied in Chandigarh and, her paternal uncle resides in the United States of America. The Chandigarh administration has to respond to the plea by Thursday. The college has 150 MBBS seats, of which 115 are under the UT quota. Of the remaining, 23 are under the all-India quota, three under the central pool, and nine under the NRI quota.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-asks-gmch-32-to-keep-proceedings-of-nri-seat-counselling-sealed/story-bXTvqT7Rblwoxb0cCrEqAK.html
19-11-2020||Chandigarh||Property tax: Now no-dues certificates to be mailed to taxpayers in Chandigarh||Mayor Raj Bala Malik on Wednesday launched the facility of issuing clearance certificates to residents in respect of property tax paid and getting the certificates mailed to their residences without any requests.While launching this facility at the command and control centre on municipal corporation (MC) office premises in the presence of MC commissioner KK Yadav and additional commissioner Anil Kumar Garg, the mayor said the corporation will issue about 80,000 certificates within two months. Garg said, “On the first day, the civic body issued 3,000 certificates.”“The entire process will be completed within two months. The certificates will be mailed to the taxpayers through the postal service. It is a suo motu service intended to encourage better compliance,” he added.There are 1.40 lakh properties under the jurisdiction of the MC, of which 95,000 are taxable. All properties against which accounts are cleared and no property tax payments are due will automatically be issued the no-dues certificates..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/property-tax-now-no-dues-certificates-to-be-mailed-to-chandigarh-taxpayers/story-xke8ufiaodux3zMV7fs1kJ.html
19-11-2020||Pune||‘Superspreader’ test drive to cover PMPML and PMC staff, school teachers||Pune: As part of the possible Covid second wave prevention measures, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has begun following the state government guidelines of identifying and testing “superspreaders”. The civic body will also cover its staff and school teachers under the drive. The civic body will soon issue a circular and carry out testing of “superspreaders”. As per the guidelines, the testing drive will mainly cover unregistered population, including vendors and hawkers, who come in contact with multiple people. PMC health chief Dr Ashish Bharti said, “We have collected data of some “superspreaders” during our earlier state survey of ‘My Family My Responsibility’. We will use that count and also ensure that all such people who come in contact with a large number of people are tested. The biggest challenge is to identify and test ‘superspreaders’ since most of them are vendors and hawkers who do not have licence or are unregistered.” Additional commissioner Rubal Agrawal said, “We will include school teachers since schools are about to restart. So, for private schools, it would be compulsory to get staff tested before the classes resume. In addition, we will also test our own staff, including Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) and other employees who fall under the category of ‘superspreaders’, since they also come in contact with many people.” Currently, PMC operates 18 testing centres across the city. The civic administration will use both RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen Detection tests to identify “superspreaders” based on the symptoms as per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines. The testing exercise would put an additional burden on the civic body that is facing cash crunch. Agrawal said, “We are yet to take any policy decision regarding the cost for testing. If we get requests from banks or private organisations, they are welcome to get their staff tested at our testing centres.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/superspreader-test-drive-to-cover-pmpml-and-pmc-staff-school-teachers/story-PPKkhk8wzLiTxUe1G6HtkI.html
19-11-2020||Pune||Pune’s Dagdusheth temple reopens, in phases||Pune: While the Maharashtra government has allowed places of worship to reopen from November 16, the city’s prominent Dagdusheth Ganpati temple on Chhatrapati Shivaji road has decided to take a cautious approach in view of the Covid situation. The temple administration will unlock the temple for devotees in three phases. Currently, people coming to the temple are only allowed to have darshan of Bappa by following the social distancing norms. “We have reopened the temple as per the Covid protocol guidelines given by the state government. As of now, darshan is allowed to people coming at the temple by following safety norms and social distancing,” said Mahesh Suryvanshi, treasurer, Dagdusheth Ganpati Mandal Trust. “For the first 15 days, only darshan of Bappa will be allowed. Devotees can offer prasad and garland the diety during the second phase of 15 days. In the third phase, people will be permitted to sit inside the temple premises and perform aarti,” Suryavanshi said. Kiran Pisal, a devotee said, “I used to daily have darshan of Dagdusheth Ganpati before the Covid pandemic. I am happy that the state authorities have allowed reopening of religious places under the latest unlock measures.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dagdusheth-temple-reopens-in-phases/story-FuajnzfmiL1QaIvPXGXkEO.html
19-11-2020||Pune||Pune garbage unit: NGT panel to submit action report by Nov 24||PUNE: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) principal bench on Tuesday issued an order to form a committee comprising Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) and Pune district collector to recommend action on Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) garbage processing unit in Ambegaon. The order was passed by a bench comprising chairperson Adarsh Kumar Goel, judicial member SK Singh and expert members SS Garbyal and Nagin Nanda. This bench had earlier issued an order to relocate the Baner-Sus road garbage processing unit, according to the information released on the environmental watchdog’s website on Wednesday. “Before considering the matter, we direct constitution of a joint committee of CPCB, state PCB and collector, Pune. The state PCB will be the nodal agency for compliance and coordination. The said committee may look into the grievance and take such further action as may be found necessary, following due process of law,” reads the order. The action taken report has to be submitted by the committee before November 24. The order was passed during the hearing of an application demanding relocation of the unit filed by Dhananjay Balwant Kokate and Jaysing Dahrath Jadhav, residents of area in close proximity of the unit. The unit had caught fire on November 2. While the police registered a case against unidentified people, an official of a private company that manages the unit, on condition of anonymity, said that it was residents living on unit’s neighbourhood who did it. “There are no buffer zones around the unit, requisite permissions are missing, and there is no approach road to the unit. It is flouting multiple rules. The applicant is a local villager who owns neighbouring land,” said advocate Saurabh Kulkarni who is representing the applicants. “Once we receive the order, we will take action. All the due verifications will be looked for as per the law. We will be required to send an action taken report,” said Pratap Jagtap, sub-regional officer (SRO), MPCB. A case under Sections 435 (mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to cause damage to amount of one hundred or (in case of agricultural produce) ten rupees), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees), 143, 147, and 149 of Indian Penal Code was registered at Bharati Vidyapeeth police station against unidentified people one day after the fire incident. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ambegaon-garbage-unit-ngt-panel-to-submit-action-report-by-nov-24/story-9sBStJhi8TfHYCeQUA8S0M.html
19-11-2020||Pune||PMC keeps beds ready for possible Covid ‘second wave’||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) administration has assured that it is prepared to tackle the worst-case scenario of a possible Covid-19 second wave in December-January. The civic body has put in place required beds for the virus treatment. The preparation for beds is based on the calculation of the highest active cases reported in the city and keeping the count 1.10 times of that figure. With home isolation for asymptomatic patients now a part of the virus prevention measure, PMC has more beds available for the anticipated aggressive return of the coronavirus. Dr Satish Pawar, director, Maharashtra directorate of health services said, “We have asked local authorities to prepare for the worst. So, for example, if a city saw its highest active cases to be 100, then they have to prepare for 100 multiplied by 1.10 which is 110 Covid patients. This count has been bifurcated based on patients’ requirements for ICU with and without ventilators, oxygen isolation beds and other requirements.” The civic body has issued a list of required beds which it has prepared according to the highest active cases of 17,781 recorded by PMC on September 20 in Pune city. According to the count, the anticipated highest active case would be around 19,560, and the civic body has assured that it has more than the required beds at Covid care centres, oxygen beds and ICU beds. According to Pawar, as home isolation for asymptomatic cases was not recommended during the beginning of the pandemic, more beds is now available for fresh cases. “This is just a preparation for the worst. Residents must continue to wear masks and maintain respiratory hygiene norms as it is the only vaccine available for now.” Pawar said. Additional commissioner Rubal Agrawal said, “The number of possible cases could go higher or lower, but this is the ideal preparation that we have now. We can increase the bed count if the need arises. This includes both private and public hospital facilities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-keeps-beds-ready-for-possible-covid-second-wave/story-T3JAwAjSZBAKTETYVhll5I.html
