20-11-2020||City||Plot for Thane Metro casting yard to be given to MMRDA at ready reckoner rate||Following controversy over allotting a plot to the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) in Kolshet to set up a casting yard for Metro-4 (Wadala to Kasarvadavli), the general body of the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) on Friday decided to allot the plot as per the ready reckoner rate. The administration had proposed to allot the 75,390-sqm plot free of cost, however, mayor Naresh Mhaske ruled that the corporation has lost crores in revenue in the last two years, while the MMRDA contractor was already using the plot, and henceforth the land would be provided at RR rate. The rent for the last two years would also be recovered from the contractor. In his ruling, Mhaske said, “TMC will allot the plot to the MMRDA for the Metro project as per the RR rate. Moreover, the rent for the last two years, which comes to ₹96 crore, will be recovered from the contractor.” Municipal secretary Ashok Burpulle confirmed that the ruling was passed in the general body. MMRDA officials have claimed that they do not have any written communication from the TMC regarding the plot so far. RA Rajeev, MMRDA commissioner, said, “We have not received any such communication from the TMC. Let them write to us, and we will make a decision accordingly.”The proposal was first tabled two years ago, but the general body rejected it. The administration then gave the land under its power without the approval of the body. It again tabled the proposal on Friday. The corporation claimed that as per the government resolution (GR), it was supposed to allot land on a temporary basis, free of cost for Metro projects. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) had earlier opposed the proposal, claiming that the corporation had lost ₹96 crore in revenue in last two years, when the contractor appointed by MMRDA was using the plot. Other parties too rejected the proposal to allot land free of cost on Friday. Najib Mullah, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) corporator took up the issue in the general body. “We had already stayed the proposal when it was tabled the first time. We had demanded that the plot be given as per the ready reckoner rate and the demand is still the same,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/plot-for-thane-metro-casting-yard-to-be-given-to-mmrda-at-ready-reckoner-rate/story-cVA4gS2dBTU5KkfvOTWHeL.html
20-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai slums are 6 degrees Celsius warmer than neighbouring housing societies in October: Study||The city’s slum settlements are five-six degrees warmer than their neighbouring housing societies, while 37% of Mumbai’s households with metal roof structures are exposed to a risk of high rise in temperatures or heat risk post monsoon, a study by the geo-analytics team of environment group World Resource Institute (WRI) India across the city during October over the past three years has revealed. The study found the city has an alarming shortage of green cover. WRI India published three satellite maps –October Heat series – highlighting location-specific risk exposure to citizens. The maps established microclimatic changes and temperature variation within Mumbai, and called for city-specific policies that need to build on by adopting more nature-based solutions to adapt to climate risks. “Coastal cities do not record very high air temperatures, but the combination of temperature and humidity (heat index) is significantly high, especially for humid months like October, making it high risk for those most exposed. Prolonged exposure can lead to exhaustion and serious health ailments,” said Lubaina Rangwala, senior manager (urban development and resilience), WRI India, adding that October was one of the most severe weather months for Mumbai. “As the rains retreat, there is high moisture availability combined with a rise in temperature. While the absolute temperatures may not be very high, 90% humidity combined with low wind speed allows the heat index and stress to shoot up in Mumbai. This is why we chose October.” The first map showed slums in Dharavi recorded 35.9 degrees Celsius (during October over three years), while housing societies in Matunga recorded 30.3 degrees Celsius. A similar phenomenon was recorded across Powai-Vikhroli, Goregaon, and Girgaum-Marine Lines.“We found that this was a function of the type of building material used, compromised ventilation and green cover, and limited access to open spaces,” said Rangwala. The analysis revealed that industrial and commercial land use with large built-up footprints such as the airport, industrial estates and malls had a significantly higher surface temperature (33-35 degrees Celsius) than natural areas – forests, lakes, mangroves (27-32 degrees Celsius). The second map showed the difference in surface temperatures of settlements using concrete versus metal roofs. “Roofs are the most exposed surfaces of a building to solar radiation, and play a key role in determining indoor thermal comfort. Metal roofs are poor insulators and good conductors, resulting in increased indoor temperatures, while concrete transfers heat at a slower rate, resulting in increased night-time temperatures,” said Rangwala. The ward-wise breakup of roofing material showed S ward (Bhandup, Powai, Kanjurmarg, Vikhroli and Nahur) had the highest share of metal or asbestos roofing material (57%), followed by P-North ward (Malad, Manori, Marve, Aksa, and Madh – 55%) and N ward (Ghatkopar, Vidyavihar and Pant Nagar). While areas such as Pydhonie, Bhuleshwar, Grant Road, Walkeshwar, Malabar Hill, Breach Candy to Haji Ali all had concrete rooftops. WRI India’s third map was a correlation of the city’s green spaces and heat exposure and its implication on surface temperature. It showed over 31% of Mumbai’s land area had green cover (open maidans, tree-cover, mangroves and forests, city-parks etc.) but it was concentrated only in some wards. “There is a variation of 29 to 34 degrees Celsius across Mumbai wards, which means areas with highest green cover are five degrees cooler than those with less than 10% vegetation. Urban greening helps improve air quality, increased oxygen levels, lower ambient temperatures, and improve livability standards,” said Rangwala. R-Central ward (Borivli) had the highest percentage of green cover (75%) and the lowest mean temperature (29-30 degrees Celsius) followed by T-ward (Mulund) with 70% green cover and the lowest mean temperature at 29 degrees Celsius. Conversely, B ward (Masjid Bunder, Mohd. Ali Road, Dongri and Bhendi Bazar) and C ward (Pydhonie and Bhuleshwar) had less than 10% green cover and highest mean temperatures at 34 degrees Celsius. They sayWhat WRI India said“Combining all options under a heat action plan for Mumbai is a necessity, implemented by all stakeholders. Heat risk in cities is a problem of social equity. City governments need to support greater innovation in low-income settlements to increase vegetation, deploy sustainable and heat resilient materials for housing construction,” said Madhav Pai, director, WRI India.MinisterspeakVariations in temperature are bound to be there in slum areas where there is no space for trees vis-à-vis residential zones where more green cover is present, said state environment and tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray. “However, we are working on specific plans for Mumbai and will be factoring in solutions for site-specific heat exposure as part of the Maharashtra state climate action policy. We are meeting with various state departments, and looking at what they are offering towards this policy to ensure city-specific climate resilience in Maharashtra,” he said.ExpertspeakThe state’s current climate action plan falls short of addressing the heat stress concerns, say experts. “Without such a plan, the situation is likely to worsen annually now under the current effects of climate change, and unfortunately low-income groups would be at the forefront of the health impacts,” said Ashok Jaswal, former scientist of the India Meteorological Department and lead author of 2017 study on decadal rise in average heat index over 60 years in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-slums-are-6-degrees-celsius-warmer-than-neighbouring-housing-societies-in-october-study/story-wo22fMA4bIUjzvV5OIdamN.html
20-11-2020||Mumbai||Kanjurmarg plot for Mumbai Metro car shed can curb costs, save land: MMRDA commissioner RA Rajeev||A month after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced moving the Metro-3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz) car shed from Aarey Milk Colony to Kanjurmarg, Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) commissioner RA Rajeev in an exclusive interview with Tanushree Venkatraman said the plan is to transform the 102-acre plot where the depot will come up, into the city’s largest transit hub. MMRDA is the nodal agency for developing all Metro corridors in Mumbai.Rajeev said the depot at Kanjurmarg will be an operating centre for Metro-3, 6 (Swami Samarth Nagar-Vikhroli) and 4 (Wadala-Kasarwadavali) with an interchange for the proposed line 14 between Kanjurmarg and Badlapur. Rajeev stressed on the fact that the decision is the “most cost-efficient, which also saves land and will boost operation efficiency”.Rajeev also said despite the pandemic, MMRDA will complete the Metro-2A (Dahisar-DN Nagar) and Metro-7 (Dahisar E-Andheri-E) within the estimated cost and the lines will be made operational by May 2021.Excerpts from the interview:The Centre has made a claim on the Kanjurmarg plot where the state has proposed to shift the Metro-3 car-shed. Will this affect the project?All the claims have to be reviewed by the revenue department of the Maharashtra government. The revenue department and the district collector have handed over the plot to MMRDA post due diligence and examining all records. We are not affected so far and we are going ahead with the work. I visited the site on Wednesday; road construction is on at the periphery and we also discussed plans to integrating the car sheds for Metro lines 3, 4 and 6. Ultimately, we have to look at public interest. Around 80-90 lakh population of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) will be affected by these decisions. The state has not taken the decision only about Metro-3, but also for Metro-6, for which we had no depot land even though there was a cabinet decision zeroing in on Kanjurmarg plot as the depot for the line.Will the integration mean major changes in the plans for the three Metro lines? Technically, anything is possible. System integration can be done. In 2015, MMRDA had written a letter to the Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation (which is executing line 3) stating that Metro-3 and Metro-6 can be integrated. Kanjurmarg will be the largest transit hub in Mumbai. It will cater to almost 90 lakh commuters if you take lines 3, 4, 6 and 14 into account. We have 102 acre of land here while the biggest issue in Mumbai is scarcity of land. If constructed separately, we will need 30 hectares in Aarey, 43 hectares in Mogharpada and 20 hectares for line 6, which will total 93 hectares of land (close to 229 acres). Wouldn’t it be more efficient to construct one depot for all three lines? It is cost-efficient, operation-efficient, and we save on land. We can manage more trains at this depot with lesser staff and inventory. This is an opportunity to create an operation and control centre here. The ground and first floor can be the depot, with the control centre on the second floor.Is MMRDA reconsidering its decision to construct the Metro Bhavan at Aarey?Not yet, but if we can build an efficient control centre catering to three lines in Kanjurmarg, nobody will say no to the idea.What is the status of MMRDA’s plan to build a Metro-4 depot at Mogharpada? Though the land at Mogharpada is government land, there are a lot of allottees and class-2 landholders there. We faced the issue of encroachment too. There was resistance to a joint inspection conducted by the collector. We would have had to spend ₹1,500-₹2,000 crore to acquire that land parcel. We will save this cost also if we integrate and build the line-4 depot at Kanjurmarg.Metro-1 has been facing losses since its inception. There are talks of MMRDA taking over the line. What is the status?Reliance Infra, which manages line 1 wants to hand it over as they are facing financial issues owing to the pandemic. We cannot let such a huge public project drag. Since MMRDA has a stake of 26%, we can take over the operations. The contention is to arrive at the right estimate. There will be a valuation committee and we have also hired a consultant for it.How has the pandemic financially affected the Metro projects? How will MMRDA bear the civil construction cost of the lines?So far, as line 7 and 2A are concerned, we are not going for any cost revision. As far as funding for the civil construction of other lines is concerned, the key lies in starting revenue operations for these two lines as soon as possible. Once we start it, we can earn some revenue. The other model we are also working on is to use these two lines for equity-financing. We can pose the projected income to agencies for upfront funding. We have also submitted a transit-oriented development (TOD) policy to the state government through which we can develop areas around the stations. Additionally, we are planning to develop Wadala as the next Bandra-Kurla Complex, which will provide us with revenue.How will MMRDA address last-mile connectivity?We have taken last-mile connectivity into account since the beginning. We will be providing multi-modal integration at each of the upcoming Metro stations. Before the lockdown, we also started bike services at Jagruti Nagar Metro station, which a lot of people have been using. We also had a competition for new mobility services to come up with ideas for last-mile connectivity. We are now planning to implement some of these ideas.What major projects can Mumbaiites look forward to in 2021?Lines 2A and 7 will be made operational by May 2021. We will also complete work on the Kalanagar flyover and the Chheda Nagar junction improvement along the Eastern Express Highway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kanjurmarg-plot-for-mumbai-metro-car-shed-can-curb-costs-save-land-mmrda-commissioner-ra-rajeev/story-8xmI8avPa0QvUTMhudYVVN.html
20-11-2020||Delhi||‘We don’t wish to close markets’: Delhi CM assures market association representatives||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal on Friday assured representatives of various market associations across the city that the government will not shut down despite the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the city. Kejriwal said, “Met representatives of market associations. I removed their anxieties, the government does not wish to shut any markets. They assured that those without masks will be provided one for free by market associations. Shops will also be asked to keep spare masks & sanitisers.”The chief minister also highlighted that people need to adhere to social distancing rules and follow Covid-19 preventive measures in order to curb the recent spike in the number of cases in the Capital. He also asked the market representatives to apprise shopkeepers about the role marketplaces can play in stopping the outbreak. Kejriwal also requested all Aam Aadmi Party officials to distribute free masks to people seen without masks. Earlier, shopkeepers from various markets in Delhi were concerned about a proposal that the Delhi government had sent to the Centre requesting to shut down markets for a short period of time if they are seen flouting Covid-19 prevention rules. Delhi government had expressed concern citing that norms not being followed by people visiting these marketplaces may have also contributed to the recent rise in the number of cases.Delhi recorded close to a lakh cases within the first two weeks of November. The Capital also recorded more than 7,500 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday which took Delhi’s Covid-19 tally past 510,000. More than 8,000 people have died so far due to coronavirus in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/we-don-t-wish-to-close-markets-delhi-cm-assures-market-association-representatives/story-EuMAWov8ppHJb7uJxd9JqL.html
20-11-2020||Bhopal||Night curfew from Saturday in five Madhya Pradesh districts||Madhya Pradesh chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Friday has announced night curfew in five districts, including Indore and Bhopal, due to rising numbers of Covid-19 cases. The curfew will begin on November 21 at 10 pm.“Night curfew to be imposed between 10 pm to 6 am, starting from November 21 in Indore, Bhopal, Gwalior, Vidisha, and Ratlam districts,” said Shivraj Singh Chouhan, while talking to ANI.However, people engaged in essential services and factory workers have been exempted from the night curfew. On the decision of containment zones, chief minister said that they have left the decision to Crisis Management Group.Schools across the state from Class 1 to 8 will continue to remain closed. Students of classes 9 to 12 can visit their schools only for guidance.Earlier today, chief minister Chouhan rejected reports that the state government was mulling to impose lockdown again in the view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The state has reported 1,363 new cases and 14 deaths on Thursday, according to State Health Department. Madhya Pradesh has so far reported a total of 1,88,018 cases of which 1,75,089 have recovered. A total of 3,129 people have lost their lives due to deadly pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/night-curfew-from-saturday-in-five-madhya-pradesh-districts/story-2RzDd5ZddRcC8CXEC6jd0J.html
20-11-2020||Gurugram||Autopsy confirms rape, victim’s son arrested: Police||Manesar Police on Friday arrested a 25-year-old man for allegedly raping his mother in Pataudi. The woman had been found dead at her home on Monday.Nikita Gehlot, deputy commissioner of police (Manesar), said that they made the arrest based on circumstantial evidence and preliminary investigation on Friday. “The woman lived with her son alone in the house. Her husband used to sell vegetables in the outskirts of the village and lived in a temporary accommodation along with one of his relatives there,” she said.The man was the woman’s son from a previous marriage. On November 16, the woman’s husband lodged a complaint with the police in which he stated that his stepson had informed him of finding her dead. In his complaint, the man said he found her lying on the bed with a scar on her neck that suggested strangulation. During a preliminary investigation, the police suspected that she had been sexually assaulted and killed herself. They filed a case under section 376 (rape) and 306 (abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Pataudi police station. Gehlot said the autopsy was conducted on Thursday and the report confirmed rape and suspected strangulation. “The husband said that the woman was earlier married to his elder brother who died three years into their marriage. Later, he married her as her son was young and they were financially weak,” she said. The husband alleged that the woman’s son often fought with her and she had thrown him out of the house a few days ago, said police. He allegedly would threaten to kill her when she refused to support him financially. The husband alleged that despite insisting murder, police initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (usually invoked when police do not suspect foul play), and only after the autopsy confirmed rape did they register the FIR “We will add relevant sections once we have completed the investigation. A team has been formed and have recorded statements of the family members, neighbours and relatives. The rape has been confirmed and the prime suspect, son of the deceased woman has been arrested,” said Gehlot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/autopsy-confirms-rape-victim-s-son-arrested-police/story-SdK3R1gJsDvxsm2BccqpWK.html
20-11-2020||Gurugram||Daily RT-PCR tests reach 5000-mark; new cases above 790||The number of Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) tests conducted in a day in the district reached the 5,000-mark for the first time on Friday since the outbreak of the pandemic, which has till now infected 42,618 people in Gurugram. With an additional 1,503 rapid antigen tests, the overall testing also reached 6,503 — the highest ever in a single day so far. For the second consecutive day, more than 6,000 tests were administered in the district.With the increased testing, the district recorded a maximum jump in new infections after almost a week. On Friday, 793 new cases were recorded — highest spike after November 13, when at least 797 new cases were reported. The decline in testing from November 14 due to Diwali led daily new cases to fluctuate between 500 and 660 in the last one week, due to which the weekly positivity rate (November 13 to 20) slightly declined to almost 16% from previous week’s 18%. Epidemiologically, increased testing should continue till the positivity comes down to five percent. Lower positivity means the transmission of the virus is controlled. RT-PCR, the gold frontline test for Covid-19, has increased by almost 50% in the last two months to control the transmission. The district health bulletin shows that until September 20, the health department and private labs together were administering almost 2,200 RT-PCR tests. Almost same number of RT-PCR were conducted till October 21. It increased to 2,500 and further to 3,000 on November 2.In the last two days, a sudden increase in rapid antigen tests to over 1,500 also led to the overall hike in testing numbers. The district health department had received 10,000 antigen kits on November 19. Following which mass testing camps were held in Khandsa, Kherki Dhaula and other market areas to test people. Due to shortage of kits, department did less than 14% antigen tests. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “Samples are being given to different private labs, who have signed MoU to conduct RT-PCR in ₹900. Considering the capacity of RT-PCR in private labs, nearly 16,000 tests can be conducted.”The hospitalisation also increased to 443 on Friday from 426 on November 19. According to the district health bulletin, out of the 5,485 active cases, at least 5,110 are in home isolation and seven in district Covid care centres. The Covid-19 toll also climbed to 256, with three new deaths reported on Friday. It includes 199 deaths due to co-morbidities and 57 without co-morbidity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/daily-rt-pcr-tests-reach-5000-mark-new-cases-above-790/story-CvHfTi8qPtqMh5HgKnAzJK.html
20-11-2020||Chandigarh||Talks of senate abolition just baseless rumours, says Panjab University V-C||Clearing the air on elections to the senate, Panjab University vice-chancellor on Friday said talks about its abolition or changes in the varsity’s governing structure are baseless rumours.“We have already made all arrangements for the senate polls, and whenever the administration gives us the green signal, we will go ahead,” he said.Kumar was speaking to former student leaders outside his office after a protest march, which also saw participation of senators and teachers. The march was part of a series of similar protests held on the campus in the recent days to demand immediate conduct of polls to the senate, PU’s apex governing body. The polls were first scheduled on August 24, and were postponed by the V-C for second time on October 15. This led to apprehensions that the governing structure of the university might be changed under the National Education Policy 2020, with a board of governors replacing the senate. “As far as I know, these are baseless rumours... A lot of confusion is being created, and the university is a part of Punjab state,” the V-C told the protesters.Recently, even Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh and Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Badal had written to Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu, who is the PU chancellor, urging him to ensure immediate conduct of senate polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/talks-of-senate-abolition-just-baseless-rumours-says-panjab-university-v-c/story-fW34xi0VsVGL5NWuABJXeL.html
20-11-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram air quality remains poor due to farm fires; may improve over the weekend||Air quality in the city remained poor on Friday, recording 275 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) daily air quality index (AQI) bulletin, up from 253 the previous day. The uptick has been attributed to a slight increase in farm fires in Punjab and Haryana, pollutants from which are being blown eastward by winds originating from the northwest of Delhi-NCR.According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), the union ministry’s air quality forecasting wing, Friday’s deterioration in the air quality was mainly on account of about 600 farm fires in Punjab and Haryana that contributed to the rise in PM2.5 levels across NCR, thereby pushing up the AQI across major cities. The level of ultrafine particulate matter 2.5 (PM 2.5) which has a diameter of 2.5 microns or less (PM 2.5), the city’s primary pollutant, was 175 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m³) on Monday, as per the CPCB’s air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan in Sector 11 was 292ug/m3, up from about 175µg/m³ on Monday. “In the interim, the level of PM2.5 has been steadily going up, day by day. About a quarter of the city’s air pollution load at the moment would be from farm fire pollutants,” said Sachin Panwar, a city-based air quality scientist. However, with the India Meteorological Department predicting high wind speeds of up to 15kmph over the next two days, the situation may improve. As per the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, “Air quality over Delhi NCR is likely to improve and reach in... Poor to Moderate category on 21.11.2020. The Air Quality is likely to remain in Poor to Moderate category on 22.11.2020.” Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said on Friday, “The wind speed has remained good and is likely to be the same over the next two days, which should lead to some dispersal of pollutants. But if farm fires continue, and if temperatures keep dropping, we may see pollutants accumulating instead.” Gurugram on Friday recorded a minimum temperature of 10 degrees Celsius, the same as on Thursday. The maximum daytime temperature also remained constant, at 24.1 degrees Celsius, as per IMD data. “However, we are expecting cold wave conditions in some pockets of Delhi-NCR soon and temperatures will probably fall sharply soon, maybe by two to three degrees,” said Srivastava. As per the IMD’s weekly forecast for Gurugram, the minimum temperature may drop to as little as six degrees Celius over the next seven days, while the maximum daytime temperature could drop to 23 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-air-quality-remains-poor-due-to-farm-fires-may-improve-over-the-weekend/story-gwiINDE0dXQPlPK4mqxL3I.html
20-11-2020||Gurugram||Five members of a gang held for looting jewellery shop in Sadar Bazar||Five members of a gang allegedly involved in an armed robbery at a jewellery shop in Sadar Bazar’s Roshanpura area on September 19 were arrested by the police on Friday afternoon. According to the police, four armed and masked men had barged into a jewellery shop and decamped with valuables worth ₹13 lakh after injuring the shopkeeper. The incident took place at around 3.25pm, when the jeweller was alone in the shop. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that two gang members had entered the shop and asked to them show them rings. The jeweller had taken out one tray and presented six rings. “One of the suspects told the owner that he was getting engaged and wanted to choose a heavy gold ring. Before they could finalise the ring, another suspect entered the shop and took the jeweller at gunpoint, after which the fourth suspect entered and jumped above the glass counter and grabbed the shopkeeper,” he said. The police said they had recovered CCTV footage from the shop where it was seen that he was purportedly seen struggling and raising an alarm, but due to the closed glass door, the noise could not pass through. Sangwan said the shop is located on a busy road and the suspect took advantage of the crowd. The three suspects picked three to four jewellery trays from the display counter and rushed towards the car, which was parked outside, and fled. “During questioning, it was revealed that they were hardened criminals and had murdered a man in Bilaspur in 2013 in a robbery case. There are six members in the gang and they have committed dozens of snatching, robberies and theft cases in Delhi-NCR,” he said. The suspects were identified as Varun alias Sonu (32) of Kaithal, Mintu (24) of Nathupur in Gurugram, Harsh (19) of Badshahpur, Tony (24) of Sector 65, and Sunil Kumar (27) of Madhya Pradesh. The police said Varun is the kingpin of the gang and was lodged in Bhondsi jail for four years for a murder in Bilaspur and is currently out on bail. He had formed the gang in 2017 and was convicted for 20 years of imprisonment by the district courts. Sangwan said they targeted this jewellery shop as it was hardly 100 metres away from the main road and was situated on the outskirts of the Sadar market. As such, he could easily flee from the spot after committing the crime. “The car used in crime had a fake registration plate and belonged to one of the gang members who is still absconding. They were arrested based on technical surveillance,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/five-members-of-a-gang-held-for-looting-jewellery-shop-in-sadar-bazar/story-uDaJ9rW1Hv9NWu21N3umlL.html
20-11-2020||Gurugram||All schools to remain shut till November 30||All schools in Haryana will be shut till November 30 in view of the rising cases of Covid-19 among students and teachers in various districts of the state.More than 180 government school students and 110 staff members in different districts have tested positive since schools reopened for regular classes earlier this month. The numbers were high in districts such as Rewari, Jhajjar, Jind, Hisar and Rohtak. Schools across the country first were shut in mid-March when the countrywide lockdown in response to the outbreak of Covid-19 and shifted to online teaching. Voluntary visits to schools for clearing doubts for a limited time period were initiated by the state government in September followed by regular classes from November 2 for students in classes 9 to 12.District education officer (DEO) Indu Boken said that extensive sanitization will be undertaken in schools over the next ten days when schools remain closed. During this period, schools will continue with online classes as before. Gurugram block education officer Sheel Kumari said schools heads could visit schools along with non-teaching staff for administrative work, if required. “The order for closure came late during the day. We have asked schools to inform students about it. School staff will inform other students if they visit the school tomorrow. Classes will continue online and administrators will be able to visit the school for work, as they had been doing during the lockdown,” said Kumari. Suman Sharma, principal of Government Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 4/7, said that students had been informed about the closure of schools and online classes would continue as before. “A number of students had been coming to school for classes for clearing doubts and catching with lessons since schools reopened. The experience of a physical classroom session is difficult to replicate online but the safety of students necessitated the closure. We have informed students who are in touch with us,” said Sharma. While most private schools had been continuing with online classes over physical classroom sessions, teachers who had started visiting the schools have been asked to work from home from Monday. Anita Malhotra, principal of Lotus Valley International School, said that the school had informed teachers about the closure. “We have been conducting online classes since most parents are not in favour of schools visits. Teachers who had been coming to school will be working from home till November 30 in line with the government directions,” said Malhotra. The school will remain open for administrative work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/all-schools-to-remain-shut-till-november-30/story-reu3hXL5cTJ17URe0qje4I.html
20-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn to review relaxations amid rise in Covid-19 cases||Concerned over a second Covid-19 wave in Chandigarh, the UT administration has decided to review major relaxations announced in the past month, including opening of schools.“Covid cases are rising alarmingly. On Monday (November 23), the administration will decided on the issue of relaxations. The administrator will take a final call,” said UT adviser Manoj Parida. The administration in the past one month introduced several relaxations to Covid-19 restrictions, latest being opening of Rock Garden, museums and Tagore Theatre.Earlier, the administration had also allowed opening of schools while colleges and libraries are supposed to open on Monday. On Friday, the Haryana government shut its schools, which were recently opened, as more than 180 students tested positive for Covid-19. The Himachal Pradesh government had also closed its schools after reopening them.“Closing of schools, tourist attractions like Rock Garden, public places like Sukhna Lake, and community centres is being considered if the cases continue to rise,” said Parida. However, there are no plans to shut markets or offices, he said.The adviser also expressed concern over travellers from Delhi testing positive on their arrival to Chandigarh. As many as 10 of 210 incoming passengers sampled at the Inter State Bus Terminal, Sector 17, had tested positive on Thursday.For better enforcement of Covid norms, the administration might also impose higher penalty for not wearing masks and maintaining social distance, said Parida.In a worrisome trend, the city has been witnessing a steady rise in cases since the mid of October. From 316 cases in the week from October 16 to 22, the cases within a month have more than doubled with 779 recorded between November 13 and 19.However, Dr Amandeep Kang, director, UT health department, said even though the cases are rising, it cannot be called a second wave. “The uptick in infection is expected next week too, due to the population mobility in festivals. Cases being reported are only a third of the numbers seen during the peak in September,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-to-review-relaxations-amid-rise-in-covid-19-cases/story-pFy5OrUQnSYlzjWGUvK5tO.html
20-11-2020||Gurugram||Work underway to clean drains which caused GCR flooding||Work to clean and restore four natural creeks, which carry monsoon runoff from the Aravallis onto Golf Course Road and the neighbouring sectors, is expected to be completed within this year, officials in the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) said on Friday. The cleanup is being undertaken after investigation by the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority’s (GMDA) flood protection committee, which identified these creeks as a key factor in the waterlogging of Golf Course Road on August 19. Officials involved in the matter said that work on two of these drains in sectors 26 and 42, or creeks 1 and 2 respectively, is already underway as part of the cleanup’s first phase, while the remaining two creeks, in sectors 54 and 56, are set to be taken up early next month. A work order for the same was first issued on November 12, with work on site commencing soon after Diwali. Hari Kishan, a junior engineer with the MCG, who is tasked with overseeing the restoration of these drains, said, “Construction work in the vicinity has picked up steam in recent years and the drains were completely choked with construction debris. This past week, we have been working on the site daily, using earthmoving machines to clear the rubble. In one instance, we cleared a patch of the drain in Sector 26 but found that it was filled with construction debris again the next morning.” To circumvent such violations, Kishan said, the drains may also be fenced off after cleaning. An interim report by the TERI School Advanced Studies also noted the presence of C&D waste dumping in the area, which had rendered these four creeks “not fully functional”, especially the one in Sector 42. The report, which suggests preliminary measures to prevent flooding along GCR, states, “Many tributaries of the creeks as reported are non-existent now which means that the storm water is not carried through them, instead they are carried onto the road (the road substitutes as a channel).”“Our job for the moment is to clean all waste from the nullah and open up a clear channel for the water. This will avoid any spillover onto Golf Course Road as runoff will be directed to a natural water body in Sikanderpur, which collects at the end of the Wazirabad bundh. We will observe the site during winter rains to see if the creeks are able to carry runoff,” said Kishan.A senior official in the GMDA’s infrastructure department, who is privy to the matter, said while seeking anonymity, “Though it was the GMDA’s purview to understand why GCR got flooded, the drains are with the MCG. Therefore they have been instructed to do the cleanup. Meanwhile, our detailed project report for augmenting drainage in the area has been reviewed by a team of researchers from TERI. We will meet with them to discuss their findings, and take steps accordingly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/work-underway-to-clean-drains-which-caused-gcr-flooding/story-oAMO5K52bBEpqQIsIxNTtL.html
20-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh feels the chill as mercury drops below 10°C||Following snowfall in Himachal Pradesh earlier this week, minimum temperature in Chandigarh dropped below 10°C, for first time this season, in early hours of Friday. It was recorded at 9.7°C as compared to 11.2°C the previous day. However, maximum temperature went a notch up from 22.5°C to 23.5°C.“Winds coming down from the hills are cooling the region, which is normal during this time of the year. However, due to cloudy weather expected in the city over the weekend, it is possible that minimum temperature will go above 10°C again,” said the weatherman.Meanwhile, after staying at good (0-50) and satisfactory (50-100) level due to rains earlier this week, the Air Quality Index (AQI) went into the moderate level (100-200) once again on Friday. It was recorded between 100 and 110 throughout the day at the Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Station in Sector 25. The weatherman attributed it to the inversion of temperature, adding that the air quality is likely to worsen, with AQI entering the poor bracket (200-300), as the temperature falls.In the next three days, maximum temperature is expected to remain between 21 and 22 degrees while minimum temperature will remain between 9 and 11 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-feels-the-chill-as-mercury-drops-below-10-c/story-RZibFAF7gwUF5z4UKlABxM.html
20-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Housing Board CEO, UT tourism director, Mohali SSP test positive for Covid-19||Three senior officers of the Chandigarh administration have tested positive for Covid-19 in the past two days. Two of them are from Chandigarh Housing Board — its chief executive officer Yashpal Garg and chief engineer Rajiv Singla — and UT tourism director RK Popli.Meanwhile, in the neighbouring Mohali district, senior superintendent of police Satinder Singh also tested positive on Friday, after suffering from mild fever. The tricity reported 373 fresh cases on Friday, with 151 in Mohali, followed by 150 in Chandigarh and 72 in Panchkula district. A 40-year-old man from Sector 25, Chandigarh, was the lone casualty. The infection tally in Chandigarh has climbed to 16,472, with 1,121 cases still active. As many as 15,096 (91.6%) people have recovered, including 133 discharged on Friday, and 255 have died. In Mohali, 14,183 people have tested positive so far and 263 have died. With 61 patients being discharged on Friday, the number of those cured has reached 12,676 (89.4%).Two ITBP jawans were among 72 people who tested positive in Panchkula on Friday. The infection tally has reached 8,208, of which 475 cases are still active. While 7,612 (92.7%) patients have recovered, 121 have died so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-housing-board-ceo-ut-tourism-director-mohali-ssp-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-1xNJ2KB9hLa4TIfKhPxNdO.html
20-11-2020||Noida||Crowds, many without masks, at ghats of Hindon as devotees offers prayers for Chhath||Ghaziabad: The pandemic affected the annual Chhath Puja festival as the gathering of devotees Friday evening at the banks of the Hindon was reduced to about one-fourth the usual. Officials said that they had made several appeals to residents to offer prayers at home due to the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease.According to officials’ estimates, the gathering was about 15,000-20,000, as against an estimated gathering of over one lakh seen every year. Though a majority of devotees wore face masks, social-distancing was hardly observed.Community associations, however, felt the number to be higher. “We estimate that there were about three lakh people there on Friday, as against the seven-eight lakh who come out every year. The gathering was reduced considerably as those who could not make arrangements at home came out. Majority people were wearing masks and our association also distributed free masks. Sometimes, it becomes difficult to maintain social-distancing when the gathering is large,” said Rakesh Tiwari from Purabiya Jan Kalyan Parishad.Those who arrived at the river banks expressed satisfaction about the measures put up. “Since many of the festivals were curtailed this year due to the pandemic, we were worried whether we would be able to celebrate or not. But the government did not ban prayers and allowed us to celebrate this major festival. It is a matter of relief for us. Many families, however, did not come to the river banks due to fear of Covid-19,” said Durga Prasad Mishra, a devotee from Arthala. The Ghaziabad administration had made arrangements at 53 different places across the city for the festival and had made regular appeals to people to offer prayers at home.“There was an estimated gathering of about 15,000-20,000 people who arrived at the banks of river Hindon and about 95% of them were wearing masks. We distributed about 10,000 masks and more have been arranged for the prayers on Saturday morning. Appeals were issued regularly for social distancing and wearing of masks,” said Shailendra Singh, additional district magistrate (city).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/crowds-many-without-masks-at-ghats-of-hindon-as-devotees-offers-prayers-for-chhath/story-I0QRg9PqIYwQIFxxsp98tI.html
20-11-2020||Noida||Murder of BJP MLA’s uncle: Ghaziabad police arrest two shooters, arms supplier||Ghaziabad: The Ghaziabad police on Friday arrested two shooters and an arms-supplier who were allegedly hired to kill the 60-year-old uncle of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA Ajitpal Tyagi. The police on November 18 had arrested one Jitendra Tyagi on charges of criminal conspiracy in the case, and said that the MLA’s absconding elder brother was allegedly also part of the conspiracy.The police identified the two shooters as Vipin Sharma, resident of Modinagar living in Ashok Nagar in Delhi, and his alleged accomplice Arpan Chaudhary, who is from Bulandshahr. The “arms supplier” was identified as Manoj Kumar, a resident of Saddik Nagar in Ghaziabad. On the morning of October 9, the MLA’s maternal 60-year-old uncle Naresh Tyagi was gunned down by two men on a two-wheeler. The MLA and the victim’s son, Abhishek Tyagi, on November 18 had said that they were not convinced with the disclosure made by the police. The two “shooters” were arrested from the roundabout area near Raj Nagar Extension while Manoj was picked up from his residence. “During his arrest, Jitendra told us about Vipin and said that he hired him for ₹2 lakh while an advance of ₹50,000 was given for the killing. Jitendra had informed them who to shoot but did not reveal the victim’s identity to the shooters. He also supplied the weapons to the shooters through Manoj. We scanned a number of CCTVs and came across these two men who were on a two-wheeler,” Kalanidhi Naithani, senior superintendent of police (SSP), said during a press-conference on Friday.The police said that Jitendra had allegedly told them that he had some personal and other rivalry with the victim and allegedly planned the murder along with the MLA’s elder brother Girish Tyagi. They added that a notice under sections of the CrPC has been served to Girish’s family so that he can come and record his statements. “The statements given by Jitendra are being verified and investigation is still on in the case. Teams have been asked to verify statements made by Jitendra,” the SSP added.Following Jitendra’s arrest, officers had said that he and Girish had allegedly flown to Lucknow two days before the incident, on October 7. Officers added said that they have also recovered weapons used during the crime and the two-wheeler. The MLA did not take calls for a comment on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/murder-of-bjp-mla-s-uncle-ghaziabad-police-arrest-two-shooters-arms-supplier/story-Ksog4xyqUjXKY8bKulKoXO.html
20-11-2020||Noida||During lockdown, thieves target former IAF officer’s home||A former air vice marshal filed a complaint with the Sector 20 Noida Police saying that thieves had burgled his house during the lockdown when he was out of town. Complainant air vice marshal (retd) Shyam Bihari Bajpayee (70) is the nephew of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. He said that the thieves entered the house after damaging the kitchen window’s grille and fled with cash and jewellery. Bajpayee lived with his wife in a ground floor apartment of Jalvayu Vihar society in Sector 25. Bajpayee said that on March 24, his wife and he were in Bengaluru when the lockdown came into force. “On November 16, we returned to our Noida ground floor home and found the door locked from inside. I called some neighbours and we found that the kitchen window grille was damaged,” he said. Inside, they found their rooms ransacked. Thieves had made away with ₹21,000 cash and some jewellery. “I am not concerned about the valuables, but it is shocking that it took place in the society. I informed the police and filed a complaint,” he said. R K Singh, SHO Sector 20 police station, said that a case of burglary under Section 380 of IPC was registered against unknown persons. “The police teams are scanning the CCTV footage to identify the suspects. The society keeps one month footage of CCTV camera. It is not clear if the incident took place in last one month or earlier since the family was away since March,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/during-lockdown-thieves-target-former-iaf-officer-s-home/story-BHpPG1lIy3tp6LZL1namrI.html
20-11-2020||Chandigarh||Covid norms thrown to the wind at Chhath Puja in Chandigarh||Around 2,000 people turned up at the lake in Sector 42 to pay obeisance to the setting sun on the third day of Chhath Puja in Chandigarh on Friday. Most of them were seen without face masks and maintaining no social distance, even as the number of Covid-19 cases are on a steady rise in the city.The authorities issued not a single challan to the violators, though announcements urging people to exercise caution were being made from loudspeakers.According to orders issued by the UT administration under the Unlock 5 guidelines on October 1, which have been extended till November 30, religious functions and congregations can be held in open spaces with strict observance of social distancing, mandatory wearing of face masks and provisions for thermal scanning and handwash or sanitiser. The permission for holding Chhath Puja at the lake had been granted by the administration subject to strict observance of these Covid protocols. The organisers were made responsible to ensure compliance.“We weren’t expecting a lot of people, but at least 2,000 turned up in the evening,” admitted Arvind Singh, treasurer, Purvanchal Sabha, adding that the number was estimated on the basis of masks distributed by the organisation.Singh said similar rush is unlikely on Saturday morning, when devotees pray to the rising sun and break their fast, as children and the elderly are not expected to come.Detailing the arrangements made at the venue, assistant superintendent of police (ASP, south) Shruti Arora said: “Around 200 cops were deployed in and around the lake to ensure order. Roads in front of the lake had been closed to manage the crowds better. “ Also, unlike previous years, vendors were not allowed at the venue, and Covid testing booths that have been set up in the parking lot were closed on Friday.In the afternoon, the administration had even chalked lines for devotees to maintain distance between each other, and they were allowed to enter the lake only from the front. However, in the evening, these rules went for a toss.“Once the crowd started swelling, we did what we could. We distributed masks and ensured compliance,” said subdivisional magistrate (SDM, south) Satish Jain, while confirming that no action was taken against violators.The fine for not wearing a face mask in public places is ₹500 in Chandigarh. Meanwhile, Purvanchal Sabha chairman Anil Kumar Dubey, who is also an elected councillor, said: “ We were doing our best to manage the crowds and asking people to wear masks. To discourage people from coming to the lake on Saturday morning, we will be serving only tea after the puja concludes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-norms-thrown-to-the-wind-at-chhath-puja-in-chandigarh/story-lTYCXvjnTBShEs66BUfLDK.html
20-11-2020||Noida||Noida mountaineer Arjun Vajpai aims for solo summit to Mount Everest||Noted mountaineer Arjun Vajpai (27) from Noida has planned a solo climb of Mount Everest (8,848m), the world’s highest peak, by May next year. He plans to do it without the help of sherpas and supplementary oxygen, and climb the mountain within a week. Ten years ago, Vajpai was the youngest Indian to have successfully climbed Mount Everest. He was 16 at the time and part of a group expedition. For the next climb, he has been training on the mountains of Uttarakhand. Vajpai said he will attempt the summit from Tibet side as Nepal does not allow solo summit. Vajpai and his parents had moved to Uttarakhand from Noida before the lockdown. “I live in Almora with my family in a small village. There are mountains in my neighbourhood which are lovely and serene,” he said.Vajpai said that the pandemic affected his schedule. “I had to postpone all my expeditions to next year. I will be the first Indian to solo climb the peak if I succeed,” he said. Reinhold Andreas Messner, an Italian explorer, is credited to have solo climbed Mount Everest first in 1978. Since then, a few more people followed, but an Indian is yet to do so, said Vajpai. “I will practice for on Mount Annapurna in March 2021 before going for the final push on Everest from the northern side in Tibetan Plateau,” he said. In a decade-long journey Vajpai took the national flag atop six of the world’s highest mountains. In 2010, he had first conquered Everest; in 2011 he climbed Mount Lhotse (8,516m) and Mount Manasalu (8,163m); in 2016 Mount Makalu (8,485m) and Mount Cho Oyu (8,201m), and in 2018 Mount Kangchenjunga (8,586m). Vajpai had also explored a “virgin mountain” in Lahaul Valley, Himachal Pradesh, and named it Mount Kalam (6,180m) after former president of India Dr. A.P.J. Abdul Kalam in 2015. In the next five years, Vajpai aims to become the youngest person in the world and only Indian to summit all 14 8,000-m high peaks in the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-mountaineer-arjun-vajpai-aims-for-solo-summit-to-mount-everest/story-cKGj53xEvJAXe0C8qCSgwK.html
20-11-2020||Noida||Greater Noida police seize three buses for violating Covid-19 protocols||Greater Noida: The Badalpur police on Friday seized three buses for violating coronavirus (Covid-19) disease protocols and not ensuring social distancing norms. The three buses ply between Ghaziabad’s Lal Kuan and Bulandshahr via Badalpur in Greater Noida. According to officers, passengers were found sitting together and many of them were not wearing masks.Dharmendra Sharma, in-charge, Badalpur police station, said that the police and the administration are conducting enforcement drives at different places as per Covid-19 protocol. “We are asking people to wear masks and maintain social distancing. On Friday, during an enforcement drive, we stopped some buses plying between Lal Kuan to Bulandshahr. In three private buses, we found passengers sitting together. There were 70-80 passengers in each bus which is almost double its permitted capacity,” he said.He said that the police also fined some passengers Rs 100 each for not wearing masks. “We de-boarded the passengers and seized three buses. The passengers were asked to take another bus to their destination. The seized bus will be released on court order,” Sharma said. The buses were seized for permit violations, he added.The transport department also conducted an enforcement drive to ensure social distancing in vehicles. Prashant Tiwari, assistant regional transport officer (ARTO – Enforcement) Gautam Budh Nagar, said that the transport department also issued fines to 12 vehicle owners for not producing valid pollution-under-control certificates during checking. “We advised people to maintain social distancing and compulsorily wear masks. We also conducted drives at pollution checking centres and directed vendors to ensure complete compliance to pollution norms,” he said.While the Noida traffic police are observing November as the traffic safety month, the transport department is observing the traffic week from November 18-24.On Friday, the district recorded 175 new Covid-19 cases and one death, as per the 24 hour report, while the tally of cases reached 21,166. There are a total of 1,401 active cases while 19,691 people have been successfully treated and discharged in the district.Meanwhile, the district health department on Friday conducted Covid-19 tests at random at the Sector 37 bus stand and at Dallupura village in Sector 8, both in Noida. Both these places have connectivity to Delhi. Chief Medical Officer Dr Deepak Ohri said that a total 179 people were tested and nine of them were found positive. “Two persons are residents of Noida and seven are from Delhi. They have been advised home isolation and to follow proper care. We will organise a health camp on Saturday at new locations,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/greater-noida-police-seize-three-buses-for-violating-covid-19-protocols/story-SfrNoTWyICRguxWkWZHS2H.html
20-11-2020||Noida||Hospitals near Noida to check if beds are free before referring Covid-19 patients to district||NOIDA: The Gautam Buddh Nagar administration has asked hospitals in neighbouring districts to refer coronavirus (Covid-19) disease patients to hospitals in the Noida district only after co-ordinating with Covid-dedicated facilities here about availability of beds.In its recent meeting with private Covid-dedicated hospitals in the district, the administration had asked them to increase their capacity of beds and to treat Covid-19 patients from Noida district on priority.District magistrate Suhas LY said that it has been proved now that due to its floating nature of population and frequent cross-border movement between Delhi and Noida, The Gautam Buddh Nagar is prone to have fluctuating number of Covid-19 cases, with respect to neighbouring areas. “We have categorically asked all private Covid-19 facilities in Noida district to admit referred patients from other districts only if they have adequate beds,” he said.“In addition, our health department officials have intimated hospitals in neighbouring districts that before referring any Covid-19 patient to hospitals in GB Nagar district, they must first co-ordinate with the respective hospital whether beds are available. The health department officials have also been asked to take stock of patients from other districts being treated in GB Nagar hospitals,” he said.He further said that at present, the district’s hospitals do not have any dearth of beds for Covid-19 patients. “At present, our Covid-19 facilities have as many as 2,411 beds, including 383 intensive care unit (ICU) beds, 181 ventilator beds and 884 oxygen beds. However, the number of patients admitted in these are 712, while and 433 others are under home isolation. The chief medical officer (CMO) has been asked to keep records of all Covid-19 patients being treated at different facilities in the district updated. He has also been asked to keep records of doctors and paramedics visiting Covid-19 wards in shifts there,” Suhas said. Expressing concern over the sudden surge in positive cases in the national Capital, the DM said that the situation had adversely impacted GB Nagar in April, when the district health department had found that 42% of the cases had come from contacts in Delhi. “And now when restrictions have eased and economic activities have started, the sources of several new positive cases in Noida can be traced to there. To check the spread of the virus, we were left with limited options – to increase surveillance in areas with floating populations, and random sampling at borders. We started these exercises Wednesday,” he said.District CMO Dr Deepak Ohri said that due to random sampling on Noida-Delhi borders, as many as 21 new positive cases have been detected out of tests through 521 rapid antigen kits. “While three persons tested positive on Wednesday out of 165 random samples at DND Flyway and Chilla borders, nine tested positive on Thursday out of 178 sampled at Botanical Garden and New Ashok Nagar metro stations. On Friday, our health workers conducted random testing of 178 persons at Botanical Garden bus stand and Dallupura areas, of which nine have been tested positive” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/hospitals-near-noida-to-check-if-beds-are-free-before-referring-covid-19-patients-to-district/story-Cl8s3wIH6V0KnLLNf54LJK.html
20-11-2020||Noida||Noida slips back to ‘very-poor’ zone as mercury falls, Saturday, Sunday to be coldest of season so far||The air quality of Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad continued its downward trend on Friday with Noida entering the “very poor” zone and the other two cities going deeper in the same zone after having slipped into it a day earlier. Added to this, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted that with Delhi expected to suffer a “cold wave” over the weekend, the three national capital region (NCR) cities will also experience some part of it. A cold wave is declared when the minimum temperature falls significantly from the normal minimum.“The region is receiving north-westerly winds which is bringing some smoke from stubble burning from those parts of the country. On Friday morning till the afternoon, the region had wind with speed ranging between 18 to 20 kmph. But since the temperatures were low during the morning hours, so the ventilation would have been minimal, leading to spike in the air pollution,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, India Meteorological Centre (IMD). Low temperatures result in denser air making it difficult for wind to disperse pollutants.On Friday, Delhi recorded its lowest minimum temperature for November since 2006 at 7.3 degrees Celsius, which was five notches below the season’s average and is also representable for the NCR. “There could be some variation of two to three degrees in the average minimum temperature of Delhi-NCR and the actual temperature of Noida. But the next two days will see rise in chilly winds and a further temperature drop. This could also make the pollution dispersion a bit difficult,” said Srivastava. According to the central pollution control board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Friday 306 or ‘very poor’ against 284 or ‘poor’ a day earlier. The AQI of Greater Noida was 314, same as a day earlier. The AQI of Ghaziabad was 325 against 305 a day earlier. The AQI between 301 and 400 is considered ‘very-poor’ and between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’. The pollution mass also worsened with PM2.5 for past 24-hours in Noida increasing to 173.92 microgrammes per cubic metres (µg/m³) against 144.85µg/m³ a day earlier. The PM2.5 for Greater Noida also worsened to 177.92µg/m³ on Friday against 161.22µg/m³ a day earlier. According to the System of air quality and weather forecasting and research (SAFAR), the AQI may improve marginally due to wind over next two days. “Energetic surface winds are forecasted for the next two days and likely to influence AQI positively. The AQI is likely to marginally improve and in the Very Poor to Poor category for the next two days. AQI is forecasted to marginally deteriorate and in the Very poor category on 23rd November,” said a statement by SAFAR on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-slips-back-to-very-poor-zone-as-mercury-falls-saturday-sunday-to-be-coldest-of-season-so-far/story-SHZcB3ybiHYB2GcHWIcuXP.html
20-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s SGNP to get cub after reunion bid with tigress fails||Following a failed reunion attempt of an 11-month-old tigress at the Chichpalli range of Chandrapur forest division earlier this year, the Maharashtra forest department has decided to send the cub to live in captivity at the Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) in Borivli.The cub left from Chandrapur on Friday and is expected to reach Mumbai by Sunday said, forest officers. The tigress is expected to help improve SGNP’s tiger breeding program. According to NR Praveen, chief conservator of forest (Chandrapur), the cub was found abandoned near Chichpalli range on April 24 and was brought to the Chandrapur Transit Treatment Centre (TTC). “The cub was quite weak and dehydrated when we found her. She had to be artificially-fed initially, and then after a few weeks, she began eating normally, he said. Praveen further said, “We planned to reunite her with her mother but there were two adult tigresses in the same region where we had rescued the cub and were not sure which was her mother.”The forest department carried out a DNA matching study to accurately identify which tigress the cub belonged to. The department claimed that it was the first such study in the country. Samples from the cub and the two adult tigresses (based on scat and hair samples) were sent to the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad, and the department got a match.“It took about two months for the results to come in, and the reunion was planned from June 18 to 20. The cub was placed in a small cage close to the location where she was rescued and the mother tigresses’ movement had been observed. Though there were calls from the cub and another tigress, unfortunately, the mother did not come for the cub, and the reunion failed,” said Praveen, adding, “It may be possible that since the cub was at the TTC for a long time, there may have been high human imprint (changes in behaviour in captivity) which may have deterred the mother from coming close to the cub or the mother was unable to locate the cub.”The reunion attempt was called off in July.Meanwhile, on July 27, a state-appointed committee, deciding on the possible rehabilitation of tigers and cubs post rescue or capture, recommended the cub be relocated to a rescue centre.“Owing to the human imprint, the cub could not be released in the wild. SGNP showed interest and had already requested the department for two tigers for improving their breeding program. Thus, it was unanimously decided to shift the cub to SGNP by the department and committee,” said Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife). At present, SGNP is home to five Royal Bengal tigers, including four females and a male.Sultan, who is four-and-a-half-years-old and the lone male tiger, was brought to SGNP from Gorewada Rescue Centre in Nagpur, last December. In August 2019, twin tigresses – Bijlee and Mastani, both nine-years-old, were brought to SGNP from Pench Tiger Reserve. Basanti, 20, and Laxmi,10, are the other two female tigers, who make up the population at SGNP.“All four tigresses are dominant and keep clear of Sultan or don’t allow him to come close to them. Thus, translocation of the female cub was essential for the park and the future of the breeding program, and the tiger safari. We await the cub’s arrival,” said G Mallikarjuna, director and conservator of forest, SGNP.Another male tiger RT1, aged about five to six years and said to have killed eight people, was captured near Sindhi village in Rajura forest at central Chanda, Chandrapur on October 27. While the tiger was relocated to Gorewada, there has been a request to transfer the tiger to SGNP as well. “We are yet to decide on this. Nothing is final yet,” said Kakodkar.Gorewada International Zoo to be inaugurated in DecemberOn Friday, officers from the Gorewada project, Nagpur, said a five-year-old male tiger Rajkumar was shifted from their rescue centre to a holding area at the Gorewada International Zoo. Over the next two days, another tigress, seven leopards (two male and five female), and six sloth bears (three male and three female) will be shifted to the zoo. “The zoo would be inaugurated closer to the end of December and opened to the public. We have built a total of 75 hectares (25 hectares each) for tiger, leopard and sloth bear safaris at the zoo,” said Pramod Panchbai, divisional manager, Gorewada Project, Nagpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-sgnp-to-get-cub-after-reunion-bid-with-tigress-fails/story-ej2h1MfJKOtGz48vq5j3yN.html
20-11-2020||Delhi||FIR against hotel for violating Covid rules||New DelhiDelhi Police on Friday registered a first information report (FIR) against a hotel in north-west Delhi’s Pitampura for allegedly not enforcing Covid-19 guidelines during a wedding function organised at the venue on Thursday. “There was no social distancing at the function and many people were not wearing masks,” Vijayanta Arya, deputy commissioner of police (north-west) said. Arya said a case under Indian Penal Code section 188 (disobedience to an order promulgated by a public servant) was filed at Maurya Enclave police station against City Park Hotel in Pitampura. Though there were reports on social media that there was a gathering of more than 200 persons at the hotel and police took action because of this violation, the police did not confirm this. Arya said police had filed case because the guests had flouted social distancing norms and did not wear masks. When HT spoke to the hotel officials about the allegations, they called it a “fake”. “There was no wedding at our hotel on Thursday. These are fake allegations and any video being circulated could be an old one. We are complying with all government guidelines,” said an official of the hotel over the phone. She did not identify herself. A short video clip in circulation, purportedly of a wedding at the hotel, showed a few guests dancing at the stage and hotel attendants -- many of them wearing face shields-- standing at a distance. HT could not independently verify the authenticity of the video, or the number of guests. The DCP said the FIR was registered after a local resident brought the video to the police’s notice.The wedding guests were not booked, the officer said. The Delhi Government had on Tuesday banned a gathering of more than 50 people at wedding venues in light of the rising number of Covid-19 infections. The government had earlier allowed a gathering of up to 200 persons. Eish Singhal, Delhi Police spokesperson, said the order was implemented by police from Wednesday. “We are taking action whenever we receive a call about violations of this rule. But most hotels are complying with guidelines and taking undertakings from clients to ensure no more than 50 people attend the weddings. Caterers are not taking orders for more than 50 guests. Hotel owners are being careful to not invite police action and there is a general compliance. If there are violations by a few, we are taking immediate action,” said Singhal. A district deputy commissioner of police (DCP) said police in civil dresses are taking rounds of wedding venues to see if there are any violations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/fir-against-hotel-for-violating-covid-rules/story-fq7FvVKIr8VXmuK82slhNP.html
20-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi high court dismisses plea seeking stay on demolition of temple in Chandni Chowk||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court on Friday dismissed an application moved by a registered religious society, seeking a stay on demolition of a Hanuman Temple in Chandni Chowk. The HC said the same issues have already been re-agitated, considered and rejected earlier last year and that the plea for interference had to come from the state government.The organisation represented by advocate Rushab Aggarwal had said the single judge could not have rejected the decision of the Lieutenant-Governor (LG) of Delhi, who as chairperson of the religious committee had recommended for the temple to be amalgamated and saved as part of the Shahjahanabad Redevelopment Plan. He said devotees had a fundamental right to practice their faith and that the temple was an integral facet of the faith. The trust said they were aggrieved by an order dated October 31 of the North MCD, proposing to demolish the temple, which according to them would be done on Sunday.On Friday, a bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad said it was for the Delhi Government to make an application for modification because the Supreme Court had asked them to approached the high Court. On November 14, 2019, the Delhi High Court had rejected recommendations of the religious committee to allow the temple to exist at the site. The order was challenged by the Delhi government in Supreme Court, which disposed it of after the government said it would move “a suitable application before the high court for further directions, as may be warranted”.The court said once such a liberty was granted to the Delhi government, and that because the government had not approached the high court, there was no reason to entertain that application for intervention “which is nothing but an attempt to re-agitate the same issue that has been considered and rejected by an earlier order dated 14.11.2019”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-high-court-dismisses-plea-seeking-stay-on-demolition-of-temple-in-chandni-chowk/story-PUWePnchwvmcahgykL2O3N.html
20-11-2020||Delhi||Education ministry asks DU to name representative for visitorial enquiry||New DelhiThe Union Education ministry has asked Delhi University (DU) to appoint its representative who will be present and be heard at the visitorial inquiry that will be held into a litany of charges related to administrative mis-governance against Vice-Chancellor Y K Tyagi.According to a person aware of the development, the ministry has written to DU officials referring to a specific provision in the DU Act that mandates a representative of the university be held in case an enquiry is held.It is learnt the office of President Ram Nath Kovind, who is the visitor to central universities, had raised the issue.After the issue was flagged by the President’s office, the ministry is learnt to have informed the university that sub-section (3) of the section 7 of the DU Act needs to be followed in case of an enquiry. The ministry has told the varsity that the mandatory compliance of the provision is important as it would ensure any challenge at a later stage to the actions can be defended.According to sub-section (3) of section 7 of the DU Act, the Visitor shall in every case give notice to the University of his intention to cause an inspection or inquiry to be made and the University shall be entitled to appoint a representative who shall have the right to be present and be heard at such inspection or inquiry.Accordingly, the DU has been requested to appoint a representative who shall be present and have the right to be heard at the enquiry.The ministry has also sought clarification regarding some other aspects related to the enquiry from the varsity, the person cited above said.Delhi University (DU) Vice Chancellor Yogesh Kymar Tyagi was last month placed under suspension and the process of initiating an enquiry into a range of charges of misgovernance and dereliction of duties began following the nod by President Ram Nath Kovind to such a proposal by the University.According to an order issued by Ministry of Education Joint Secretary Chandra Shekhar Kumar, all orders issued with the approval of Prof Yogesh Kumar Tyagi during period of his absence on medical ground after Pro Vice Chancellor Prof P C Joshi assumed the charge of Vice Chancellor of University of Delhi on 17th July, 2020, were set aside and to be treated as null and void.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/education-ministry-asks-du-to-name-representative-for-visitorial-enquiry/story-fOr0rDgWqKPIJt7TWJVhxL.html
20-11-2020||City||Kin’s angst still simmers three years after death of 9 firemen in Ludhiana factory collapse||Three years after the plastic factory tragedy near Suffiyan Chowk on November 20, 2017, families of three firefighters killed in the building collapse are still running from pillar to post for government jobs.The jobs were announced by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh as part of the compensation for the families of the nine firefighters killed in the incident.Claiming that no one was committed to providing them relief, families of firemen Manpreet Singh, Sukhdev Singh and Vishal said the files were being delayed by authorities on pretext of one objection or another.“My only son was among the nine firefighters who died in the plastic factory tragedy and we are still awaiting the government job. The authorities have been raising unnecessary objections in processing our case. In the past, they also claimed that kin of Manpreet and Sukhdev were not entitled to jobs as they were contractual employees. Later, they agreed to provide a job to my daughter, but the file is just stuck in red tape,” said Manpreet’s father Malkit Singh, who also lost his wife to heart disease in March this year.“I just want to question the authorities, whether my son was standing shoulder to shoulder with the rest or not?” he rued.Having lost their breadwinners, the three firemen’s families are struggling to make their ends meet.Vishal’s mother Asha Rani said, “Though I am a government employee, I will retire in two years and Vishal’s wife and two sons are dependent on me. We have been demanding a job for Vishal’s brother Vikas, who is also married and does menial jobs. Despite making rounds of government offices, no one is paying heed to our situation.”Similarly, Sukhdev’s wife, who now lives with her parents, said she and her three daughters were dependent on her family. “If the government provides me a job, I could take care of my children myself,” she added.Also bereft of benefits of gallantry awardAll nine firefighters were awarded the President’s Fire Service Medal for gallantry in January 2019, but the benefits still elude their families.These include a special allowance of over Rs 6,000 per month, discount on air travel, concession in school admission fee for children, widow quota in jobs, etc.MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “We have already forwarded MC’s recommendations regarding the jobs to the state government that has yet to accord its final approval. As far as the special allowance is concerned, its file has been forwarded to the finance and contracts committee for its nod.”Besides firemen Manpreet, Sukhdev and Vishal, the factory collapse had also claimed the lives of sub-fire officers Rajinder Sharma, Sumohan Gill and Raj Kumar, leading firemen Pooran Singh and Manohar Lal, and fireman Rajan. In all, 16 people were killed in the tragedy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kin-s-angst-still-simmers-three-years-after-death-of-9-firemen-in-ludhiana-factory-collapse/story-UPJ1SXfErxpqpus5QPS6BK.html
20-11-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Agri-varsity employees protest for 2nd consecutive day; threaten to go on hunger strike||Employees’ unions of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) continued to protest over non-fulfilment of long–pending demands for the second consecutive day on Friday.They gathered outside Thapar Hall and threatened to go on hunger strike if their demands are not met. The employees’ unions also took out a march in the varsity to garner support. As many as four employees’ unions, including the PAU Employees Union, PAU Teachers Association and PAU Class Four Workers Union, have been protesting on campus since October 13.Among their demands is the implementation of the old pension scheme, on the lines of Punjabi University, Patiala, for employees recruited till July 9, 2012. Besides, they also want the grade pay for library attendant and meteorological attendant to be at par with the lab attendant, promotions for JEs and SDOs, filling up of vacant posts of store-keepers, recruitment and promotion of car and jeep drivers and the problems cropping up in internal audit to be resolved.On Thursday, they sat outside vice-chancellor Baldev Singh Dhillon’s office and stopped him from entering. A day on, the V-C tried to appease the protesting employee and urged them to not vitiate the atmosphere of the university campus, but instead, discuss their issues with the authorities. “The PAU fraternity is like a family. When a problem arises, the head of the family comes forward to solve the issue,” the V-C said.Dhillon further assured the employees that all their genuine demands will be addressed and urged them to stop the agitation.RS Sidhu, registrar, said the university is aware of the demands of the employees and authorities are doing their best to address them.On the other hand, Baldev Singh Walia, president of the PAU employees’ Union, reiterated that employees working on contract should be made permanent as per seniority. He said the V-C was deliberately stalling the promotions and appointments.Meanwhile, the university has issued details of their position with respect to demands of employees’ unions. On the implementation of the old pension scheme, the varsity said the state government has to consider the case of PAU and other institutions together, and they will implement any orders issued in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-agri-varsity-employees-protest-for-2nd-consecutive-day-threaten-to-go-on-hunger-strike/story-GOuSKEoJ0oKnlDfUrEuoWM.html
20-11-2020||Chandigarh||Reopening of colleges in Ludhiana: Managements in a fix over PU, Punjab govt orders||: The authorities of Panjab University-affiliated colleges are in a fix after latest directions from the varsity directing them to continue with online classes for the current semester. On November 4, the Punjab government had permitted colleges outside containment zones to reopen from November 16, while adhering to Covid safety guidelines.The principals of government colleges have written to the higher education department and asked them to clarify whether they should reopen or continue holding online classes.In the last four days, few students from final year have turned up to colleges in the city. Majority of them have preferred to continue with the online classes.On Friday, six MA (Punjabi) students attended classes at Government College of Girls (GCG). At Satish Chander Dhawan Government College, five to six students from final-year turned up. Majority of the private colleges affiliated to PU have continued with online classes.Dharam Singh Sandhu, principal of SCD Government College, said: “We have asked final-year students to attend classes, but not many have turned up. Students are preferring online classes. We have written to the higher education department to confirm if we should continue with both offline and online classes.”At Government College for Girls, attendance has been low since November 16, as parents have not allowed their wards to attend classes. Gurpreet Kaur, officiating principal, said, “Teachers are holding online and offline classes simultaneously. We have received directions from Panjab University to continue with online classes. We have written to the higher officials for clarification” The authorities of Arya College have decided to continue with online classes for all classes after taking feedback from parents and students. The college staff has also suggested that classes should be only held online this semester and the situation can be reviewed after the final exams.Students of DD Jain Memorial College for Women are also attending online classes and only some final-year students are visiting the college in groups. College principal Sarita Behl, said, “The students are attending the online classes but in subjects like fashion designing, music vocal, instrumental and fine arts, physical classes are necessary. We are abiding by all standard operating procedures including social distancing and wearing masks.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/reopening-of-colleges-in-ludhiana-managements-in-a-fix-over-pu-punjab-govt-orders/story-mCYqkYlSmPGkRi5PxrQOvJ.html
20-11-2020||City||Khanna liquor scam: SAD accuses Cong of trying to scuttle probe||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Friday accused the Congress government of trying to cover up the Rs 100-crore Khanna liquor scam. They said Gurcharan Singh Grewal, the officer during whose term an illegal liquor factory had flourished, has been reposted as Khanna’s senior superintendent of police by the Punjab government.The SAD leaders also threatened to raise a stir if the he was not posted out the district.Former minister Maheshinder Singh Grewal said it was during Gurcharan’s tenure as SSP that an illegal factory, which produced 1,000 crates of liquor everyday, had flourished under the nose of the local police.“It is condemnable that the same officer, who was transferred out of the district for failing to stop liquor smuggling, has now been posted back. We condemn the move and demand that he is posted out of the district immediately,” said Grewal.The senior SAD leader also demanded a CBI probe into the liquor scam. He said those who supplied machinery for the illegal factory and spirit used to make alcohol were yet to be identified.“The role of the Khanna Congress legislator who openly patronised the factory has also not been probed adequately. Till such time that the CBI probes the matter, it should be given for inquiry to an IG level officer,” he said. The former minister said it is clear that Gurcharan has been reposted as Khanna SSP to ensure the probe into the illegal factory and its godfathers can be scuttled.“In case the SSP is not posted out of the district, and a free and fair probe is not conducted into the matter, SAD will launch an agitation to secure justice”, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/khanna-liquor-scam-sad-accuses-cong-of-trying-to-scuttle-probe/story-wtpXLOnFgIk3c28GO90zpM.html
20-11-2020||Lifestyle||Upcycling ups Delhi-NCR mood: Pots, cutlery, furniture get a makeover amid pandemic||When in India is it difficult to not have a jugaad? Those in Delhi-NCR who love to hoard and repurpose/reuse old things, have found a new liking towards old objects in their homes, during the pandemic. Be it a hand-me-down sari or a an earthen pot, most things have got a dash of colour on them since their owners had some real spare time on their hands! So, from simple household furniture such as trunks and cupboards to cutlery and bottles, denizens have given a twist to most, while on #WFH mode. “Pandemic was a kind of signal from the universe to take a break, ponder, cleanse and redesign your thoughts and lifestyle. And to upcycle is a wonderful way to align yourself with the flow of events as it helps you to rejuvenate your home as well as your spirit,” says Sameera Satija, a Gurugram-based auditor, who revamped a trunk lying in her daughter’s room, and also worked with broken ceramic crockery to turn them in pieces of art. “The idea is to reuse, instead of discard old products, in order to not give into fast-paced consumerism,” adds Satija. Anuradha Ramachandran, a freelance writer, recently upcycled an old trunk taking help of her college-going niece Kriti Sahni, to decide on the various book titles that now adorn the new look on this metal storage piece. “The theme for the trunk ties in my love for books and reading with my current state of mind; especially during these extraordinary times where I feel we have more than enough. We need to take stock rather than spend on more. And Kriti helped me bring the idea to life,” says Ramachandran.And this comes naturally to Gurugram-based art teacher Piu Ghosh, for whom the canvas of late has been her daughter’s cupboard! “From ordinary paper I moved to painting furniture during the lockdown. I also painted crockery and made small additions to our dining table and walls. My husband is also artistically inclined, and we are trying to impart the same to our daughter,” she adds.Some denizens say that upcycling became a fun way for them to bond with their kids, while remaining indoors. “I made a batman dress out of old materials at home,” says Prachi Puri, a Gurugram-based businesswoman, who used the last few months to train her 5-year-old how to utilise thermocol plates, newspapers etc for school projects. Puri adds, “I paint old bottles, and make craft items from cartons, old plates and spoons. Reusing and recycling helps me think in a positive and constructive manner,” she says.An eco-friendly lifestyle is what motivated Gurugram-based homemaker Shilpa Anand as well. Her hobby has turned into a passion during the last few months of lockdown, and Anand has been posting pictures of her paintwork on old biryani pots and discarded water bottles. “Amid the pandemic, upcycling and painting acted as a therapy, and helped me stay calm and occupied. I turned old chocolate boxes into serving trays, and made DIY gift bags out of corn flakes boxes,” says Anand describing how the children in her society started coming to her to learn to recycle things at home. “It’s inspiring for me to realise that my work is influencing our younger generation,” she adds. Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/upcycling-ups-delhi-ncr-mood-pots-cutlery-furniture-get-a-makeover-amid-pandemic/story-QVOAxWNHm8Aydtztt9LboN.html
20-11-2020||Fashion||Winter feels in Sarojini Nagar market: Shoppers flock for their fashion fix||New Delhi“Whoever said money can’t buy happiness simply didn’t know where to go shopping.” Bo Derek’s famous words ring true with the shoppers in Delhi’s popular Sarojini Nagar market, who are thronging the place to upgrade their winter stock. As temperature dips in the city, winter has come knocking in Sarojini, where sellers have put their varied winter wares on display.Lightweight sweaters and cardigans are a hitThe by lanes of Sarojini Nagar market are packed with people looking for lightweight sweaters, and the wide variety isn’t disappointing them either. “Corona apne ghar gaya,” quips Surinder, who has his stall stocked to the brim with sweaters that are available for ₹100 each. “Sabse jaldi yehi bik raha hai,” he says pointing towards thin cardigans on hangers. “The crowd has been better in the festival season, as people are learning to live with the virus while taking precautions,” he adds.The long and short of coatsRam Sevak Yadav, who has been selling clothes in this market for over a decade, shares that he has stocked up on jackets and coats, ranging from ₹350 to ₹800 since he saw that there’s always been a demand for these. “Long coats are the best sellers! And we try to keep all varieties... right now people want to wear light weight material, but do intend to protect themselves from Delhi’s chilly evenings,” he says. Dipti Gupta, a Noida resident, out for her winter shopping with friends in this shoppers’ paradise, says “Revenge shopping is a thing! I hadn’t shopped in seven months until festival approached. And since winter is fast approaching, I decided to splurge on a few coats that will go well with both saris and jeans. When the thought of shopping took over me, I knew there’s nothing like Sarojini when it comes to coats,” she says as she goes back to search for a corduroy. Sleepwear shenanigans: Flannel pyjamas to the rescue’Tis the season for coffee and warm pyjamas. Soft flannel night suit sets are on display in a noticeable quantity. Available at a starting price of ₹400, these night sets can be ditched for loose flannel pants, which cost around ₹200. Manorama, a south Delhi resident eyeing these pieces, tells us that she is looking for a pair to fulfil her daughter’s demand. She adds, “She had seen them online, but those were expensive. So I thought I’d try looking for them here, and thankfully found a few shops that are selling them. Ab bas bargain karna padega (chuckles).” Jackets, watta bomb!Young shoppers can be seen thronging shops selling jackets — denim fabrics, bomber jackets and even faux leather ones. “I used to come in December-January for winter wear, but this time evenings have become quite chilly especially when we are at home all day. So my yearly pilgrimage to Sarojini has come a little early this year,” says Niyati, a shopper who bought two denim jackets priced at ₹200 each. Buy now or repent later! Shopkeepers in the bargaining hub say they bought the winter stock, albeit in a limited quantity since they were skeptical that they might not be able to make as much sale as they did during the pre-Covid winter months. “The footfall is less than expected because cases wapis se badh rahe hain. Isliye hum kam saaman la toh rahe hain but only in limited quantities. More variety is expected to come in the coming weeks. Dresses, leather shoes, animal print jackets, ye sab aaega. Abhi se zyada stock layenge toh humara loss hoga, but agar aap ye sweaters leke nahi jaoge, toh bohot pachtaoge,” says Sonu Yadav, a young shopkeeper. Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/fashion-and-trends/winter-feels-in-sarojini-nagar-market-shoppers-flock-for-their-fashion-fix/story-azy8shUdSCCP7BWOrMqNsJ.html
20-11-2020||Chandigarh||SAD condemns withdrawal of Z-security cover of Majithia||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), on Friday, termed the decision of BJP-led central government to withdraw Z-security cover for ex-minister Bikram Singh Majithia as arbitrary, dictatorial and politically motivated.In a statement, party spokesman Daljit Singh Cheema said Majithia’s security cover was withdrawn because SAD had stood firmly in support of farmers and against the new central agricultural laws. Also, SAD spoke up on denial of official language status to Punjabi in Jammu and Kashmir.He said that SAD had voted against the central agri bills in the Parliament, besides quitting the Union cabinet and the National Democratic Alliance (NDA).“It is clear that the former minister has become a victim of political vendetta. SAD, however, will not be cowed down by such tactics of Centre and will continue to stand with farmers and Punjabis against the central laws and other issues that weakens the federal structure or is intrinsically anti-Punjab,” said the SAD spokesperson.The SAD leader said that Z-category security had been given to Majithia in 2010 during the UPA rule on the basis of threat perception.“The case was cleared by the then Union home minister P Chidambaram, who was known to be a hard taskmaster on the basis of credible reports. We would like to know what has changed suddenly that the 10-year-old cover was withdrawn on the basis of a single-line order,” said the SAD leader.SAD leaders claimed that Majithia continues to be a target of Pakistan-based anti-national elements and gangsters who have openly threatened to eliminate him.“Even Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had recently talked about increased attempts of Pakistan’s ISI to revive terrorist activities in Punjab, particularly in the Majha belt, which shares a border with Pakistan,” said a SAD spokesperson.“Majithia is from Majha area. There have been instances of seizures of drones and arms and ammunition from here. The law and order situation in Punjab, particularly the open licence to gangsters to operate from jails, is also known to everyone,” the spokesperson added.Stating that the Union home ministry will be held responsible for any untoward incident following the withdrawal Majithia’s security cover, the SAD leaders said this kind of action was “clearly designed to brow beat opponents, and is a new low in the Indian politics.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sad-condemns-withdrawal-of-z-security-cover-of-majithia/story-8sB4pqsocWy7zIzkP0xZKI.html
20-11-2020||City||BJP chief Nadda on two-day visit to Himachal||BJP national president Jagat Prakash Nadda will be on a two-day visit to his home state Himachal Pradesh beginning November 21.BJP workers are eagerly waiting for Nadda’s arrival after the party conquered the political fort of Bihar.He will reach his home district Bilaspur on November 21 and inspect the construction work of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).Chief minister Jairam Thakur will also accompany the BJP chief. On November 22, Nadda will return to Delhi after paying obeisance at Shri Naina Devi Temple.Nadda is a three-time former legislator from Bilaspur and a two-term minister in the state. As per his tentative programme, Nadda will reach Bilaspur at around 10 am on Saturday to inspect the ongoing construction work of AIIMS.They are likely to discuss party and state government-related issues. Chief Minister Jairam Thakur will also invite JP Nadda for an event to be held on the occasion of completion of the 3-year term of the government.Nadda will stay at his ancestral village, Vijaypur, and will return to Delhi after attending some local functions.AIIMS is Nadda’s gift to state: JairamMeanwhile, chief minister Jairam Thakur said that AIIMS, Bilaspur was JP Nadda’s gift to Himachal. In his address on the launch of the Jeevan Dhara programme in Shimla, he said that Nadda had approved AIIMS for the state while being the Union health minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-chief-nadda-on-two-day-visit-to-himachal/story-gdXS46ESzCdERZ8BoAXZMM.html
20-11-2020||City||Himachal logs 6 deaths; 161 fresh Covid cases||Himachal Pradesh on Friday recorded 161 fresh Covid-19 infections taking the state’s tally to 32,358, while the death toll mounted to 486 with six more patients succumbing to the virus. Of the new cases, 37 were reported in Solan, 27 each in Kangra and Shimla, 26 in Kullu, 19 in Lahaul-Spiti, eight in Manid, six each in Bilaspur and Una and five in Sirmaur. There are 6,592 active cases in the state while recoveries have reached 25,348. Mandi is the worst-hit district with 5,117 cases while Shimla is in the second position where 5,030 people have been infected to date. Solan ranks third with 4,290 cases and is followed by Kangra (4,184), Kullu (2,805), Sirmaur (2,470), Bilaspur (1,708), Chamba (1,671), Hamirpur (1,630), Lahaul-Spiti (909) and Kinnaur (677). MORE THAN 10K INFECTIONS IN 20 DAYS The state has recorded a total of 10,299 cases in 20 days this month. This is higher than the September tally when the state recorded 8,938 cases in a month. In October, the state had recorded 7,083 cases. New infections have seen a jump of 46% in November. There has also been a sharp rise in the fatalities this month with a total of 174 people losing their lives due to the virus. As many as 131 people had died in October and 145 in September. KANGRA SP OFFICE SEALED Meanwhile, the office of Kangra superintendent of police (SP) at Dharamshala has been closed for two days after 12 cops tested positive.SP Vimukt Ranjan said that the office building was being sanitised and has been closed for 48 hours as per protocol. It is worth mentioning that the office of Kangra deputy commissioner was sealed on Thursday after 15 employees tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-logs-6-deaths-161-fresh-covid-cases/story-cAZXPcpUvofzYXqDzlnLAO.html
20-11-2020||City||Agnihotri asks CM to issue white paper on loss suffered by Himachal due to Covid-19 pandemic||Leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri on Friday lashed out at the state government over its decision to celebrate the completion of its three-year regime in December and its inability to contain the spread of Covid-19 and increasing deaths due to the virus and has demanded chief minister Jai Ram Thakur issue white papers on the loss suffered during the pandemic.He has also demanded the state government to publicise the details of purchases made during the pandemic.In a statement issued by Agnihotri, he said that the present state government has proved to be incompetent and at a time when deaths due to the infection and positive cases are increasing day by day, the state government is readying to celebrate its three-year tenure.He said that the pandemic has created a chaotic situation in the state and people have lost faith in the healthcare system and asked CM to tell the reasons to celebrate when nearly 500 deaths have occurred due to Covid-19.“Himachal is not safe under the regime of Bharatiya Janata Party-led state government as decisions are taken hastily which are immediately withdrawn after they backfire. Prices of essential commodities, electricity, water and bus fares have been hiked, government treasury has been destroyed by continuous loans, bogus foundation laying ceremonies are being done and the state is suffering huge losses daily due to the pandemic. The state government cannot hide these facts by making false claims,” he said.Agnihotri further said that the CM is worried about losing his power and position and when the state government should rigorously work to contain the spread of the virus, but he is busy holding rallies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/agnihotri-asks-cm-to-issue-white-paper-on-loss-suffered-by-himachal-due-to-covid-19-pandemic/story-Iyt8qvJVkLtEHuY24W4eOL.html
20-11-2020||City||Himachal continues ban on general transfers of govt employees||In the wake of rising Covid-19 cases in the state, the Himachal Pradesh government has again imposed a complete ban on general transfers in all its departments.The department of personnel has issued a notification in this regard.Earlier, a complete ban on general transfers of employees was imposed in July in view of the adverse situation arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic in order to restrict the unnecessary movement of officers, officials, and public representatives, including by virtue of transfers.The fresh letter issued by the department of personnel stated that although ‘unlock’ activities were in an advanced stage, yet it has been decided by the government to continue with the ban on general transfers.“Accordingly, henceforth no transfers or adjustments shall be ordered by any department, board, corporation, universities etc. and if any transfers are necessitated, the same will be done after obtaining the prior approval of the chief minister through the concerned minister-in-charge that too in special circumstances,” it reads.It further states that broadly, transfers may be ordered, strictly with approval of the competent authority, only in eventualities like filling up vacant posts in tribal, difficult, hard areas; to fill up vacancies arising out of retirements, promotions, and creation of new posts; transfers necessitated on account of disciplinary matters, vigilance cases, criminal proceedings and; in cases involving administrative grounds and exigencies.Govt issues new safety protocol for CMMeanwhile, the government has issued new protocols for the safety of the chief minister against Covid. The new protocol makes it mandatory for visitors to be six feet away from the CM while meeting him. All the meetings being presided over by the CM will be held in open conference halls and grounds with less than 50% capacity. Now, speakers at the meetings will have to keep their faces covered with masks and will have to avoid speaking loudly. No snacks will be served in the meetings. Fresh guidelines issued by the CM’s office make it mandatory for officers to make use of digitals files. Security staff will ensure that documents and representations being handed to the CM are disinfected with alcohol-based sanitisers.“The chief minister is responsible for providing state-level leadership and decision making in respect of all matters concerning the risk of Covid-19 infections so as to maintain the smooth functioning of the government during the pandemic,” states the order issued by the government.The CM has been self-quarantined thrice after the outbreak of Covid-19 and has been tested positive once.Visitors whether his cabinet colleagues or bureaucrats will be screened with thermal scanners, and for other symptoms like running nose cough and fever before entering the room. Visitors will have to wear three layers of masks. People from containment zones wanting to meet the chief minister can do so virtually. The CM will have to wear face shields while conducting direct meetings. No visitors will be permitted to present gift bouquets to the CM. All the accompanying him will be thermal scanned before boarding the chopper.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-continues-ban-on-general-transfers-of-govt-employees/story-6VMdiU3rd42ZkldW7tUisJ.html
20-11-2020||City||Adequate health infra, facilities for Covid management in HP: Health secretary||Health secretary Amitabh Awasthi on Friday said that the state government and health department has identified and set up adequate health infrastructure and facilities for Covid management. He also sought public cooperation to keep the situation under control.The health secretary in a statement said that it has often been observed that people were not following the specified guidelines in crowded places and were lowering their guard in the fight against the deadly virus which can prove fatal.People were flouting social distancing norms and were seen without masks during festival celebrations, weddings and private ceremonies.“In recent times there has been an increase in Covid-19 cases, in which most of them were recorded during these ceremonies or events,” he said.He further said that as many as 4,75,263 people have been screened for Covid-19 in the state to date, of which 32,197, were found positive.There are 6,980 active cases in the state while 480 people have died.Statistics of deaths due to the Covid-19 indicate that the majority of deaths occurred of elderly or people suffering from other diseases such as cancer, diabetes, heart disease, high blood pressure, or co-morbidities.He said that of the total people tested it has been found that about 70% of people were suffering from co-morbidities.Awasthi urged all such people, who are above 60 years of age or also suffering from any other disease, to be more vigilant.“At this time, the only requirement is to be vigilant, strengthen your immunity, get medical advice quickly and follow the guidelines suggested by the government,” he said.Awasthi also urged people to avoid attending social gatherings. “Do not take fever, cough, cold, or breathing problem lightly and immediately contact helpline number 104 or e-Sanjeevani OPD,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/adequate-health-infra-facilities-for-covid-management-in-hp-health-secretary/story-2DOmAcOzq2t1dNWqqzz9UI.html
20-11-2020||Delhi||Chhath Puja for Delhiites: Low-key celebrations, thekua #FOMO and makeshift ponds||The four-day Chhath Puja celebrations, which involve worshipping the Sun God, began in the Capital on Wednesday. But, this year most denizens say they will be celebrating the festival at home, after the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) instructed officials to ensure the festival is not performed at public places, river banks and temples, in lieu of the Covid-19 pandemic.Celebrate, but be safe In the absence of large-scale celebrations at public places, residents of Delhi-NCR are celebrating Chhath at home, with makeshift arrangements of water. Nishant and Nivedita Mishra, Gurugram-based working professionals residing in Gurugram, say they miss being home in Patna, where their family has gathered for the festivities. “It would be a gathering of all near and dear ones, where prayers and party would go hand in hand. We can’t go this year because of Covid-19 situation, but we’ll make arrangements for the morning and evening puja at our terrace, and ask our mothers on video call about the rituals that we need to follow,” adds Nishant. Swimming pool becomes makeshift pondYoungsters who love the festival because it gives them a chance to meet relatives and enjoy get-togethers, will give it a miss this year. Noida-based Aaditya Chandra says, “In normal times we used to go and meet relatives, and have the puja together. However, this year we’ve decided that it’s best to celebrate at home and follow the norms of social distancing. While the decision may feel disappointing in the short-run, in the long term it’s for the overall benefit. The rituals which were to be done at the ghat, are going to be done in the society’s swimming pool.”Some youngsters are happy to be home with their families since colleges are closed due to the pandemic, allowing them to have low-key celebrations while being at home with their dear ones. Ananya Jha, a Delhi University student, says, “My family gets together for Chhath, no matter what. Majority of my relatives are still gathering in a village in Madhubani district in Bihar this year. Right now due to the pandemic, I am back in Patna. Our apartment is collecting water in a makeshift perishable pond. Only one-two women will be fasting, on behalf of their families. We’ll be dressed up but we wouldn’t actively be participating in the rituals; we’ll just be spectators.”Missing Thekua, Food and FunMany who have not been able to go back home for Chhath, due to the pandemic, say the biggest thing they miss about the festival is the food! “Everyone in my office was hoping I’ll go home and bring back thekua but I have postponed my trip until next year; I don’t want to travel and put my parents at risk. However, I’ve plans to try my hand at making thekua for my colleagues,” says Nemaly Lochan, who works for an MNC in Gurugram. Mohit Bhatia, a second year student at a university in Greater Noida, says he’s also missing Chhath Puja savouries, especially the ones his friends used to bring from home. “Our classes are continuing online, and my friends who celebrate Chhath haven’t come back to Delhi yet. So I’m missing relishing the amazing thekua and poori that my friends would bring back from home. And knowing my friends, I know I’m going to be more jealous when they share pictures of their celebrations at home.”Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/chhath-puja-for-delhiites-low-key-celebrations-thekua-fomo-and-makeshift-ponds/story-7PDHhEZDuoGdCTEYxt58aK.html
20-11-2020||City||60-yr-old killed by neighbour in Jalandhar: Kin protest seeking arrest of accused||The family of a 60-year-old man, who was allegedly killed by his neighbour, held protest in Phagwara Gate locality after placing his body on the road, demanding arrest of the accused, in Jalandhar on Friday.Deceased Yovinder Singh, a dhaba owner, was beaten to death with iron rods by his neighbours, Manoharlal Bhalla and his son Rinku Bhalla, who run a Jaggi Naan shop, after they exchanged some heated arguments over placing utensils outside the shop.The accused had fled the scene after committing the crime and are still on the run. Angered by this, the deceased’s family has refused to perform cremations and is accusing police of deliberately not arresting the accused due to some political pressure.Police rushed to the protest spot and convinced the family to perform last rites of the victim and assured to arrest the accused at the earliest.SHO police station number 3, Mukesh Sharma, said a case under Sections 302, 207 and 34 of the IPC has already been registered against the duo but they are yet to be arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/60-yr-old-killed-by-neighbour-in-jalandhar-kin-protest-seeking-arrest-of-accused/story-ORHicaVzGFZeXBFs1TDjNI.html
20-11-2020||City||Six booked for blocking traffic in Ludhiana’s Field Gunj||Acting against encroachments impeding traffic movement in Field Gunj and surrounding areas, the Division Number 2 police registered six cases against roadside vendors and pick-up truck drivers.In the first case, Vijay Kumar of Prem Nagar and Tajinder Singh of Prem Vihar were found selling cloth by stationing a kiosk on Field Gunj Road and obstructing movement of vehicles.Similarly, Charanjit Singh of Ganesh Nagar was booked for selling shoes by placing a table on the road in Janakpuri area.Gurlabha Singh of Alamgir Village was also booked for selling valuables by placing a stall on the road and blocking traffic that was heading towards civil hospital.Besides, Siman Khan of Adarsh Nagar and Ravinder Singh of Gopal Nagar were booked for causing traffic snarls on Tibba Road by placing their pick-up truck in the middle of the road.“These roads in Field Gunj and Janakpuri are crucial stretches used to rush patients to civil hospital and Christian Medical College and Hospital. Due to Chhath Puja, both areas were witnessing massive rush and to top it all, encroachments and reckless parking of vehicles were causing traffic jams. We made repeated requests, but no heed was paid. So, we decided to take action,” said Division Number 2 SHO Satpal Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-booked-for-blocking-traffic-in-ludhiana-s-field-gunj/story-bgd4vt0Ij1vAWNzh7PfOYM.html
20-11-2020||City||Man stabs brother to death in Rajasthan for exhausting mobile internet data||A 23-year-old man allegedly stabbed his younger brother to death here for exhausting his mobile internet data, police said on Friday.According to the police, the family members found the victim, bleeding profusely, at the roof of the house late on Wednesday night and rushed him to a hospital where he was declared dead.The accused had fled after stabbing his younger brother and was arrested from the railway station on Friday, they said.“On Wednesday evening, Raman took his younger brother Roy to the roof of the house and scolded him for consuming his internet data.“In a fit of rage, Raman stabbed Roy four to five times in his chest and fled,” police said.According to a police official, the accused was mentally unstable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/man-stabs-brother-to-death-in-rajasthan-for-exhausting-mobile-internet-data/story-UolMCxuIWytQsT4B8ty3rN.html
20-11-2020||City||Spearheading cleanliness in Ludhiana, MC chief gets rude shock at filthy Zone-A office||Propagating cleanliness in the city for better rankings in Swacchh Survekshan 2021, municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal was in for a surprise during an inspection of MC Headquarters at the Zone-A office on Friday.While the MC chief was in the office to check the entry of touts, he was aghast to see the filthy state of the premises, especially the basement, where the Suvidha Kendra is located.Accompanied by councillor Rakesh Prashar, Sabharwal pulled up the officials, including zonal commissioner Tajinderpal Singh, questioning them how they will keep the city clean if their own premises were not sanitary.“MC is working to involve residents in keeping the city tidy to improve our ranking in the national cleanliness survey next year. A messy office will just not do. Strict directions have been issued to the staff to keep the premises clean or face action,” Sabharwal said.Meets supervisors for waste segregationLater, Sabharwal conducted a meeting with MC supervisors deputed in areas falling under Zones A and B regarding waste segregation at source. Health branch nodal officer Ashwani Sahota said, “The supervisors have been told to spread awareness among waste collectors to pick only segregated waste from households. Also, wet and dry waste should be dumped separately at the secondary dumping points.”A monitoring committee of the National Green Tribunal had earlier set a November-30 deadline for implementation of waste segregation in the city. Failure to do so, will lead in encashment of MC’s Rs 5 lakh bank guarantee. Under the solid waste management bylaws, not segregating waste into biodegradable and non-biodegradable entails fines ranging between Rs 250 for households and Rs 5,000 for bulk generators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/spearheading-cleanliness-in-ludhiana-mc-chief-gets-rude-shock-at-filthy-zone-a-office/story-DyoIqs1yfULLsFCtEdHE2L.html
20-11-2020||Mumbai||All schools in Mumbai to stay shut till December 31, orders BMC||All schools in Mumbai, including private and government schools, will continue to remain shut till December 31, as the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to not allow reopening of schools from November 23, as declared by the state for Classes 9 to 12. The decision was taken by BMC as a precautionary measure to control the spread of Covid-19 in the city in the backdrop of a possible second wave. Meanwhile, the Maharashtra government on Friday declared that the decision on reopening schools will have to be taken by the local administration, considering the coronavirus situation in their cities and districts. Mumbai has recorded 2.72 lakh Covid-19 cases and more than 10,600 deaths.School education minister Varsha Gaikwad said, “The state government has taken a decision on reopening physical classes of Class 9 to 12 students, but for schools, local administration will have to take a decision. Districts having coronavirus cases should take a decision after discussing with all the concerned authorities such as district collectors, education officials etc. They are directed to take a call considering both the health and studies of the students.”Also read: Mandatory Covid test for Maharashtra school teachers triggers rush, inconvenience“Online classes will continue even if physical classes cannot be started due to the pandemic crisis in schools,” Gaikwad added.The state government on November 7 decided to resume physical classroom sessions for Class 9 to 12 students from November 23. However, there will be no daily classes as schools have been directed to open every alternate day and that too, only for four hours. BMC’s public relations department confirmed that all schools will remain shut in the city till December 31. A detailed circular in this regard, however, mentioned that the ongoing supplementary examination for Class 10 and 12 will be undertaken as per schedule but the regular Classes for 9 to 12 will remain shut till December 31. A BMC official said, “Considering BMC is the local body for Mumbai, we have taken the decision to keep the schools shut. We have also studied the pattern of Covid-19 spread in other parts of the country post schools were reopened, and hence have decided to keep them shut till December 31.” Also read: Covid-19: Ensure necessary arrangements are made before schools reopen, Maharashtra education department tells local bodiesSandhya Doshi, Shiv Sena corporator and education committee chairman of BMC, said, “There are discussions that we might hit the second wave soon. We studied the situation in other parts of the country, including Delhi, before arriving at this decision.” A similar trend of spike post reopening of schools was witnessed in parts of the country. For example, Andhra Pradesh has witnessed a similar trend of spike post reopening of schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/all-schools-in-mumbai-to-stay-shut-till-december-31-orders-bmc/story-ooU4tGixYlQ3iVLl3c7nIL.html
20-11-2020||City||SHO of Mohali’s Mullanpur suspended for inaction||The Mullanpur station house officer (SHO) has been suspended for not acting on the complaint of illegal construction on panchayat land.Mohali senior superintendent of police (SSP) Satinder Singh said the block development and panchayat officer of Mullanpur had written to SHO Amandeep Singh regarding the illegal construction, but he kept sitting on the complaint for several days. “I have suspended him for failing to take action,” said the SSP, adding that a departmental inquiry has also been initiated against him. In October, the SSP had suspended the Lalru SHO for allegedly taking bribe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sho-of-mohali-s-mullanpur-suspended-for-inaction/story-zaEgtY8Z7xhePm9Mwh0hDP.html
20-11-2020||City||Rape allegations against MLA Bains: AAP demands probe, security to complainant||The district unit of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday submitted a memorandum with the commissioner of police, seeking action against Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) president and MLA Simarjeet Singh Bains for allegedly raping a widow. On November 16, a woman had accused Bains of raping her and threatening to kill both her sons. Following this, commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal had marked an inquiry to joint commissioner of police (rural) Kanwardeep Kaur in this regard.ALSO READ: Youth Akali Dal stages protest, demands rape FIR against Simarjeet BainsDemanding security for the complainant, the AAP leaders, including Amandeep Mohi, Tejpal Gill and Suresh Goyal, said a fair inquiry should be conducted in the case and the guilty should be brought to book.They said the woman’s police complaint against Bains had brought to fore his real face, even as he claims to work for the betterment of society. Mohi said, “Senior Congress leaders of the district and state are mum on the issue, which proves that Bains enjoys the Congress party’s support. The complainant should be provided security, as Bains will make every possible effort to pressure her.” Gill said, “We have demanded that the inquiry be marked to a senior police official. Further, Bains should be summoned to inquire about the messages and calls to the complainant.”Despite repeated attempts, Bains was not immediately available for comments. However, LIP chief spokesperson Gagandeep Singh (Sunny) Kainth said Congress and SAD were trying to frame Bains in a false case to reap political benefits. “This is being done to divert the attention of Punjabis from ‘Lok Adhikar Yatra’ of LIP. The truth will come to fore in a few days,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rape-allegations-against-bains-aap-demands-probe-security-to-complainant/story-hj3FT3rB3yhRXBhfyQ2TfN.html
20-11-2020||City||Oil-leak trick: ₹4.5 lakh stolen from factory owner’s SUV in Ludhiana||Two men on a scooter stole a bag containing Rs 4.5 lakh in cash from a factory owner’s car by misleading him with the oil-leak trick. As per complainant Saurav Singla, his paternal uncle, Bant Gupta, a resident of Mahavir Nagar, along with his driver, was heading towards his factory, Guru Kirpa Textile, in Sunder Nagar around 6.30pm on Thursday.When they reached near Tips Hotel in Sunder Nagar in their Mitsubishi Pajero, two men on a scooter alerted him about oil leaking from the SUV.On this, Gupta and his driver got off the vehicle to examine it, when the scooterists stole his bag containing Rs 4.5 lakh in cash and sped away.Gupta noticed the theft when he got back inside the car and raised the alarm, but to no avail.Investigating officer Shavinder Singh of Daresi police said they had registered a case under Section 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code on Singla’s complaint.He said they were checking footage from CCTV cameras in the area to identify the thieves and did not rule out the possibility of an insider’s job, as the thieves were aware that Gupta was travelling with cash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/oil-leak-trick-4-5-lakh-stolen-from-factory-owner-s-suv-in-ludhiana/story-jMJcVuqTHoMlhnB0KIDjeK.html
20-11-2020||City||Speeding PRTC bus runs over 65-year-old scooterist in Zirakpur||A 65-year-old man was killed after a Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) bus hit his scooter near Nabha Sahib village in Zirakpur on Friday. The victim has been identified as Jasmer Singh, a resident of Naraingarh Jhungiyan in Dera Bassi. He was on his way to Lohgarh in Zirakpur to attend a function at his relative’s house.Investigating officer Balwinder Singh said the accident took place around 8am when Jasmer Singh was taking a turn towards a filling station. A PRTC bus coming from Patiala hit his Activa before running over him. The driver and conductor fled, leaving the bus behind. A case under Sections 279 (rash driving), 304A (causing death by negligence) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the driver. After the postmortem, the victim’s body was handed over to his family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/speeding-prtc-bus-runs-over-65-year-old-scooterist-in-zirakpur/story-r2IiFm8qNOYXaZbp4b2XMK.html
20-11-2020||Lucknow||‘Resolve issues faced by common people, no laxity will be tolerated’, UP CM Yogi Adityanath tells senior officials||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has asked all district magistrates and police chiefs to receive all phone calls on their closed user group (CUG) numbers and redress the problems of people.Senior officials in the districts have been told to remain available in their offices to meet common people, a government spokesperson said.Adityanath has directed district magistrates, SSPs and SPs to receive all phone calls on the CUG numbers made available to them by the government and promptly solve problems of the people, he said.The Chief Minister’s Office will ensure compliance of these directives, the spokesperson said while asserting that the state government was committed towards prompt and effective disposal of people’s problems. “No laxity will be tolerated. The chief minister has directed that the responsibility of those ignoring people’s problem would be fixed and strict action will be taken against them. Also, regular monitoring would be done regarding disposal of public complaints,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/resolve-issues-faced-by-common-people-no-laxity-will-be-tolerated-up-cm-yogi-adityanath-tells-senior-officials/story-yPHrQBQqehGcoABiSnCLxH.html
20-11-2020||Pune||Two held in Bhosari for stealing fuel from tanker||Two have been were arrested by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police for trying to steal fuel from tankers they were driving, and mixing the fuel with water, in Bhosari on Tuesday.The two have been identified as Sanjay alias Baba Abhiman Pawar (40), a resident of Ramnagar slum area in Chinchwad, and Lakhman Ram Pokale, a resident of Ashti in Beed, according to the police.A complaint in the matter has been lodged by a police official who found the men while they were pouring water into the tankers.The fuel from the tankers was emptied into metal and plastic tanks and barrels in a tin shed in MIDC Bhosari.The men used an electric motor to pull the fuel from the tankers and let water into it.The total cost of the recovered fuel, including the two trucks, was estimated to be around Rs 37,10,500, according to police.A case under Sections 379 (punishment for theft), 420 (cheating), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 3 and 7 of Essential Commodities Act was registered at Bhosari MIDC police station. Police inspector (crime) Patil of MIDC Bhosari police station is investigating the case.“One of them is a truck driver and the other man was taking the fuel. The cleaner of the truck ran away. They are in police custody till Saturday. We’ll investigate the other details,” the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/two-held-in-bhosari-for-stealing-fuel-from-tanker/story-Ov6m31ojuV5hHTdcEkCbTI.html
20-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi Police arrests member of ‘Fantastic Four’ group for cheating Rs 29 crore under DDA’s land pooling scheme||Delhi Police on Friday arrested Lokesh Gidwani, a member of the ‘Fantastic Four’ group that is involved in duping home buyers under the false claim of land pooling policy of the Delhi Development Authority (DDA). The group is accused of scamming over Rs 29 crore of around 250 investors.The group is accused of misappropriating funds in the name of government housing policy by luring victims of fruitful returns. According to DDA, no individual entity is authorized to advertise, market, book or sell or invite purchase any plot or flat for any project in the name of land pooling without registration of the project under Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016. On the website, DDA also claims that it has not issued any license or approval to any housing project under the land pooling policy as of date.DDA’s land pooling policy came as a measure to build and provide sufficient houses through proper urban planning for Delhi-NCR. This scheme is used by various builders, promoters and individuals to con the innocent buyers. DDA has numerous times come with cautionary warnings to alert the citizens about societies, developers, companies and promoters that float misleading advertisements about the housing scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-police-arrests-member-of-fantastic-four-group-for-cheating-rs-29-crore-under-dda-s-land-pooling-scheme/story-i3ZMU4zCiC24jV7zm4AX5M.html
20-11-2020||Delhi||Most Covid-19 deaths occur 10 days after hospitalisation: Delhi health minister||Most Covid-19 patients in Delhi die 10 days after hospitalisation, said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Friday.“There are some deaths that still happen within three days of hospital admission. However, most deaths happen after 10 days. If you see the proportion of deaths, it has remained the same at about 1.57%. This is almost comparable to the national average of 1.48%. There was a time when Delhi’s case fatality ratio was about a percent higher than the national average,” said Jain.Although the cumulative case fatality ratio (CFR) – the proportion of deaths among those who tested positive for the infection – remained at about 1.57%, the seven-day average has shot up to 2.78%.Also Read: Health experts clash over use of certain drugs for Covid-19Union home minister Amit Shah has said that half the deaths in Delhi were happening within the first two to three days of hospitalisations in June when Delhi had seen the first surge in the number of cases. The highest number of deaths reported in a day during the June-July surge was 101. During the current surge, the highest number of deaths reported in a single day was 131 on November 11.The improvement in timely hospitalisation of Covid-19 patients was acknowledged by the NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul in a press briefing earlier this week.“Initially, when the pandemic had started – till about June – nearly 60 to 70% of the deaths in hospitals happened within the first 72 hours. Half of these deaths happened within the first 24-hours of admission. In Delhi, there has been a dramatic change since. We are still monitoring the mortality as it shows the efficiency of the system – mobilising patients from home, ambulance service, access to beds, and efficiency of the treatment,” Dr Paul said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/most-covid-19-deaths-occur-10-days-after-hospitalisation-delhi-health-minister/story-E0PoIdwW6Si4q6Ort4DlvK.html
20-11-2020||Dehradun||Covid-19: IMA to allow each cadet only two guests during passing out parade||Due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the Indian Military Academy (IMA) Dehradun will allow only two guests of each gentleman cadet (GC) to attend the upcoming passing out parade on December 12, said an IMA official on Friday. The academy will also strictly adhere to the Covid-19 protocols to ensure the health and safety of the GCs and officers during the event. Lt Col Himani Pant, public relations officer, IMA, said, “In the upcoming passing out parade for the autumn term, only two guests of each GC would be allowed to attend. It is to ensure the health and safety of everyone during the event.” Also Read: Vietnamese cadets pipping ceremony held at IMA in advance on requestShe said that the academy will “urge the media to offer extensive coverage of the passing out parade so that the family members of the GCs who would not be able to attend the event could see their wards graduate with flying colours”.Lt Col Pant also said that 392 GCs, including 322 Indian and 70 from friendly foreign countries, will graduate from the academy on December 12. She said the name of the reviewing officer for the event is yet to be confirmed. “There are certain Covid-19-related precautions on which a final decision has to be taken as well. We will inform the media by next week.” During the previous passing out parade in June, the GCs had sported face masks and maintained extra distance during the parade as per Covid-19 protocol. No guests of the GCs were allowed to attend the event to avoid crowding and ensure health and safety of the GCs and IMA officials. A few days ago, the pipping ceremony of three Vietnamese GCs was held at the academy before the passing out parade of the present term on the request of the Vietnamese embassy. The embassy wanted all the Vietnamese trainees undergoing training at various army training establishments in the country to return together under the Vande Bharat Mission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/covid-19-ima-to-allow-each-cadet-only-two-guests-during-passing-out-parade/story-cMbVJvUmtGTwlb3MO2xYRM.html
20-11-2020||Chandigarh||Cold to intensify as maximum temperatures three degrees below normal in Punjab, Haryana||The minimum temperatures of various towns of Punjab and Haryana dropped below 10°C on Friday, while the maximum temperatures were three to four degrees below normal across the plains. According to the India meteorological department (IMD), the minimum temperature in Amritsar was 7.5°C, Ludhiana 7.9°C and Patiala 9.6°C. In Haryana, the minimum temperature dropped to 8.2°C in Hisar and 8.5°C in Narnaul. Chandigarh recorded a low of 11.2 °C, which was a degree above normal due to cloudy weather. The dry weather is likely to continue on Saturday with clear skies. According to the IMD, a low-pressure area is forming over the Arabian Sea that may cause minimum temperatures to drop between 2°C to 4°C in Punjab and Haryana over the next three days. Chances of mist and fog will continue in open areas across the region in the morning and evening due to relatively higher humidity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cold-to-intensify-as-maximum-temperatures-three-degrees-below-normal-in-punjab-haryana/story-m201BsFyhJFmcjiLCdwi5M.html
20-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi health minister ropes in Superman, Batman to fight Covid-19||The Delhi government has brought in Batman, Superman, and Flash in their fight against coronavirus disease (Covid-19), with the health minister posting pictures of the superheroes in masks on Facebook. The caption on the photographs read, “Heroes wear masks. Put on your mask and save lives. #BeAHero.” Another post reads, “Not all heroes wear capes, some wear masks.” Health minister Satyendar Jain also shared a post on how not to wear a mask, with the people in the picture having the mask dangle from one ear, sliding down on their chin, or just covering their mouth.This comes as the Delhi government increased the fine on not wearing mask in public places from Rs500 to Rs2,000, in view of high number of Covid-19 cases and deaths being reported each day. Delhi on Thursday reported 7,546 new cases and 98 deaths due to the infection. So far, the pandemic has killed 8,041 people in the city and affected over 510,000 people since the first case was reported on March 2 this year. Also read | Covid-19: Containment zones rise to over 4,550 in DelhiJain has maintained that masks are better than lockdown to control the spread of Covid-19, which is largely transmitted through droplets released by an infected person when they talk, cough, or sneeze. Earlier this week, Jain had said, “The lockdown had been an experiment and what we have learnt from it is that wearing masks can give us the same benefits. Scientifically, masks are the best way to stop the virus. If you see, the lowest positivity rates are recorded in Covid-19 hospitals because the doctors there follow precautions. If everyone follows precautions the spread of the infection can be prevented. And, when it comes to lockdown, some people still go out and they can bring the infection back to their family members.” Experts agree. “The likelihood of a person getting the infection from another depends on whether the person is contagious, the number of contacts with an infected person, and the risk of infection with each exposure. Now, a lockdown can only cut down the number of contacts you have with an infected person, but a mask also reduces the risk of infection with each exposure,” said Dr Sanjay Rai, head of the department of community medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-health-minister-co-opts-superman-batman-to-fight-covid-19/story-etNAqDI8CHoAXXUDLhZqnL.html
20-11-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka cabinet reshuffle: Deputy CM says BJP high command to convey decision by next week||As the wait continues for expansion or reshuffle of cabinet in Karnataka, Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi said on Friday the BJP high command is likely to communicate their decision in about a week’s time. “CM (B S Yediyurappa) has made national president J P Nadda aware about all related matters here. Nadda ji has informed the CM he will discuss with the Prime Minister and Amit Shah (Union Home minister) and will convey the decision..It will come in four to six days,” Laxman Savadi told reporters at Kalaburagi. Responding to a question on some ministerial aspirants meeting BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel, he said, “they (MLAs) have freedom to express their feelings with the president and the Chief Minister. They have expressed their opinion and the CM and the president will look into it.” Yediyurappa after his meeting with Nadda in Delhi on November 18 on the cabinet exercise, had said the party national president has sought a couple of days time to consult other leaders on the matter. Developments in Delhi on Wednesday was a repetition of sorts for Yediyurappa, as he was sent back with a similar reply by Nadda, when the Chief Minister had gone with a proposal to take up cabinet expansion exercise in September, ahead of the monsoon session of the state legislature. Political activities have intensified within the ruling BJP camp in the state after Yediyurappa on November 10 indicated that cabinet reshuffle was on the cards after the party’s victory in the bypolls to two assembly constituencies. The Chief Minister had then hinted about reshuffle by dropping or inducting some Ministers. The cabinet expansion or reshuffle is expected to be a tightrope walk for Yediyurappa, considering that there are too many aspirants. Several legislators have openly declared their aspirations and political hobnobbing is also taking place within the BJP circles. A few aspirants had met BJP state president Kateel on Thursday, apparently aimed at securing their place during the cabinet exercise this time. On the other hand, 8-time MLA Umesh Katti, who has been sulking on being denied a chance earlier, met Yediyurappa on Friday. Meanwhile in what is being dubbed as related development, Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi has met BJP national general secretary B L Santosh in New Delhi. According to party sources, Jarkiholi is said to have lobbied for Congress-JD(S) rebels who joined the BJP along with him last year and helped the party come to power. Recently some BJP legislators had met at Jarkiholi’s residence and reportedly discussed cabinet exercise. While several of the old guard like Katti are awaiting a chance to be inducted into the Ministry, Congress-JD(S) rebels like A H Vishwanath, R Shankar and M T B Nagaraj, who helped the BJP come to power and are now party MLCs, are also aspiring for slots. As per the agreement, Yediyurappa will also have to keep space for Munirathna, following his win from Rajarajeshwari Nagar seat in the bypoll, and also for Pratap Gowda Patil who needs to win the Maski bypoll that is yet to be announced. The cabinet currently has 27 members, and seven berths are still vacant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-cabinet-reshuffle-deputy-cm-says-bjp-high-command-to-convey-decision-by-next-week/story-yzniAtMCHZr3IpXz1SsokI.html
20-11-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Containment zones rise to over 4,550 in Delhi||Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, the number of containment zones has gone up to over 4,550 in the national capital, with the maximum 743 in southwest district and the lowest 148 in northeast district. According to official data, six districts out of the total 11 have more than 400 Covid-19 containment zones - 743 (southwest), 705 (south), 587 (west), 543 (southeast), 490 (central Delhi) and 445 (northwest).The national capital has witnessed a surge in coronavirus cases since October 28, when the daily rise breached the 5,000-mark for the first time, and it crossed the 8,000-mark on November 11.On Wednesday, the infection tally in Delhi rose to over 5 lakh with 7,486 fresh cases reported, while 131 new fatalities, the highest single-day death count till date, took the toll to 7,943.In a containment zone summary as on November 19, the revenue department said there were 4,560 such zones in the city.While New Delhi and Shahdara districts have 264 and 249 containment zones respectively, there are 202 such zones in north Delhi.The department said east Delhi has 184 Covid-19 containment zones, but northeast district has only 148 zones.Meanwhile, a door-to-door survey for identifying and testing people symptomatic for coronavirus in containment and densely packed areas of the city commenced on Friday.The survey will be completed within five days and will cover over 57 lakh people in containment zones, dense areas and identified clusters of virus transmission, officials said.As many as 7,546 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported on Thursday, taking the infection tally to over 5.1 lakh while 98 more fatalities pushed the toll to 8,041.On Thursday, the AAP government announced sweeping measures including a steep Rs 2,000 fine for not wearing masks, reservation of 80 per cent ICU beds in private hospitals, doubling testing centres in every district and postponement of non-critical surgeries at health facilities.The Union Health Ministry on Thursday said Delhi accounted for 22.39 per cent of the fatalities reported across the country in a span of 24 hours by recording 131 deaths on Wednesday and became the largest contributor to the single-day Covid-19 deaths in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-containment-zones-rise-to-over-4-550-in-delhi/story-aoaQOfmAh15t1obiQTkmUN.html
20-11-2020||Pune||Pune district sees 789 fresh cases, 11 deaths in 24 hrs||Pune district, on Thursday, reported 789 fresh positive Covid-19 cases, and 11 Covid-related deaths, as per the state health department. This puts the progressive positive count for the district at 344,002. Of these, 319,998 have recovered, 7,206 is the death toll, and 16,765 are active cases. PMC reported 353 fresh positives taking its total cases to 1,76,373 with six deaths in the last 24 hours, till Thursday. The PMC death toll stands at 4,133. PCMC reported 167 fresh cases, taking its total Covid-19 cases to 86,777, with four deaths in the last 24 hours till Thursday evening, and death toll at 1,208. Pune rural reported 269 fresh positives, taking its total Covid-19 cases to 80,852. One death in the last 24 hours, till Thursday evening, puts the death toll at 1,865.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-district-sees-789-fresh-cases-11-deaths-in-24-hrs/story-4JJnKC4vfdJKrQX7RwXFrI.html
20-11-2020||Chandigarh||Upper reaches of Kashmir Valley get fresh snowfall||The upper reaches of the Kashmir Valley got fresh snowfall and rain on Thursday night that led to a drop in the night temperature. Sonmarg and Drass in Kashmir and Ladakh, respectively, received snowfall. The meteorological department said on Friday that the weather will improve over the next two days but another spell of rain and snowfall is forecast from November 23. “The fresh spell is likely to take place on the evening of November 23 and will continue till November 25. The main activity could be on November 24, which may lead to temporary closure of vulnerable passes,” an official at the meteorological department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/upper-reaches-of-kashmir-valley-get-fresh-snowfall/story-aaLu98TIEgwxCRYqoUAUGL.html
20-11-2020||Jaipur||‘Ignoring the suffering of our daughters’: BJP’s Poonia slams Gehlot over ‘Love Jihad’ tweets||BJP leader Satish Poonia on Friday reacted to Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot’s ‘Love Jihad’ statement and said that the chief minister is ignoring the ‘sufferings of daughters’.The Rajasthan BJP chief also said that Gehlot has shown his ‘small thinking’ and said that everyone has a clear understanding of what is the ‘agenda of Love Jihad’. According to ANI, he said, “In our culture, marriage isn’t just an individual choice, it also encompasses approval of religion & society. Agenda of ‘Love -Jihad’, sufferings of our daughters are clear to everyone and to ignore it only shows his (Ashok Gehlot) small thinking.”Rajasthan CM Gehlot on Friday attacked the BJP in a series of tweets where he said that the term ‘Love Jihad’ is a term manufactured by the BJP and accused them of creating divisions in the society. He tweeted, ““Love Jihad is a word manufactured by BJP to divide the Nation & disturb communal harmony. Marriage is a matter of personal liberty, bringing a law to curb it is completely unconstitutional & it will not stand in any court of law. Jihad has no place in Love.”He also expressed concern and said that the government is forcing consenting adults ‘to be at the mercy of state power’ and placing curbs on their personal freedom.Several BJP-ruled states like Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka are planning to roll out an anti-conversion bill in a bid to stop ‘Love Jihad.’ ‘Love jihad’ is a term used by several right-wing organisations to describe marriages between Hindu women and Muslim men and allege that it is a ploy to increase conversions to Islam by using marriage as a tool.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/ignoring-the-suffering-of-our-daughters-bjp-s-poonia-slams-gehlot-over-love-jihad-tweets/story-MqqLdJfDuV55z1wrvr1byL.html
20-11-2020||Pune||Pune civic body allows pool to reopen, only for professionals, from Nov 20||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), on Thursday, announced the reopening of swimming pools, from Friday, in all non-containment zone areas, that too only for professional swimmers, identified by the civic body as “state, national and international-level sports persons”. Swimming pools in the other parts of the state have been operating since November 5. No swimming tournaments will be allowed in Pune. The standard operating procedures (SOP), have been issued by the ministry of youth affairs and sports, governments of India. “It is good news for swimmers who have not entered the pool for the last eight months. Since the general public is not allowed, I hope the situation changes soon,” said Narendra Acharekar, coach, Harmony Aquatic Club, Kothrud. “We may start on Monday, as two-three days will be required to fix everything. Although pools were closed, maintenance activity continued during the lockdown as well,” added Acharekar. “Getting back to the pool for regular practice is on the mind of every swimmer and it is good the PMC has now given permission,” Sadhvi Dhuri, who won five gold medals and one silver at the Khelo India University Games in February, said. Standard operating procedure (SOP): Swimming pool operators should have a dedicated officer responsible for Covid-19 consideration, making sure that they are up to date with central or local government recommendations. A pool of 50 metres with 10 lanes can have a maximum 20 persons per batch. Maintain chlorine level in the water at 2.0PPM, along with 7 to 7.40pH of water. Filtration plant must be operated for the entire duration of practice; and before and after the session. Maintain distance while swimming and avoiding contact with other swimmers Use of Arogya Setu App is a must.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-civic-body-allows-pool-to-reopen-only-for-professionals-from-nov-20/story-pvBE3QAyUvBjR6Hq8anUfK.html
20-11-2020||Kolkata||‘Provisions in Constitution present to reduce political violence in Bengal’: Union minister Babul Supriyo||Union Minister Babul Supriyo said on Friday that the Trinamool Congress should mend its ways and desist from “intimidating voters”, otherwise there are provisions in the Constitution to take care of such things.Supriyo alleged that more than 130 BJP workers have been killed in West Bengal.“The TMC should mend its ways. Only a few months are left for the elections. If the TMC members think they can intimidate voters and engage in political violence, then there are provisions in the Constitution to take care of such things,” he told a local news channel.Supriyo claimed that the people of the state have made up their mind to vote for the BJP in the assembly elections, which are likely to be held in April-May next year.“We want the people who voted TMC to power to topple the present government through a democratic process,” said Supriyo.The TMC said that Supriyo was hinting at imposing President’s rule in the state.“If he was hinting at the imposition of Article 356 in Bengal, then he should first talk about the imposition of President’s rule in Uttar Pradesh where rule of law has ceased to exist,” TMC MP Sougata Roy said. PTI PNT SOM SOM||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/provisions-in-constitution-present-to-reduce-political-violence-in-bengal-union-minister-babul-supriyo/story-ISxMj4s19EDxaU9JcdAqaM.html
20-11-2020||Chandigarh||Mercury dips below normal in Himachal, snow forecast from November 22||The maximum temperatures dipped by three to four degrees in Himachal Pradesh on Friday even as the weather department forecast a fresh spell of snowfall from November 22. State meteorological department director Manmohan Singh said that snowfall is likely to occur in isolated places of Lahaul-Spiti, Kinnaur, Kullu and Chamba, while rainfall will occur in the mid-hills from November 22. “A fresh western disturbance is likely to affect the western Himalayan region from November 22. The weather will remain clear throughout the state on November 24, while snowfall and rainfall in the higher reaches and middle hills are very likely to occur on November 25,” he said. The maximum temperatures were three to four degrees below normal, while minimum temperatures were two to three degrees below normal during the last 24 hours. The minimum temperature in the state capital of Shimla on Friday was 5°Celsius, while nearby Kufri recorded a low of 3.9°C. The tourist destinations of Manali, Dharamshala and Dalhousie recorded lows of 0.4°C, 6.2°C and 3.2°C, respectively. The minimum temperature in Solan was 3.5°C, Una 6.8°C, Hamirpur 8.2°C, Bilaspur 9°C and Nahan 10.9°C. Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district was the coldest place in the state as it recorded a minimum of minus 5°C, while Kalpa recorded a low of minus 2°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mercury-dips-below-normal-in-himachal-snow-forecast-from-november-22/story-s77053r8LFADUmjyorHI9I.html
20-11-2020||Education||Local administration to decide on reopening of schools in Maharashtra||Maharashtra school education minister Varsha Gaikwad on Friday said the decision on reopening schools will have to be taken by the local administration of each and every city and district. They have been empowered to take the decision considering the Covid-19 pandemic situation.“The state government has taken a decision on reopening physical classes of class 9 to 11 students, but for schools, local administration will have to take a decision. Districts having coronavirus cases should take a decision after discussing with all the concerned authorities such as district collectors, education officials etc. They are directed to take a call considering both the health and studies of the students,” Gaikwad said.Also Read: Mumbai schools to remain closed till December 31: BMC“Online classes will continue even if physical classes cannot be started due to the pandemic crisis in schools,” the school education minister added.Also Read: Biomedical waste incineration plant to shift out of Mumbai by Feb 2022The state government on November 7 decided to resume physical classroom sessions for class 9 to 12 students from November 23. However, there will be no daily classes as schools have been directed to open every alternate day and that too, only for four hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/local-administration-to-decide-on-reopening-of-schools-in-maharashtra/story-0LfB0bq9yGMOByLhxlQLVM.html
20-11-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: As cap on attendees back, Delhi banquet and hotels owners struggle to retain clients||Deepak Sharma (48), a bakery shop owner in Najafgarh, made frantic calls to relatives to look for a new venue for his son’s wedding, scheduled on November 25, after Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal approved the government’s proposal to restrict the number of guests at marriage-related events to 50 amid a spike in Covid-19 cases.Sharma had booked a resort in Mundka for the wedding. “With the help of our relatives, we found another resort in Ballabhgarh, Faridabad. Now, we are busy informing all our relatives about the change of venue and making arrangements for transportation. There is complete panic and chaos in the household instead of fun and enjoyment,” said Sharma.Also read | Amid spike in Covid-19 cases, Delhi starts door-to-door survey from todayLike Sharma, many people are now looking for alternate venues in the National Capital Region—Noida, Ghaziabad, Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat etc—so that they can accommodate all the invitees. Delhi Disaster Management Authority’s (DDMA) decision has proved to be disastrous for the wedding industry in the Capital. Tent houses, banquets and hotels claim that they are bombarded with cancellation calls or asking for refund.Nitin Gulati, owner of Gulati tent house, said that he has got nine cancellations in just two days. “We had erected the tents for a capacity of 200 people. Now, our clients are looking for venues in neighbouring areas. We have started removing tents after nine clients cancelled the event,” said Gulati.He added, “This year has been disastrous for us. After no work for 7-8 months due to Covid-19, we were looking forward to the wedding season to stay afloat. We had called labour from Bengali and UP. Now, I don’t know how to pay them, as clients are asking for a refund,” said Gulati.Vikaas Gutgutia, managing director and founder, Ferns N Petals — which is into luxury venues since 2003 —, said, “For the Indian wedding industry, recovery was on the cards, but businesses will again come to a standstill, as we are facing the brunt of Diwali crowds at markets. We have been getting calls from clients who had opted for a venue in Delhi, to enquire, if the functions can be organised at our venues in the NCR. In the coming days, all our 11 wedding venues are booked to host 10-12 weddings each but we are now anticipating changes or delays.”Associations of banquets, tent houses and hotels are still trying to approach the Delhi government and the L-G to reconsider the decision. Ramesh Dang, president of Community Welfare Banquet Association Delhi, said, “We have written to the CM to reconsider the decision, as it will result in the collapse of the sector. People are now opting for neighbouring areas in UP and Haryana. We have 1 million families associated with us. It will lead to large scale unemployment,” said Dang.Struggling to retain their clients, hotels and banquets are trying to offer them different options. Greesh Bindra, vice president, operations, at Suryaa hotel, said, “We are getting a lot of calls from concerned clients who are asking for refund. We have 4-5 venues, including big outdoor spaces at our hotels. We are suggesting them different options such as holding events at two different venues in the hotel or holding multiple events so that the guests can be divided. We have also suggested that some guests come for lunch while others for dinner.”The government’s sudden decision will hurt the industry in the next wedding season starting from January, as people don’t want any uncertainty in their plans. “This atmosphere of uncertainty will impact the next wedding season in Delhi,” said Bindra.Calling the restriction over the number of guests unjustified, Pankaj Shokeen, general secretary, Delhi tent owners’ federation, said, “The cinema halls are allowed to operate at 50% capacity. Buses are running full capacity. The markets are crowded. But the restriction is just for weddings. Why? In wedding events, people know each other. But in cinema halls or buses, people sitting next to each other are complete strangers. There is no logic in the decision.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-as-cap-on-attendees-back-delhi-banquet-and-hotels-owners-struggle-to-retain-clients/story-o6X3qexZ5h9ne0nnFUvYwK.html
20-11-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka BJP leader CT Ravi says cow slaughter ban coming soon||Cow slaughter ban would be a reality in Karnataka in the near future, the BJP national general secretary C T Ravi said on Friday.The former Karnataka minister, who is in-charge of party affairs in Maharashtra, Goa and poll-bound Tamil Nadu, said a law banning cow slaughter would be passed in the upcoming Assembly session.“Cow Slaughter Ban will be a reality in Karnataka in the near future. I have asked Animal Husbandry Minister Sri @PrabhuChavanBJP to get “The Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter & Preservation of Cattle Bill” passed in the Cabinet and present the same in the upcoming Assembly Session,” the Chikkamagaluru MLA tweeted.Ravi had also said earlier this month that on the lines of Allahabad High Court’s order, Karnataka would enact a law banning religious conversions for the sake of marriage.“We will not remain silent when Jihadis strip the dignity of our sisters,” he had said, adding, any one involved in any act of conversion shall face severe and swift punishment.The Allahabad High Court in its order on October 31 said that religious conversion just for the sake of marriage was not valid.The court made the remark while dismissing a plea by a newly married couple in Uttar Pradesh that had approached it to direct police and the woman’s father not to disturb their marital life.In the petition, it was stated that the couple got married in July this year, but family members of the woman were interfering in their marital life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-bjp-leader-ct-ravi-says-cow-slaughter-ban-coming-soon/story-AeZMBtNbuokFVaEarlqlJJ.html
20-11-2020||Bhopal||3 of a family die of electrocution in MP||Three people of a family were electrocuted to death in Madhya Pradesh’s Shivpuri district on Thursday late night, said police. The deceased were identified as residents of Bada Laharpura village. Kamla Ojha, 55, her daughter Neetu Ojha, 30 and her son-in-law Manoj Kumar, 35 were the victims.Shivpuri, superintendent of police, Rajesh Chandel said, “Kashiram Ojha, 58, informed the police on Friday morning about the incident. Kashiram said when he woke up in the morning, his wife Kamla, daughter Neetu and son-in-law Manoj were lying down flat in a room in an unconscious state. They were rushed to district hospital where doctors declared them dead.”Also Read: ‘Jihad has no place in love’: Ashok Gehlot attacks BJP for dividing nation, disturbing communal harmonyIn the preliminary investigation, it was found that Kamla touched a live electric wire and died on the spot while Neetu and Manoj died while attempting to rescue Kamla, said the SP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/3-of-a-family-die-of-electrocution-in-mp/story-cDhT1v8Cd0uUCM6eH9N33L.html
20-11-2020||City||Chattisgarh: Raipur CMO seeks permission to establish Covid-19 centres at city entrances||Raipur’s chief medical officer has sent a proposal to the district collector seeking permission for establishing Covid-19 centres at the entry points to the city citing a surge in the infections.A meeting was scheduled on Friday evening to discuss the proposal.The medical officer said the second wave of Covid-19 was being reported in other states and hence the tests at the entry points will help in containing the infections in Raipur.“Antigen tests should be done at the entry points and if anyone is found positive, he should be sent to a hospital or home isolation. If the person is from another district, he/she should be sent to their respective district,” the proposal said.Also Read: Covid-19 patients may be most infectious during first week after symptom onset: StudyOn Friday, 248 Covid-19 cases were reported in Raipur, taking its total count to 44,131. The city has so far reported 637 Covid-19 related deaths.“In the last week, over 2,000 cases were reported since it is the festival season and people are coming from other states and districts,” said a health official. He added since October 23, the number of cases in Raipur is continuously increasing. “ Around 2000-2300 tests are conducted every day in Raipur.”Chhattisgarh has so far reported 2,17,562 Covid-19 cases. It has 19,421 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chattisgarh-raipur-cmo-seeks-permission-to-establish-covid-19-centres-at-city-entrances/story-yn35EI6GPRsSOMNyQwNQfM.html
20-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi records coldest November morning since 2006||The minimum temperature in the national capital dropped to 7.5 degrees Celsius on Friday morning, five notches below normal for this time of the year. This was the lowest minimum temperature recorded in November since 2006, said officials of India Meteorological Department (IMD). On November 29, 2006, the minimum temperature had dropped to 7.3 degrees Celsius, said officials. According to IMD scientists,the minimum temperature does not usually drop below 10 degrees Celsius in November. However, during the last week of November in 2017, the minimum temperature had dipped to 7.6 degrees Celsius. In November 2019, the lowest temperature was 11.4 degrees Celsius and in November 2018, it was 10.5 degrees Celsius. Also Read: Winter arrives early in some parts of NW India; Delhi records 7.5°C“It’s unusual for the minimum temperature to drop to single digits in mid-November. Winter is setting in early this year. The sharp drop in night temperature is mainly because of a combination of cold winds blowing from the snow-clad Western Himalayan region as well as largely clear skies in Delhi. When there is no cloud cover, the heat trapped in the ground dissipates fast, resulting in lower temperatures,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre. He added that snowfall in the Himalayas is an annual phenomenon, which impacts the temperature in all of northwest India, but local factors such as the absence of a cloud cover play an important role. “The minimum temperature is likely to remain around 7-8 degrees Celsius over the next two days,” said Srivastava. Delhi also saw the coldest October in 58 years with the mean minimum temperature for the month recorded at 17.2 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-records-lowest-morning-temperature-in-14-years/story-2LklzmRFXUcpsJqErUYkPL.html
20-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Shiv Sena hits back at BJP, dares it to wrest control of BMC||Hitting out at Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over a remark that Shiv Sena’s saffron flag needs ‘purification’, the latter said that BJP has no connection with the saffron flag. An editorial in party mouthpiece Saamana said the saffron flag of Shiv Sena is fluttering atop the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) for over three decades and dared BJP to remove it. The allies-turned-rivals – BJP and Shiv Sena – are warming up to an intense fight for control over the BMC, the richest civic body in the country, which goes to polls in early 2022. Sounding the poll bugle on Wednesday, Devendra Fadnavis said the BJP will take control of the BMC after February 2022. BJP leader Ashish Shelar remarked that Sena’s saffron flag needs purification after it abandoned Hindutva to ally with Congress and Nationalist Congress Party last November. “BJP leaders did not say they hoisted saffron flag in Bihar after their recent win. It is because they are not connected to the saffron flag. They got connected to the saffron flag after allying with the Shiv Sena. It is fluttering on Mumbai [civic body] since the time BJP was not with Shiv Sena. This saffron flag is pure, radiant and effective,” the editorial said on Friday.It added that though the BJP has inducted the descendants of Maratha warrior king Shivaji in their party, the saffron flag of Shivaji still belongs to Marathi people. “The ones who are plotting to remove the original saffron flag of Marathi pride and Hindu radiance are betraying Hindutva in the country,” the editorial added.On Thursday, Sanjay Raut, Sena’s chief spokesperson and a member of the Rajya Sabha (RS), took the battle to the opposition BJP’s camp. Taking a veiled dig at actor Kangana Ranaut, he told media persons in Delhi that Mumbaikars would never hand over control of BMC to a party which backs people who had insulted Mumbai and equated it to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-shiv-sena-hits-back-at-bjp-dares-it-to-remove-saffron-flag-from-bmc/story-QSpZn8HDdT7bredvPRfybM.html
20-11-2020||Lucknow||Brother-sister bond should be developed in schools, colleges: Kashi DM||District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma has said that instead of friendship culture, a brother-sister bond should be developed between students in all schools and colleges. He also said that television, mobile phones and social media have played a major role in denting the social fabric in the present times. Interacting with a group of girl students from various colleges of the district at his camp office, the DM said girls were being equipped with the skill of self-defence and that Mission Shakti was launched in the state to make them aware of women helpline, women police stations and other safety and security measures taken for them.He also answered queries made by the girls on various issues and promised to address their problems on priority. When the girls raised the issue of shortage of teachers in a school, the DM instructed the district inspector of schools to resolve it.Girl students of Ballabh Vidyapeeth Girls Inter College, Radha Kishori Government Girls Inter College, Ramnagar, Government Girls Inter College Zakkhini, Sudhakar Mahila Inter College, Sudhakar Mahila Vidyalaya, Agrasen Inter College and Government Abhinav Vidyalaya Zakkhini were part of the group which met the DM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/brother-sister-bond-should-be-developed-in-schools-colleges-kashi-dm/story-Wi8A38M8jOqMzoZGDmU5GM.html
20-11-2020||Chandigarh||Moga epidemiologist sacked for issuing fake negative report to Covid NRI patient||Three months after doctors at the Moga civil hospital were accused of running a racket in connivance with agents to conduct early Covid-19 tests, especially of non-resident Indians (NRIs) and providing fake negative reports even for positive patients for a bribe, the state government has terminated the services of the district epidemiologist. The probe conducted by the district administration found Moga epidemiologist Dr Naresh Kumar Amla guilty of providing a fake Covid-19 negative report to an NRI who had tested positive. Dr Amla changed the NRI’s positive report to negative after taking bribe. Kumar Rahul, the mission director of the National Health Mission (NHM), Punjab, said: “This has had a bad impact on the image of the health department and sent a wrong message to the public regarding its working. Dr Amla has violated rules by misusing his position. Dr Amla’s contract under NHM has been terminated after giving him a seven-day notice.” Moga civil surgeon Dr Amarpreet Kaur said the epidemiologist was found guilty and the government had terminated his services but no criminal action had been initiated so far. In August, Charanjit Singh, a resident of Dehadka village in Ludhiana district, complained to deputy commissioner Sandeep Hans, alleging that he had paid ₹3,500 for each test of nine of his NRI family members to get the reports early. He said his parents are residents of Hong Kong were stranded in India for six months due to the pandemic. “Our flight to Hong Kong was scheduled on August 4. We had only 72 hours to get the test reports. When I reached the Moga civil hospital along with my parents and my sister-in-law’s family on August 2, the doctors informed me that they cannot conduct our tests that day due to the long waiting. In the meantime, Om Parkash of Moga came to me and said that if we pay ₹3,500 each, the tests will be done that day itself. We had no option but to pay ₹31,500 for the nine tests,” Charanjit Singh said. Later, Om Parkash also submitted an affidavit to the deputy commissioner, stating that he had given ₹1.7 lakh to Dr Amla to get reports of 48 NRIs early. He said Dr Amla assured him that if any of them is tested positive, they will be given a fake negative test report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/moga-epidemiologist-sacked-for-issuing-fake-negative-report-to-covid-nri-patient/story-UNw3ZPlOaVgL4frPvu7JzM.html
20-11-2020||Delhi||Amid spike in Covid-19 cases, Delhi starts door-to-door survey from today||The Delhi government will start a door-to-door survey on Friday in light of the spike in Covid-19 cases in the capital.The survey will cover all 4,500-odd containment zones, as well as several areas outside containment zones, that have a high caseload.The objective of the survey is to screen people, encourage more tests and keep record of high-risk individuals which include elderly people, pregnant women and people with co-morbidities, senior government officials said.On Friday, the survey is likely to start in at least three out of 11 revenue districts in the city and then extend to all 11 by the weekend, said senior government officials.Also Read: Delhi LG Baijal, CM Kejriwal deem increased fine necessary to create effective Covid-19 deterrenceAround 9,500 teams of government health official and civic agency employees will conduct the survey, including 3,000 such teams which are already engaged in a similar survey presently confined only to areas demarcated as containment zones, senior government officials said.The survey was directed by union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday in his meeting with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and lieutenant governor Anil Baijal. Shah had also directed that tests should be doubled in the capital in light of the sharp rise in Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/as-covid-19-cases-increase-delhi-government-to-start-a-door-to-door-survey-today/story-0KIlW6vav4lBFAlf7Fp47K.html
20-11-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal village bordering China declared containment zone after Covid cases surge||Shimla: The Lahaul-Spiti district administration has declared Hurling village in Gue panchayat of Spiti that borders China a containment zone till further orders after 19 residents tested positive for Covid-19 this week. Additional district magistrate (ADM) Gian Negi said it is likely that the number of cases may surge further in the coming days, therefore, there is an urgent need to take preventive measures and contain the spread of coronavirus. The district administration has banned social gatherings, demonstrations, meetings, rallies, and religious events in the containment zone and people have been advised to stay home except in case of an emergency. Clear entry and exit points have been established and thermal scanning is being conducted at every entry and exit point. Face masks are compulsory. No public or private activities are allowed, leading to the closure of shops and offices. The sub-divisional police officer of Lahaul and Spiti has been asked to conduct contact tracing of primary and secondary contacts of positive cases, while the Kaza tehsildar and Gue panchayat have been told to ensure home delivery of essential items. TOURIST ACTIVITIES BANNED NEAR ROHTANG Amid the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, the government has banned tourist activities in Koksar, Khangsar and Sissu panchayats near the north portal of Atal Tunnel across Rohtang Pass at Sissu. Restaurants and shops at Koksar on the Leh-Manali highway are a tourist attraction. “Tourism activities have been stopped due to the cold and also because of the increasing Covid cases,” Lahaul-Spiti deputy commissioner Pankaj Rai said. Random sampling has begun and a massive awareness drive has been started by the panchayat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-village-bordering-china-declared-containment-zone-after-covid-cases-surge/story-iICVQsdeJfWSuFKUv6IKhI.html
20-11-2020||Lucknow||Sexually harassed girl consumes poison in Uttar Pradesh||A 15-year-old girl tried to kill herself by consuming poison shortly after a man and a boy sexually harassed her and one of them grabbed and tried to drag her in Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr district on Thursday, a police officer said. She somehow managed to escape and returned home traumatised.Circle officer Namrata Srivastav said one of the accused is a minor and both have been booked and arrested. Srivastav added the girl had gone to fetch water from a hand pump in her village when the two arrived there and sexually harassed her.Also Read: UP child molester nabbed: Whistleblower tipped off CBI, gave key proofThe girl was immediately rushed to a hospital after she consumed poison. Her condition was reported to be stable.This is the third such incident in the district over the last four days. A law student allegedly died by suicide in Bulandshahr’s Anoopshahr on Monday after alleging police inaction against three men accused of raping her.On Tuesday, family members of a rape-accused allegedly set a teenaged girl afire in Jahangirabad after her family refused to withdraw the sexual assault case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/sexually-harassed-girl-consumes-poison-in-uttar-pradesh/story-mZNqe6lvIP6HiJLylrL3eK.html
20-11-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh child molester case: POCSO court defers hearing||The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) court on Thursday deferred a hearing on the Central Bureau of Investigation’s (CBI) plea seeking custody of irrigation department junior engineer Ram Bhavan Singh, who was arrested for allegedly sexually abusing several children and selling pornographic videos and pictures on the dark web. Additional district and sessions judge Rizwan Ahmad fixed November 24 for hearing the case. The deferral came following objections raised by defence counsel Anurag Singh Chandel. The CBI’s lawyer Ashok Kumar Singh then sought time to file a rejoinder. The CBI had applied for five days of custody of the accused. Also Read: UP child molester nabbed: Whistleblower tipped off CBI, gave key proofThe accused appeared before the court through video-conferencing arranged in Banda district jail. The court, set up under the provisions of the POCSO Act, had on Wednesday remanded the engineer to judicial custody for a day, special public prosecutor Ram Sufal Singh said. The court on Thursday extended the hiss judicial custody till November 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-child-molester-case-pocso-court-defers-hearing/story-eVZkmlXt0CfwHqyG4SyW0J.html
20-11-2020||Kolkata||Bengal govt sets up 1500 artificial ponds for Chhath Puja||The West Bengal government has set up around 1,500 artificial water bodies in and around Kolkata for devotees to perform Chhath Puja on Friday. The police have set up barricades outside Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar – two of the largest lakes in Kolkata – where devotees have been banned from performing the puja. Police pickets have also been set up in various places to prevent any procession of devotees. Only two persons per family would be allowed to enter a water body to perform the puja, police said. The Supreme Court had on Thursday ruled that Chhath puja will not be allowed at the Rabindra Sarobar Lake in south Kolkata, which is protected under the national lake conservation plan and is considered lungs of the densely populated city because of its greenery. A division bench of the Calcutta high court also banned Chhath puja at Subhas Sarobar, a water body of equal importance, located in the north-eastern parts of the city. “The state government has already set up around 1,500 artificial water bodies where devotees can perform the Chhath Puja maintaining Covid-19 norms. Some restrictions like a ban on processions and a cap on the number of devotees who can enter the water bodies have been imposed,” said a senior state government official. Also Read: No Chhath puja at two main water bodies in Kolkata, rule Supreme Court, Calcutta HCWhile green activists in Kolkata welcomed Thursday’s court orders, chief minister Mamata Banerjee appealed to the Hindi-speaking population to observe Chhath puja at home or in their respective neighbourhoods, using artificial water tanks created by the government over the past few days. Also Read: Chhath puja 2020: Delhi’s Anand Vihar railway station makes special arrangement for safety of women commuters“We have created artificial water bodies for your convenience. In case you need to visit a river bank, please follow health protocols related to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and travel in small groups. Follow court orders and do not form processions,” Banerjee said in a televised message.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-govt-sets-up-1500-artificial-ponds-for-chhath-puja/story-jsVeHe6lpWViMvmswQaNVK.html
20-11-2020||Lucknow||Investors lining up, post-Covid UP will be economic powerhouse: Minister||Uttar Pradesh industrial development minister Satish Mahana on Thursday claimed that during Covid-19 pandemic, the state maintained the rhythm of development by attracting investments in various sectors and predicted that it will also emerge as an economic powerhouse after Covid-19.Addressing a press conference in Lucknow, Mahana claimed that in the financial year 2020-21, industrial development authorities allotted more than 1,000 plots, attracting nearly Rs 9,700 crore investments and creating 1.96 lakh jobs.“Post Covid-19, UP will emerge as an economic powerhouse of the country. Uttar Pradesh ranks second in the country in ease of doing business. The state government has launched several attractive policies to attract investments. The land allotment reforms are paving the way for big ticket investments. The state government is focusing on new sectors to attract investment and generate employment,” Mahana said. “Several industrial parks, including apparel, handicraft, toy and MSME parks, are coming up along the Yamuna Expressway, giving a boost to the Make in UP policy,” he said.Also Read: Shivpal Yadav says may forge alliance with SP to defeat BJP in 2022 UP pollsThe state government is developing Tappal-Bajana towns on Yamuna Expressway as a logistic hub while the Vrindavan area is being developed as a heritage city. To give a boost to development and tourism in the area, an integrated township will be developed in the area, he said.A medical device park as well as a film city is coming up on 1,000 acres of land in Gautam Buddha Nagar. The state government has facilitated implementation of 43% MoUs signed with various companies, paving the way for investment of Rs 14,900 crore, he added. Also Read: Chinmayanand case: Court orders law student to appear before it on Nov 27Prominent investors include Hiranandani Group, Surya Global, Hindustan Unilever, MG Capsules, Kesho Packaging, Mountain View Technologies, etc., are lining up for investment in the state, he claimed.Mahana added that the state has also attracted more than 40 expressions of intent for investment from companies of 10 countries, including Japan, US, UK, Canada, Germany, South Korea, etc, worth around Rs 45,000 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/investors-lining-up-post-covid-up-will-be-economic-powerhouse-minister/story-tFve5jQ1iH9rzt4qGj3YpO.html
20-11-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Pandemic causes break in 36-year-old tradition of Indira Marathon||Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, and just for the second time since its inception in 1985, the All India Prize Money Indira Marathon was not held in the city on its scheduled date (November 19). The famous run is held every year to commemorate the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi.The run was also not held in 1990, but the organisers did hold the run in January 1991, therefore managing to organise the event in the annual 1990-91 sports calendar . The marathon was conceptualised in 1985 in the memory of the late Indira Gandhi. Initially, winners would win a cash prize of Rs50,000 while the first and second runners-up were given a cash award of Rs25,000 and Rs15,000, respectively. Later, the prize money was raised to Rs1 lakh for the winner, and for the last two years, the prize money has been enhanced to Rs2 lakh for the winner of both men and women categories, while the first and second runners-up are given Rs1 lakh and Rs75,000, respectively. In addition to this, 11 consolation prizes are also given of Rs10,000 each.Also Read: UP child molester nabbed: Whistleblower tipped off CBI, gave key proofThe marathon, covering a total distance of 42.195km, starts from Anand Bhawan, the ancestral home of the Nehru-Gandhi family, and passes through Teliarganj, Mayo Hall crossing, the high court, CMP College, Allahabad Agricultural Institute, Yamuna bridge, Hanuman temple and terminates at Madan Mohan Malviya stadium. The run also has a rich legacy of top long-distance runners of the country participating every year.“The run has witnessed performances of ace runners of the country, and had it not been for the present crisis of the Covid-19 pandemic, the marathon would have been held this year too. We don’t have any information on whether it will be held in the present calendar year or not,” said district sports officer Anil Tiwari. Last year, Amethi’s Rahul Kumar (Naib Subedar) won in the men’s category while Harendra Chauhan came second. Hetram of Himachal Pradesh finished third.Likewise, Shyamali of West Bengal won in the women’s category and Neeta Patel of Prayagraj and Anita Rani of Haryana secured the second and third positions, respectively.In 2018, the men’s category saw BS Dhoni of India Army (Pune) win. The same year, in the women’s category, Jyoti Shankar Gavate of Maharashtra set a record by winning for the sixth consecutive time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-pandemic-causes-break-in-36-year-old-tradition-of-indira-marathon/story-uvARVHcm4ReAiUTkNecNrO.html
20-11-2020||Environment||Biomedical waste incineration plant to shift out of Mumbai by Feb 2022||The Maharashtra environment department has directed the city’s only biomedical waste treatment facility to commence the shifting process out of Mumbai by December 2021 and complete it by February 2022 to improve air quality in the eastern suburbs.Residents from Govandi, Mankhurd, Deonar and surrounding areas have filed repeated complaints against SMS Envoclean Pvt Ltd, appointed by the civic body to deal with Mumbai’s Covid-19 and associated biomedical waste from June onwards, about toxic air and black smoke emitted after incinerating personal protective equipment (PEE) kits, from the treatment facility, allegedly leading to health ailments in the area.State environment minister Aaditya Thackeray had directed the treatment facility to be shifted out within a year, and asked the facility to expedite the process of identifying an alternate site for their operations within a month.On Wednesday, Thackeray held a meeting with the facility operators, Maharashtra Pollution Control Board, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, and various local leaders.“It was finalised that there would be no incineration or associated emission within Mumbai anymore and for this, a timeline has been charted out, that by December 2021, the plant will be moved out of the city,” said Thackeray.The plant operators had identified a 3-acre plot at an uninhabited location around 70 km from Mumbai at Khalapur in Raigad district.“The state issued consent to establish the new plant on Wednesday while a no-objection certificate was issued by BMC to move the plant out of Mumbai,” said Thackeray, adding, “The current space at Govandi, however, would continue to be used for only holding the city’s waste before being transported to the new site. However, incineration followed by emission and other waste treatment procedures will be carried out away from the city.”SMS plant operators said they were devastated by the decision. “We do not have any other option. We now have to bear a cost of ₹50 crore for setting up the entire facility at Khalapur and all efforts made in Mumbai will be wasted,” said Amit Nilawar, director, SMS Envoclean.Nilawar added that with a drop in Covid-19 cases, the quantity of Covid-19 and other biomedical waste had reduced by 47% since September-October.“We are now receiving 17 to 18 tons per day against 32 tons till October first week. However, we are sending 6-7 tons to another unit in Taloja - Mumbai Waste Management Ltd for treatment,” he said.A local resident from Govandi, requesting anonymity, said citizens welcomed the decision but hoped that the shifting out process could be expedited. “Breathing issues continue especially for senior citizens and children,” the resident said.Also Read: BJP leader Kirit Somaiya targets Aaditya Thackeray; Shiv Sena rubbishes allegationsMahul firms comply with all directions under state’s pollution abatement plan: Aaditya ThackerayFirms at the city’s polluted Mahul area have complied with most commitments made for pollution abatement as directed by the environment department, Thackeray said after a meeting with state bodies and the firms on Wednesday.“It is a huge relief that all industries in the Mahul area have complied with almost all directives from the environment department. A few still remain but will be completed soon. Now, the National Green Tribunal appointed committee will be looking into other details of pollution abatement as directed by the court,” said Thackeray.Firms at Mahul-Trombay area are said to be responsible for high air pollution for the past two years posing a health risk for local residents. Activities such as logistic services, storing oil, gas and chemical items, and oil companies releasing volatile organic compounds (VOCs) during loading, storage and unloading of hazardous chemicals, have led to high air pollution.Industrial firms, Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL), Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd. (BPCL), Aegis Logistics Ltd (ALL), and SeaLord Containers Limited (SLCL, a subsidiary of ALL), had all agreed to a series of measures proposed by the state environment department during a meeting in February, when an action plan was proposed.Also Read: Rajasthan to de-notify forest area to allow stone miningSome of these measures included – nitrogen blanketing (a method of applying nitrogen gas to the vapour space or top layer of a container carrying chemicals to control its composition and reduce oxygen access to curb emission), bottom-filling of trucks to ensure liquid does not spill out, supplying a parking area to avoid congestion of vehicles, developing a green belt, and traffic permissions to use the eastern freeway during non-peak hours for smoother movement and curb spillage.According to Thackeray, ALL has agreed to relocate their laboratory which was one of the concerns for increase in air pollution. “We are working with the traffic department to complete the process of bottom-filling of trucks to ensure zero volatile liquid splashing on roads. Secondly, for the development of the green belt, BMC has been tasked with planting 30,000 saplings in this area by May, and have been directed to procure saplings from their nurseries,” said Thackeray.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/environment/biomedical-waste-incineration-plant-to-shift-out-of-mumbai-by-feb-2022/story-prt3F4YkymRZNHSBpdryuI.html
20-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality deteriorates again, may improve marginally tomorrow||Air quality in Delhi plunged to the far end of the "poor" category on Friday morning. The city’s air quality index (AQI) reading at 6am was 290, higher than the average AQI reading of 283 recorded on Thursday. Government agencies had on Thursday forecast that air quality may deteriorate slightly and may touch the lower end of the "very poor" zone on November 20-21. As per the System for Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), the union ministry’s air quality forecasting wing said air quality may touch "very poor" on Friday and may improve marginally on Saturday. It attributed the deterioration in air quality to a rise in the contribution of stubble fires to the city’s PM 2.5 levels. Also Read: Winter arrives early in some parts of NW India; Delhi records 7.9°C“The wind direction is north-westerly and is bringing fumes from stubble fires in neighbouring Haryana and Punjab,” the Safar bulletin had stated. The contribution of stubble-burning to the city’s PM 2.5 levels was estimated to be 20% on Thursday, up from 8% the previous day. The deterioration is despite the average wind speed being around 10-15 kmph, which is favourable for the dispersion of pollutants. Scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that the rise in fire count and a dip in temperature both could be the reasons behind deterioration in air quality. Delhi had recorded the lowest minimum temperature of the season on Thursday --- 9.4 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal. It is mainly because of cold winds blowing from the snow-clad Himalayan region. The maximum settled at 25.6 degrees Celsius, two notches below normal. “The minimum temperature may fall further over the weekend. However, wind speed is likely to remain high until November 21,” said a senior IMD scientist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-air-quality-deteriorates-again-may-improve-marginally-tomorrow/story-U8zY7J943GH72sVyQMy1tJ.html
20-11-2020||Lucknow||Chinmayanand case: Court orders law student to appear before it on Nov 27||A special court hearing the Chinmayanand case on Thursday ordered a law student, who last month retracted from her allegation that former union minister Swami Chinmayanand had sexually assaulted her, to appear before it on November 27 to record her statement.“The court has ordered the student to appear before it to record her statements as to why she has disowned her allegations of sexual harassment against Chinmayanand,” said Abhay Tripathi, prosecution lawyer representing the UP government.Gaurav Gupta, accountant of the Swami Shukdevanand Post-Graduate College, Shahjahanpur, where the student studied, appeared before the court to record his statement. He was the sixth prosecution witness to appear before the court of special judge Pawan Kumar Rai.The former minister is president of the managing committee of the college. Gupta testified that the law student was also working in the college library while studying law and was drawing salary.In the ongoing State vs Chinmayanand case, the prosecution has listed 33 witnesses to appear before the court. Thereafter, the defence will get an opportunity to produce their witnesses.The law student on October 13 disowned her accusations against Chinmayanand before the court, through her lawyer.A case has been filed against her under the Section 340 of the CrPC for lying in the court. “In all her FIRs, even the one lodged in New Delhi, the law student had levelled allegations of sexual harassment against the former minister. Now, she has disowned these allegations. This is a clear case of perjury,” prosecution lawyer Tripathi said.The case came to light in August last year when the woman went missing from Shahjahanpur in Uttar Pradesh and released videos alleging sexual harassment by the former minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/chinmayanand-case-court-orders-law-student-to-appear-before-it-on-nov-27/story-IY23csVoPKqyZ7NnL3Y1ZL.html
20-11-2020||Dehradun||Kumbh in view, SC extends time to demolish 4 illegal religious structures in Haridwar||The Supreme Court on Thursday allowed the Uttarakhand government to put on hold the demolition of four illegally constructed temples in Haridwar till the completion of the Ardh Kumbh scheduled from January to April next year.The order came on a plea by the state government which cited the upcoming Kumbh Mela as a ground to seek extension of time to comply with a Supreme Court order of September 29, 2009, that required all unauthorised religious structures made on public land to be demolished. To ensure implementation of the said order, the Uttarakhand high court had initiated a suo moto petition last year to monitor the progress of work done by the state.Appearing for the state government, solicitor general Tushar Mehta told a three-judge bench of the apex court that out of a total of 793 identified illegal religious structures, only five remained to be demolished. These included four structures in Haridwar and a gurdwara in Udham Singh Nagar.Due to the approaching Kumbh, the Uttarakhand government had requested for time to carry out the demolition of the four illegal structures at Haridwar, where Kumbh is to take place. The state argued that during Kumbh, the state will be required to allocate space to the akharas for placing their deities and removing these structures now will entail law and order problems.Also Read: Restoration of Uttarakhand’s 400-year-old Ganga temple beginsThe bench of justices Ashok Bhushan, RS Reddy and MR Shah accepted this request of the state government and gave them time till May 31, 2021 to clear these structures.These structures included Shri Gopaldas through Mehent Rajendradas Nirmohi Akhada, Beragi Camp, Haridwar, (182.25 square metres), Shri Brahmdutt Dharamdas (Jagannath) Beragi Camp, Nirmani Adi Akhada, Haridwar (273 square metres), Shri Ranchood Das, Bhaiyadas Digamber Akhada, Beragi Camp, Haridwar (16.81 square metres), and Shri Amitpuri Niranjan Dev, Niranjani Akhada, Gangeswar Beragi Camp, Haridwar (37.44 square metres).Also Read: Hovercraft, ferry boat waterway service on anvil for Haridwar Mahakumbh 2021 The bench held, “For the reasons given in the application and especially that ‘Kumbh Mela’ is to commence in 2021 and will end on April 15, 2021, we are of the view that the State should be permitted to demolish the illegal structures by May 31, 2021.”The Akhil Bhartiya Akhara Parishad also sought intervention in the matter and requested the court to consider regularizing the structures. They admitted that the structures were made on land belonging to the irrigation department. According to Vanshaja Shukla, who drafted the state’s appeal, these structures were constructed during the Ardh Kumbh of 2010. “When the Kumbh Mela is organized, all the Akharas are given temporary places for them to place their deity, and camp around it and live there for the whole period of Kumbh Mela and perform their religious practices and rituals,” Shukla said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/kumbh-in-view-sc-extends-time-to-demolish-4-illegal-religious-structures-in-haridwar/story-zYp7x6HpxXQ4WasejglViK.html
20-11-2020||Kolkata||TMC worker murdered in Bengal had criminal record: Police||A Trinamool Congress (TMC) worker was allegedly murdered in West Bengal’s North 24 Parganas district around midnight on Wednesday, police officials said on Thursday.The deceased was identified as Akash Prasad, 24.The family of the deceased has said that Prasad left home around midnight after receiving a call from a local extortionist, Akash Shaw, an officer of the Jagaddal police station said.“We are carrying out an investigation. Prasad had a criminal record,” the officer said, speaking on condition of anonymity. TMC leaders, meanwhile, made conflicting statements about Prasad’s association with the party.The convener of the local TMC unit, Somnath Shyam said that Prasad was a party worker and accused the Bharatiya Janata Party of killing him, even as Sanjay Singh, another local party leader, denied any association between Prasad and TMC. Singh alleged that he was lynched by residents of the area during an extortion bid.The state food and civil supplies minister, Jyotipriyo Mullick, accused BJP MP Arjun Singh for the alleged murder. “Arjun Singh is behind the murder. The deceased was an active party worker and made many people leave the BJP and join the TMC,” he said. The BJP has alleged that Prasad was involved in the drug trade and worked for TMC leaders. Singh said, “The TMC is making conflicting statements to hide the truth. Prasad was a notorious extortionist and had recently entered the drug trade. He had a long criminal record and used to work for TMC leaders.”(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/tmc-worker-murdered-in-bengal-had-criminal-record-police/story-91DClgQhbsB7qvqVts9exH.html
20-11-2020||Patna||Bihar minister Mewalal Choudhary resigns hours after taking charge||Three days after being sworn in and a mere hours after taking charge, Bihar’s education minister Mewalal Choudhary, who came under sustained attack from the Opposition parties over corruption charges relating to his stint as vice-chancellor of an agriculture university, on Thursday resigned from the Nitish Kumar cabinet. On the advice of the chief minister, Governor Phagu Chauhan accepted Choudhary’s resignation. Choudhary, a Janata Dal (United) MLA from Tarapur in Munger district, was accused of irregularities in the appointment of assistant professors and junior scientists at Bihar Agriculture University (BAU), Sabour, in Bhagalpur when he was its vice-chancellor from 2010 to 2015. He was expelled from the party in 2017 after an FIR was lodged against him for forgery, cheating and other charges. He rejoined the party in January 2018.On Thursday, Choudhary was summoned by the CM. After a closed-door meeting that lasted around 30 minutes, he submitted his resignation. JD(U)’s Ashok Chaudhary has been given the charge of department.The Opposition, however, kept up its attack on the CM. “Nitish Kumar is the real culprit. Why did he make a corrupt person the minister?” said RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav.CPI-ML state secretary Kunal (he uses only one name) said, “The government had to bow down to pressure of the public.” According to sources, an FIR was lodged against the minister on February 20, 2017, with the Sabour police station in Bhagalpur on the directives of the then governor, who was also the chancellor of universities in Bihar, Ram Nath Kovind, who set up a probe committee after several applicants alleged irregularities in appointments.Choudhary was booked under sections 409 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine of forged document) and 120 (B) (conspiracy) of the IPC. Three days after the FIR was lodged against him, Choudhary was expelled from the JD(U), party sources said. On August22, 2017, the Patna high court granted him anticipatory bail. Bhagalpur range DIG Sujit Kumar said, “The Sabaur case in which Mewalal Choudhary is one of the accused is under investigation. The chargesheet has been filed against four persons and does not include Choudhary’s name. Supplementary chargesheets could be filed.” According to Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR), 163 (68%) legislators out of the 241 newly-elected leaders in the 243-member assembly are facing serious criminal charges.The BJP with 47 (64%) and JD-U with 47% of the winning candidates having declared criminal cases against them.Social analyst Professor NK Choudhary , former head, department of economics, Patna University, said, “It was a blunder. A bigger blunder was to give him education department. His removal is a welcome step, but it has come only due to relentless media and opposition pressure.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-minister-mewalal-choudhary-resigns-hours-after-taking-charge/story-IreR1G5ecen5NiW9TpqzpN.html
20-11-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan to de-notify forest area to allow stone mining||The Rajasthan government will soon denotify a forest area in Banshi Pahadpur hills in Bharatpur after an initial survey found there were no animals or forests in the area, a district official said on Thursday.Pink sandstone mined from the hills is being supplied to Ayodhya for the construction of the Ram temple. Bharatpur district collector, Nathmal Didel, said the mining, forest and revenue departments have surveyed the hills of Banshi Pahadpur and found no wild animals or forests. This would help for denotification of the Banshi Pahadpur block, he said.“After the initial survey, a report will be sent to the chief wildlife warden of the forest department” seeking denotification to allow legal mining, he said.A mining department official, privy to the development, said that the Bharatpur mining engineer would apply for permission to denotify and allow mining in the hills through the forest department’s portal.A proposal would then be sent to the environment ministry seeking approval to denotify the area under the Forest Conservation Act, the official said.The Vishwa Hindu Parishad, which has been sourcing stones from the Banshi Pahadpur hills for the construction of the Ram Temple for the past five years, had approached the Bharatpur district administration over a delay in supply of stones in September-October. The district administration had then said that the stones were being illegally mined after three trucks, loaded with the pink sandstones, were seized on September 27 in a joint operation of the police, forest and revenue departments.“The pink and yellow sandstone is in high demand. Illegal mining activity in the area feeds processing units in the district. The district administration takes action against illegal mining randomly,” Didel said.According to the state mines department officials, until December 1996, around 42 legal mines of pink, red and yellow sandstone operated in the Banshi Pahadpur forest area.However, the Supreme Court prohibited non-forest activities in forest areas without diversion under the Forest Act through its order dated December 12, 1996||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-to-denotify-forest-area-to-allow-stone-mining/story-0QnptYhojxmZlajhXpeCEM.html
20-11-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: The bangle seller’s pandemic||The lady in ghoonghat (headcovering or headscarf) sceptically scans the cart’s content, as if she were certain to find rotten brinjals there, and just wanted to spot one so as to confront the hawker with his dishonesty.But this isn’t a vegetable cart. Across the road from Gurugram’s Anaj Mandi, it is stacked up with thousands of glass bangles. “Don’t show me any cracked choori (bangle),” she snubs at vendor Aamir Khan who fervently wants the woman to buy the bangles. His business has severally nosedived due to the pandemic. “Last year, in the week around Karva Chauth, I was making ₹20,000 daily, but this Karva Chauth week it came to just ₹4,000 daily.”Karva Chauth, a festival during which women traditionally keep a day-long fast for their husband’s well-being, got over some days ago. It used to be the highlight of Mr Khan’s year.All these glass bangles on his cart are from Firozabad, the town in UP famous for manufacturing glass products, especially bangles. It’s also Mr Khan’s home district, where he regularly goes to get fresh batches of bangles. But his work trips have grown less frequent. Indeed, Mr Khan’s decade-old bangle-selling trade has plummeted so low since the coronavirus-triggered lockdown that he has been forced to work as a “palledar” (labourer) every night in the adjacent Anaj Mandi. There, he helps in the unloading of freshly arrived vegetables and fruits. “I make ₹300 a day from bangles, and ₹400 in the (vegetable) mandi.”By now the woman appears to have chosen half a dozen red bangles. It has exactly the same shade of red as her sari blouse. She tries to check their size by trying to slide one onto her arm. It’s not going. With one hand, Mr Khan gently holds her wrist, and with the other he tries to slide in the bangle, with some effort.Next moment, the bangle is in.Now the bargaining starts. Mr Khan explains that he is charging a higher price for the chosen bangles because “I decorated them with sitare and jhilmil at home.”The lady buys six bangles, three for each arm, and goes away.Mr Khan now waits for his next customer. He says he shall return to his home in Pataudi Chowk by 8pm, where he lives with his wife and two kids in a one-room dwelling. There won’t be a long restful night for him. He will wake up at 3am to go to the Anaj Mandi for his shift as a labourer and will return home by 8 in the morning. Two hours later he will have to leave home again to set up his bangle cart for the new day. “If this bad situation continues, I’ll have to forever leave NCR (National Capital Region) and return to my village.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-bangle-seller-s-pandemic/story-49zHEHXJ172EEpRajfahLL.html
20-11-2020||City||Ludhiana: PAU employees stage sit-in outside V-C office||High drama took place at the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) on Thursday as the employees’ union sat on protest outside vice-chancellor Baldev Singh Dhillon’s office and stopped him from entering, while seeking the fulfillment of their long-pending demands.As the 73-year-old Dhillon requested the protesting employees to clear the passage, the employees bowed down to his feet and asked him step over them to pass. The V-C tried to pacify them but to no avail.As many as four employees’ unions, including the PAU Employees Union, PAU Teachers Association and PAU Class Four Workers Union, have been protesting on campus since October 13. Among their demands is the implementation of the old pension scheme, on the lines of Punjabi University, Patiala, for employees recruited till July 9, 2012. Besides, they also want the grade pay for library attendant and meteorological attendant to be at par with the lab attendant, promotions for JEs and SDOs, filling up of vacant posts of store-keepers, recruitment and promotion of car and jeep drivers and the problems cropping up in internal audit to be resolved.PAU employees’ union president Baldev Singh Walia said the employees working on contact should be made a permanent, as per seniority. He added that the university authorities did not show the least bit of concern for the demands, so the union is prepared to intensify the agitation. Earlier V-C Dhillon had appealed to the protesting employees to work together in view of the pandemic and set an example for everyone by serving the community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-pau-employees-stage-sit-in-outside-v-c-office/story-44W1IEevvokEF1ddLwwyXM.html
20-11-2020||City||Ludhiana: Deceased factory worker’s wife gets EPF benefits in record time||Coming to the aid of the grief-stricken family of Shiv Kumar, a 40-year-factory worker who met an untimely death after being electrocuted while working at a dying unit on September 28, the Employee Provident Fund Office (EPFO) has disbursed the claims to his family in a record 15 days’ time.Regional PF commissioner-1 Dheeraj Gupta said that an amount of ₹2.08 lakh has been settled vide cheque as Employees Deposit Linked Insurance and ₹44, 110 vide cheque as EPF accumulation, in favour of Sunita Devi, the widow of Shiv Kumar. Some paperwork, including opening bank accounts in the name of the deceased’s children, is pending at the level of family members in Bihar. Once the paperwork for the pension is completed, the widow pension of ₹2,326 and pension of ₹582 will be released immediately from this office, said Gupta.The office had started processing her application two weeks ago after taking cognisance of a news item published in the newspapers about Kumar’s death. The victim worked at M/s Highway Industries for three years, and was the sole bread winner of the family.While accepting the amount on Thursday, Sunita Devi had tears in her eyes and expressed her sincere gratitude for speedy disbursal of the amount. The couple has two sons, aged 19 and 18. The elder son is differently-abled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-deceased-factory-worker-s-wife-gets-epf-benefits-in-record-time/story-2dvCfz8KQOWWzOu2dhPoHI.html
20-11-2020||City||Ludhiana: Farmers, industry body join hands to fight stubble trouble||Perceived to be at loggerheads with each other due to the ongoing agitation against central laws, farmers and industrialists are scripting a success story in 51 villages of Raikot and Doraha block, by joining hands to end the stubble burning menace.The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), along with societies such as Gadri Baba Dulla Singh Giani Nihal Singh Foundation, Jalaldiwal, and the extension cell of Guru Nanak National College, Doraha, has set up an equipment bank to lease out farm machinery for harvesting and sowing of crops.This has not only brought down the spending incurred by farmers, but has also brought about a social change wherein farmers themselves are thwarting attempts of stubble burning.How it worksEach farmer is required to visit the machine bank and reserve the day for which they need the farming equipment. After using the machine, the farmers return the equipment to the bank, where maintenance work is carried out, and thereafter provided to another farmer.Cost-effective practiceThis proves cost-effective for the farmers as they don’t have to spend lakhs on special equipment and can instead take it on lease for a nominal fee. Jagminderpal Singh, a farmer, says, “I stopped stubble burning about five years ago. Earlier, my land used to produce negligible yield but now, with the incorporation of the new method, the soil’s health has also improved and I had a bumper yield this year.” Easy maintenance Bhupinder Singh, an NRI who returned from Canada to take up farming in Burj Hakiman village, said that government-aided cooperative societies also provide equipment on lease, but due to lack of maintenance, the machines become defunct quickly. But with the industry contributing to the endeavor, this problem has been solved, he said.Gursharan Singh, a postgraduate who decided to take up farming, said, “The government policies are not designed keeping in mind the micro and small farmers. Rather than giving subsidies to farmers on buying these machines such societies should be encouraged to lease out the equipments at subsidised rates. These equipments are to be used for few days in the whole year and keeping these machines is and added burden.”‘Was not an easy task get everyone on-board’Harminder Singh Sidhu, a progressive farmer and the director of Gadri Baba Dulla Singh Giani Nihal Singh Foundation, who started the campaign against stubble burning five years ago, says convincing farmers to give up this age-old practice wasn’t easy. “Initially, I faced a lot of criticism from all quarters. It was difficult to convince farmers to get on board but luckily the industry also pitched in and agreed to work with the farmers,” said Harminder, who has been honoured by the Indian Council of Agriculture Research (ICAR) and the Union department of agriculture and farmers’ welfare last year for his efforts. 5,061 farmers part of the initiative CII programme lead Chandrakant Pradhan said that currently 5,061 farmers are part of the initiative. Pradhan claims that due to their efforts, farmers are following the in-situ practice on 7,759 acres and not setting their fields on fire.SM Tahir Hussain, programme coordinator, Punjab and Haryana Climate Change Resilience, CII Foundation, said, “We noticed that although farmer cooperatives, FPOs and other farmer groups have tried to procure machines in most villages, it was not sufficient and as a result most small and marginal farmers were being left out.”Hussain said that the CII has helped procure 500 machines, including in-situ straw management machines such as Happy Seeder, Mulcher, Super Seeder, MB Plough, besides balers and tractors to support small and marginal farmers. “We have also piloted various ex-situ straw management measures, such as a straw-to-biogas unit in Raikot, Ludhiana,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-farmers-industry-body-join-hands-to-fight-stubble-trouble/story-6HFPRVqY0jt4pCHONVqn0L.html
20-11-2020||City||New MBBS admission policy in Haryana: Vij defends decision, aspirants rue lack of clarity||While the medical aspirants are struggling for their admissions after government’s new education policy for MBBS, Haryana health minister Anil Vij said the change will not affect the health services in any way.“Whosoever is taking a loan of ₹10 lakh, the government will take its guarantee. Instalments of those working in Haryana will be paid by the state government,” Vij said on Thursday. “The government will pay the loan for the next seven years and those who won’t work here will pay it themselves. This is like any other education loan,” he added.Parent of an MBBS aspirant, Parvesh Goel, who had met Vij on Wednesday with a request to review the policy, said that the department of medical education and research in its November 6 notification didn’t give clarity on the admissions to MD (doctor of medicine) programme.“My daughter has scored 620 marks out of 720 in the NEET examinations, but the state is yet to declare her Haryana rank. Also, many students here belong to middle-class families. How will their parents arrange ₹10 lakh service bond every year?” Goel asked. Several Congress leaders from Ambala, including Mullana MLA Varun Chaudhary, former CPS Ramkishan Gujjar, former MLA Jasbir Mallour and state treasurer Rohit Jain, on Thursday handed over a memorandum to DC Ashok Kumar Sharma for governor, demanding a stay on the policy.The memorandum stated that the policy will rather push students from economically weaker sections or reserved categories towards private universities.“A report stated that every year, the state produces 1,500 medical students, while the government provides jobs to only 300-400 of them. The government should give job guarantee before asking the students to sign the bonds,” it reads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/new-mbbs-admission-policy-in-haryana-vij-defends-decision-aspirants-rue-lack-of-clarity/story-tdBXaOYNfYQX2n3PPHTCyL.html
20-11-2020||City||Former Panipat councillor jumps in canal; panel formed to probe harassment angle||Four days after being booked for allegedly assaulting cops during a raid, former councillor of Panipat municipal corporation, Harish Sharma, reportedly jumped into a canal near Bhinjhol village of the district on Thursday. Two more persons, including his brother Satish Sharma and friend Rajesh Sharma, also jumped to rescue him, but failed to take him out. While Satish was rescued by a local, Sonu Saluja, Rajesh couldn’t be traced.The trigger behind the extreme step is yet to be ascertained, but it has been learnt that Harish was upset after police booked him and his councillor daughter Anjali Sharma, along with eight others, for allegedly selling firecrackers and assaulting some cops. His family members have alleged that he feared arrest and reached his friend’s house on Wednesday. Soon after getting the information about the incident, police reached the spot and launched a search and rescue operation. Panipat DSP (headquarters) Satish Vats said that the search operation was going on to fish out the bodies and water level in the canal has been reduced to help the divers. Haryana home minister Anil Vij in a tweet said that a three-member committee headed by ADGP Sandeep Khirwar will investigate the alleged suicide case of Harish Sharma following police harassment. The committee has been asked to submit the report within two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-panipat-councillor-jumps-in-canal-panel-formed-to-probe-harassment-angle/story-VXm8qp0gAKDkYmL6IeZ07H.html
20-11-2020||Chandigarh||Five IAS, 10 HCS officers transferred in Haryana||The Haryana government on Thursday issued the transfer and posting orders of five IAS and 10 HCS officers. Municipal commissioner, Palwal, Monika Gupta was given the additional charge of additional deputy commissioner, Palwal. Mahavir Singh, secretary, RTA, Panchkula, was posted as additional deputy commissioner, Kurukshetra. Rahul Narwal, additional deputy commissioner, Bhiwani, was given the additional charge of additional deputy commissioner, Charkhi Dadri. Vishram Kumar Meena, sub divisional magistrate (SDM), Mahendergarh, was given the additional charge of SDM, Kanina. Ayush Sinha, SDM, Karnal, was given the additional charge of SDM, Indri. Among the HCS officers, Veena Hooda, secretary, RTA, Karnal and additional CEO, Ayushman Bharat-Haryana Health Protection Authority, Panchkula, was given the additional charge of additional deputy commissioner, Karnal. Munish Nagpal, municipal commissioner, Nuh, was given the additional charge of additional deputy commissioner, Nuh. Satyender Duhan, secretary, RTA, Jind, was given the additional charge of additional deputy commissioner, Jind. Samwartak Singh Khangwal, municipal commissioner, Fatehabad, was given the additional charge of additional deputy commissioner, Fatehabad. Sumeet Sihag, SDM, Indri, was posted as SDM, Narwana. Preetpal Singh Mothsara, city magistrate, Kurukshetra and general manager, milk plant, Kurukshetra, was given the additional charge of SDM, Ladwa. Ashvir Singh, SDM, Hisar, was given the additional charge of SDM, Barwala. Virender Singh Dhull was posted as SDM, Bilaspur. Ranbir Singh, SDM, Kanina, was posted as SDM, Narnaul and Rajesh Kumar, SDM, Barwala, was posted as SDM, Jind.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/five-ias-10-hcs-officers-transferred-in-haryana/story-bEH2S4nzGtkZ5l3zhTGDxI.html
20-11-2020||City||Health department starts sampling in Jhajjar, Rewari, Jind schools||In order to tackle the rise in Covid-19 cases in government schools, the health department on Thursday started conducting sampling in Jhajjar, Rewari and Jind schools where over 150 children tested positive for the virus.Dr Sanjay Dahiya, chief medical officer, Jhajjar, said, “We have collected samples of 423 students from five schools in the district, report of which is expected to be out tomorrow. We are planning to cover all schools in the district in next two weeks.”The department has also collected samples of students from Sonepat, Fatehabad and Bhiwani districts.A senior official of the Haryana education department said nearly 1.58 lakh students out of 6 lakh are attending the schools across the state everyday. “A total of 174 students and 107 teachers have tested positive for the virus across the state. This means that the number of students who have tested positive is not even 0.5% of the total students attending the classes. The health department has collected random samples from over 7,000 students across the state. It is too early to reconsider shutting down the schools,” the official added.He further said the total students attending the schools has increased from the last week’s 1.29 lakh to 1.59 lakh this week.“We have no option other than conducting classes as less than 100 days are left for the board exams. We cannot pass a student without conducting practical and pre-board exams, besides organising exams of at least four subjects,” he added.Haryana’s nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Dhruva Chaudhary, said the infection rate among students can be decreased up to 80% if they start wearing masks and practice social distancing. “Teachers must ensure that windows of classrooms are kept opened. Most of the students are not wearing face masks and their teachers are also taking it lightly. The parents should inform the health department if their ward experiences any symptom of the disease and bar them from sending to school. It is not advisable to shut down the schools as the students have suffered a lot. If schools will follow the safety guidelines, students will be able to continue with their studies,” he added.Rakesh Sheoran ,a parent from Dadri’s Badhra, said he has been sending his both kids to the school by taking all precaution measures.“My children were struggling with the online mode of learning and they started improving after the government ordered reopening of schools from November 2. We can’t allow our kids to sit at home and waste their one crucial academic year. The parents must ensure their ward reaches school while following all safety guidelines,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/health-department-starts-sampling-in-jhajjar-rewari-jind-schools/story-fI2jJsMeDrAApGX1p8wpON.html
20-11-2020||City||Need to reconsider decision to resume regular classes: Khattar||Surge in the number of Covid-19 cases in Haryana has left the schoolchildren and their parents worried as the government has already granted permission to resume regular classes.Since more than 150 students have tested positive in the state within two weeks, parents are reluctant to send their wards to the schools. When asked about students contracting the infection, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar during his visit to Karnal on Thursday said, “Schools were reopened after seven months as several people were in favour of this decision. But, it is worrisome that some students got infected. Now, we think that there is a need to reconsider the decision.”Haryana education department also held a videoconference with ground-level officers and school principals to assess the situation before issuing further guidelines.Parvesh Rani, a resident of Karnal and mother of a Class 10 student, has asked the government to let the kids continue with the online classes. “Since students are catching the infection, it is risky to send them to school. The government should keep the schools closed for next one or two more months,” she added.Another parent, Shailesh Kumar of Kurukshetra, said, “This is not the right time to reopen schools. We have to wait more as the number of cases is on the rise again. It is also difficult for the teachers to convince students to follow the guidelines.”Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said schools have been directed to strictly follow the Covid-19 guidelines issued by the government. “It is not mandatory for all students to go to schools as they have been given the choice to attend the classes with the written consent of their parents.” Khattar lays foundation stone of BJP office in KarnalOn Thursday, Khattar, who was accompanied by Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia, also laid the foundation stone of BJP’s office in Karnal. He said the party office will help in improving the working of local workers.He said that district-level party offices will be opened in all 22 districts of the state, seven of which have already been opened, while the construction of nine offices is going on.Earlier, in an interaction with mediapersons, the CM said that the state government was committed to increasing the strength of MBBS doctors in the state, which has around 14,000 doctors (including private) against the requirement of 27,000.To a question about the MBBS fee hike, he replied that the government wanted to ensure that doctors, after completing the MBBS, could work in the state and cooperate with the government to improve health services.Nod to proposal to extend special paroleMeanwhile, Khattar has approved a proposal to extend the duration of special parole or interim bail granted to 4,585 prisoners till December 31 in view of the prevalent Covid-19 situation. These include 1,459 undertrials and 3,126 convicts. An official spokesperson said that the CM acted on the recommendation of the high-powered committee headed by Justice Daya Chaudhary of Punjab and Haryana high court. Justice Chaudhary, who is the executive chairperson of Haryana State Legal Services Authority, in a November 12 meeting had approved a proposal in this regard. However, authorities will be free to cancel the special parole or interim bail as the case may be, in case any complaint regarding misuse of special parole or interim bail is received against any convict or undertrial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/need-to-reconsider-decision-to-resume-regular-classes-khattar/story-DKcEKWXZF1Bt0qvmyPED2L.html
20-11-2020||City||RTI query reveals ₹11-crore discrepancy in stamp duty collection in Panipat district||A difference of ₹11.84 crore in stamp duty collection has been detected in the land registrations done in Panipat district tehsils in the past two financial years. As per the information provided by tehsildars of Panipat district under the Right to Information (RTI) Act to a local activist, Amit Rathi, a difference of ₹11.84 crore was found during the audit in the stamp duty deposited in all five tehsils of Panipat, Bapoli, Matlauda, Samalkha and Israna blocks for 557 land registrations done in 2018-2019 and 2019-2020.“As per the reply from the tehsildars concerned, the stamp duty was not charged as per the rate fixed by the government, causing a revenue loss of ₹11.84 crore to the state exchequer,” the RTI activist said. According to him, difference of ₹10.22 crore in the registration of 409 land deeds was reported in Panipat tehsil, ₹92.83 lakh in 24 land deeds in Matlauda, ₹22.55 lakh in 24 land deeds in Samalkha and ₹2.91 lakh in five land deeds in Israna tehsil. As per the activist, the information was provided by the tehsildars, but no action was taken yet, which he claimed hinted at a scam. “Even in the reply to the RTI query, all tehsildars have admitted that no action or inquiry has been ordered for the recovery of stamp duty so far,” he said, adding that he has filed a complaint at the CM Window for a detailed investigation and action against the erring officials for causing a revenue loss of around ₹12 crore to the state exchequer.Panipat tehsildar Kuldeep Malik said this was not a scam as claimed by the RTI activist. “The difference in the collection of stamp duty was highlighted by the auditor of the revenue department and the amount is based on their assumptions. This is a routine process as there are provisions of recovery of the stamp duty highlighted by the auditor and if required, the matter will be taken up in the collector’s court,” he addedDespite repeated attempts, Panipat deputy commissioner Dharmender Singh’s comment could not be elicited as he neither responded to phone calls nor text messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rti-query-reveals-11-crore-discrepancy-in-stamp-duty-collection-in-panipat-district/story-NmAUSOQEA2eDiUFbFwWjvN.html
20-11-2020||Chandigarh||Dushyant hits back at Congress for doubting stability of coalition government in Haryana||A day after Congress MP Deepender Hooda said there were “cracks of mistrust” in the BJP-JJP coalition in Haryana, Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Wednesday hit back at the Congress leaders for raising questions on the stability of the ruling BJP-JJP coalition government. Addressing mediapersons, Dushyant said the Congress leaders needed self introspection instead of being concerned about the stability of the coalition government. The JJP leader said there is a possibility that Congress president Sonia Gandhi will empower AICC general secretary Randeep Surjewala in Haryana and weaken former CM Bhupinder Hooda and his son Deepender. “So, the leaders who talk about mistrust among the alliance should look into their own affairs and introspect,” he said in a reference to remarks made by MP Deepender. ‘Registered a record in GST collection’Dushyant also said that despite Covid-19 situations, the state government has registered a record in goods and services tax (GST) revenue collection. Dushyant, who also hold the portfolio of excise and taxation, said the GST collection in April 2019 was ₹1,499 crore whereas only ₹237 crore was received in April 2020. The GST collection was ₹1,501 crore in May 2019 and ₹891 crore this year. He claimed that after the department’s officers encouraged taxpayers and simplified the process of tax refunds, the GST collection started increasing. As compared to ₹1,563 collected in September 2019, the GST collection in September 2020 was ₹1,583 crore. A total of ₹1,543 crore was collected in October last year, while ₹2,563 crore was collected in October this year, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dushyant-hits-back-at-congress-for-doubting-stability-of-coalition-government-in-haryana/story-LKgNvn3rlMUx4NCFmFAh0J.html
20-11-2020||Chandigarh||Five engineers stranded at Sarchu in Himachal rescued after nine-hour operation||Five engineers of the Ordnance Factory Board, Jabalpur, stranded at Sarchu on the Keylong-Leh National Highway in the tribal district of Lahaul-Spiti due to heavy snowfall since November 15 were rescued after a nine-hour operation, police said on Thursday. Engineers Kunji Lal Meena, Ganesh Prasad, Alok Sahu, Kant Sahu and Moonna Kumar had gone to Leh for repairing army vehicles in Nubra Valley. While returning on November 15, their vehicle broke down at Sarchu and they were stranded due to heavy snowfall. The temperature dipped to minus 15 degrees in the night. They were provided shelter by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) after which they informed the district police and sought help. Lahaul-Spiti superintendent of police (SP) Manav Verma said that two constables and two members of the Great Himalayan Rescue and Adventure Sports were sent to Sarchu to rescue the engineers. They were brought to the district headquarters at Keylong after a nine-hour operation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/five-engineers-stranded-at-sarchu-in-himachal-rescued-after-nine-hour-operation/story-IKdsRDDZ5zKJvZNkLTzWAL.html
20-11-2020||Chandigarh||Encounter underway in Pulwama||An encounter broke out between militants and security forces in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday, police said. Security forces launched a cordon and search operation in Parigam village of Pulwama following information about presence of militants there, a police official said. He said the search operation turned into an encounter after militants opened fire on the security forces who retaliated.Woman injured in Pak shelling in KathuaPakistani Rangers opened fire and shelled border out posts (BoPs) and hamlets along the International Border in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kathua district, leaving a woman injured, officials said on Thursday.The Pakistani troops targeted several BoPs and few hamlets in Manyari, Sapwal and Karol Krishna on late Wednesday night, prompting an effective retaliation by the BSF, the officials said.In the exchange of fire, which continued till this morning, one woman suffered injuries at Manyari village, they said. The shelling has triggered panic among border residents.“We have been facing heavy firing and shelling each night. It has become a regular feature”, Manyari resident Kuldeep said.“Two shells exploded in our compound and one woman family member suffered splinter injuries”, Kuldeep said.Several houses and structures have suffered damage in the shelling, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/encounter-underway-in-pulwama/story-ZJyWGxBi3PQQWqCMsqOQeM.html
20-11-2020||City||Ludhiana: Garment store employees booked for embezzlement of ₹4 crore||Four employees of a readymade garment store in Model Town have been booked for allegedly embezzling ₹4 crore belonging to the firm and depositing it into their own accounts. The accused have been identified as Ankit Manchanda of New Guru Nanak Nagar, Lakhi Kapila of Sahnewal, Satwinder Singh of Jamalpur and Satwinder’s wife Amandeep Kaur. The FIR has been lodged on the statement of Harinder Pal Singh, a partner of Balbir Store, a garment store in Model Town.Harinder Pal said that Ankit Manchanda worked in the firm as an accountant in 2015, while Lakhi Kapila had worked as a cashier from 2016 to 2019. Satwinder Singh had joined the firm as cashier from January 2020 and left on October 31.The complainant said that the accused used to deposit a part of the money, belonging to the firm, into their own accounts. Ankit Lakhi allegedly confessed to his crime and returned ₹10.15 lakh. He had promised to return the rest of the money too, but failed to do so. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Sudarshan Singh, who is investigating the case, said an FIR under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused. A hunt is on for their arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-garment-store-employees-booked-for-embezzlement-of-4-crore/story-wubJOlpvo1G4TFZOwa5ITL.html
20-11-2020||City||Ludhiana: With 104 fresh cases, active cases cross 800-mark||With a whopping 104 persons testing positive for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, the number of active cases in Ludhiana district touched 837 on Thursday. This is the first time since October 5 that the number of active cases has crossed the 800-mark. No death was reported even as the total number of cases in Ludhiana touched 21,769. The district’s toll currently stands at 875. As many as 20, 054 patients have won the battle against the virus, with the recovery rate being 92.2%.Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to the residents to follow all directions of the Punjab government and stay indoors to keep themselves and everyone around them safe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-with-104-fresh-cases-active-cases-cross-800-mark/story-6bhYV3YLWPImbyokS8JhqN.html
20-11-2020||City||Ludhiana railway station: No biz due to train suspension but vendors told to pay licence fee||Already reeling under financial crisis due to the suspension of train services in wake of farmers’ protests, vendors at the Ludhiana railway station suffered another blow on Thursday as the station authorities asked them to deposit licence fee for the last four months.Crying foul over the announcement, the vendors said that they haven’t earned a single penny since September 1 due to the farmers’ protest.According to the vendors, when the train services were suspended due to the Covid outbreak in March, the railways had waived off the licence fee till June 25. Though the trains started running from June 1, it was interrupted again in September by the farmers. Ram Swaroop, head of the Ludhiana vendor cooperative society, said they have received a notice from Ludhiana Railway superintendent Ashok Salaria, in which the superintendent asked them to deposit the licence fee for June 25 to October 31. Vinod Thakur, a vendor, said they were expecting another waiver, but the railways has left them high and dry with this move.When contacted, Ashok Salaria said that after June 25, they have not received any communication from the head office for a fee waiver, so he has asked the vendors to deposit the fee. “If we get an order from the headquarters, we will inform the vendors accordingly,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-railway-station-no-biz-due-to-train-suspension-but-vendors-told-to-pay-licence-fee/story-iBYlYPVmeJzXgp6a2oyWTI.html
20-11-2020||City||Cars, emergency vehicles to be allowed on Kalyan’s Patripool bridge; cops warn auto, taxis not to overcharge||The Thane traffic police has issued guidelines for autorickshaw drivers and taxi drivers not to overcharge commuters during the weekend when the Patripool rail overbridge (RoB) girders will be launched. The traffic police have permitted small vehicles like two-wheelers, cars and emergency vehicles like ambulances and fire tenders to use the existing bridge during the girder launch. The auto unions have also created awareness among drivers on overcharging. The Central Railway (CR) had announced a traffic and power block to launch the 76.67m-long open web girder across railway tracks for the Patripool RoB. It will operate four traffic and power blocks for the launch. The blocks will be imposed on November 21 and 22 between 10.15am and 2.15pm, and again on November 28 and 29. A total of 14 hours of mega block will be imposed. The traffic police have informed that additional manpower will be stationed in Kalyan and Dombivli to manage traffic during the girder launch. Balasaheb Patil, deputy commissioner of police, traffic, said, “We have set up parking facilities near the railway ground in Kalyan so that people do not park their vehicles on the road. We have issued notices to taxi and rickshaw unions not to overcharge commuter during the block as the demand will be more on the day. Action will be taken against defaulting auto and taxi drivers. Small cars, ambulances and rickshaws are allowed to use the Patripool bridge. It is barred for heavy vehicles.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cars-emergency-vehicles-to-be-allowed-on-kalyan-s-patripool-bridge-cops-warn-auto-taxis-not-to-overcharge/story-OsdLcN7NQdXt39VfwXjyyK.html
20-11-2020||Chandigarh||J&K logs 5 fatalities, 560 infections||Jammu and Kashmir recorded five deaths and 560 fresh coronavirus infections on Thursday, taking the Covid count to 1,04,715 and death toll to 1,618.Officials said 313 people tested positive in Kashmir and 247 in Jammu. Three persons succumbed to the disease in Jammu and two in Kashmir division.With 565 persons discharged on Thursday, 97,537 people have recovered in the UT, taking the recovery rate to 93.14% and leaving 5,560 active cases.A total of 1,070 people have succumbed to the disease in Kashmir and 548 in Jammu. So far, 140 people have lost their lives in November. As many as 326 people succumbed to the infection in August, 478 in September and 293 in October.The death toll crossed 500-mark on August 13, 1000-mark on September 20 and 1500-mark on November 3.With 9,925 cases, November, so far, has recorded an average of 522 daily infections against an average of 632 daily cases in October and 1,245 cases in September. An average seven deaths a day have been reported in November so far, 10 were reported in October on an average per day against 16 in September.The total number of tests conducted in the UT has crossed 27.29 lakh.In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 130 more people tested positive, followed by Baramulla at 35 cases.In Jammu division, highest number of cases was recorded in Jammu district at 95, followed by 36 in Udhampur.Srinagar tops the case tally with 21,950 cases and 402 deaths, followed by Jammu district with 19,412 cases and 285 deaths.Till date, 7.51 lakh people have been enlisted for observation – 19,216 in home quarantine, 5,560 in isolation, and 42,789 under home surveillance. Besides, 6.82 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/j-k-logs-5-fatalities-560-infections/story-pZOERy5XfgSwglF3YjbbTK.html
20-11-2020||Mumbai||Thane civic body sets strict guidelines for Chhath Puja||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has set guidelines to maintain social distancing norms during Chhath Puja. Only one person can accompany women performing the puja in the artificial lake premise. Barricades will be installed to maintain social-distancing while antigen testing vans will be stationed to check those with symptoms. The north Indian community has agreed to adhere to these rules and tone down the festivities this year.The arrangements for the puja are set up at seven artificial lakes in the city while an additional lake at Upvan is also set up.The state has given certain guidelines for the puja on Wednesday, which the corporation has ensured will be followed.Vipin Sharma, TMC commissioner, said, “We suggest devotees maintain social-distancing and not wait at the lakes for long; children and senior citizens have been advised to stay at home. Everyone should mandatorily wear masks and if possible celebrate within the confines of their homes.” On November 20, prayers and offerings will be made on the occasion of Chhath puja to any water body that faces the rising sun. Women observe a three-day fast and present offerings to the rising and setting sun near the lakes within the city.Manisha Pradhan, Pollution Control Officer, TMC, said, “To prevent overcrowding, we have made provisions for volunteers and officials to manage the crowd. It is the womenfolk who conduct the rituals, but they are accompanied by the entire family every year. This year we are restricting entry and only one person will be allowed with those conducting the rituals. Moreover, they will have to move quickly and make provisions for others as well.”TMC has made arrangements for antigen testing vans at various spots, those with symptoms will be tested then and there. Moreover, hoardings and banners spreading awareness regarding overcrowding, wearing masks and using sanitizers have been put up. Barricades to maintain social distancing at the lakes and surrounding areas have been erected.Every year, around one lakh people gather at the various lakes within TMC limits. Dhananjay Singh, founder, Rudra Pratishthan, an organisation that works for the welfare of the north Indian community in Thane, said, “This year, through the social media, we have advised everyone to stay at home and celebrate. Yet, we expect 20 per cent of the people to visit the lakes. We have our volunteers who will help the civic body to manage those who arrive for the puja. We shall try our best to ensure masks are worn and social-distancing is followed.”The popular lakes in Thane for performing the puja are Upvan, Kolshet and Railadevi. The TMC provides special arrangements and also cleans the lakes for the convenience of the devotees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/thane-civic-body-sets-strict-guidelines-for-chhath-puja/story-sZWg0tIy5HgYwrkqHsEWEI.html
20-11-2020||Mumbai||New schemes for Maharashtra farmers, no relief from inflated power bills for residents||In a bid to recover arrears from farmers for electricity bills of agricultural pumps amounting to ₹41,000 crore, the Maharashtra government declared an amnesty scheme on Thursday. It has decided to waive off interest, penalty and rebate on payment of pending power bills. It has also declared a new policy under which a target of providing two lakh new connections in two years and at least eight-hour power supply during the day to all farmers in the next three years has been set. The government has decided to spend around ₹1,500 crore annually till 2024 to implement the policy.However, the state is yet to clear a proposal for providing relief from inflated power bills to residential consumers. In August, it had planned to bear the financial burden of the surplus amount from the inflated bills for three months of the lockdown period — April, May and June, but the scheme is yet to get an approval that will cost around ₹1,100 crore to the state exchequer.State energy minister Nitin Raut on Tuesday said that the government cannot provide any relief to consumers over-inflated bills as the state has a huge financial burden and it is not getting any aid from the Central government. This has led to sharp reactions, with opposition parties declaring to start agitations from Monday.The issue of arrears against electricity bills of agricultural pumps was discussed in the state cabinet meeting held on Thursday. The ministers were informed that the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) is yet to recover power bills from farmers for agricultural pumps since the past couple of years. The unrecovered amount has ballooned to around ₹41,000 crore, said a senior official privy to the development.“Every year, ₹5,000-₹6,000 crore gets added to the arrears as only 8% of farmers pay their power bills regularly. Now the amount of pending bills has increased so much that financially they can’t pay. Thus, the state government has decided to come up with the amnesty scheme,” said Aseem Gupta, principal secretary, state energy department.According to the scheme, penalty and interest on the actual amount of the bill pending prior to 2015 will be waived off. For bills pending since 2015, penalty will be waived off and the interest amount will be reduced to half. In addition, rebates of 100%, 30% and 20% will be given to those who pay their pending bills in the first year, second year and third year, respectively, since the declaration of the scheme.“The recovered amount will be divided into three parts. As much as 33% of the recovered amount will be reserved for the concerned gram panchayat to improve the infrastructure of the local power network. Another 33% will be reserved for the concerned district for the same purpose, and the rest of the money will be used to purchase power by the state,” Gupta said.The state Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) unit has declared to start a statewide protest from Monday where they will be burning copies of power bills. “People had received inflated power bills during the lockdown period. The state government has declared to provide relief to the people and now the energy minister has taken a U-turn. The government has betrayed the people,” State BJP chief Chandrakant Patil said on Thursday.MNS leader Sandeep Deshpande, on Thursday, hinted at taking the issue to the streets, stating that they have already tried to have a dialogue with the state government. “Applications, requests, meetings, it’s all done. But the state government is not listening,” Deshpande tweeted. On Wednesday, Maharashtra Navnirman Sena’s (MNS) Avinash Jadhav also said that the party will not tolerate if people are forced to pay bills.With inputs from Tanushree Venkatraman||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/new-schemes-for-maharashtra-farmers-no-relief-from-inflated-power-bills-for-residents/story-CMCWrU7WLCGlGNm4SmTmAJ.html
20-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Metro-4: Controversial land proposal tabled again by Thane civic body||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has again tabled the two-year-old proposal of allotting land at Kolshet for casting yard to the Metro Line 4 project (Wadala to Kasarvadavli) in the general body meeting to be held on Friday. The proposal was earlier stayed as several corporators had opposed it claiming that the corporation was losing crores of Rupees in revenue by allotting land free of cost to the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA).The TMC, on the other hand, maintained that as per government rule (GR), it was supposed to allot land on a temporary basis free of cost for Metro projects.BJP corporator Archana Manera has continued to oppose the project.The work of Metro Line 4 is in progress in Thane. The MMRDA has completed more than 55 per cent of the piling works, 30 per cent of pier work and 20 per cent of girder casting.A civic official said, “The MMRDA needs a plot as casting yard and labour camp among others. We have proposed to allot a 75,390 sqm plot to the MMRDA to be used on a temporary basis. The plot is given free of cost as the Metro project is beneficial to the city.”The civic body had allotted the plot to the MMRDA two years ago. However, it did not have the approval from the general body as a few corporators opposed it. The BJP is still against the proposal.Manera alleged, “The corporation had given the plot free of cost to the contractor two years ago. However, the corporation gets nothing in return. Had the plot been given at a ready reckoner rate, the corporation would have earned revenue worth ₹96Cr in two years.”She alleged that the administration allotted the plot without approval of the general body and are hands-in-glove with the contractor.The civic officials, however, claimed that the plot was given as per the state directives. The officer said, “As per the state’s GR, the local governing bodies are supposed to give a plot in their jurisdiction to the Metro project either free of cost or by imposing a basic fare on it. We have merely followed the GR.”The Metro authorities, on the other hand, claimed that there was no personal use on the plot. An officer from MMRDA requesting anonymity said, “We are paying the contractor only for the casting work he is doing at the plot. There is no rent paid nor is it used for personal gain.”BG Pawar, joint metropolitan commissioner of MMRDA, said, “We had demanded the plot from the corporation for the purpose of casting yard at Kolshet. If there is any controversy related to the plot, it is an internal issue of the TMC and we are not concerned.”About Metro 4Metro Line 4 from Wadala to Kasarvadavali is 32.32 km long elevated corridor with 32 stations.It shall provide inter-connectivity among the existing Eastern Express Roadway, Central Railway, Mono Rail, the ongoing Metro Line 2B (D N Nagar to Mandale), and the proposed Metro Line 5 (Thane to Kalyan), Metro Line 6 (Swami Samarth Nagar to Vikhroli) and Metro Line 8 (Wadala to General Post Office). It shall reduce the current travel time between 50 per cent and 75 per cent, depending on road conditions.STATIONSTeen Hath Naka, RTO Thane, Mahapalika Marg, Cadbury Junction, Majiwada, Kapurbawdi, Manpada, Tikuji-ni-wadi, Dongripada, Vijay Garden and Kasarvadavali Expected Daily Ridership: 8.7 Lakh in 2021 and 12.31 lakh in 2031Total Stations in Thane: 11 Length of metro in Thane: 10.87 km Elevation: Fully elevated line||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-metro-4-controversial-land-proposal-tabled-again-by-thane-civic-body/story-YXiI0Ojo3Sm0C0Q39oB9CK.html
20-11-2020||Mumbai||Ruling alliance in Maharashtra releases candidates’ list for Legislative Council||The ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) on Thursday released a list of candidates for the December 1 biennial election to five graduates’ and teachers’ constituencies of the Legislative Council. Counting of votes will take place on December 3.The list was part of a joint statement issued by state Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Jayant Patil, senior Shiv Sena leader Subhash Desai and state Congress president Balasaheb Thorat.Earlier in the day, NCP chief Sharad Pawar held a review meeting with the party’s ministers.“During the meeting, the issue of the election came up for discussion. Discussion was held on contesting the polls jointly,” party sources said. Pawar said that the guardian ministers and coordination ministers of each district will ensure candidates of the MVA government will win the Legislative Council elections for five seats. The directives were issued at a meeting of all the NCP ministers at YB Chavan Centre at Nariman Point on Thursday. MVA has fielded Shrikant Deshpande (Shiv Sena) from Amravati teachers constituency, Arun Lad (NCP) from Pune graduates constituency, Satish Chavan (NCP) Aurangabad graduates constituency, Jayant Asgaonkar (Congress) Pune teachers constituency and Abhijit Wanjari (Congress) from Pune graduates constituency. The Election Commission of India on November 2 declared elections for five seats that are vacant since July 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ruling-alliance-in-maharashtra-releases-candidates-list-for-legislative-council/story-iSpCobcg7Xxc5D4kh4sEwI.html
20-11-2020||Chandigarh||Case under MTP Act registered in Kalka||The Kalka police registered a case under the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971, on Thursday, after woman tried to destroy her foetus using an abortion kit.A case under section 3, 4, 5 (2) of the Act was registered at the Kalka police station.Senior medical officer Dharmender from Kalka informed the police that a patient (name withheld), who was married to Ravi Kumar from Rathpur Colony in Pinjore, Panchkula, had visited the SDH, Kalka, on October 17 at 9.59am with a “history of intake of MTP kit at home and retained products of conception (RPOC) as confirmed by staff at a diagnostic centre.”Later, it was learnt that the patient’s husband had bought the kit for her, confirmed Dr Jyoti Sahu, gynaecologist SDH, Kalka.After she was admitted the patient was in need of treatment “evacuate the products of conception”. When asked what she had taken for conception “she said she was six to seven weeks pregnant and her husband had bought the kit through a friend named Virender, a resident of Kurukshetra. She gave a handwritten statement regarding the same,” Sahu said. “When I made enquiries her husband (Ravi) he admitted that he had bought the MTP kit from his friend Virender for Rs 450, who got it from another person in Mohali, Punjab, but his name was not disclosed by Ravi,” Sahu addedThe FIR was registered at the doctor’s request against persons who used the MTP kit illegally. She also called for unearthing the racket of illegal supply of MTP kits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/case-under-mtp-act-registered-in-kalka/story-yOlPOxngDLfj3tCkZISb2N.html
20-11-2020||Chandigarh||Non-BJP candidates not allowed to campaign freely: Gupkar alliance leaders||Leaders of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), an amalgam of Jammu and Kashmir’s mainstream parties demanding restoration of Article 370, have alleged that candidates of parties opposing the BJP were not being allowed to campaign freely for the upcoming district development council (DDC) on the pretext of security while the saffron party was being given a free hand. Omar Abdullah took to twitter to allege that the administration was going out of its way to help BJP candidates: “What sort of elections are being held in J&K where candidates are being stopped from campaigning? Is this the safe, terror free J&K the Home Minister was tweeting about yesterday?” he asked.“The J&K administration is going out of its way to help the BJP & it’s recently created king’s party by locking up candidates opposed to the BJP, using security as an excuse. If the security situation isn’t conducive to campaigning what was the need to announce elections? (sic)” he wrote.PAGD vice-chairperson Mehbooba Mufti also said that non-BJP candidates were being treated unfairly. “Non-BJP candidates are not being allowed to campaign freely and are being locked up on the pretence of security. But BJP and its proxies are given full bandobast to move around. Is this the democracy that the government of India said it was promoting while speaking to the US President elect?” Mufti asked.Security being provided according to threat perception: AdmnOfficials of the Jammu and Kashmir administration have refuted the allegations. “This is not the case. Security is being provided be according to threat perception. There is no disparity between the candidates of different parties,” said Kashmir divisional commissioner Pandurang K Pole, adding that candidates should approach him in case of any difficulty. Kashmir inspector general of police Vijay Kumar said they were putting candidates in secure areas as it was difficult to provide security individually.“We are providing collective security measures. Everyone is being put in secure areas and those who go out for campaigning are provided double escort besides securing the area for campaigning,” Kumar said. Multiple calls to J&K BJP spokesperson Altaf Thakur elicited no response. PAGD candidate and NC leader from Budgam’s Khag constituency Rayees Mattoo said, PAGD candidates from Beerwah and Khag are not being allowed to campaign, while our competitors are freely working in the field,”He said he was being detained at a hotel in Srinagar as the district administration allegedly did not have vehicles and security available. “…I don’t need protection, vehicle or anything else. Requesting them with folded hands let me be in the field and run the campaign,” he said.The allegations of the two former J&K chief ministers come after the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) and BJP leader and union home minister Amit Shah indulged in a verbal spat on Tuesday.Shah had termed the six-party bloc a ‘gang’,to which the PAGD had said the BJP was trying to delegitimise a coalition that was taking part in a democratic process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/non-bjp-candidates-not-allowed-to-campaign-freely-gupkar-alliance-leaders/story-5Jk5xbOH5Qz5aIJRa3Y3RP.html
20-11-2020||Chandigarh||6 booked for assault on policeman’s son in Mohali||The district police on Thursday booked six men for allegedly assaulting Gurishan Singh (22), son of assistant sub inspector Karamjit Singh of Chandigarh police, at Phase 3B2 here. The incident took place on Tuesday evening near a park in Phase 3B2 here when a man identified as Guri Bhullar and five of his accomplices assaulted Gurishan, hitting him on the head with a blunt weapon.Rivalry between Gurishan and Bhullar over a woman was believed to be the reason for the assault, police said.The suspects reportedly fled from the spot leaving behind Gurishan in a pool of blood. He was then moved to a private hospital here and given 18 stitches on his head before being discharged. “We have registered a case under Sections 307, 324, 148 and 149 of the Indian Penal Code at the Mataur police station. The suspects will be nabbed soon. Investigations are continuing,” said Charanjit Singh, the police officer investigating the case.When contacted, ASI Karamjit Singh said the reasons for the attack were not clear.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/6-booked-for-assault-on-policeman-s-son-in-mohali/story-mhrJTq8gL1OPHcqpHpWj6N.html
20-11-2020||Mumbai||Pay traffic fines by Nov 30 or else Thane cops will seize vehicles||Traffic violators who do not pay the e-challans by November 30 will be on the radar of the traffic police in the next month. The newly-appointed deputy commissioner of traffic, Balasaheb Patil, has given directives to seize the vehicles of motorists found with unpaid e-challans from December 1, 2020.Special drives will be conducted for the same in the coming month, he said.In 2019, Thane traffic police started the e-challan system, doing away with paper receipts and enabling transparency in the penalisation of errant motorists.Last year, 6,30,232 e-challans were issued with a fine of ₹21Cr, while this year, from January to October end, 5,52,453 e-challans were issued with a total fine of ₹22Cr.Patil said, “Several motorists have not paid the e-challans this year. We appeal to such motorists to pay by November 30 or else we will conduct a special drive in from December 1 to seize their vehicles. We also have a separate list of violators who have pending fines of more than ₹5,000. We will be getting their addresses and our officers will visit to collect the fine or else will seize their cars under MOV Act 1988, Section 207.”Traffic police claimed that these fines can be paid on their website www.mahtraffic.gov.in or the Maharashtra or Mum traffic app. Payment can also be made through Paytm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pay-traffic-fines-by-nov-30-or-else-thane-traffic-cops-will-seize-vehicles/story-q8cGke1xhMJ9ljjybagu9O.html
20-11-2020||Chandigarh||Suspended IGP Zaidi denied physical hearing in Kotkhai custodial death case||The special court of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Chandigarh, on Thursday, disposed of the application moved by suspended inspector general of police (IGP) Zahur Haider Zaidi seeking physical hearing of the Kotkhai custodial death case.Zaidi, who was investigating the rape and murder of a schoolgirl at Kotkhai when he was put on trial for the death in custody an accused in the case, had moved the application for legal proceedings to continue in the presence of the accused in the court.The investigating agency had given its consent but four accused in the custodial death case, including Mohan Lal, Surat Singh(both in custody), DW Negi and Manoj Joshi (both on bail) stated they were not ready for a trial at this stage due the Covid-19 pandemic.The CBI court then disposed of the petition citing the Punjab and Haryana high court and district court order citing that consent of all parties was a must for a physical hearing.On October 16, the district and sessions judge of the Chandigarh district court had passed the order that for physical hearing of cases the consent of all the parties was a must. He directed “that physical appearance of advocates in cases wherein both the advocates have consented, thereto can be heard physically in criminal trials , where accused is/are in custody.”The last witness in the case was examined over nine months ago on January 24, with prosecution evidence scheduled next. The case is now fixed for December 3.The case dates back to July 2017 when four men from Nepal and two from Uttarakhand were arrested for the alleged rape and murder of a 16-year-old schoolgirl in Shimla’s Kotkhai in Himachal Pradesh. The girl was reported missing on July 4, 2017, and the six men were arrested 10 days later. Suraj Singh, one of the suspects, was found dead in custody of the Kotkhai police station on the intervening night of July 18 and 19, 2017.The trial in the custodial death case had started in the special CBI court on June 6 against nine police officials, including IGP Zaidi, who was head of the special investigation team probing the minor girl’s rape and murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/suspended-igp-zaidi-denied-physical-hearing-in-kotkhai-custodial-death-case/story-ccR2sOyNLmoKG9G5AtmLwL.html
20-11-2020||Mumbai||Marginal dip in noise levels witnessed in Mumbai this Diwali: Maharashtra Pollution Control Board||Noise levels on the day of Diwali (November 14) had dip marginally in the Mumbai as compared to the decibel levels recorded in the previous years of Diwali, the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) has said. However, the pollution control body also stated that the noise levels remained above the permissible limits on the festival, even as five locations in the city witnessed ‘poor’ air.MPCB released its Diwali noise and air monitoring report on Thursday.On Diwali, the average noise levels in Mumbai ranged between 59 and 71 decibels (dB). South Mumbai recorded average (6am to 10pm), which was higher than the safe limit of 65 dB. during the day. During the same period last year, the noise levels in MMR were 70.6dB. The western suburbs recorded 70.7dB this year against last year’s 65.8dB, while the noise levels in the eastern suburbs were at 71.1 dB, as compared to 69.4dB in 2019.At night (10pm to 6am), when the safe limit is 55dB, south Mumbai recorded 59dB on the day of Diwali. In 2019, during the same period, the noise level was 60.3dB at south Mumbai. Meanwhile, western suburbs recorded 59dB against the 62.3dB recorded in 2019. The eastern suburbs were the loudest at night, with the noise levels reaching 60.9dB, same as the decibel recorded last year. “There were fewer fireworks in Mumbai this year as compared to the previous years. The citizens has cooperated very well by refraining from bursting crackers and that has helped in curbing the noise and air pollution this year,” said Sudhir Srivastava, chairman, MPCB.The pollution control board had recorded noise levels across 10 locations in Mumbai before, during, and after Diwali. Noise levels before Diwali (recorded on November 11) during the day and night were 71.3 dB and 59.8 dB in south Mumbai, 70.3 dB and 58.7 dB in western suburbs, and 71.1 dB and 60.3 dB in eastern suburbs, all of which were marginally louder than last year. Noise levels after Diwali (November 16) at day and night were 70.6 dB and 60.8 dB in south Mumbai, 72.5 dB and 64.1 dB in western suburbs, and 72.1 dB and 61.5 dB in eastern suburbs, all of which were louder (2-3 dB) as compared to last year.“This showed that ambient noise levels are already much higher than the safe limits in Mumbai, with human-induced sources such as traffic and construction, contributing to the decibel levels. While it indicates that the city celebrated a milder environmentally polluting Diwali, it also opens up avenues for reducing overall ambient noise in Mumbai,” said Srivastava.MPCB also monitored noise levels across 158 locations at all the 27 municipal corporations in the state before, during and after Diwali. Pimpri-Chinchwad recorded the highest noise pollution levels in Maharashtra on the day of Diwali at 77.1dB, followed by Akola at 76.9dB in the day. At night, Nashik was the loudest location on Diwali day at 71 dB, followed by Nagpur at 66.9dB.Meanwhile, an air quality analysis on the second day of Diwali (November 15) has revealed that the city’s overall air quality index (AQI) was in the ‘moderate’ category, and seven of the 15 locations (Colaba, Kalyan, Kurla, Vasai, Vile Parle, Worli, and Nerul) in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region where the air quality index (AQI) was recorded on Saturday recorded poor AQI (201-300). Borivli and Powai had the cleanest air on Diwali with ‘satisfactory’ AQI (51-100). The other locations (international airport, Bandra, Kandivli, Sion and Mahape) recorded ‘moderate’ (101-200) AQI. SC Kollur, chief scientist, MPCB, said, “Apart from the reduced use of firecrackers, a rise in the wind speed and increase in temperature helped keep the AQI in the moderate category throughout Diwali period.”Day temperature drops in Mumbai, AQI continues to be in ‘moderate’ categoryThe maximum temperature in Mumbai fell below the normal mark on Thursday. It was 32.4 degrees Celsius, a degree Celsius below normal, at Colaba, and 33.3 degrees Celsius, 0.4 degree Celsius below normal, at Santacruz. The day temperature was 36 degrees Celsius on Tuesday at Santacruz and 34.7 degrees Celsius at Colaba. It fell marginally to 34.4 degrees Celsius at Santacruz and 33.8 degrees Celsius at Colaba on Wednesday. Meanwhile, the AQI was 132 (moderate) on Thursday and is expected to be 115 (moderate) on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/marginal-dip-in-noise-levels-witnessed-in-mumbai-this-diwali-maharashtra-pollution-control-board/story-x92eGvghUgvpL2s87qZ0SN.html
20-11-2020||Chandigarh||Sector 9 firing: More weapons recovered after gangster Newton questioned||Police on Thursday recovered two revolvers, two pistols with one magazine and three live cartridges in the city after interrogation of gangster Sagar Newton, who was arrested for firing at and injuring Saurav Gujjar, a TikTok content creator outside a Sector 9 nightclub on October 11. With this, five weapons have so far been recovered from Ludhiana based Newton and Movish Bains, both 22, and a 17-year-old juvenile in the case.Police had made the first breakthrough in the case on October 26, when a co-accused in the case named Sukhdeep, aka Sukhi, 21, also of Ludhiana, was apprehended at a naka in Chandigarh. Newton was the one who fired at Gujjar, 25, of Zirakpur after an argument at Eskobar, after which a case under sections 307 of the Indian Penal Code and Arms Act was registered at the Sector 3 police station. During interrogation, Sagar told the police that incarcerated criminals Bagga Khan and Dalbir Singh alias Bira had hired him to kill Jalandhar based realtor and businessman Shashi Sharma and given him the weapons. However, the plan to killed Sharma had been foiled because of police presence outside his house, so Newton had hidden the weapons near a village in the city.Sharma had earlier been attacked by other assailants in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sector-9-firing-more-weapons-recovered-after-gangster-newton-questioned/story-sSOJAUmEmmdcXTo4n8PBYM.html
20-11-2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula cow shelter deaths: Hydrogen cyanide found in fodder||High hydrogen cyanide (HCN) concentration in fodder supplied to two cowsheds at the Mata Mansa Devi Gaudham in Panchkula district of Haryana could have killed 71 heads of cattle on October 27, it has been learnt.The trust has been issued a notice and asked to give an explanation.A report on the deaths was submitted on Thursday by an investigation team set up by deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja. It comprised the chief executive officer of the district rural development agency Nishu Singhal, assistant commissioner of police Raj Kumar and animal husbandry department deputy director Dr Anil Kumar.Though the DC did not respond to the calls despite repeated attempts, Haryana Vidhan Sabha speaker Gian Chand Gupta said he had learnt from Ahuja that the probe team found high concentrations of HCN in the green fodder served to the cattle, which led to the deaths.Apart from the notice sent to the Gaudham Gaushala Trust, the administration had also written to the Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board which had given the cowshed to the trust, inquiring about the terms and conditions under which this had been done, Gupta added.“Green fodder like sorghum, bajra and maize store HCN during the growing stage as part of a self-defence mechanism from animals,” explained Dr Anil Kumar. HCN concentrations could have increased during the summer due to lack of water. Cattle consuming it can die, he added.Traditionally, farmers used to dry the crop to be fed to the animals, which was cut in the growing stage as HCN is volatile and at 25 degree it evaporates. However due to commercialisation it was cut at the growing stage and not dried or mixed with dry fodder, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/p-kula-gaudham-cattle-deaths-hydrogen-cyanide-found-in-fodder/story-QYysFP7cgz2hHPNeHvznsK.html
20-11-2020||Mumbai||Waterlogging at Taloja subway in Navi Mumbai within days of opening for commuters||Ten days after opening the Taloja subway for commuters, there was waterlogging leading to inconvenience to the commuters in the last few days. The railways finally repaired the ₹28Cr subway, stopping the flooding of creek water. The railways, however, denied the water logging was due to faulty design or insufficient pumping capacity.The subway was opened for commuters on November 9. On Wednesday, the commuters had to encounter chaos as the water level was above one foot.Haresh Keni, local corporator, said, “The railways have, at present, installed a 22.5hp capacity pump to drain water. However, taking into account the water accumulating in the subway, at least a 100hp capacity pump is required. I have informed the railway authorities about the problem and asked for immediate action.”The subway has been constructed as Taloja residents have had to spend hours in traffic jams caused by the railway crossing in the area.When contacted, chief public relations officer of central railway, Shivaji Sutar, said, “The subway is located much below the ground level. There are proper drainage arrangements in place with pumps installed at the lower and also upper level to pick up water and remove it through the drainage. Since the upper level pump had shut down on Wednesday, water had seeped in for a few hours and accumulated. The pump at the location has been repaired and the water is drained. This was a temporary issue and has been sorted out. There is no fault with the subway design or capacity of the pump.”He said pumps with additional capacity will be installed during monsoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/waterlogging-at-taloja-subway-in-navi-mumbai-within-days-of-opening-for-commuters/story-WCEeezG7mBQwPtbiJ4dcYI.html
20-11-2020||Mumbai||Small vehicles can use Patripool bridge during girder work: Thane cops||The Thane traffic police have issued guidelines to auto rickshaw and taxi drivers not to overcharge commuters during the weekend when the Patripool Rail Over Bridge (ROB) girders are to be launched.The traffic police have permitted small vehicles like two-wheelers, cars and emergency vehicles like ambulances and fire tenders to use the existing bridge during the girder launch. The auto unions have also created awareness among the drivers on overcharging.The traffic police have informed that additional manpower will be stationed in Kalyan and Dombivli to manage traffic during the girder launch. Balasaheb Patil, DCP (traffic), said, “We have made parking facilities near Railway ground in Kalyan so that people do not park their vehicles on the road. We have issued notices to taxi and rickshaw union, not to overcharge commuters during the block as the demand will be more on the day. Action will be taken against such auto and taxi drivers. Small cars, ambulances and auto rickshaws are allowed to use Patripool, it is barred for heavy vehicles.”The Central Railway (CR) had announced a traffic and power block for launching of 76.67m-long open web girder across railway tracks for Patripool ROB. It will operate four traffic and power blocks for launching the girder. The blocks will be imposed on November 21 and 22 between 10.15 am and 2.15 pm, and on November 28 and 29. A total of 14-hour-long mega block will be imposed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/small-vehicles-can-use-patripool-bridge-during-girder-work-thane-cops/story-EFoZQpdyB5duC98FUF5qaO.html
20-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chhath Puja in Chandigarh sees low-key celebrations on Day 2||Chhath Puja, which is being celebrated from November 18 to 21 this year, opened to a slow start on Thursday with most people celebrating from home.The Sector-42 lake, which would otherwise be thronging with devotees, with stalls set up for musical performances and other attractions, wore a deserted look. Dedicated to Lord Surya and Chhathi Maiya, Chhath Puja is an important festival for the natives of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.Speaking about this, treasurer of the Purvanchal Sabha, Arvind Singh, said, “As per tradition, most people were fasting on Thursday after the festival began on Wednesday evening and performed puja at their homes. People are expected to come to the lake from Friday afternoon onwards. Those who are fasting will stay there till Saturday morning.”This year, the administration and the Purvanchal bodies had decided that only those fasting will be allowed to enter the lake premises. Besides, only tea will be served to the devotees and wearing masks will be mandatory. Some people expressed concern that some private labs had set up Covid testing booths in the parking of the lake.Former general secretary of the Purvanchal Association, Prabhunath Shahi, said he had gone to the Sector-42 lake to offer prayers on Wednesday, but he will be performing the rest of the puja from home. “It is important that people stay home as a rise in Covid cases is being witnessed in the city. It is our duty to celebrate responsibly,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chhath-puja-in-chandigarh-sees-low-key-celebrations-on-day-2/story-yAuDymOJSjgvKpbo8KGgdI.html
20-11-2020||Mumbai||26/11 attacks memorial to be moved to Mumbai Police headquarters from Marine Drive||The memorial constructed for the martyrs of 26/11 terrorist attacks at the Police Gymkhana on Marine Drive will be moved to the new commissioner’s office building at Mumbai Police’s headquarters near Crawford Market.A senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officer said that the memorial will be moved owing to the ongoing underground Metro work at Marine Drive. The work to relocate the memorial has started and is likely to conclude by November 23, three days before the 12th anniversary of the attacks. Like each year on November 26, the Maharashtra Governor, chief minister (CM), deputy CM, home minister, chief secretary, director general of police and Mumbai Police commissioner and other top dignitaries of the state are likely to pay their respects to the martyrs at the memorial.Memorials for 26/11 attacks martyrs have been constructed at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT), Colaba, Cama Hospital and Girgaum Chowpatty, with the Police Gymkhana one being the biggest in the city.The memorial, which is a tribute to the 18 personnel from the Mumbai Police, Railway Protection Force (RPF), Government Railway Police (GRP), Home Guards and National Security Guard (NSG) commandos martyred in the attacks, is maintained by the police force.Some of the prominent names who were martyred in the attacks include the then anti-terrorism squad (ATS) chief of Maharashtra Hemant Karkare; Army major Sandeep Unnikrishnan; Mumbai Police additional commissioner Ashok Kamte; senior police inspector Vijay Salaskar and assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Tukaram Omble.“It’s a matter of pride for us to have the biggest memorial, of our slain colleagues who had laid their lives in the line of duty, at the police headquarters. The memorial will remain at the new location permanently,” said a senior police officer.“It’s a memorial that reminds us that we must not forget the heinous attacks, the courage and sacrifice of our security forces,” said another police officer.The 2008 attacks had left 166 people dead and several others injured after 10 terrorists from Pakistan entered the country’s financial capital through the sea route. After a four-day battle, one terrorist was captured alive, while the other nine were killed by the security forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/26-11-attacks-memorial-to-be-moved-to-mumbai-police-headquarters-from-marine-drive/story-VLMaMa1MWzGi13RibkFm2I.html
20-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra hikes toll tax for commercial vehicles only||The state cabinet on Thursday decided to continue the toll waiver for small vehicles, school buses and state transport (ST) buses, but hiked the toll tax for commercial vehicles on 15 state highway projects. The move is expected to reduce the burden on the state — the public works department (PWD) shells out nearly ₹400 crore annually to compensate for the waiver.The state PWD has now increased the category of vehicles from the earlier four to five, by separating three-axle vehicles and multi-axle (truck-trailer) vehicles as two different categories, where the latter will pay the highest toll tax.According to the proposed hike for the Sion-Panvel Highway, the increase in toll tax is from ₹75 to ₹85 (13.33% ) for minibus and tempos, ₹160 to ₹175 (9.75%) for buses and trucks, ₹250 to ₹275 (10%) for three-axle vehicles, and ₹340 to ₹420 (23.52% increase) for multi-axle vehicles.Similarly, the hike has been passed on various highways under PWD in the state.PWD officials said that the move was to reduce the burden of the state. “Instead of giving this compensation in cash to the toll operator, the government decided to increase the toll tax for heavy vehicles,” an official said. With the hike in toll tax for different categories, the concession period on each of the project has decreased.At present, these vehicles are exempted from paying on 15 PWD roads where private contractors collect toll tax. Because of the exemption, the government has to pay ₹350crore-₹400 crore as compensation to these contractors every year, a statement from the state government said. The statement added that the hike is lower than what National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) levies on its roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-hikes-toll-tax-for-commercial-vehicles-only/story-ruOn33KHYwU4LQoL6MMtWL.html
20-11-2020||Mumbai||Six approved, Thane civic body now plans 6 more clusters||After getting approval for the Urban Renewal Plans (URPs) of the first six clusters in the Cluster Development Scheme early this year, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has now initiated the groundwork for the next six clusters.The proposals for the second phase of the six clusters that include Azadnagar, Thane Station area, Charai, Mahagiri, Siddheshwar and Gokul Nagar will be tabled in the general body to be held on November 20. The town planning department has also kept the decision open to exclude or include a few congested areas in these clusters and subject to further changes in the scheme.The total area of the second phase of these six clusters is 125.99 hectares while the area under road and reserved plots is 46.98 hectares.The Cluster Development Scheme for Thane city was approved by the state in 2017, following which the corporation prepared 44 URPs, work on the first six of which began last year. The work on survey of these first six URPs that include Kopri, Rabodi, Lokmanya Nagar, Kisan Nagar, Tekadi Bungalow and Hajuri is in the final stages. The work of cluster development was also inaugurated in Hajuri and Kisan Nagar areas. However, it was halted during the pandemic situation.An officer from town planning said, “We have almost finalised the list of beneficiaries in all these clusters while a proposal to implement the second lot of six clusters is also tabled. We had called for suggestions/ objections on all the 44 clusters and received 17,770 replies.“Out of these, there were no suggestions/ objections for Anand Nagar cluster, one from Gokul Nagar, 355 from Mahagiri, 27 from Charai, 17 from Siddheshwar and 37 from Station area. We have given a hearing to most relevant of these suggestions/ objections in the first two weeks of October.”More than 70 per cent tenants of legal buildings in Mahagiri have not given their consent. The area is still included in the scheme as of now. However, it can be removed at a later stage. With opposition from gaonthans and koliwadas to the cluster scheme, the corporation had excluded these areas from its URPs last year.The officer added, “However, in the six clusters, no area is clearly demarcated as gaonthan, especially in Charai, Station area and Mahagiri as per the developmental plan of the city. It is true that some of the areas here are congested and comprise old community settlements. It will be beneficial to these residents to get redeveloped in the cluster scheme. However, with opposition from most residents in Mahagiri, the decision to include or exclude these settlements will have to be taken after detailed discussions.”The corporation has tabled the proposal for approval of these six new clusters while including these clarifications, suggestions and objections before the general body.The gaonthans, however, claimed that the scheme can be properly implemented only after a demarcation of their areas is made. A member of the Thane Gaonthan Koliwada Conservation Committee, who did not wish to be named, said, “The government had asked the corporation to create a separate development plan for the gaonthans and koliwadas before the elections last year. However, the corporation, though, is claiming the areas are excluded, most of the congested areas that are not demarcated as gaonthans are included in the scheme. We have approached the collector and the state government for proper demarcation of all the gaonthans in Thane and a separate development plan for them.”Additional posts generated to boost projectThe TMC has also created new posts for two town planning officers and four assistant town planning officers. The additional posts were approved by the state government and the corporation will now seek approval from the general body. These new posts will fasten the process of formulating a new developmental plan for the city and also the implementation of the cluster development scheme.ABOUT THE FIRST SIX CLUSTERSThe TMC has prepared 44 Urban Renewal Plans for Cluster Development Scheme for the entire Thane city. The scheme will be implemented on 1,489 hectares of land. In the first phase, six clusters – Kopri, Rabodi, Tekadi Bungalow, Hajuri, Kisan Nagar and Lokmanya Nagar – are to be developed in an area of 316.63 hectares. Of these 93.15 hectares will be reserved plots and roads. The work of biometric survey of beneficiaries in these clusters is in the final stages.CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT SCHEME IN A NUTSHELL11: Total sectors44: Total URPs13.8 lakh: Total Population residing in these URPs1,509 hectares: Total area developed under clusters 23%: Total area developed under cluster123.36 hectares: Area under CRZ20.58 hectares: Area under forest18 lakh: Population of the city in 201132 lakh: Projected population in 2041URPs to be developed in the first phase: Kopri, Rabodi, Lokmanya Nagar, Kisan Nagar, Tekadi Bungalow and Hajuri URPs to be developed in the second phase: Azadnagar, Thane Station area, Charai, Mahagiri, Siddheshwar and Gokul Nagar CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT SCHEMEAs per the TMC survey, around 58 per cent of the city’s population is unable to find affordable and quality housing in a well-deserved neighbourhood. Eight per cent people cannot even afford housing due to their weak financial situation. Ghodbunder is the only area in the city where the demand for homes is in par with the supply. Cluster plans to increase housing stock in the city areas. The Cluster Development Scheme will create 1.25 lakh homes in Thane benefiting more than 13 lakh people. Cluster scheme also plans to attract around eight lakh migrants to the city, bringing in investment of ₹5,000Cr to ₹10,000Cr to the city. Around 51 per cent job opportunities in the total MMR region will be created in Thane. Each URP is planned, balancing both housing and employment opportunities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/six-approved-thane-civic-body-now-plans-6-more-clusters/story-qImACPfZrU8OHs1cWIaExM.html
20-11-2020||City||Panchkula: Police presence increased, borders barricaded for Chhath Puja||Looking at the increasing numbers of Covid-19 cases in the district, the Panchkula police have started making announcements on loud-speakers informing people to celebrate Chhath Puja at their homes and to not come out on November 20 and 21.On Wednesday, the Panchkula administration denied permission to celebrate Chhath Puja at public places. The deputy commissioner of police, Mohit Handa, stated that enough police force had been deployed near the rivers and other water bodies, and barricading had been done to stop people from going there.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Rak Kumar said that a three-tier police force will be deployed at all borders of the district joining tricity including Baltana (Rajiv Colony side) and Zirakpur (Dera Bassi side).Locally, wherever a large number of people are expected to congregate, police will be deployed. ACP Kumar added that violators will be challaned, but since it was a festival, the focus will be on educating them.14 teams constituted for public assistanceOn Thursday, the deputy commissioner of Panchkula held a meeting with incident commanders, health officers, and police officials from Kalka and Panchkula. Fourteen teams have been constituted under the leadership of sub-district magistrates of Panchkula and Kalka. These teams will be deputed especially on Chhath Puja to ensure no inconvenience is caused to the residents and the festival is celebrated peacefully. Around 25,000 people are expected to celebrate the festival in Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-police-presence-increased-borders-barricaded-for-chhath-puja/story-aalrpIgGx2wmsyrofirdyM.html
20-11-2020||Chandigarh||Our lives were shattered in the blink of an eye, say Balkote shelling victims||In the courtyard of a two-storey stone and mud house perched on a hill overlooking the Pakistani posts hidden within pine and deodar thickets, the five children of Faruqa Begum, who was one of the civilians killed in the November 13 Pakistani shelling, look scared. In the blink of an eye, the young siblings lost their 40-year-old mother when a shell fired from across the Line of Control (LoC) directly hit their house. The children and their father had a narrow escape. Faruqa, who was on the first floor, when the shell hit their home was not so lucky and died instantly from shrapnel injury. Four civilians and five security force personnel were killed in the shelling, which started in Hajpeer and continued through Kamalkote, Nowgam, Tanghdar and Gurez sectors. All four civilians were killed in Uri.“We were on the ground floor and our parents where on the top floor when a shell hit the backside of our house. My mother was hit by shrapnel while my father who was nearby had a narrow escape,” says 17-year-old Shaista Bano, as she sooths her 18-month-old sister Aliaza, who doesn’t quite understand what happened to her mother.Her brother, Irshad Ahmad, a Class-8 student, was taking an exam at school when the shelling started around noon. “Many shells landed in the forest around the village but we went ahead with our exam. When a few shells landed near our school we took shelter. We hurried home at around 5pm when there was a lull in firing. I was surprised to find relatives and neighbours weeping and a portion of our house destroyed. Everything had been well when I left for school but my mother was dead by the time I returned.” Faruqa was buried, with few people in attendence, late at night. The shelling did not stop for a long time and people were afraid to step out, explains her nephew 22-year-old Naseer Ahmad, adding that the only time the village felt at ease was between 2003 and 2015 when India and Pakistan were obeying ceasefire rules. “Now, there is shelling and firing every month. During shelling, zero-line villages turn into a battlefield. We keep praying for peace,” he said. Balkote village falls right on the zero line, the houses of the Khawjabandi village on the other side of the fence are visible from the middle of the village. ‘My life’s work went up in flames’ On the same fateful day, two houses belonging to government employee Abdul Gani Shiekh were damaged after shells hit the houses setting them aflame.“I had built two houses after working in the government for three decades and on November 13 I lost everything. We don’t even have plates to eat in,” he says, showing a heaps of ash that were once all his belongings.  “My wife had saved around ₹50,000 to ₹60,000 and kept it in the corner of the house. However, it too, has turned to ash. Shells have landed in our village earlier too but the houses had always remained safe. Thankfully, our family of seven, escaped unscathed. The neighbours rescued them,” says Shiekh, who was at the office where is works on a Class-4 post. He only saw the devastation when he reached home. Only 17 families remain in the neighbouring Silikote village, which is right on the LoC. Most families have vacated the area. “Our village used to see death and destruction before ceasefire. Now, it has again become the target. Only people who have nowhere else to go have stay put, the rest of the people have left,” says Sajjad Ahmad, a resident of Silikote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/our-lives-were-shattered-in-the-blink-of-an-eye-say-balkote-shelling-victims/story-n4gpfetZO14owSnUOBLFYI.html
20-11-2020||Chandigarh||Calls over traffic jam in Chandigarh down by 78% this festive season||As per data compiled by the Chandigarh traffic police, there has been a 78% reduction in calls received by them regarding traffic jams during the festive season this year. Last year between October 17 and 27 (Diwali day), 146 calls were received by the traffic police on their helpline 1073 regarding traffic congestion from various parts of the city. This year between November 4 and 14, only 32 calls were received.Officiating senior superintendent of police (SSP, traffic) Manoj Kumar Meena said, “The data of calls from last year was analysed based on which deployment of traffic cops was done this year. The number of cops on field duty were also increased, and the traffic circulation plans of the markets were uploaded online for the convenience of the people.”Mandatory refresher course for traffic violatorsThe traffic police have also started a mandatory refresher course for traffic violators to ensure that they get updated about the traffic rules and violations of the city. Sharing details, Meena said, “This is for those who have their licence suspended in non-compoundable offences including overspeeding, talking on the phone while driving and jumping a red light. To get their driving licence back after the period of suspension, it will be mandatory for them to sit for the course.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/calls-over-traffic-jam-in-chandigarh-down-by-78-this-festive-season/story-A9DGv5F76pF0sWhWPgoXoM.html
20-11-2020||Mumbai||Infections on the rise? Maharashtra sees 5,535 Covid-19 cases and 154 deaths||After reporting a daily average of 4,359 Covid-19 cases and 129 deaths in the first 17 days of this month, infections in the state have started rising as anticipated by experts and authorities.The past two days saw more than 5,000 cases each, after a gap of nine days, and over 100 deaths per day. With the addition of 5,535 cases and 154 deaths on Thursday, Maharashtra’s case tally was pushed up to 1,763,055 and toll to 46,356.Mumbai clocked 924 new infections and 12 more deaths in 24 hours, taking the tally to 272,455 and toll to 10,627. Mumbai’s daily caseload average between November 1 and 17 was 774.With a daily average of 52,511 tests in November, the state is inching towards completing 10 million Covid-19 tests, with the count standing at 9,965,119 tests on Thursday.The surge in cases has been registered across the state, but it’s more in cities where crowding at public places has increased. Cities like Mumbai, Thane, Pune, Nashik and Nagpur have witnessed a surge in cases over the past two days. Pune clocked 789 cases, followed by 369 in Nagpur, 334 in Nashik district and 272 in Thane district.Of the 154 deaths reported on Thursday, 60 occurred in the past two days, 39 over the past week, while the remaining 55 were from the period before it, as stated by the state health department. Maharashtra’s case fatality rate (CFR) stands at 2.63%.According to officials from the health department, cases are expected to increase in the areas with low temperature and high density of population. “High variations in temperature, crowding at public places and complacency leading to not adopting Covid-19 appropriate behaviour are the reasons that have resulted in rise in the cases. The district administrations have been directed to gear up for the surge, which could see more active patients than reported in the third week of September. We had 3.02 lakh active patients on September 17. The second wave could see the number reaching4 lakh active patients,” the officer said.He also added that experts and members of the state-appointed task-force were divided over the time of the second wave. “A section of the task force feels that the second wave will be between December 25 and January 26, while another group of members feel that it could be between mid-December and January-end. They also have projected a gradual rise in cases immediately after Diwali,” he added.Dr Ashok Nandapurkar, civic surgeon, Pune district, said, “Besides augmenting health infrastructure, we have been implementing awareness programmes among people to ensure that they adopt Covid-appropriate behaviours. We have been emphasising on early detection of the infection and timely treatment to avoid fatalities. The health machinery is in a better position than in the initial stage of the outbreak as we have been now trained and have better clarity on the protocols to be followed for tracing, testing and treating patients,” he said.There are 79,738 active patients in the state after 5,860 discharges in the past 24 hours. The recovery rate of the state stands at 92.79% as the tally of recovered patients touched 163,5971. Currently, 560,868 people are in home quarantine, while 4,284 are institutionally quarantined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/infections-on-the-rise-maharashtra-sees-5-535-covid-19-cases-and-154-deaths/story-NvcsUXcovL0qCd4pAxBi7K.html
20-11-2020||Chandigarh||Finally, Chandigarh MC shortlists firm to manage legacy waste at Dadumajra plant||After failing in its previous attempts to award the legacy waste mining project, the municipal corporation (MC) has said it has finally shortlisted a firm.In the latest tender floated for the project, three bids were received, of which two qualified after technical bids were opened. Of these two, one Kher Constructions submitted the lowest bid at ₹0.3 per kilogram.Approval for allocating the project to the shortlisted firm will be presented before the Finance and Contract Committee of the MC on Friday.Even as it was refloating tenders for the project, the MC had started removing the legacy waste lying at the Sector-25 waste processing plant. So far, it has removed 6,700 metric tonne (MT) out of the total 25,000 MT legacy waste; an additional 1,000 MT will be removed by the MC. The rest, around 16,000 MT legacy waste, will now be lifted by the private firm at a cost of ₹48 lakh.Legacy wastes are the wastes that have been collected and kept for years at a site. A large amount of unprocessed solid waste, more than 25,000 MT, has collected at the site, resulting in odour and leachate, impacting the efficient functioning of the plant. The MC General House in its meeting held in July had given the go ahead for shifting of the waste.At present, there is five lakh MT of legacy waste at the Dadumajra dumping site. The waste is in the process of being removed as part of a ₹35-crore project.The MC had taken over the waste processing plant from the Jaypee Group on June 19 and has been running the plant since. The MC had signed an agreement with Jaypee in 2005 for setting up a garbage processing plant, but in February this year the MC general house ordered a takeover because it observed that the plant was not being operated to its optimum capacity.Requirements to be fulfilled by hired firmAs per the project terms, the hired firm will provide a minimum one poclain machine, one excavator-cum-loader, seven tippers and one chain dozer (for leveling the said waste) to dumping ground or any other designated place decided by the MC. It will also bear the cost of the driver, helper, fuel, etc.The work has to be completed within two months from the date of allotment of the contract. In case the work is not completed in the stipulated time, the performance security of the firm can be forfeited.Notably, the MC General House, in January this year, had considered and resolved that the garbage lying at the plant should be lifted by the MC using its own infrastructure and/or by hiring the required machinery, and that the floated e-tender should be cancelled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/finally-chandigarh-mc-shortlists-firm-to-manage-legacy-waste-at-dadumajra-plant/story-iO95QyHqPB2U4tM7LPCgcP.html
20-11-2020||Chandigarh||Sanitation workers at Chandigarh’s Government Medical College and Hospital end strike||A day after six of them were terminated from service, the agitating contractual workers of the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, resumed their duties on Thursday afternoon. Around 300-odd sanitation workers, who have been hired through a contractor, went on a strike on November 16 demanding a Diwali bonus.Om Kailash, the chairman of the GMCH-32 Safai Karamchari Union, said that the strike had been suspended after the authorities said their demand will be met in a week.The GMCH-32 administration in a release, however, clarified that the workers had returned to work without any condition being accepted by them.“The ongoing strike of the safai karamcharis, engaged at GMCH, through a contractor, came to an end unconditionally. They were given to understand that their demand of grant of bonus is to be decided by the higher authorities. All safai karamcharis resumed their duties at around 1.30pm and within 3-4 hours, the whole hospital got cleaned and all biomedical waste collected. Even before the resumption of their duties, the contractor already hired some safai karamcharis from outside who were cleaning the hospital,” said Anil Moudgil, public relations officer of the hospital, in a release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sanitation-workers-at-chandigarh-s-government-medical-college-and-hospital-end-strike/story-Mh6IejUs8ZjgRaJxC12seM.html
20-11-2020||City||Second Covid-19 wave may spoil New Year celebrations in Mumbai||Although the number of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai has witnessed a decline, health experts’ anticipation of a second wave is expected to dampen the New Year’s Eve celebrations on December 31. Officials of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) have said that a final decision on allowing the New Year celebrations at hotels, party halls and restaurants will be taken next month after a review. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “The situation is evolving and an appropriate decision regarding the New Year celebrations will be taken in the coming days.” According to the BMC officials, if there is a surge in the Covid-19 cases in December, there might be several restrictions over the celebrations. BMC officials have said that the state government will first issue guidelines for the December 31 celebrations, following which the civic body will also state its guidelines. BMC cannot take any decision independently as of now, officials said. “If we witness a second wave or a surge in the cases in December, we might limit the New Year celebrations. However, if the cases remain stable, celebrations might be allowed with certain restrictions,” a BMC official said. The state government and the BMC are anticipating a surge in the number of cases after Diwali. Fearing a second wave, the civic body had on Wednesday appealed to citizens to continue taking Covid-19 precautions. Dr Shashank Joshi, member of the state’s Covid-19 task force, said, “Looking at Delhi, I feel Mumbai might be at its peak [of Covid-19 outbreak] around Christmas and New Year. Hence, not just in Mumbai, but globally too, the Christmas and New Year celebrations for this year should be low key and in fact be held virtually.” Currently, as a part of the state government’s ‘Mission Begin Again’ initiative for unlocking the city, BMC has allowed restaurants and bars to operate at 50% capacity. There is also a limit of 50 people imposed for gatherings such as marriages. Two months before outbreak of Covid-19 in the city, BMC had approved the 24x7 nightlife plan for Mumbai, permitting establishments such as malls and eateries in non-residential areas to remain open throughout the night. However, after the pandemic broke out, the execution of the nightlife plan was suspended and establishments were directed to stop operations. Covid-19 case tally at 272,455 On Thursday, the city reported 924 Covid-19 cases, taking its tally to 272,455. The toll surged to 10,627 after 12 more deaths were recorded. The fatality rate in the city is 3.90%. The recovery rate stands at 91.52%, with 249,357 patients discharged after treatment. There are 11,694 active Covid-19 cases in Mumbai now. Dharavi, which was once a hot spot, recorded only three cases on Thursday, taking its tally to 3,629, of which 3,307 have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/second-covid-19-wave-may-spoil-new-year-celebrations-in-mumbai/story-jcRewBZjUvo3iNFoz2offI.html
20-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi Riots: Police opposes Ishrat Jahan’s bail plea, court reserves order||The Delhi police on Thursday opposed the bail application of former Congress councillor Ishrat Jahan, who was booked under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) in connection to her alleged role in the north east Delhi riots. In her plea, Jahan had stated that she was suffering from some minor psychological problems due to her isolation in wake of Covid-19 outbreak.Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat reserved the order after hearing the submissions of Jahan’s counsel and Special Public Prosecutor Amit Prasad on behalf of the Delhi Police. Prasad strongly opposed the bail while contending that all of Jahan’s medical reports primarily related to minor spinal issues and it was not serious.He said that even if she is let out on interim bail on humanitarian grounds, it will have to be treated as an order short of regular bail as it gets extended from time to time due to the pandemic.The jail authorities also stated in their reply that Jahan was suffering from hypertension and was on anti-hypertensive medicines and her blood pressure was controlled. It further stated that nine inmates who had tested Covid-19 positive were admitted to the GTB Hospital and their medical condition was stable.Jail authorities said Jahan has been tested twice for the virus but she was found negative. Jahan, who is currently lodged in the Mandoli jail, contended through senior advocate Ramesh Gupta that she was suffering from some minor psychological problems due to her isolation in wake of Covid-19 outbreak. Gupta told the court that Jahan had also suffered injuries in her back due to slipping on the floor in Mandoli prison where she is lodged.Gupta further said some of the inmates in Mandoli prison have been found Covid-19 positive and have been kept in isolation.“She (Jahan) is a practising advocate and doesn’t have any criminal antecedents. Earlier she was granted bail for 10 days for her marriage and she did not misuse it. The court can grant interim bail to her in the current circumstances and she will not misuse the relief,” the senior counsel said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/riots-police-opposes-ishrat-jahan-s-bail-plea-court-reserves-order/story-uJfcmreUny1Q0EUhx25RwL.html
20-11-2020||Delhi||Crematoriums feel the pressure as Covid death toll mounts||A day after Delhi reported its highest single-day Covid-19 death toll of 131, crematoriums in the national capital are struggling to cope with the increased fatalities. In light of the high toll, the Delhi high court, too, had asked the government to indicate steps that it has taken to manage crematoriums and graveyards in the national capital.According to authorities at crematoriums, families are having to wait longer at Nigambodh Ghat and Punjabi Bagh facilities to conduct the last rites of their loved ones who succumbed to Covid-19. However, municipal authorities said they have an adequate number of covid-designated crematoriums and graveyards and sufficient facilities to conduct the last rites. According to the data from the three municipal bodies, there are 19 crematoriums and graveyards where Covid-19 bodies (of confirmed and suspected cases) are being cremated/buried. Of these, eight are run by North Delhi Municipal Corporation (north DMC), six by South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) and five by East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC). Officials said these facilities can cumulatively dispose of nearly 140-150 bodies daily. Authorities assisting in the last rites of those dying of Covid-19 at Nigambodh Ghat said for the past fortnight, there has been a surge in bodies -- every day, about 100 to 110 bodies are being cremated there, of both Covid-19 related deaths and others.“More than 60% of them had died of Covid-19 (confirmed cases). Due to Covid death toll spike, the rush at Nigambodh Ghat has increased and people are having to wait longer -- at least five to six hours,” a functionary at the Nigambodh Ghat said, who wished not to be named, said.Also Read: Delhi hospitals treating Covid patients told to reserve more bedsHe said the crematorium has all arrangements in place to handle the increased numbers. He said other than three incinerators running on CNG, there are around 104 wood pyres of which 50% are reserved for Covid deaths.At the Punjabi Bagh crematorium, there are four CNG incinerators and around 30 to 35 wood pyres for Covid related deaths. Ashok Rawat, municipal health officer (MHO), north corporation, said during the pandemic, every crematorium and graveyard is assigned to certain hospitals and people have to take bodies to the designated cremation ground only. “But, for past one or two months, as Covid-related deaths were fewer, families from other neighbourhoods were also bringing bodies to Nigambodh Ghat and Punjabi Bagh crematoriums. Ideally, Nigambodh Ghat should accept Covid bodies from seven hospitals in north Delhi, including LN Hospital, GB Pant and Hindu Rao, but, lately, people from east and central Delhi have also been cremating bodies at Nigambodh Ghat,” he said. “Now that the number of Covid deaths has increased,there is a rush at Nigambodh Ghat and Punjabi Bagh crematoriums. We will now examine it and ensure that guidelines are being followed,” Rawat said. As per data from the SDMC, between November 1 and 18, as many as 883 Covid-19 confirmed dead bodies have been cremated while this figure was 720 in October. Between June 1 and October 31 as many as 3,697 Covid-19 confirmed dead bodies were handled by SDMC crematoriums and graveyards. The other two municipalities were yet to compile this data. Anamika Mithilesh, mayor, SDMC, said the number of cremations has increased in November. “We have sufficient space to increase the capacity, if the situation arises. If required, we will further increase the number of wood pyres,” she said.Also Read| Keep aside politics, fight Covid-19 together: Kejriwal at all-party meetingBurials rise, but no pressureThe New Cemetery for Muslims at Delhi Gate is also under stress and may have no space left for burials soon, a member of the graveyard’s management committee said requesting anonymity.The graveyard, near Daryaganj, which has been functional since 1924, had been receiving 10-12 bodies of Covid-19 bodies daily since June and then there was a lull. The count again started increasing about 10 days ago. Since April 1, nearly 300 bodies have been buried by following Covid-19 protocol at the graveyard. There is space for 100-150 more burials at the cemetery spread over nearly 50 acres, the committee member said. A Delhi Waqf Board official said burials following Covid-19 protocol are also being conducted at other graveyards in Mongolpuri, Dwarka, Khadar and Ghazipur.A functionary at Feroz Shah Kotla burial ground, which is managed by the SDMC, said the number of dead bodies has increased in the past 10 days. “The burials are being conducted without any hassle. We have all arrangements in place and there is no rush as such at the facility at present,” he said, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/crematoriums-feel-the-pressure-as-covid-death-toll-mounts/story-IEi4LWPw5qUoBLmDeohlEM.html
20-11-2020||Delhi||Cap on wedding guests should have been put sooner: Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court on Thursday said the Delhi government should have capped the number of people allowed to attend weddings and other related functions sooner while observing that the capital was reeling under the massive surge in cases of the coronavirus disease in the last fortnight. A bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad said that both the Delhi government and the Centre must put their heads together to tackle the situation. “Why did you wait for a court’s direction to reduce the number of people? The city is reeling and you allowed the transport in full capacity. Tell us the rational object behind this decision. Why didn’t you wake up even after the situation worsened since November 1?” the bench said.The court remarked that the Delhi government had anticipated the situation and still chose to open all the activities. “You had very well anticipated the situation because you had passed the September 12 order (reserving 80% ICU beds in the city). The cold wave along with the pollution during the winter months is a cocktail of death for the citizens, especially those who have breathing issues,” the court said.Also Read| Penalty for not wearing mask to be hiked from Rs 500 to Rs 2,000: KejriwalReferring to the rising toll due to Covid-19 --- 131 people died of the infection on Wednesday, the high court bench asked why was the Delhi government waiting for the Centre and L-G for directions before taking measures to arrest the spike in cases. “You were shaken out of slumber. Do you know about the number of lives that has been lost in the last 18 days? Yesterday there were 131 deaths in a single day and the government is claiming that you were alive to the situation. The ground is full of dead bodies. Why were you have to look at the Centre and the Lieutenant Governor (L-G) for directions,” the bench said.The court was hearing a plea by advocate Rakesh Malhotra seeking directions to the Delhi government to ramp up the number of tests in the city.On Thursday, senior advocate Sandeep Sethi, appearing for the Delhi government, told the court that they have reduced the number of wedding attendees. He said that people are being fined for not wearing masks and not maintaining social distancing norms. He also submitted that the decision to shut down a few markets is pending with the Centre.During the day, the Delhi government said the fine for not wearing mask in public places will be increased from Rs 500 to Rs 2,000. The L-G has approved the order. However, the court said that even fining people is not acting as a deterrent and people who have not stepped outside of their houses due to the fear of the infection have also contracted the virus. The court said that there should be a strong deterrent.“Considering that Delhi has a population of over two crores, it appears that the number of Enforcement vehicles and the Enforcement teams are insufficient,” the court said.Also Read: Delhi hospitals treating Covid patients told to reserve more bedsDuring the proceedings, the government also informed the court that they have collected Rs 11.8 crore between September 7 to November 16 in fines from people who were found violating the norms that make it mandatory for everyone to wear the mask and maintain physical distance and not spit in public places. As many as five persons were also arrested during this period, the government said.Justice Kohli asked the Delhi government to indicate the steps they are taking to ensure that there are adequate facilities for victims of Covid-19 at the ghats and crematoriums.“….Considering the steep rise in the death rates in the last 14 days, the Delhi government is directed to indicate the steps it has taken for adequate arrangements for those who have lost their lives to Covid-19,” the court said in its oral order.The court also said that the Delhi government should be cognizant of the fact that rapid antigen tests are no longer helping because of the large number of asymptomatic persons, while adding that more RT-PCR tests should be conducted for better results. The judge also noted that only about 50% RT-PCR tests have been conducted as against over two lakh rapid antigen tests between November 9 and November 17. The court noted in its order that the Delhi government is not conducting the fifth sero-survelliance stating that the third wave of Covid-19 is still in progress, even though the government told the press that the third wave has already peaked in the city. “The stand taken is that the third wave has already peaked in Delhi and cases of Covid-19 infection are gradually going down, though the same is not borne out from the daily reported cases of the infection,” the court said.Also Read| Keep aside politics, fight Covid-19 together: Kejriwal at all-party meetingWhen additional standing counsel of the Delhi government Satyakam objected and urged the court not to take not of anything that has been published in the press, the court said, “Why would not we take this? We can take judicial note of the statements made by your ministers in the court. If you retract from whatever you have said in the media, I would remove it.”The court also asked the Delhi government to indicate the steps taken by them to create facilities of care homes to shift those who live in small and confined spaces and do not have adequate space to self-isolate and “necessarily need a care home instead of hospitalisation to overcome the infection”.The court also asked the Delhi government to properly publicise its order of September 12, reserving 80% ICU beds in 33 private hospitals in the city both in print and electronic media.During the hearing, Satyakam told the court that the government would be adding 663 ICU beds (both ventilator and non-ventilator) to the current 1,167 ICU beds in government hospitals. He also told the court that about 750 ICU beds are being added after assistance from the Centre, and a decision to shut down a few busy markets is yet to be taken pending confirmation from the Union government.The court directed that the ICU beds in the government hospitals should be made functional within the next week.Reacting to court’s observations, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said the government will strictly adhere to all orders and suggestions of the high court. The bench also stated that the Delhi government should have roped in the readily available network of Residents Welfare Associations and the market associations in containing the infection in their respective localities/market places.“We hope and expect that Delhi Government will examine the said suggestion and come up with a concrete plan in the next status report,” the court said.The matter will be now heard on November 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cap-on-wedding-guests-should-have-been-put-sooner-hc/story-xXhRG4L8tHbrNjI0n0W4gM.html
20-11-2020||Delhi||Seven inmates at Mandoli women’s prison test positive for Covid-19||There were fears of a major Covid-19 outbreak at the women’s prison at Delhi’s Mandoli jail last week, after seven inmates tested positive for Covid-19 and were admitted to the GTB hospital, but the authorities acted quickly and sanitised the entire prison complex to prevent a further spread. While six of them have been discharged and are currently in isolation at the prison, the seventh person is still undergoing treatment. Prison officers said none of the seven was a new entrant and they suspect that the infection may have spread from an asymptomatic jail officer.HT spoke to several jail officers who said following the scare, many prisoners were apprehensive that the virus may have entered the prison through the winter clothes brought by relatives. Jail officers, however, said they are yet to confirm any such link. The relatives have been bringing in winter clothes as the temperature has been dipping steadily -- the city recorded a minimum temperature of 9.4 degrees Celsius on Thursday morning. As per rules, a prisoner is allowed an extra set of clothes, apart from the one (s)he is wearing at the time of entering the prison. With visits of outsiders such as NGOs and lawyers mostly banned, except in special circumstances, and most court hearings happening over video conferencing, the extra pair of clothes is the only item from outside that prisoners currently have access to. Such restrictions were imposed in March to curb Covid-19 spread. Also Read| Covid-19: Delhi orders districts to double test centres as city adds 7,546 new casesSince the lockdown in March, the bi-weekly meetings between prisoners and their relatives were also cancelled and they resumed only on October 1. A jail officer said the 16 sub-jails at the three complexes of Tihar, Rohini and Mandoli have come up with a standard operating procedure for the handling the clothes. A mid-level prison officer, who did not wish to be named, said, “There was a Covid-19 scare inside jail number 16 of Mandoli prison. The prison headquarters has made it mandatory to wash all clothes before a prisoner uses them. All clothes brought by families are wrapped in plastic sheets and kept in a room. The clothes are collected by a prisoner wearing gloves and face mask, and they are soaked in water overnight, before being washed and dried.” In another sub-jail, winter clothes brought by relatives are sanitised within the jail complex by the prison’s in-house sanitiser, washed thoroughly and then handed out to prisoners. Also Read: Feluda test kit to be made available in 8 metro citiesWhen contacted, director general, Delhi Prisons, Sandeep Goel said, “ It is difficult to say how our women prisoners got infected. They were admitted to the hospital as a precautionary measure and are stable. We have sanitised the complex. Clothes brought from outside are used only after they are washed. We are taking all the necessary precautions.” Till date, two elderly inmates have died of Covid in the three prisons. There are currently seven Covid-19 positive prisoners and 23 jail personnel. Till date, the jails have reported 386 Covid-19 cases among prisoners and jail staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/seven-inmates-at-mandoli-women-s-prison-covid-19-positive-jailers-start-sanitising-clothes-brought-by-relatives/story-fI2VaooMXjvkwHS0Smg9JN.html
20-11-2020||Education||More teachers put on Covid duty, schools worry about curriculum loss||With more Delhi government teachers and municipal school teachers being roped in for Covid-19 related survey work , several schools are apprehensive about the curriculum loss that the deployment may entail.In view of the rising cases of Covid-19 in the national capital, hundreds of teachers, along with other government employees, have been asked to undertake a door-to-door survey in hot spots and vulnerable areas, as well as assist with testing and contact tracing.For instance, in the south-west district, around 535 teachers have been deployed for the survey work. A total of 140 teachers have been on similar duties in the south district and as many as 1,000 teachers in the north-west district. The number includes primary teachers, trained graduate teachers (TGTs) and post graduate teachers (PGTs). While TGTs can teach up to class 10, PGTs are eligible to teach classes 11 and 12. According to the teachers’ associations of both Delhi government and municipal schools, as many as 15,000 teachers of government schools and around 13,000 teachers from municipal schools are presently involved in Covid-19 related duties.Also Read| Covid-19: Delhi orders districts to double test centres as city adds 7,546 new casesSchool officials said the deployment of more teachers will affect the continuity of online classes. A PGT at a government school in Dharampura, on condition of anonymity, said he will not be able to take online classes or correct assignments while on Covid-19 duty. “We are already lagging on the syllabus -- classes have already been disrupted by the pandemic. I have to call many students daily to make sure they see the links for the study material that we send. Many of my students don’t have smartphones and so we have to call them regularly to guide them. Who will do all these in my absence?” he said.An official at another school in the locality said they have only two TGTs for Hindi and one of them will now be engaged in the survey work. “There will only be one teacher for around 1,000 students in classes 6 to 10. How is it possible for one teacher to teach so many students?” the official said, requesting anonymity.With schools being shut since March and classes shifted online, government institutions -- where a majority of the students do not have access to smart devices and the internet -- are dependent on worksheets or study material for virtual learning.Similar concerns are being raised in schools run by the three civic bodies --east, north, and south. Naveen Sangwan, a teacher at Nigam Pratibha Vidyalaya in Mangolpuri, said there are 10 teachers in his school and nine are on survey duty. “This will certainly impact the classes. We don’t know yet what will be the survey timings and the area that we need to cover. So how can we reschedule online classes?” he said.Another primary teacher in Sultanpuri, who wished not to be named, said eight of 10 teachers in school are on survey duty. “The process of new admissions will also be affected. How is it possible for two teachers to handle the enrolment process of the entire school?” the teacher said. Also Read| Penalty for not wearing mask to be hiked from Rs 500 to Rs 2,000: KejriwalAjay Veer Singh, general secretary, Government Schools Teachers Association (GSTA), said, “The government should not think that teachers are idle when schools are shut. We are working more now than on a normal day to ensure that no student is left behind.”Kuldeep Khatri, president Shilshak Nyay Manch Nagar Nigam, said that authorities should think twice before engaging teachers in non-teaching work. “Besides, it is like a double whammy for teachers of municipal schools -- we are working without pay for the past three months,” he said.Jai Prakash, mayor, North civic body, said alternate arrangements are being made for students. “We should know our priorities. Presently, we have to come together to fight this pandemic. Who will study if everyone in the city gets affected? Meanwhile, we will make some arrangements for students to avoid any academic loss.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/more-teachers-put-on-covid-duty-schools-worry-about-curriculum-loss/story-mPa3mtZcaA33UrNuow5n2M.html
20-11-2020||Delhi||Penalty for not wearing mask to be hiked from Rs 500 to Rs 2,000: Kejriwal||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said that the penalty for not wearing masks at public places in Delhi will be increased from Rs 500 to Rs 2,000 in the light of the severe spike in Covid-19 cases in the capital.“I met the L-G today and briefed him about the Covid-19 situation. We have observed that most people wear masks, but several do not adhere to the rule. It has been decided that the penalty for not wearing masks will be increased from Rs 500 to Rs 2,000. We have agreed that it should create an effective deterrent. I appeal to social, religious and political organisations to distribute masks and urge people to wear masks. Masks are a major saviour against Covid-19,” said Kejriwal in a video press briefing.The Lieutenant governor’s office has approved the proposal. A government official said that a notification will be issued soon.Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Anil Baijal’s office said in a statement: “It was considered necessary to enhance the fine for not wearing face masks, from the existing Rs 500 to Rs 2000 with a view to penalise the violators in an exemplary way . The decision was taken as an extraordinary measure in the face of a sudden surge in the Covid-19 cases in Delhi during the last fortnight despite best efforts being put in by various field agencies on all fronts.”Also Read: Delhi records 7,546 fresh Covid-19 cases; 4,501 containment zones in cityDelhi, on Thursday, recorded 7,546 new Covid-19 cases and 98 more deaths, taking the toll to 8,041. With 62,437 tests conducted on Thursday, the positivity rate was recorded at 12.09%%, according to the government’s daily health bulletin. The police and the government’s revenue department are the two enforcement agencies which prosecute individuals for not wearing masks in public places.“We are awaiting the written order. As soon as we receive it, we will start issuing challans for R2,000 rather than R500,” said a senior Delhi Police officer, who did not want to be identified.So far, the police have penalised 498,984 individuals for not wearing marks and the revenue department has penalised 249,021 people, showed records maintained by the agencies.Other than not wearing masks, agencies can also impose a penalty of Rs 500 for spitting in public spaces and violation of social distance norms. The fine for the offences other than not wearing masks are not likely to be increased as of now, said a senior government official. Experts agreed on the importance of masks but offered mixed reaction to the decision on increasing penalty amount.Charoo Hans, former head of microbiology department in Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, said: “There is currently no definite treatment approved for coronavirus infection and vaccines are still under study. Face masks -- along with other preventive measures -- when worn correctly and by a large percentage of the public can slow the transmission of the disease which is often due to droplets spread by patients who may even be asymptomatic. Hence, action for compliance of mask use is judicious for controlling the high infection rates”. Also Read: Don’t play politics over Chhath Puja: Kejriwal’s message to BJPDr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology and communicable diseases department in Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said the enhanced penalty will not be easy to enforce. “Masks are important in the fight against Covid-19 but such enforcements are easier said than done. For a large number of people, Rs 500 is a high amount too, but people are still violating the rule. The government should now focus on prevention from infections. They should rather create conditions which reduce human interactions in the first place -- such as staggered market timings and limiting passengers in public transport.”The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress, however, criticised the government’s decision.BJP MLA and leader of the opposition in the Delhi assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said: “It is a wrong move. A poor person will not be able to afford Rs 2,000 and several of them are yet to understand the importance of masks in the fight against Covid-19.”Delhi Congress chief Chaudhary Anil Kumar said: “The government should rather focus on awareness, ensuring social distance and free distribution of masks instead of focusing on making people pay in the garb of controlling a health emergency.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/penalty-for-not-wearing-mask-to-be-hiked-from-rs-500-to-rs-2-000-kejriwal/story-JjTApu1SIVr1YtOsWCIR7L.html
20-11-2020||Delhi||Keep aside politics, fight Covid-19 together: Kejriwal at all-party meeting||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday urged leaders across political lines to keep aside politics in the fight against Covid-19 and said the Delhi government is prohibiting Chhath Puja celebrations in public places this year considering the health risk it could entail in the light of the pandemic.Kejriwal, on Thursday, convened a meeting in the Delhi Secretariat with representatives of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress on the Covid-19 situation in the Capital. The discussions ranged from the shortage of ICU beds, air pollution adding to infections, Chhath celebrations and the government’s recent decisions to restrict the size of marriage-related gatherings to 50 individuals and seeking permission from the Centre to temporarily shut down markets that are likely to become Covid-19 hot spots. The BJP and the Congress urged the government to reconsider its decision to impose a cap on wedding attendees and give up on the proposal to impose restrictions in markets. The meeting, however, led to no specific decisions on any of the matters that were discussed, said senior leaders who attended it.Also Read: Delhi hospitals treating Covid patients told to reserve more bedsIn a video press briefing after the meeting, Kejriwal said, “All political parties have agreed to collectively serve the people of Delhi by leaving politics aside in this time of Covid-19 calamity.”After the meeting, all three parties said they will start an initiative from Friday in which volunteers will be deployed in crowded areas to ensure social distancing, participate in awareness campaigns and distribute free masks.Kejriwal said, “There have been arguments regarding Chhath Puja in the past few days. We want people to celebrate Chhath Puja in Delhi but this year there is a pandemic and there is an immense amount of health risk. Imagine, how much transmission can happen in the Chhath ghats where people take dips in common water bodies. Water can make the transmission worse. People will surely get infected. The prohibition this year is only in public places. Let’s celebrate Chhath Puja in our residences this year. Gujarat, Maharashtra and Haryana too have imposed such restrictions.”There was a lack of consensus, with the BJP and Congress representatives insisting the Delhi government should have allowed Chhath Puja at Yamuna ghats with certain safety measures and restrictions in place.Soon after the meeting, Kejriwal announced that the penalty for not wearing masks in public places would be increased from Rs 500 to Rs 2,000.Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said, “We told the CM and representatives of the AAP that shutting down markets would do no good. People will lose jobs and the crowd will only move to other markets and eventually, more of them will have to be shut one after another. The government should rather scale up screening and enforcement in the markets, ensure social distancing and distribute masks. We shall be engaging our volunteers from Friday. The government should also withdraw the restrictions related to weddings. People have already planned events and distributed invitations.”Also Read: Delhi records 7,546 fresh Covid-19 cases; 4,501 containment zones in cityBidhuri, who is a BJP MLA, said, “We have questioned the AAP government on why they failed to increase ICU beds when expert panels had long ago predicted the surge in cases after the festive season. We asked about measures taken to fight air pollution, which is making the Covid-19 crisis worse.”Delhi Congress chief Chaudhary Anil Kumar said, “We have stressed that the government should have scaled up tests and containment efforts long ago. We demanded that the decisions on a cap on marriage gatherings and temporarily shutting down markets be rolled back. We pointed out that the government should have allowed Chhath Puja in public places with certain safety protocols in place instead of imposing a prohibition.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/keep-aside-politics-fight-covid-19-together-kejriwal-at-all-party-meeting/story-UieW6s9SyzqADM2dHYD6RM.html
20-11-2020||India||Punjab farm fires up by nearly 90% over daily average of past 5 years: Study||The number of crop stubble fires in neighbouring Punjab registered an increase of 89.7% this year when compared to the average daily fire counts over the past five years, according to an analysis of satellite data done by a team of scientists at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Delhi.Scientists at IIT-Delhi’s Centre of Excellence for Research on Clean Air (CERCA), who did the analysis, said the number of fire counts almost doubled this year in most districts of Punjab, which contributed majorly to the high PM 2.5 levels --- the most harmful aerosols in Delhi’s air in October-November.. In the case of Haryana, however, the fire counts reduced by 18% when compared to the average daily fire counts over the past five years.“This year, crop stubble burning started earlier than usual because of early harvest of some paddy varieties. Farm fires started from late September itself, which usually starts from the first week of October. The satellite data analysed from September 22 to November 18 of farm fires in Punjab shows there was an 89.7% increase in the number of fire counts, as compared to the average daily fire counts over the past five years,” said Sagnik Dey, associate professor, Centre for Atmospheric Sciences and coordinator, CERCA at IIT-Delhi. On any given day, Dey said, the number of daily fires was almost double the average daily count over the past five years. Between November 5 and 10, Delhi saw six consecutive days of ‘severe’ air. On November 5, the number of total fire counts in Punjab was 5,107, much higher than 3,191, the average fire count recorded on the same day during 2015-19. Similarly, on November 6 and 7 this year, the fire counts were 4,130 (against the average count of 3,043 in the past five years) and 5,076 (against the average count of 2,747).Also Read: AAP writes to air quality panel, points role of farm fires in Delhi’s pollution“The fire counts started showing a downward trend only after November 14. However, a slight increase was again noticed on November 17-18, the impact of which could also be seen in the current air quality,” said Dey. Krunesh Garg, member secretary, Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB), said the number of fire counts this year was higher, but data was still being collated to ascertain the reasons behind the rise.“In the analysis so far, the burnt area has not increased. Even though the area under paddy cultivation was less this year than last year, what could possibly be one of the factors behind the rise (of fires) is an increase in productivity. Data is being collated to substantiate it and it will take another 8-10 days for a complete analysis,” said Garg. According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the union ministry’s air quality forecasting wing, the contribution of farm fires to PM 2.5 levels in Delhi’s air had peaked to around 40% in October. It came down only after Diwali (November 14). The low fire counts combined with rain and good winds post-Diwali helped clean up Delhi’s air from ‘severe’ to ‘poor’ and even ‘moderate’ for a day.Delhi’s AQI has fluctuated between poor to severe and moderate in a matter of five days between November 13 and 17. From an AQI of 435 on November 15, which is in the severe zone, the air improved to poor (221) on November 16 and moderate (171) on Tuesday. However, it fell to poor again on Wednesday (211), as the contribution of stubble fires increased.On Thursday, the air quality deteriorated further to the higher end of the ‘poor’ zone. The average air quality index (AQI) was 283 in the ‘poor’ zone. SAFAR said the deterioration in the air quality was mainly on account of a rise in the contribution of stubble fires to the city’s PM 2.5 levels to 20% on Thursday from 8% the previous day.“The overall air quality of Delhi is likely to deteriorate to very poor by Thursday evening itself. Stubble burning’s share in PM2.5 in Delhi’s air is estimated at 20%. The air quality may improve marginally on November 22 with good wind speed likely around this time,” the SAFAR bulletin stated.Also Read: Haryana logs 46% rise in farm fires this yearAccording to scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the average wind speed has been around 12-15 kmph, which is favourable for the dispersion of pollutants. The deterioration in air quality can be attributed to a slight increase in fire counts, as the wind direction is north-westerly and is bringing fumes from Haryana and Punjab. Also, a fall in temperature may add to slow dispersion.On Thursday, Delhi recorded its lowest minimum temperature of the season at 9.4 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal. The maximum settled at 25.6 degrees C, two notches below normal.“The wind speed has remained good and is likely to be the same over the next two days. A dip in mercury and continuing stubble fires may result in slight deterioration,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/punjab-farm-fires-up-by-nearly-90-over-daily-average-of-past-5-years-study/story-Ayjg3dsege2rU62Wme65rN.html
20-11-2020||Delhi||Body of businessman dumped from moving train recovered from Bharuch in Gujarat||The body of a Delhi businessman, which was dumped from a moving Rajdhani Express train on November 13, was recovered by the railway police from along the tracks in Bharuch, Gujarat, late Wednesday, the Delhi Police said on Thursday. According to police, the businessman, 46-year-old Neeraj Gupta, was murdered on November 12 and his body stuffed in a suitcase that was left in the pantry of the train for 12 hours by his alleged killer, Muhammad Juber, who is employed with the Railways’ pantry department. Juber, his fiancee Faisal and her mother Shaheen Naaz were Wednesday arrested for Gupta’s murder. Police said Faisal was having an affair with Gupta for the past 10 years and the businessman had opposed her getting engaged to Juber. He wanted her to call off the wedding. Vijayanta Arya, deputy commissioner of police (north-west), said the suitcase containing the body was found lying along the tracks some distance from the Bharuch railway station. “It is being brought back to Delhi,” he said. Arya said Gupta ran a finance firm in Karol Bagh and lived with his wife and two children in North Delhi’s Model Town. “For the past 10 years, he was in a relationship with Faisal, who was his employee,” said the DCP. According to the police, Gupta’s family knew of the relationship.“Recently, Faisal got engaged to Juber and Gupta was not for it,” said the DCP, adding that Gupta still had no intention of leaving his wife and children. “On the night of November 12, Gupta visited Faisal’s home in Adarsh Nagar and tried to persuade her to not get married. Juber and Shaheen Naaz were also there at that time and an argument ensued. Gupta allegedly pushed Faisal and an enraged Juber smashed Gupta’s head with a brick. He then used a knife to stab Gupta before slitting his throat,” said the officer. To dispose of the body, the trio allegedly stuffed it in an extra large suitcase. “The next morning, they booked a cab and left for Nizamuddin railway station with the suitcase,” said Arya. “Since Juber was already employed with the pantry department, he found it easy to gain access to the Rajdhani train leaving for Goa that afternoon,” said Arya. Juber then left the suitcase in the pantry car and waited till nightfall. An official with the Railways said while meals are currently not being prepared in the pantry cars due to Covid-19 restrictions, tea is sometimes readied in those compartments. On November 14, Gupta’s friend first filed a missing report at Adarsh Nagar police station and that was followed by his wife registering an FIR of kidnapping on Wednesday. “Since we were informed about Gupta’s extramarital affair and that he had last visited Faisal’s home before going missing, we began questioning the woman and her mother,” said the DCP.The women allegedly confessed to the crime and revealed Juber’s role as well, following which they were arrested.. “Juber couldn’t tell us the exact place where he had dumped the body -- he said he dumped it from the moving train was around 11.30pm on November 13,” said Arya. The Delhi Police were making efforts to find the body when the railway police from Gujarat got in touch with them..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/body-of-businessman-dumped-from-moving-train-recovered-from-bharuch-in-gujarat/story-p5ExMDShZgrVPy4x8Z4kQL.html
20-11-2020||Delhi||Bengal tiger Bittu breathes his last at Delhi zoo; new tigress arrives from Kanpur||B-2 (Bittu), a 15-year-old male Royal Bengal tiger at the Delhi zoo, who was suffering from acute chronic kidney disorder (CKD), breathed his last Thursday morning, even as the zoo welcomed a Bengal tigress from Kanpur, under an exchange programme, earlier this week.Zoo officials said Bittu was not keeping well for the past few months and died at 9.25am Thursday. Delhi zoo director Ramesh Pandey said Bittu was brought from Van Vihar Zoo, Bhopal, in 2014 and had completed his average life span of 15 years. “The best possible treatment was being given to him in consultation with experts from Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI), Bareilly. The animal was under intensive care for more than 20 days. The post-mortem will be conducted by a panel of veterinary doctors and the viscera will be sent to lVRI for histopathological and other examinations to ascertain the cause of death,” said Pandey. With Bittu’s death, the zoo is now left with just one male Bengal tiger, Karan. The Delhi zoo had three Bengal tigers until a year ago. One of them, eight-year-old Rama died of kidney failure in September last year. Besides the Bengal tiger, the zoo also has six white tigers. Meanwhile, the zoo got a Bengal tigress, the first one in six years, from the Kanpur zoo for conservation breeding under an animal exchange programme. However, no animal was given in exchange for the tigress, said officials.“The tigress, Barkha, is six years old. She will form a pair with Karan, who is also aged around six. The zoo did not have a female tiger for a long time. She was brought to Delhi zoo just this week,” said Pandey.Conservation breeding is done mainly for critically endangered species. The Delhi zoo is one of the participating zoos for the breeding programme for five species --- Bengal tiger, Asiatic lion, rhinos, thamin (also known as Sangai deer) and red jungle fowl.“Our focus is to take conservation breeding forward. It is the science of conserving a species by preventing imminent population collapse in the wild due to a large number of eliminative pressures such as habitat loss, habitat fragmentation, industrialisation, poaching, illegal trade and climate change, among others. The Delhi zoo has a history of participating in the conservation programmes of different species,” said Pandey.Besides, he said the zoo has proposed different exchange programmes to increase the number of species from the existing 88 to 100. The total animal population at the zoo is 1,100. Recently, it had acquired five species under an exchange programme with Chandigarh’s Chhatbir Zoo. These included wild boar, black and grey partridge, golden pheasant, Eurasian dove and jungle cat.“In the second phase of the exchange programme with Chandigarh zoo, we plan to get a pair each of ostriches and chinkaras while we will give them a bison and a white buck. The last chinkara at the Delhi zoo died in June last year,” said Pandey.In another exchange programme, the zoo has proposed getting a male rhino from Patna. The rhino was given to Patna zoo by Delhi in 2014. The Delhi zoo doesn’t have a male rhino since the past six years while it has two female rhinos. “At the same time, we have proposed exchanging one of our female rhinos with a female rhino from Guwahati zoo. It is called a bloodline exchange and is good for breeding. However, the proposal is yet to be approved by the Central Zoo Authority (CZA),” he said.He added that another exchange is likely to take place by November-end with Jaipur zoo. Delhi will exchange a pair of hog deer for a pair of striped hyenas, Pandey said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/bengal-tiger-bittu-breathes-his-last-at-delhi-zoo-new-tigress-arrives-from-kanpur/story-5f9uKAYEqXLNZWj10mGBsK.html
20-11-2020||Education||JNU may introduce 4-year UG programmes, forms committee to implement NEP-2020||The Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) on Thursday formed a committee to discuss measures for implementing the National Education Policy (NEP), 2020, including the introduction of four-year undergraduate programmes and conversion of the existing three-year courses into four-year ones. The decision to form a committee was taken during the 155th academic council meeting held Thursday. The members of the JNU Teachers Association (JNUTA) alleged that they and student body representatives were excluded from the meeting.Chintamani Mahapatra, rector-I, JNU, issued a statement saying, “The council members felt that JNU should take the lead in implementing NEP-2020 in earnest and authorised the formation of an apex committee consisting of representatives from different schools and centres to deliberate and come up with recommendations.”The Union cabinet in July 2020 approved the New Education Policy (NEP), which is set to bring a slew of major changes including allowing top foreign universities to set up campuses in India, a greater proportion of students getting vocational education, and a move towards institutes including IITs turning multidisciplinary.According to Mahapatra’s statement, some of the major steps for the implementation of NEP, as discussed during the meeting, included the possibility of converting the existing three-year undergraduate programmes into four-year courses; the introduction of new four-year undergraduate programmes; offering master’s level programmes in online mode on subjects that do not require lab or experimental work; strengthening further the inclusive policy of the university to provide better opportunities for students from socially and economically disadvantaged backgrounds; and, increasing the intake of international students, among others.“The university will also focus on promoting innovation and entrepreneurship among students and faculty. This committee will also look into other aspects of NEP-2020 which are relevant to a research-oriented university such as the JNU,” Mahapatra said.The academic council also decided to establish a Special Centre for Systems Medicine (SCSM) in the university. “Systems medicine is an approach to understand the complexity of the interactions of all molecular and cellular determinants involved in the pathophysiology of a disease,” Mahapatra said.JNU vice-chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar said, “This proposed centre would serve as a national hub for the development of India specific clinical and molecular data and its application in the area of systems medicine.”The JNUTA issued a statement alleging that both the faculty members and student association members were not invited to the meeting. “Faculty and students undoubtedly represent important constituents of the university system and the repeated attempts by the current administration to sideline their representation in statutory bodies is highly condemnable.”“These decisions were taken without any formal consultations with existing Schools and Centres, let alone the requisite approvals from the Boards of Studies of the Schools, and notwithstanding reservations expressed by many of the faculty members present,” it said. Responding to the allegations, Mahapatra said, “The AC has not taken any decision. It has only formed an apex committee which will make a report after discussing the matter with all stakeholders.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/jnu-may-introduce-four-year-ug-programmes-forms-committee-to-implement-nep-2020/story-dFBtzaQyadOen3S980XO1L.html
20-11-2020||Delhi||Instagram influencer held for snatching dollars from Forex firm employee||A 25-year-old Instagram “influencer” and her friend have been arrested for snatching $3,000 from a Forex exchange employee in south Delhi’s Hauz Khas earlier this month and then using the money to go to Goa where they stayed at a five-star hotel and played poker, the police said on Thursday.Earlier in September, the Instagram account of the woman showed she had accused the same friend of “fraud, blackmail, robbery and extortion” and of threatening her.Atul Kumar Thakur, the deputy commissioner of police (south), said the woman, Amrita Sethi, and the man, Akshit Jhamb, have been friends for long even though they have an “on-off relationship”. “She would file a case against him, write defamatory posts about him one day and patch up the next day,” the DCP said about their relationship but added that these aspects would still be probed further.The Instagram account of Sethi has 80,000 followers. Her profile on the same platform said she was a social activist, fashion designer, “professional poker player Asia’s top 10” and “Miss Delhi”.The DCP said while her claims of being Miss India are yet to be verified, Sethi is an avid poker player who took part in some tournaments in Goa. “However, these so-called rankings are mainly arbitrary and self-declared. She mostly plays poker for a living, it appears,” the DCP said.Jhamb, 26, on the other hand, is an unemployed man who is into gambling, the DCP said.Since November 3, two days before the alleged crime happened, Sethi’s Instagram account shows no new posts.The DCP said the alleged crime took place on November 5 when Manoj Sood, an employee of a Forex exchange firm, was asked by his boss to deliver $3,000 to a client near south Delhi’s Panchsheel Club and seek an online transfer of R2.45 lakh in return.“When Sood reached the location, he found Sethi and Jhamb sitting in a car,” the DCP said. The two suspects posed as the client. “Together, they visited an ATM, but Indian currency couldn’t be withdrawn,” the DCP said.They asked Sood to hand them over the dollars but he refused to oblige them until they produced the Indian cash, the officer said. “They asked him to at least show them the dollars. The moment he did that, they snatched the dollars from him and escaped in the car,” the DCP said.On receiving the complaint, the police scanned CCTV footage to identify the car. They reached out to the owner who allegedly told the police his son and his two friends had driven out his car. “Since the owner’s son hadn’t returned home for three days, it seemed suspicious,” the DCP said.The police finally learnt that the two suspects were staying in a five-star hotel in Goa. “We requested Goa Police for help and they went on to catch the duo on Wednesday. It turned out that even the car owner’s son, Kushaal, was staying in the same five-star hotel,” the DCP said.They first allegedly tried to mislead Goa Police by saying they were on a work-related tour, but later confessed to the crime, said the officer. “They have spent much of the money on their hotel stay and playing poker,” Thakur said.Kushal too has been arrested because he had allegedly given his car to the suspects and had gone with them to Goa, said the DCP. “His role in the actual robbery is still being probed,” the officer said.The officer said Sethi claimed to have lent a few lakh rupees to Jhamb in the past for gambling in Goa, a dispute over which she had also filed a civil case in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/instagram-influencer-held-for-snatching-dollars-from-forex-firm-employee-spending-money-in-goa-five-star-hotel/story-BRIQwxrvrD5QLGPKY0jBIN.html
20-11-2020||Delhi||Court rejects police’s plea against relief for Jamaatis||A Delhi court on Thursday dismissed 44 pleas filed by Delhi police challenging a magisterial court’s order discharging 44 foreign nationals, who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz in March, of various violations under the Foreigners Act . While eight nationals were completely discharged of all offences, including malignantly spreading infection of a disease dangerous to life and disobeying quarantine rules, the rest 36 were exonerated of charges of violation of visa rules under the Act but were charged with negligence. Additional sessions judge Sandeep Yadav said the revision petitions were devoid of merit. Earlier, charges were framed against 36 persons accused of disobedience of an order promulgated by a public servant, a negligent act that likely to spread infection of a disease dangerous to life. Charges were also framed under the Disaster Management Act.On August 24 they were discharged of offences under section 14 (1) (b) (violation of visa norms) of the Foreigners Act, sections 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 271 (Disobedience to quarantine rule) of IPC.The court had said there was no iota of evidence to suggest the accused had in any manner professed or propagated the principles and doctrines of the Tablighi Jamaat or had indulged in Tablighi work as alleged, and discharged eight foreigners of all charges.Challenging their discharge, the police filed revision petitions seeking framing of charges against the 36 foreigners.The police also filed revision petitions against the order of the magistrate court, discharging eight foreign nationals from six countries of all charges under which they were charge-sheeted in the absence of any record or any credible material against them.Dismissing these applications, the court said the magistrate’s order “was well reasoned, which did not call for interference”.The court said the evidence collected during the investigation is wholly insufficient to frame the charge against the foreign nationals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/court-rejects-police-s-plea-against-relief-for-jamaatis/story-KzLFFo7g6uJaduTaVZsmLN.html
20-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt inks MoU with UNICEF to help youth find jobs via govt portal||The Delhi government has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with YuWaah – an initiative of UNICEF – to strengthen its job portal Rozgaar Bazaar and focus on jobs for the younger population, the government said in a statement. “Delhi government signed an MoU with YuWaah of UNICEF to connect 10 million youth of Delhi with jobs. The partnership will make Delhi government’s Rozgaar Bazaar portal a robust one-stop solution for young people seeking jobs. While the world awaits a Covid19 vaccine, the Delhi government is working on providing jobs to the youth through impactful collaborations,” said deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who also holds the labour and employment portfolio in Delhi.“This partnership will further strengthen the efforts of the government to support the young people of Delhi by creating pathways to aspirational careers,” said Yasmin Ali Haque, UNICEF India Representative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-inks-mou-with-unicef-to-help-youth-find-jobs-via-govt-portal/story-h1uEZKsISMZTbDZUlvnPlN.html
20-11-2020||Education||Delhi’s happiness curriculum gets featured in Harvard’s International Education Week||Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia was invited as a guest speaker on an online panel discussion on the happiness curriculum of the Delhi government by the Harvard Graduate School of Education (HGSE) during its International Education Week.During the discussion titled, “systematic social-emotional learning of the happiness curriculum”, held on Tuesday, Sisodia said the Delhi government wanted to design a curriculum for students that would prepare them to become lifelong learners. He said, “Happiness curriculum is not a value education class that preaches moral values to students. Instead, it focuses on developing the mindset of the students to adopt values in their everyday attitude and behaviour.”Sisodia said education is the only way to reform society and politicians should work as facilitators of education. “Education is the only tool available that can reform society, and give us a society that we all dream of. Education, globally, is being used to fill unemployment gaps and lessen poverty, but it still doesn’t address more human problems that society faces.”“So far, successful education models around the world have been producing professionally sound people, but not emotionally sound people. Happiness curriculum works towards building a confident and a holistic mindset towards caste, creed, and religion so students become more self-aware and open towards each other,” he said.Professor Fernando Reimers, Ford Foundation professor of practice in international education at HGSE, praised Sisodia’s vision and said the happiness curriculum was path-breaking, and impressive in tackling the huge challenge of building capacity of teachers, and enforcing happiness classes in all Delhi government schools. “In a world that is changing very rapidly, with an uncertain future with this pandemic being a reminder, it’s important to question the deep purposes of schools and education,” he said.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Delhi introduced the ‘happiness curriculum’ in its schools from July 2018. Under the curriculum, nursery and kindergarten students twice a week and students from classes 1 to 8 spend once daily engage in meditation, storytelling, and activity sessions. The curriculum includes storytelling and activities, followed by question-and-answer sessions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-s-happiness-curriculum-gets-featured-in-harvard-s-international-education-week/story-uxf644dcJKC1oY1MtEq6rK.html
20-11-2020||Pune||Few areas in Pune receive very light rains||Except for a few areas that received very light rains on Thursday afternoon, residents had to deal with humid climate throughout the day. The maximum temperature of the day was recorded at 33.3 degrees Celsius while the minimum temperature of the day was 20.3 degrees Celsius. Places like Baner, Sus road, Aundh, Kothrud and Prabhat road received light rains. “At few places in the city thunder and lightning also occurred. For Friday, partly cloudy sky is forecasted and minimum temperature will be around 18-20 degrees Celsius,” said Anupam Kashyapi, head of the weather department, India Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune. According to the weather department, minimum temperatures in most parts of Maharashtra have seen a rise as compared to the first two week of November. Amravati in Vidarbha had the lowest minimum temperature with 12.4 degrees Celsius, while maximum temperature at Ratnagiri was highest with 36 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/few-areas-in-pune-receive-very-light-rains/story-pZUNwclC67TRcKGs3x6b2L.html
20-11-2020||Pune||PMC, PCMC deny permission for Chhath puja celebration at public places||Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal corporations have denied permission for Chhath puja celebration at public places, including riverbeds, dams and open grounds. The main day of the four-day festival falls on Friday this year. It is celebrated by residents hailing from Bihar, Jharkhand and other parts of north and east India where women fast and offer prayers to the Sun god near water bodies. While Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) issued the order on Wednesday, its Pune counterpart (PMC) released it on Thursday, after the state government issued the guidelines on Wednesday. The authorities have asked police to ramp up vigilance near public water bodies. PMC has appealed to people to conduct rituals at home and follow the Covid prevention measures while performing Chhath puja. “We generally go to Khadakwasla dam during Chhath Puja, but this time it will be a different experience as there will be no gathering of friends. Our group has decided to have video calls after the puja,” said Kinjal Yadav, a resident of Aundh. “Every year we used to celebrate the festival at Jhulelal ghat, Pimpri. With an appeal for cracker-less Diwali and possible Covid spread, the members of our housing society have decided to avoid mass gathering. There is nothing wrong in celebrating the festival at home,” said Mehul Kaushik, a native of Ranchi and staying in Pimpri since five years. Manju Yadav, who resides at Kharadi and hails from Varanasi, said, “We have decided to celebrate the festival at home. As the festival involves preparation of ‘prasad’ made in ‘Ganga Jal’ on traditional ‘clay çhulha’, we have decided to get the mud from neighbourhood rather than visiting public water bodies. We will perform the rituals at water tub and follow the Covid prevention guidelines given by the authorities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-pcmc-deny-permission-for-chhath-puja-celebration-at-public-places/story-z6IabFbRgzYcJ7R9PRZKCI.html
20-11-2020||Pune||BJP targets govt for backtracking on power bills, says Sena-NCP destroying their ally Congress||Pune: The leader of opposition in Maharashtra Legislative Council (MLC) and state Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Pravin Darekar on Thursday accused the ruling Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) of trying to destroy their ally Congress in the state by ignoring the latter’s demands. Darekar was in Pune to campaign for BJP’s candidate from Pune graduate constituency Sangram Deshmukh, who is locked in fight against NCP’s Arun Lad. Targeting the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government over backtracking on its promise of power bills, Darekar said that while those in power provided financial relief to public transport department, it left out the energy department. “The MVA government announced aid to the department headed by a Sena minister, but refused any relief to the energy ministry held by Congress’s Nitin Raut. It is clear that Sena-NCP are trying to destroy their Congress ally Maharashtra,” Darekar said at a press conference. Earlier this month, Raut had hinted at providing relief to electricity consumers facing the issue of inflated power bills, saying that a Diwali gift was in the offing. Later, the minister reportedly said that the government will not be able to provide any relaxation in domestic electricity bills. Darekar said, “It is an unfair decision...The government must give relief to consumers.” He also alleged that the government has ignored the issues of employment and education. At least 97 candidates are in the fray for election to two seats of the Maharashtra Legislative Council, an official said on Wednesday. Of these, 62 candidates are in the poll fray from the Pune graduate constituency and 35 from the teacher seat, said a Pune district administration official. The seats are a part of the five graduates and teachers’ constituencies of the legislative council for which voting will take place on December 1. While the BJP has fielded Deshmukh, the NCP has given ticket to Lad and the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) to Rupali Patil for the Pune graduate constituency. Of the five poll-bound segments, three are graduate constituencies from Aurangabad, Pune and Nagpur divisions, and two are teacher seats from Pune and Amravati divisions. These are constituencies in which only teachers and graduates, respectively, are eligible to vote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-targets-govt-for-backtracking-on-power-bills-says-sena-ncp-destroying-their-ally-congress/story-FRFLaxmKZigmZVJEnJqgKO.html
20-11-2020||Pune||Pune civic body orders 50K antigen kits to check possible Covid second wave||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) health department has ordered 50,000 antigen (rapid) testing kits as it prepares to handle the possible second wave of Covid-19. A central team has predicted the next wave of deadly virus in the city during December-January. The civic administration has also decided to increase the number of swab collection and RT-PCR test centres. The civic body anticipates a rise in infections following heavy rush on streets during Diwali. “The number of daily tests came down to around 1,000 to 1,500 after positive cases tally also dropped, and an average of 200 patients was found positive. After November 25, the number of positive patients might see a rise. With second wave predicted in December- January, we have started preparations to tackle the possible surge. With fall in positive cases, PMC had closed three of its 21 swab centres. With rise in cases expected, all the 21 centres will be functional soon,” said Dr Sanjeev Wavare, PMC assistant health chief. According to a health department official, around 2,500 new cases may be found daily during the possible second wave and for that around 6,000 daily tests will be done. The civic body has already arranged 2,500 beds to handle these cases. “We need to be prepared. Taking daily tests from the present 1,500 to 6,000 is a task and we will need more kits for it. Thought the number of RT-PCR test will be high, antigen test kits will also be used on daily basis and so the order of 50,000 new kits has been given,” the official said. The number of average daily tests has been reducing since September from 13,000 to 8,000 in October and 3,000 in November Maha advisory A circular-cum-advisory issued by the state directorate of health services last week stated that the second wave of the pandemic is likely in January-February. It advises concerned officials to ramp up Covid-19 testing in the state. The circular said, “Several European countries are witnessing the second wave of Covid-19 currently. On the basis of that there is a possibility we may also get a second wave in January-February.” It has asked district administrations, municipal corporations and medical officers to ensure there is no laxity in laboratory testing, and asked them to carry out tests as per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-orders-50k-antigen-kits-to-check-possible-covid-second-wave/story-PI8Kke5xuxBdnsY38Im6RO.html
20-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Shiv Sena functionary orders Karachi Sweets owner to change shop’s name||A video of Shiv Sena functionary Nitin Nandgaonkar ordering the owner of Karachi Sweets, a shop in Bandra, to rename the premises and remove Karachi from the name has gone viral on social media, creating a stir. The party, however, has distanced itself from Nandgaonkar’s actions. In the video clip, Nandgaonkar is seen telling the owner that he has to rename the shop, and when the owner tries to explain that the shop has nothing to do with Pakistan, Nandgaonkar is heard saying he is ready to give him as much time as he wants to make the change, but he has to do it as soon as possible. “We are giving you time to change the name. You can name the shop after anything you want. You can name it after your ancestors, but not Karachi. Write the name in Marathi, and change it on the signboard as well as the shop registration papers,” he said in the video.After Nandgaonkar’s visit, the shop’s name has been covered with newspapers.Sena, meanwhile, said the shop had nothing to do with Pakistan. Party chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut tweeted, “Karachi bakery and Karachi sweets have been in Mumbai for last 60 years. They have nothing to do with Pakistan. It makes no sense to ask for changing their names now. Demand for changing their name is not Shiv Sena’s official stance.”A senior Shiv Sena leader said Nandgaonkar acted on his own accord. “So far there is no decision whether to take any action against him or issue a show-cause [notice] to him. But when a senior leader issues a statement, it is a message to the person to not overstep the line,” the leader said, on condition of anonymity.When asked about the party’s stand, Nandgaonkar said it was a “spontaneous” decision to confront the shop owner. “So far I have not been asked to explain my action. I am a proud Shiv Sainik and a follower of Balasaheb. I will stand by my action. I was shopping in Bandra on Wednesday and was unaware that a shop with such a name exists. I politely went to him and asked him to change the name, and he had agreed as well,” Nandgaonkar said.Congress leader Sanjay Nirupam slammed Nandgaonkar’s actions and said chief minister Uddhav Thackeray should protect the shop owner. “Like Chinese food in Indian restaurants has no connection with China, similarly Karachi Sweets in Bandra has nothing to do with Pakistan. When will the unintelligent Shiv Sena workers understand this? Threatening to change the name of a 70-year-old shop is wrong. The chief minister should merely see this spectacle, but must help him,” tweeted Nirupam.Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), too, slammed the Sena for blatant “dadagiri” and asked Mumbai Police to take cognisance of the threat by Nandgaonkar. “Nitin Nandgaonkar must apologise immediately. Mumbai Police should take cognisance and act as per law. The Shiv Sena leadership resorting to this vigilantism during a pandemic speaks volumes of its misplaced priorities,” said AAP leader Preeti Sharma Menon in a statement.भारत के चाइनीज़ होटलों का चीन से कोई लेना-देना नहीं है,वैसे ही बांद्रा के #कराँची_स्वीट्स का पाकिस्तान से कोई नाता नहीं।यह सत्य #शिवसेना के बेवक़ूफ़ कार्यकर्ता कब समझेंगे ?70 साल पुरानी दुकान का नाम बदलने की जो धमकी दी गई है,वो गलत है।मुख्यमंत्री तमाशा न देखें, उसकी रक्षा करें।In a tweet, Nirupam said, “Like Chinese food in Indian restaurants has no connection with China, similarly Karachi Sweets in Bandra has nothing to do with Pakistan. When will the unintelligent Shiv Sena workers under this? Threatening to change the name of a 70-year-old shop is wrong. The chief minister should not merely see this spectacle, but must help him.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-shiv-sena-functionary-orders-karachi-sweets-owner-to-change-shop-s-name/story-7Qz5safFl0tu56vSc0lQVO.html
