21-11-2020||Mumbai||Memorial in honour of 26/11 Mumbai attacks martyrs in Kalyan missing||Just a week ahead of the November 26 anniversary, the memorial that was raised in honour of the martyrs of 26/11 Mumbai terrorist attack has gone missing.Locals claimed that the helmet of the Boots, Gun and Helmet Memorial at Mahatma Phule chowk had gone missing seven months ago. Now, the entire memorial is missing. Kalyan’s hawkers union president Arvind More, who has been following up on the memorial, claimed that the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has failed to maintain the memorial.“The helmet had gone missing seven months back. Now the entire memorial is not in place. I have tried inquiring with the civic body about it but they are clueless about where the memorial has gone, whether someone had stolen it or it was taken away for repair,” said More.Ironically KDMC officials are also not aware of whether the memorial was taken away for repair and when it will be placed at the chowk. “I have no clue about the memorial. Will check with other departments of my ward if they have taken it for repair and maintenance,” said Bhagaji Bhangre, ward officer KDMC.Earlier, locals had complained about the memorial being misused by drunkards who used to dump waste there. Stray dogs sat along it and also it was ill maintained. The memorial was built in 2012 in the memory of the five police officers who lost their lives in the terror attack on November 26, 2008.A total of ₹1.5L to ₹2L was spent to build the base structure with railings.This particular memorial is located in one of the prime locations of Kalyan station road. It is surrounded by roads that connect to the Rukminibai civic hospital, traffic police office, tehsildar office, forest department office and Kalyan court.Every year, on November 26, the traffic and local police visit the memorial offering prayers to the martyrs.More said that the civic body used to maintain it sometimes. However, it was in complete neglect over the last few months.Sandeep Singh, 30, who runs a small stall near the chowk, said, “The memorial is missing for almost seven months now. I have not seen anyone repairing it or inspecting it. It might have being stolen during the night.”Kalyan’s Sunil Pankar, 48 and retired from Navy, said, “The best way to make sure such memorials are protected and maintained is to involve public and interested groups, and let them look after the memorial on a regular basis. There is lack of such initiatives that the civic body should emphasise.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/memorial-in-honour-of-26-11-mumbai-attacks-martyrs-in-kalyan-missing/story-sMTDfOse5NOB9bTtIYx76L.html
21-11-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 outbreak: Mumbai civic body to conduct door-to-door survey to screen migrants in city||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) plans to conduct a door-to-door survey to screen all migrant workers, who are returning to Mumbai, for Covid-19. This is part of the civic body’s ‘My Family My Responsibility’ initiative. Health workers have been instructed to visit homes of migrant workers who had left Mumbai during the lockdown and screen them for symptoms of Covid-19. BMC will also mobilise mobile clinics and testing camps in slum pockets where they notice reverse migration.“We have lists of houses or chawls which were found locked during the door-to-door survey. Now, as migrants return to Mumbai, we will send our volunteers to inspect those places again. All family members have to undergo mandatory screening to avoid any chance of the spread of the virus,” said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. Under the ‘My Family My Responsibility’ campaign, BMC has so far surveyed 35.1 lakh families in Mumbai, including residents of slums and high-rise residential complexes. As part of the survey, health volunteers visit homes and check residents for oxygen saturation and other symptoms of Covid-19. If anyone exhibits symptoms such as fever, cold, cough or loss of smell, they are tested for Covid-19.“During the survey, around 4 lakh houses or rooms were found locked. Approximately, 18 lakh migrants used to live in those places who might return now as the lockdown has been relaxed,” said Kakani.BMC has also instructed local medical practitioners to refer suspected Covid-19 patients to testing centres.Health experts have welcomed the move. “Migrant labourers were considered super spreaders as most lived in slums… BMC has to be cautious. Any mistake in screening can again spread the virus in overcrowded slums,” said Dr Sunil Mishra, health activist with NGO Doctors for Help.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-outbreak-mumbai-civic-body-to-conduct-door-to-door-survey-to-screen-migrants-in-city/story-Rp0Km44y8MiRv3ztat1L6K.html
21-11-2020||Mumbai||Inflated power bills: 96% of 11 lakh complaints from across Maharashtra resolved||Between March and October this year, more than 11 lakh power consumers across the state have complained of receiving inflated bills. According to data shared by the state energy minister’s office, 1,166,815 consumers in the state had registered complaints, of which the utilities have resolved 1,129,767 or 96.8% so far.While the Maharashtra State Energy Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) supplies power to over two crore consumers in some parts of the city and state, the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport Undertaking (BEST) supplies power to 10 lakh consumers in the island city and Adani Electricity Mumbai Limited (AEML) and Tata Power supply power to close to 30 lakh consumers in Mumbai.As per the data, MSEDCL is yet to resolve 31,151 complaints, followed by BEST which has close to 3,016 complaints pending, while Adani and Tata have 723 and 2,158 complaints pending respectively. The state distribution company has now assigned specific roles to its employees to recover dues by December-end. MSEDCL is facing a huge debt akin to ₹59,102 crore, as per data shared by energy minister Nitin Raut.“MSEDCL faced an additional loss of ₹9,000 crore as many consumers did not pay their power bills. In March 2020, the dues pending in the residential category was around ₹1,374 crore which increased to ₹4,824 crore by October-end,” Raut tweeted on Wednesday.In August, the state had said that it was planning to waive excess bills by bearing the surplus amount for April, May and June. Raut had in October also said that consumers will get good news during Diwali. However, on Tuesday Raut announced that the state will not be able to provide any relief to consumers owing to its poor financial status and lack of aid from the Central government. The announcement came as a shock to many consumers who had reported inflated bills after the lockdown period. HT had also reported that 64.52 lakh consumers of MSEDCL had not paid any bill amount since March in view of a waiver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/inflated-power-bills-96-of-11-lakh-complaints-from-across-maharashtra-resolved/story-gWzZUk1c1HhKadz1YhPn8H.html
21-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra to build 8.82 lakh homes for the homeless within 100 days||The Maharashtra government on Friday launched an ambitious scheme of building more than 8.82 lakh houses for the homeless people residing in rural parts of the state and has set a target of constructing these homes within 100 days by February 28, 2021. The homes will be built by amalgamating many schemes being run by the state and the Centre. Named Maha Awas Yojana, the ₹4,000-crore scheme was launched by chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Friday. He also directed the concerned officials to ensure that the homes are of good quality.“All the officials must ensure that the houses should be pucca and of good quality. They should be so ideal and beautiful that people from other states would come to see them,” the CM said while launching the scheme.He said that the government has made several changes in Maha Awas Yojana to ensure it is a complete package. “We will not only give grants to people for building houses, but will also see that they get land and have basic amenities such as toilets by ensuring loans from banks,” Thackeray said.Rural development minister Hasan Mushrif said, “We have set a target to build 882,135 houses by February 28 with an expenditure of ₹4,000 crore. We will be providing land to those who don’t have any and will also regularise illegal encroachment on government plots under the scheme. We want to ensure that not a single family is left homeless in rural Maharashtra.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-build-8-82-lakh-homes-for-the-homeless-within-100-days/story-ksVLLuVPDJL1BBc9nmTRAJ.html
21-11-2020||Chandigarh||Witerati: Of Tantrumps, Tin Pots & TikTok||Whilst former POTUS Donald Trump staged his Dramatics of Denial starring Joe Biden and Kamala Harris, little would he have imagined he was making not only history and histrionics, but also attaining immortality in the annals of 2020’s cult cliché-ism.It’s best left to pol(l)itical scientists to pontificate on #POTUS45 legacy – good bad and the ugly – and suffice it for us to stick to Trump’s lexicological legacy – Word of the Year 2020.“Tantrump”.Who better to enlighten about word’s worth and Trumpisms than a custodian of Queen’s English fabled for flowery Tharoorisms.Tweeting John Cole’s cartoon, grammarian-parliamentarian Shashi Tharoor enlightened us less linguistically awakened Netizens that fashioned after former White House incumbent, word “Tantrump” has now come to denote “an outburst of anger, characterised by an inflated sense of entitlement, denial, narcissism, paranoia and victimhood”.While contributions to the vocabulary by less melodramatic heads of state have comprised more of catchphrase-ism or colloquialism – be it Bill Clinton’s Carville-esque “It’s the economy, stupid,” Mikhail Gorbachev’s “Glasnost” and “Perestroika” or closer home, Narendra Modi’s pet phrase “Mitron” or Tharoor’s “webaqoof” or “farrago” – trust Trump’s contribution to popular vocabulary being about brattish behaviour “isms” – mannerism, egoism or narcissism.While the former POTUS was privileged to possess a platform Shakespearean for his Theatre of the Absurd – “All the world’s a stage” – lesser mortals aren’t as blessed with soap opera-esque ouevre or audiences when they throw localised versions of ‘Tantrumps’.Of Trumpisms VS TharoorismsOne tribe tossing ‘tantrumps’ at the passing of pandemic-esque power is that of neighbourhood RWA (Residents’ Welfare Association) chiefs.Elevated to the exalted status of Tin Pot dictators during Lockdown – vested with powers of policing protocols governing social distancing in gated housing societies, come Unlock and some RWA heads – Khullar jis or Khanna jis – are suffering signs of sulkiness at the loss of power. Power, that came from catching red handed on CCTV footage errant residents who sneaked into lifts during Janta curfew or stalked Condo corridors minus masks in Lockdown 1.0.Like a Trump reluctant to relinquish residency of the White House, these RWA ‘Tin Pot’ types look to be loitering still near seats of power – security desks housing CCTV cameras of Condo living – long after Lockdown is gone. To do ogling ‘masked’ as goggling. Or to do more moral policing by scuttling the Condo’s carriers of “fake news” – inmates who fib they’re driving to the doc when they’re actually scooting to socialise in the Corona-scape.The curious case of Sleepless in Scuttle.Of TikTok & TantrumsCloser home, in the current anti-China corona-scape, the Trump tantrums may carry a ring a resonance in the mannerisms of maids – Lalitaa ji & Co.With the Tiktok template, which gave many a house help a digital stage for making histrionics if not history, consigned to curtains down by the “Chini Kum” narrative, bais Lalitaa jis & Co may be employing ‘Tantrump-ish’ histrionics with employers.Post-TikTok, maids may now eye memsahibs Lollita & Co’s Netflix-enabled phones broadcasting “Bandish Bandits” or “Panchayat”. When supplications for spare smartphones fall on deaf memsahib ears, maids Lalitaa ji & Co deign to deliver demeanour that’s Tantrump-ish – clanking and clanging Pan-demic’s pots ‘n’ pans like a Trump-ish empty vessel making the most noise. Or the Lalitaa jis may waste working hours pirouetting TikTok-type latkas-jhatkas in front of Lollita & Co’s bathroom mirrors in demeanour smacking of Trump-ish denial mode – denial of the deathblow to TikTok or dramatics at the denial of the desired smartphone.The curious case of ‘Who Moved My Grease(paint)’!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/of-tantrumps-tin-pots-tiktok/story-NlRlm3bZFUj5wOOZJs6f7N.html
21-11-2020||Chandigarh||Random Forays: Unravelling the role plays of society||While the world is still grappling with the pandemic, as also with some human viruses and levels of global suffering are high, it is time to take a look at the lighter side of life’s role players in present times.Politicians, those icons of power hungriness, are currently at their most blatant, tom-tomming their way constantly into our ears with cacophonous results. Aided and abetted by social and unsocial media, bolstered by perennial hangers-on, propped up by supporters with insatiable vested interests, these ‘leaders’ from all countries, all parties, all hues, have just one desire – Power!Bureaucrats, those hapless members of rule bound career services, though some are cunning too, have actually proved their mettle a little more in this crisis ridden year. Whether they are responsible for ensuring compliance of regulations or administering public health services, or even the counting of contentious votes, they have been doing better than usual, barring the usual aberrations.Media persons, those eagle-eyed destroyers of mental peace, are leaving no stone unturned to create havoc in our mind space, often with caustic, acerbic and vitriolic tirades against soft targets as well as deserving candidates. They get away with so much faffing around, all year round, that even they do not remember what their priorities were just a few days ago. Thankfully, the modicum of sobriety displayed by some stalwarts quietly embalms the madding air.Corporate professionals, those for whom profit and loss are nearly everything, have been hankering for the normalcy of yore which has been snatched away from pretty much everyone, as if a giant bird swooped down from the heavens and took it away. They are working from kitchens, from cupboards, from cars and scooters, in the hope that one day they will be back to delivering PPTs without PPEs and actually shaking hands, in the hope of making a few killings!Teachers, those underrated heroes, have been braving it out, gritting their teeth and hanging on by the skin of their teeth. Ladies especially have had a harrowing time, juggling multiple tasks at home while attempting to look calm and composed before smart screens, with restless students waiting at the other end, feeling equally ill at ease.Actors, those starry ones whose job it is to pretend to be someone else, are lamenting the loss of glitter and glory, the sun and the spotlight. They have taken to home videos on Instagram of them cooking and cleaning. But at the first opportunity, they have donned PPE kits and dashed off to the Maldives by the next available flight!Social media Influencers, those new kids on the block, whose ephemeral existence actually depends on apps of the banned and not banned varieties, have actually risen to the occasion. They have entertained or led from the front at times, and made laughing stocks of themselves at other times, but they are here to stay, make no mistake.Motivational speakers, the ones who look busy without doing anything of value, and who pretend that they have a sense of incomparable above-ness to enable them to inspire those feeling low, have recently gained an additional false sense of importance. But their bubble is sure to burst once the pandemic finally relents, and people do not need them any more!Men, the so-called dominant members of society, have found their dominion snatched and have converted themselves, by and by, into dish washers and table clearers. Many have turned into poets, others into singers, and some into chefs. They have clearly understood who the boss is though. There is no dispute on that account.On a sober note, medicos, those beacons of light in the darkest of times, have learnt, like many others, the value of family and calmness. Even basic liberties like being able to hug their dearest ones and partake of meals with the family have been coerced away from them by the pandemic. The rest of humanity can only pay gratitude to them and others who are upholding the virtues of dedicated public service in these shaky times.As the saint said, “Life is a movie and each of us has a role to play.”Let us endeavour to play it well!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/random-forays-unravelling-the-role-plays-of-society/story-T81krLtYt5FGqqStkX1MDO.html
21-11-2020||Mumbai||Teachers urge Maharashtra education department to scrap 50% attendance rule||After the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) declared that schools in the city shall remain closed for students up to December 31, teachers have now urged the education department to scrap the rule mandating 50% attendance for them.Teachers said since they are taking classes online from home since June, the rule making it mandatory for them to physically attend school is not helping. “When students are not going to come to school until next year, what is the point of calling teachers? Teachers are travelling to schools under immense risk, which can easily be avoided,” said Prashant Redij, spokesperson of the Mumbai Principals’ Association. Anil Bornare, coordinator of the BJP Teachers’ Cell in Mumbai, said the department should scrap the attendance requirement at the earliest. “Teachers should be allowed to work from home as schools continue to operate online even in the coming days,” he added. Officials from the state education department did not respond to HT’s calls and messages on Saturday. According to the state education department’s standard operating procedures (SOPs), teachers from all schools, government, aided or private, in the state can be called to school for work related to online learning or other academic work. Similarly, schools need to follow the policy of “staying home if unwell” for teachers who are not feeling well and especially those who have comorbidities or are above the age of 50 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/teachers-urge-maharashtra-education-department-to-scrap-50-attendance-rule/story-O1TpBUYsDE8KNZoF447EeL.html
21-11-2020||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: An uncommon smartness||Golfers ambling down the fairway to the 9th hole green at the Panchkula Golf Club (PGC) will have noticed a couple of birds stalking the tightly mowed grass. The birds are digging the soft soil for grubs and insects much like Hoopoes. What the golfers may not comprehend is that those birds, Indian Pond herons, are indulging in a foraging behaviour relatively unknown to the species. Otherwise, herons are typically depicted as water birds lurking around shallow pools to hunt fish, frogs, insects etc. A resident species encountered virtually throughout the subcontinent, the heron is, however, an understudied and under-watched bird thanks to a national obsession with charismatic species such as bustards and tigers.I sought an insight into the herons’ novel foraging behaviour from KS Gopi Sundar, an ornithologist engaged intensively with field research of water birds and a global award-winning scientist. “Herons are very smart birds that learn from other birds. For example, I observed Pond herons dipping a dry, discarded ‘roti’ in water to make it easier to swallow. This trick they had learnt from birds such as Grey herons. I cannot speculate on which species the herons may have emulated for grubbing at the PGC but it seems that they observed other species doing so, tried it out and discovered rich pickings in the form of protein-rich grubs that flourish in golf courses as they tend to be artificially over-watered,” Sundar told this writer. “We term such adaptability as ‘behavioral plasticity’ or the ability of an organism to adeptly vary its behaviour in response to environmental changes. In contrast, the Indian skimmer is a super specialty species that requires pure riverine habitat for survival. The skimmer has been declared a vulnerable species due to its relative inability to adapt to ravaged river ecology. But herons adapt to ecological disruptions, find new foods and continue to propagate the species in abundance,” Sundar added. MIDNIGHT’S BLOSSOMS Smart Pond herons at the PGC are habituated to the golfers advancing upon their feeding grounds and beat a short retreat to return to digging when they have seen off the last of the golfers’ backs. In contrast, I stumbled upon a creature in a terrified tizzy at the Chandigarh Golf Club. It was a colourful and large caterpillar moving around in circles on the path to the 4th hole tee box. The caterpillar was searching for a suitable spot to pupate and that would be on soil or within loose soil, in moss or beneath fallen leaves.The caterpillar was the final-stage larvae of the Oleander hawk-moth or the Army Green moth, a beautiful insect that ventures into the twilight to feed on nectar after remaining still and cryptic through the day, unlike sun-kissed butterflies. Interestingly, in the initial stages of its life as a caterpillar, the Oleander’s colouring is greenish but turns browner with markings quite different in its final caterpillar stage. Before the caterpillar turns into a nocturnal moth, it must go through the intermediate stage of pupation. In the initial stages of its life as a caterpillar, the Oleander’s colouring is greenish. It turns browner with markings quite different in its final caterpillar stage.Nature’s embedded surprises are at their most vivid in butterflies and moths. They metamorphose from hairy caterpillars to still, humdrum pupa bundles and finally blossom – quite unbelievably – as petals on wings, as blessed ballerinas of the free air. If all goes well, golfers may never catch a glimpse of what that crawling creature turned into as it must fulfil its tryst with midnight: as an angelic moth, as a moon flake flitting in the shadows lingering over deserted, ghostly greens.vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wildbuzz-an-uncommon-smartness/story-trKOXXSFeojiLEwCP5f6kN.html
21-11-2020||Chandigarh||Two-day Ludhiana dist TT tourney begins||The two-day Ludhiana District Open Table Tennis Championship 2020 started at Shastri Hall, Guru Nanak Stadium, on Saturday. More than 50 players from the cadet and sub-junior boys’ and girls’ categories are participating in the tournament. Jasmeen Makkar of Aspire Academy won the cadet girls singles title by beating Yashvi Sharma in three straight sets (11-6, 11-8 and 11-9). In the sub junior girls category, Yana from Aspire Academy upset the second seed Palak from Elite Academy. In sub-junior boys, Agrim from Elite academy upset the top seed Aarush Goyal 3-2 in the quarter final. In the semi-final, Jasmeen and Yashvi had both beaten their opponents in three straight sets. In the semi-final matches for cadet boys, Aarav Dada beat Japsirat Singh, 11-5, 11-7,11-8 and Raghav Bhanot beat Satvik Jindal, 11-8, 11-7, 11-6, 7-11. In the sub junior girls semi-finals , Sehajpreet Kaur beat Yati, 11-8, 9-11, 11-9, 12-10, and Yana beat Palak, 11-4, 11-3 and 11-9. In the quarter finals for sub junior boys’, Agrim beat Aayush Goyal, Aarav Batta beat Irvish and Amrinder beat Aryan Sachdeva.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-day-ludhiana-dist-tt-tourney-begins/story-cjb6GhFDTej7Bq0GEBm1JP.html
21-11-2020||City||DU special cut-off on Monday evening, two more lists if seats stay vacant||New Delhi: Delhi University (DU) on Saturday announced that it will release a special cut-off list for admission to several undergraduate courses in its colleges by Monday evening and two more lists, if required, to fill up the vacant seats.The university had last week postponed the special cut-off, scheduled to be released on November 18, after some officials tested Covid-19 positive. Officials said admissions under the special cut-off will begin on Tuesday. The last date of submission of fees to complete the admission process under the this list is November 27.According to university guidelines, only those who could not take admission in the last five lists will be considered under the special cut-off. “An applicant who has cancelled his or her admission in the fifth cut-off will not be eligible to apply. Applicants who are already admitted in any course/ college, including the non-collegiate women’s education board (NCWEB), will not be eligible for the special cut-off,” the university said in a notification.Besides, two more cut-offs may be announced if seats there are vacant seats. As many as 67,781 out of 70,000 available undergraduate seats have already been filled under the first five cut-off lists. If the two lists will be released, admissions under the sixth cut-off will start on December 2, and on December 4 under the seventh one.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/du-special-cut-off-on-monday-evening-two-more-lists-if-seats-stay-vacant/story-IcgzgQT8v0cTX67IvKq5pM.html
21-11-2020||Chandigarh||Leisure Valley to come up in Ludhiana’s Haibowal||With an aim to promote greenery and provide residents a place to spend time with their families, the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) will come up with a leisure valley on an area of seven acres in Haibowal area. The estimated cost of the project is Rs 3.6 crore.Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, mayor Balkar Sandhu, municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal, LIT chairman Raman Balasubramaniam and other MC officials visited the project site on Saturday. Apart from the leisure valley, the civic body will also build a road along the Buddha Nullah in the area at a cost of Rs 84 lakh. Also, an iron mesh will be installed along the 14-km long stretch of the nullah within MC limits, at a cost of Rs 13 crore.Directions were issued to officials of MC building branch to remove a few encroachments along the nullah where residents have kept their livestock. Ashu said, “Work orders for all three projects have been issued and they will be completed in six months. I am personally mentoring the projects and strict action will also be taken against officials if there will be any delay. The valley will have playing areas for children, besides grounds and recreation areas for adults.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/leisure-valley-to-come-up-in-ludhiana-s-haibowal/story-aIC0WdGh0cLY9lUxN6YiMK.html
21-11-2020||City||UP roadways bus rams tree in south Delhi, 12 injured||New Delhi: At least 12 people travelling on an Uttar Pradesh roadways bus were injured after the bus hit a tree at Sukhdev Vihar in the early hours on Saturday. The bus was on its Sarai Kale Khan ISBT from Agra. Senior police officers said no passenger suffered critical injuries. The incident took place around 3.15 am. A call was received at New Friends Colony police station reporting the accident on Mathura Road near a CNG pump. A team from the police station rushed to the spot and found that a UP roadways bus had rammed a tree. “Many people were injured. Local police shifted them to AIIMS and the Trauma Center. CATS ambulances also reached the spot and the injured were given first aid at the spot by the ambulance staff. Ten passengers had sustained minor injuries and required first aid. Twelve passengers, including a 16-year-old girl, required hospitalisation but all of them are out of danger. No one has sustained life threatening injuries and most of them were released by evening,” said a police officer. Deputy commissioner of police (southeast) RP Meena said a case has been registered. “The driver had fled after the accident. He has been identified and search is on. The officials in the Agra depot have been informed about the accident and the driver,” the DCP said. Police have seized the bus for inspection and are checking CCTV footage. “We were all asleep when the accident took place. We woke up to a jolt and almost everyone was injured out of which 12-13 passengers had to be rushed to hospital,” said Asif, who was travelling in the bus.Another passenger Charan Singh sustained injury in his leg. His son-in-law Sanjay who had come to visit him at AIIMS, said Singh was travelling with four others. “Most of the people have sustained injuries like fractures in their legs and hands,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-roadways-bus-rams-tree-in-south-delhi-12-injured/story-A4IXsIzI8ExtFuvb4B8VtJ.html
21-11-2020||City||Dont send bodies from south and east to Nigambodh Ghat: North civic body||New Delhi: The North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Saturday urged its east and south Delhi counterparts to strictly follow its June 10 order in which it had said that dead bodies from hospitals other than those assigned to Nigambodh Ghat must not be sent there in view of the rush at one of the Delhi’s oldest crematorium situated on the banks of the Yamuna. In a statement, Ashok Rawat, municipal health officer, North Corporation, said, “We have also asked the medical superintendents of covid-designated hospitals to release bodies at intervals so that there is no rush at the cremation ground.” Besides, corporation officials said that from Sunday they would provide personal protective equipment (PPE) kits for maximum four people accompanying the bodies for last rites.Every covid-designated hospital in Delhi has been assigned a crematorium and graveyard to ensure there is no rush at certain crematoria only. “But, for past one or two months, as Covid-related deaths were fewer, families from other neighbourhoods were also bringing bodies to Nigambodh Ghat. Ideally, it should accept bodies from seven hospitals in north Delhi, including the Lok Nayak Hospital, GB Pant and Hindu Rao, but, lately, people from east and central Delhi have also been cremating bodies here,” said a senior official.Corporation officials said that they have made elaborate arrangements to cremate bodies at the Nigambodh Ghat. “Other than three incinerators running on CNG, there are around 104 wood pyres of which 52 are reserved for covid victims. Over the last 10 days, up to 22 bodies of Covid victims were burnt every day here,” the official said.On Saturday, till 5.30 pm, 20 Covid victims and 40 others were cremated, he added.From Monday, three new CNG furnaces are likely to start operations at the ghat. As per Delhi government data, the city recorded 118 Covid deaths on Friday, the second highest single-day toll. Maximum Covid deaths in a day were reported on November 11, when 131 fatalities added to the toll.There are 19 crematoriums and graveyards where Covid-19 bodies (of confirmed and suspected cases) are being cremated/buried. Of these, eight are run by north corporation, six by South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) and five by East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC). Officials said these facilities can cumulatively dispose of nearly 140-150 bodies daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dont-send-bodies-from-south-and-east-to-nigambodh-ghat-north-civic-body/story-0INKNtrvvoIrZlwoA27S2J.html
21-11-2020||Chandigarh||992 primary schools in Ludhiana to get ₹1.19 cr to maintain hygiene||As many as 992 government primary schools in the district will receive a recurring grant of Rs 1.19 crore to maintain hygiene on their premises for students of pre-primary classes aged between three to six. Each school will get Rs 12,000 to purchase the essential items needed to maintain cleanliness. School heads can utilise the grant to purchase first-aid kits, sanitisers, liquid soap dispensers, water campers, door mats and kits comprising towels, nail cutters and combs. This is the first time that the central government has provided funds for students of this age group under Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan.In the first-aid kit, school authorities can keep bandages and medicines. The expiry date of the items must be checked so that new items can be bought in time. A foot-operated sanitiser dispenser can also be purchased.A first-aid corner must be established where school authorities have to put up the contact numbers of district education department and block primary education officer.Other necessary items including blankets, mattresses, water proof wall mats and stainless steel dustbins can also be purchased using the funds received.District education officer (elementary), Rajinder Kaur, said: “We have received the grant and it has been disbursed to the blocks. This move by the government will help primary schools provide better facilities to students of pre-primary classes.”Barjinder Singh, head teacher at a government primary school , said, “Every primary school is doing its best to provide good facilities to pre-primary students. This recurring grant will help in their efforts. First-aid kits and mattress are required as these children are young and need proper health care.” The school heads have been directed to send a utilisation certificate of the grant by December 15, 2020, to the head office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/992-primary-schools-in-ludhiana-to-get-1-19-cr-to-maintain-hygiene/story-iW1jqRUXaW06mltivqYFHM.html
21-11-2020||Chandigarh||Elevated road project: Traffic gridlocks drive residents up the wall in Ludhiana||As the Samrala Chowk-Ferozepur Road elevated road project is moving further towards Bharat Nagar chowk, the commuters are left in the lurch having to face massive traffic jams on one of the busiest stretches in the city.After Bhai Bala Chowk, the traffic light-point in front of the mini secretariat has become a major bottleneck for traffic movement.The misplaced priorities of the traffic police are also adding to the harassment of the commuters as instead of streamlining the traffic, they are busy challaning vehicles.Sunny Saini, a school teacher, said that the traffic police should take measures to end the harassment of commuters. “Due to the elevated road project, the width of the road has shortened and it takes 20 minutes to half an hour to cover the 1.5-km stretch in front of the mini-secretariat from Aarti Chowk during peak hours. And then there is fear of being caught by the police at a light-point. Instead of challaning the vehicles, police should manage the traffic,” he said.Another commuter said that traffic cops deliberately ambushed vehicles that incidentally jumped a light during peak hours and were not bothered about helping stranded commuters.Construction adding to air pollution: residentsAnuj Kumar, a resident of Dugri, said that the construction was causing a lot of air pollution. “Plumes of smoke and dust can be witnessed even from a distance. Commuters, pedestrians and those traveling on two-wheelers and auto-rickshaws are forced to inhale them. The authorities should tell the construction company to spray water to settle the dust and immediately construct a slip-road to ease traffic jams.”The 12.951-km elevated road is being constructed by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) from octroi post on Ferozepur Road (NH 95) to Samrala Chowk. The work on the project was taken in hand in October 2017 with the target to complete it in 30 months (by April 2020), followed by 48 months of maintenance by the construction agency.When contacted, assistant commissioner of police (traffic) Gurdev Singh said, “We are holding a meeting with the representatives of the construction company and the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) on Monday to discuss the issues being faced by the commuters. On the other hand, traffic cops have already been instructed to streamline traffic on priority basis so that commuters are not harassed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/elevated-road-project-traffic-gridlocks-drive-residents-up-the-wall-in-ludhiana/story-dj0ZIcx2dXJTmeb7OuqfFK.html
21-11-2020||City||Congress leader Bali slams Centre, state govt for delay in CUHP project||Senior Congress leader and former minister GS Bali on Saturday slammed the Centre and state government for the delay in setting up two campuses of Central University of Himachal Pradesh (CUHP). Addressing a press conference, Bali said the project has not moved an inch in three years.This was reflected when Union minister Anurag Thakur and chief minister Jai Ram Thakur started a blame game on the issue on the stage in full public view, he said. Bali said that while the Union minister squarely blamed the state government for the delay, the chief minister said that he was in talks with the Centre on this matter. APPOINTMENTS DONE BY FLOUTING NORMS Bali further alleged that a lot of appointments in the CUHP were done by flouting the norms and Congress was readying to launch a stir against the issue. He said that the BJP cadre was being appointed in the institution tweaking the norms. Bali said he was not against appointing people from the cadre but breaking the norms. Citing an example, Bali alleged that the BJP government lowered the experience criteria to be appointed as director of an engineering college.The former minister also alleged that chief minister Jai Ram Thakur laid foundation stones of various projects in the Nagrota Bhawan assembly segment which were launched in the Congress regime. “At least 50% of the projects were launched in Congress regime and the foundation stone was already laid,” he alleged. The chief minister had laid foundation stones and inaugurated more than three dozen projects in the Nagrota area on Friday.Bali said that if a first-time MLA does so it is understood but the CM was an experienced politician and he had not expected such acts from him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/congress-leader-bali-slams-centre-state-govt-for-delay-in-cuhp-project/story-Um8m5pUiRv1caiLl60lV3K.html
21-11-2020||City||Nadda asks cadres to gear up for PRI, ULB polls||Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) national President Jagat Parkash Nadda gave a clarion call to legislators and party workers to brace for Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRI) and Urban Local Body (ULB) polls.On reaching his home district Bilaspur, Nadda held separate meetings with party office bearers and BJP legislators. He called on the leaders to take to fields to publicise the achievements of chief minister Jai Ram-led government in his three-year tenure.On his arrival, Nadda was accorded a warm welcome at Luhnu ground in Bilaspur district. CM Jai Ram Thakur and state party chief Suresh Kashyap were present on the occasion along with other BJP leaders. While addressing BJP workers, he credited them for his elevation to the post of party national party. “It is due to the workers’ hard work that I returned back to my home state with the good news that our party emerged victorious in the Bihar elections. It is your love and affection that I attained this position at the Centre,” he said.He said that not only in Bihar but BJP has also emerged victorious in Jammu and Kashmir, Telangana, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat. He also praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his strategies on Covid-19 management and said that it is because of his efforts that the country is in a better position when a country like the USA has not been able to control the pandemic. He said that during the pandemic, PM has sent Rs 500 crore to at least 20 crore women through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT). He said that Narendra Modi has given AIIMS, Mother and Child Hospital, Super Specialty Hospital, PGI to the state. “Himachal Pradesh is progressing under the administration of double engine government” he added. Nadda reviews AIIMS construction workNadda along with the CM inspected and reviewed the ongoing construction work of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) at Kothipura in Bilaspur district on Saturday.Nadda said that there should be no compromise with construction quality. He said that this institute would provide specialised health services to the people of the state. He expressed satisfaction over the fact that despite the Covid-19 pandemic, the construction work of the AIIMS was going on smoothly and the project is likely to be completed by December 2021. He stressed that efforts should be made to start the MBBS classes next month. He said it was a matter of pride that 18 doctors from Himachal Pradesh had been selected for this health institute. Jai Ram Thakur said that the state government was committed to resolving all the issues relating to AIIMS and would extend all assistance for fulfilling the requirements of water supply and power at the earliest. He said that the state government would also examine the demand for electricity waiver for this institution. He said the government has released Rs 73 crore for power supply and Rs 65 crore for water supply arrangements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nadda-asks-cadres-to-gear-up-for-pri-ulb-polls/story-4ito3jwlDPmxcIkfppQJ1O.html
21-11-2020||City||Centre to blame for delay in Central University project: HP revenue minister||Amid escalated blame game over setting up of two campuses of the Central University of Himachal Pradesh, the state government has now put the ball in the Centre’s court. Five days after Union minister Anurag Thakur took a dig at chief minister Jai Ram Thakur for the delay in setting up of two campuses of Central University in Dehra, revenue minister Mahender Singh Thakur claimed that the state government had written to the Centre numerous times for forest clearance for the land allocated for setting up the campuses, but to no avail. Mahender, who is the second most senior minister in Jai Ram’s cabinet, said that the state government has taken up the matter with the ministry of forest and environment. “We have urged the Centre to redress these technical issues so that the construction work of the university and the pending works of over 30 other projects could be started and the pace of development could be accelerated,” he added. “The state government is taking necessary steps for getting approval for the establishment of Central University and all other developmental projects by taking action under the Forest Conservation Act 1980, but in view of the clarification of the ministry of forest and environment, the Central University and the works of many other important projects are getting delayed,” said Mahender.The revenue minister made it clear that the state government has taken prompt action in converting forest land for the Central University under the Forest Conservation Act 1980. It was decided during the Prem Kumar Dhumal government that two campuses of the CUHP would be built at Dehra and Dharamshala. The state government had transferred 34.55 hectares of land in 2010 to the Central University of Himachal Pradesh for the construction of the southern campus in Dehra, the mutation of which was done in 2010. Apart from this, the approval to divert 81.79 hectares of forest land under the Forest Conservation Act was received on December 11, 2018, in the name of User Agency Director Higher Education, Himachal Pradesh, but this included the condition that the land which has been granted permission to convert cannot be transferred in any case to another agency, department or any other person without the approval of the Central government. There will be no change in the legal status of such diverted forest land. On the request of the department of revenue for this matter and some other matters, the forest department had urged the Union ministry of forest and environment, on April 22, 2019, for the necessary clarification, whether the diverted forest land agency may or may not be transferred to user agency through mutation mode. The revenue department had also urged the Union ministry of forest and environment, whether the documents for possession of the converted forest land can be entered in the revenue records or not. On this, the Union ministry of forest and environment, through a letter on July 30, 2019, had clarified that the legal status of the forest land that is diverted under the Forest Protection Act 1980 will remain as forest land only. In such a diverted land arrangement, the name of the user agency or user department cannot be transferred by the revenue department in the revenue records. Anurag Thakur softens stance on Central UniversitySHIMLA: Days after slamming the state government for delay in setting up campuses of the Central University of Himachal Pradesh, Union minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur seems to have softened his stance on the issue as he expressed gratitude to the chief minister for prompt action and expressed hope that work would start soon.In a press statement, Thakur said that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was the biggest political party in the world, as well as a family.He said that the double-engine BJP government at the Centre and the state is committed to the all-round development of the state and working in tandem in this direction.“I am grateful to chief minister Jai Ram Thakur for his prompt action to provide approval for land transfer at Dehra and resolve the long-pending issue of setting up of CUHP campus,” said Thakur expressing delight that the chief minister took quick action over the issue he had raised while sharing the dais at a programme at Dehra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/centre-to-blame-for-delay-in-central-university-project-hp-revenue-minister/story-0MbSEErKf13Wb9UWGhzbEM.html
21-11-2020||City||PAGD candidates not allowed to canvas: Farooq to J&K election commissioner||People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), an amalgam of Jammu and Kashmir’s mainstream parties, demanding restoration of Article 370, on Saturday wrote to the UT election commissioner KK Sharma alleging that the administration was interfering in the democratic process on the pretext of providing security.Chairperson of PAGD, Farooq Abdullah wrote the letter in the context of upcoming district development council (DDC) elections stating that their candidates were not being allowed to canvass freely.“A strange and unique feature has come to the fore. Candidates put up by the PAGD are immediately whisked away to secure locations in the name of security and confined to those locations. They are not allowed to canvass, they are completely out of touch with those from whom they are supposed to seek votes,” said Abdullah in his letter to the election commissioner.He alleged that the current state of affairs was “blatantly oriented” to provide security to a select few while confining others.“Security cannot and should not be used as a tool or an excuse to interfere in democratic processes,” he said while adding that they have been well aware of the security requirements as these challenges are “painfully persistent for the last three decades”. He said that the democratic journey is a bloodied journey in the Valley, soaked in the blood of thousands of political workers who have laid down their life for the sake of democracy.“The democracy is in a state of fragility in Jammu and Kashmir and no government has the right to alter the institutional foundation of democracy in the UT, nourished by the sacrifices of thousands of political workers,” he said.He alleged that using “security” as a reason to modify the democracy is a “desecration of those sacrifices when the very conflict that consumed their lives is used as an alibi to customize the democracy.”“Security is a challenge here and it is for the government of the day to counter that in a manner which is fair and transparent. Providing security to a selected group and confining others is a gross interference in the democracy,” he said.The constituents of PAGD —National Conference, Peoples Democratic Party, People’s Conference, and other smaller parties— are fighting the DDC polls jointly on individual party symbols, the first phase of which is scheduled to be held on November 28. Former J&K chief ministers Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti have also alleged that candidates of parties opposing the BJP were not being allowed to campaign freely for the upcoming DDC polls on the pretext of security while the saffron party was being given a free hand.Kashmir divisional commissioner Pandurang K Pole has refuted these allegations saying there was no disparity between candidates. Kashmir inspector general of police (IGP) Vijay Kumar has said they were putting candidates in secure areas as it was difficult to provide security individually.People’s Conference leader and PAGD spokesperson, Sajad Lone also alleged that the security was being used as a pretext to “impede electioneering”.“Pre-determining democracy, undermining democracy can have disastrous consequences. We, our children are here to stay. Visitors deputed as administrators better not sow a poison whose venom will be spread over decades,” he said on Twitter.On Thursday, CPI(M) leader MY Tarigami had also written a letter to Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha with similar allegations.He said that L-G Sinha responded to the letter, which the CPI(M) leader shared with the media. “The issue is already in my notice and necessary instructions stand conveyed to the concerned,” Sinha wrote to Tarigami.Mehbooba “stopped” from visiting Shopian’s Rambiara People Democratic Party president and PAGD vice-chairperson, Mehbooba Mufti on Saturday said she was stopped from visiting Shopian’s Rambiara Nallan by the local administration. She alleged that sand extraction through illegal tenders has been outsourced to outsiders and locals are barred from the area.“Our land and resources are being plundered by GOI that has nothing but contempt for us. This is their warped idea of Naya Kashmir. Sand mafia is operating in broad daylight yet we are expected to remain quiet. As a leader, it’s my responsibility to articulate these grievances. But BJP is brazenly violating my rights & curbing my movements under the guise of ‘security,’’ she said on Twitter.She also uploaded videos on Twitter where the police were apparently stopping her from going ahead.“J&K has been turned into an open-air prison but we will fight tooth and nail against this onslaught on our dignity, rights and identity,” she said.She also alleged that the Centre was sabotaging the participation of non-BJP parties in DDC polls.“PDPs Bashir Ahmed despite having adequate security has been detained at Pahalgam on the pretext of security. Today is the last day for filing nominations and I have spoken to Anantnag DC for his release,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pagd-candidates-not-allowed-to-canvas-farooq-to-j-k-election-commissioner/story-itqRRU3UczUO2WKQqRvv9I.html
21-11-2020||City||Delhi man falls off cliff, dies in Malana village||A 23-year-old tourist from Delhi has died after he slipped from a cliff and fell into a 150-metre deep gorge in Malana of Kullu.The deceased has been identified as Yash Gaur, 23, of New Delhi. According to police, he and two of his friends had gone camping at Dhar village in Malana on Friday night.After consuming alcohol, Yash went out of the tent telling his friends that the internet is not working. When he did not return for a long time, his friends started looking for him.His body was spotted by some locals after which, police reached the spot and recovered it. The body was taken to Regional Hospital in Kullu for postmortem. Kullu superintendent of police Gaurav Singh said police are conducting investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-man-falls-off-cliff-dies-in-malana-village/story-Xi7a5DfDi1WQPnWla498KI.html
21-11-2020||City||18 more succumb to virus in Himachal, toll crosses 500-mark||The death toll due to Covid-19 in Himachal went past the 500-mark with record 18 more people succumbing to the contagion on Saturday. This is the highest number of fatalities due to the virus in the state in a single day. Eight people died in Shimla, three each in Chamba and Kullu, two in Kangra and one each in Lahaul-Spiti and Una. Since the outbreak in March, 509 people have died due to the virus. The case fatality ratio in state is at 1.5% and fatalities have risen by about 63% this month. Highest single-day spike of 915 cases Meanwhile, the state’s Covid-19 caseload reached 33,700 with the highest single-day spike of 915 cases. Of the new cases, 290 were reported in Shimla, 161 in Mandi, 84 in Kangra, 72 in Hamirpur, 65 each in Kullu and Solan, 56 in Una, 52 in Chamba, 22 in Bilaspur, 20 in Sirmaur, 17 in Kinnaur and 11 in Lahaul-Spiti. Active cases have gone past 7000- mark for the first time. There are 7,070 active cases in the state while the recoveries have reached 26,089 people have recovered. As many as 657 recoveries were recorded today. The recovery rate is 77%. Mandi remains the worst hit district with 5,392 cases. Shimla is close behind with 5,352 cases. Kangra has 4,332 cases, Solan 4,371, Kullu 2,955, Sirmaur 2,508, Una 1,923, Bilaspur 1,746, Chamba 1,742, Hamirpur 1,735, Lahaul-Spiti 950, and Kinnaur 694. Shimla markets to remain closed todayIn wake of a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases in Shimla, markets in district, except for shops selling essential items, will remain closed on Sunday. Additional district magistrate Apoorv Devgan issued an order to this effect on Saturday.“In view of the large number of Covid cases being reported daily in district, all shops/markets in district Shimla, except shops selling groceries, milk, bread, fruits, vegetables, meat, fish and other uncooked food items, chemist shops, optical stores, restaurants/dhabas/hotels will remain closed on Sunday,” reads the order.Any violation will be punishable under the relevant provisions of law and the violators will be prosecuted accordingly, it says.Restrictions on gatheringAnother order issued by the ADC imposed strict restrictions on all social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious and political gatherings.As per the order, in closed spaces, areas outside containment zones, a maximum of 50% of a hall capacity will be allowed, with a ceiling of 100 persons.The organiser will identify spatial boundaries and prepare a detailed site plan which will facilitate compliance with thermal screening, physical distancing, and sanitisation and submit the same to the authorities while taking permission.In gatherings where community kitchen, dhaam or professional catering is to be arranged, the managers and catering staff will be required to undergo Covid test through RAT kits with the help of local health officials, not earlier than 96 hours before the event.It will be mandatory for organisers to get permissions from the SDMs concerned minimum one week before the date of event.The organizer will submit an undertaking to the SDM with the application regarding testing of catering staff and will have to personally ensure to follow all Covid protocol.The SDMs will furnish daily reports regarding inspection of such events done by executive magistrates and SHOs. The SDM and DSP concerned will personally inspect at least two such events each week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/18-more-succumb-to-virus-in-himachal-toll-crosses-500-mark/story-nuTX02oH3nAvaRxLI5d2HP.html
21-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: Student-activist Gulfisha Fatima granted bail||Student-activist Gulfisha Fatima was granted bail on Saturday in connection with a case related to the communal violence that occurred in February 2020 in Northeast Delhi.According to news agency PTI, additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat granted relief to Fatima after she furnished a bail bond of Rs 30,000 with surety of similar amount in a case related to rioting in Delhi’s Jafrabad area where one person died due to the violence.It was alleged that Fatima along with other activists Umar Khalid, Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita and others plotted to create unrest in Jafrabad under the guise of peaceful protests. Fatima has been kept in custody since June 3 and was arrested under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in a separate case where it was alleged that the riots were premeditated. She remains lodged in Tihar Jail.Her advocate Mehmood Pracha told the court that Fatima was “falsely and maliciously implicated” in the case and there is no substantial evidence to prove her involvement. Rajeev Krishan Sharma, who appeared for the police, said that Fatima along with other activists were engaged in instigating locals against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and the National Register of Citizen (NRC) exercise.The court granted her bail on grounds of parity as co-accused Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal - both JNU students - and Pinjra Tod members, were granted relief in this case.The court said in its order, “Considering the period of the custody of the applicant/accused in the present case, the ground of parity as regards co-accused Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal and in the totality of the facts and circumstances of the case, the present bail application of applicant/accused is allowed.”Communal clashes broke out in Delhi on February 24 in Northeast Delhi where CAA and anti-CAA supporters clashed. More than 200 people were injured in the riots and 53 people had died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-riots-student-activist-gulfisha-fatima-granted-bail/story-UqsLO2n0xJfnovVTttSdwJ.html
21-11-2020||City||Ludhiana man booked for abducting, marrying minor girl||The Sahnewal police have booked a labourer for allegedly abducting a 17-year-old girl and marrying her.The accused has been identified as Atish Kumar of Mahadev Nagar, Giaspura.In his complaint to the police, the victim’s father said Kumar abducted his daughter on June 8 after luring her with marriage. Later, he came to know that the accused had married her, even though she was minor.The accused also moved an application for protection before the Punjab and Haryana High court, but the court annulled the marriage as the girl is a minor.ASI Jagdeep Singh, who is investigating the case, said they had booked Kumar under Section 363 (kidnapping) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 9 and 10 of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act. Raids are being conducted for his arrest. The ASI said they may add more sections in the FIR after the victim’s medical examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-man-booked-for-abducting-marrying-minor-girl/story-wcUU33751PhJYBWC0k9J8L.html
21-11-2020||City||40-year-old Ludhiana man found dead, father points finger at daughter-in-law||A 40-year-old man died due to suspected suicide following harassment by his wife and in-laws at Bhora Colony, Salem Tabri, on Friday night. While his wife claimed he died due to excess consumption of liquor, his father accused her driving him to suicide. The Salem Tabri police have sent the body to the Ludhiana civil hospital for autopsy to establish the cause of death for further legal proceedings.The complainant, hailing from Phillaur, said his son had gotten married to a Salem Tabri woman 15 years ago and they had two children.He alleged that his daughter-in-law had been pressuring his son to live separately from his family that comprised his parents and two brothers. Therefore, the complainant gave his son Rs 14.5 lakh to move into another accommodation. But, his son gave all the money to his in-laws and shifted to their house.The complainant alleged that 20 days ago, his son called him and also sent a suicide note on his phone. But, he counselled him not to take the extreme step. On Friday evening, his son called him and said his wife and in-laws were harassing him. Soon after, he got a call from his daughter-in-law that his son had died.Inspector Gopal Krishan, SHO, Salem Tabri police station, as per the deceased’s father, the man committed suicide. But things will become clear only after autopsy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/40-year-old-ludhiana-man-found-dead-father-accuses-wife-of-abetment/story-2fAYAubVR1IsuIDfo3415K.html
21-11-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab gangster claims responsibility for killing dera follower, premis protest||Hours after the murder of a Dera Sacha Sauda follower at Bhagta Bhaika village in Bathinda district, gangster Sukhpreet Singh, alias Sukha Gill Lamme, claimed responsibility for the attack through a Facebook post on Saturday. Agitated over the murder of Manohar Lal Arora, a foreign exchange dealer, premis gathered in large numbers at Salabatpura, about 50-kms from here. They placed the body in the middle of the road and raised slogans. The protesters said they won’t cremate Arora until his assailants are arrested by the police. Senior superintendent of police BS Virk spent nearly two hours with dera supporters at Salabatpura to ease the situation. He said the deceased was not an accused in any crime, including sacrilege. “I will meet protesters again on Sunday again to convince them to lift the blockade. Our teams are working hard to crack the case,” said the SSP. Harcharan Singh Insan, the member of Dera’s 45-committee of Punjab unit, said last rites will be performed only after the killers are held. “It is shocking that an innocent person engaged in legal activity was murdered in broad daylight. It is unfortunate that the dera and premis are defamed with unfounded allegations. We will continue agitation until the Arora family gets justice and assurance of their safety and security,” he said. Earlier, police said the claim of shooting Arora, 53, was made around midnight. The Facebook post in Punjabi claims that the crime was committed by Rajinder and Aman to avenge the sacrilege incidents of 2015. A post from the gangster’s social media page threatens to eliminate anyone involved in the sacrilege of the scriptures of Sikhs. A resident of Lamme near Ludhiana’s Jagraon town, Sukha is known for committing crimes and using FB to take responsibility for it. Bathinda range inspector general of police Jaskaran Singh said: “Special teams are focusing on various leads. We have no comment to offer as the investigation is on.” VICTIM’S SON MAIN ACCUSED IN 2015 SACRILEGE INCIDENT Manohar’s son Jatinderbir Arora, alias Jimmy, is the main accused in a 2015 incident of sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib at Gurusar village. Jimmy was released on bail in May last year. TWO PISTOLS WERE USED TO KILL VICTIM Manohar was shot dead by two masked men from close range at his office on Friday evening. Police sources said the accused had come on a motorcycle with their faces covered. Police sources said one of the assailants used two pistols to shoot Manohar, while the other accused also opened fire. Manohar collapsed after several rounds were fired. He was declared dead at a private medical college in the district. Gurmel Singh, a senior doctor at the local civil hospital said, the deceased suffered two bullet injuries in head and chest. Postmortem examination by three-member board opined that Arora died due to excessive bleeding and trauma, said Dr Singh. SSP said the shooters did not take away any cash from the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-gangster-sukha-gill-claims-responsibility-on-fb-for-killing-dera-sacha-sauda-follower/story-yJCqqodvIva3FJd5xvYoQJ.html
21-11-2020||Delhi||Teenager gets bail in Delhi riots case, court says no eyewitness to his role||A Delhi court Saturday granted bail to a 17-year-old student in a case to the north-east Delhi riots, stating that there was no public eyewitness who could attest to the boy’s role in the violence.Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat granted bail to the teenager on a bail bond of ₹15,000 and a surety of like sum in a case of rioting in the Welcome area during which one Sajid had received bullet injuries.The court said the teenager’s disclosure statement carried no meaning and the statement of constable Pushkar, given on April 19, on the incident that took place on February 25, was not a strong piece of evidence.“There is no public eyewitness who has attributed the role of the accused/applicant....in the present case. Apart from a disclosure statement, which by itself carries no meaning, there is one statement of constable Pushkar who identified the applicant/accused .... as one of the rioters in the incident of February 25, 2020. However, the statement by a police personnel, given only on April 19, 2020, for the incident of February 25, 2020, is not a strong piece of evidence,” Rawat said.He also noted that Sajid did not identify or name the teenager in his statement.During the hearing, advocate Abdul Gaffar, appearing for teenager, argued that the boy has been falsely implicated in the matter and was not even named in the FIR.Additional public prosecutor Saleem Ahmad, appearing for the police, opposed the bail plea and said the teenager was arrested in another riots case, wherein he had disclosed his involvement in the present case as well.Communal clashes had broken out in north-east Delhi on February 24, leaving at least 53 people dead and around 400 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/teenager-gets-bail-in-delhi-riots-case-court-says-no-eyewitness-to-his-role/story-6deweLJ9cAoKtvX1dd92qI.html
21-11-2020||Delhi||AAP accuses civic bodies of corruption in property tax collection; absurd claims, says BJP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led municipal corporations in Delhi (MCDs) of corruption in property tax collection and said it was going to hold a series of media briefings in the coming days to expose the corruption. The BJP later termed the allegations “false and absurd”.“In Delhi, where the property rates are higher than that in other states, the MCDs are still poor but councillors are rich. This is because there is rampant corruption in property tax collection perpetrated by BJP leaders. As per the audit report of the MCDs, a company was paid ₹13.77 crore for creating the Unique Property Identification Card (UPIC) system. The system was never implemented so as to divert money into the pockets of local BJP leaders and officials,” said AAP’s national spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj.He further said, “When the AAP government was formed in 2015, the Delhi government had an income of ₹30,000 crore, which increased to ₹60,000 crore in the next four years, even without the government increasing taxes. But the MCD taxpayers have decreased in 2017-18 due to non-compliance that was brought about by corruption. In 2015-16, they collected taxes from 3,95,219 people, the next year, the MCD collected taxes from 4,41,879 people. The number decreased in 2017-18 to 4,05,774 people.”Bhardwaj added that the AAP will hold a series of press conferences – starting Saturday – to expose the alleged corruption.The Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “These statements are false and absurd. We fail to understand how AAP leaders can even imagine that tax money can be syphoned off by individual leaders or officials of the MCDs. As per the law, tax collection is done in bank drafts. This leaves no chance for any pilferage. As for the decrease in the number of taxable properties is concerned, from 4.41 lakh to 4.05 lakh, that happened after small properties, especially in unregularised areas, were exempted from the tax net.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/aap-accuses-civic-bodies-of-corruption-in-property-tax-collection-absurd-claims-says-bjp/story-kgjvyHv9woysH8tTJdCWNI.html
21-11-2020||Delhi||Police bust gang that extorted money from commercial vehicle drivers in Delhi||Delhi Police on Saturday claimed to have busted a gang, whose members posed as recovery agents of insurance companies and extorted money from commercial vehicle drivers on the pretext of pending loan EMIs. Police have arrested one of the gang members, whom they identified as 37-year-old Bijender Lala, a resident of Burari. Police said Lala was previously involved in two incidents of robbery, reported from Samay Pur Badli and Okhla areas. A Maruti Swift car and ₹10,000 cash, which he had recently extorted from a taxi driver were recovered from him.Deputy commissioner of police (north) Anto Alphonse said on Friday, a taxi driver Jugal Kishore from New Usmanpur complained that he had bought a used commercial Hyundai Accent car about a year and a half ago from a person named Rinku Pandey for ₹1.3 lakh.“He said, on Thursday, while he was carrying a passenger to RML Hospital, his car was intercepted by a Swift car near Kashmere Gate. The occupants of that car approached Kishore and addressed him by the name of the previous owner of the car. The man also said Kishore has defaulted on a car loan and asked him to get it into the Swift to sort out the matter. But as soon as the complainant got inside the car, the driver started driving while the other man followed in Kishore’s car,” Alphonse said.The complainant told police that the men drove towards Uttar Pardesh and told him way that his car would be confiscated. “They said he would have to pay ₹15,000 to resolve the matter. They did not even let him speak to the previous car owner and threatened him with bodily harm. Once he paid the amount through Paytm, they did not give him any receipt of payment, instead they dropped him off at the Delhi-Noida border,” the DCP said.Later the complainant came to know that the loan amount against his car had already been cleared by the previous owner and lodged a police complaint. The DCP said, during investigation, consistent efforts were made to obtain the details of the Paytm account to which the money was transferred.“Accordingly, a trap was laid and one of the suspects, Bijender Lala was arrested. The Swift car and ₹10,000 of the extorted amount was recovered from him. During interrogation Lala disclosed that he earlier used to work as a recovery agent and that’s when he got the idea to extort money from people on the pretext of loan defaults,” Alphonse said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/police-bust-gang-that-extorted-money-from-commercial-vehicle-drivers-in-delhi/story-4QqjZKYhKj4pcO8TqfP85O.html
21-11-2020||City||Three seriously injured in car-truck collision on Ludhiana’s Tibba Road||Three persons, including a woman, suffered grievous injuries after a speeding truck rammed into their car near Kirpal Ashram on Tibba Road on Saturday evening. Two of the victims were identified as Jaspal Singh, 30, and Sardul Singh, 45, of Kapurthala. The woman, who is stated to be in a critical condition, has yet to be identified.“The victims were travelling from Kapurthala to Yamunanagar in Haryana in a Maruti Suzuki Alto. When they reached near Kirpal Ashram in Ludhiana, a speeding truck hit their vehicle,” said sub-inspector Daljit Singh, SHO, Tibba police station.The impact of the crash damaged the car completely, trapping the victims inside. The truck driver fled the spot leaving his vehicle behind. The SHO said they will lodge an FIR against the truck driver after recording the statement of the victims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-seriously-injured-in-car-truck-collision-on-ludhiana-s-tibba-road/story-OFfBqzegH6NhXlpc6sHVuL.html
21-11-2020||City||Close shave for Ludhiana man as shots fired at gambling session||A resident of Chhawni Mohalla had a narrow escape after three shots were fired at him during a brawl that erupted at a gambling session at his house on Friday night, police said. The Division Number 4 police have booked four persons, indentified as Rohit, alias Kalu, Ricky, Sicky and Shiv, on the complaint of Manish Kumar of Chhawni Mohalla. Manish claimed that the accused were at his house on Friday night where they had a heated exchange over a monetary issue. The four men started assaulting him and his friend. Meanwhile, Rohit brought out a gun and opened fire at him. Luckily, all three shots missed him. He immediately sounded the police, but the accused fled before the cops arrived. Inspector Satwant Singh, station house officer (SHO) at Division Number 4 police station, said as per preliminary investigation, Manish had organised a gambling session, which turned ugly.On his complaint, a case under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered. Efforts are on to arrest the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/close-shave-for-ludhiana-man-as-shots-fired-at-gambling-session/story-Cp0btAtPJ5eAbcbEjoECKM.html
21-11-2020||City||Amid Covid blues, Ludhiana industry hoping expos will be breath of fresh air||With the Union ministry of culture having allowed exhibitions from November 10, the city-based industry is looking forward to organising expositions in the beginning of 2021.After an extremely mundane year, the industry hopes the exhibitions in the financial capital of the state will bring back normalcy to various industrial sectors, such as hosiery, auto parts and hand tools, which have suffered heavy losses due to the Covid-19 lockdown and farmers’ ongoing rail-roko agitation.One major industrial exhibition already announced is the “Mach-Auto Expo 2021”, which will be organised from February 19-22, with over 550 exhibitors from India and abroad.“No exhibition took place since March due to the pandemic. Apart from hitting the expo sector, it also took a toll on the industry that could not upgrade itself in the absence of exhibitions. The expo planned in February will see participation of companies from India and abroad, which will help the local industry incorporate new technology and machinery, and expand business globally,” said Upkar Ahuja, president, Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU).The managing director of Udan Media and Communications Pvt Ltd, which manages trade fairs, GS Dhillon said, “Organisers of exhibitions have suffered huge losses in the absence of exhibitions all year due to the Covid outbreak. However, the industry is showing good response for the Mach-Auto expo, which will help pick up the exposition sector as well.”On digital platforms to organise such exhibitions, Dhillon said, “We are not equipped with the infrastructure and facilities required for digital expos. The government and industry jointly need to work on this.”For the hosiery sector, apart from providing an opportunity to upgrade its technology, exhibitions also give them a chance to get feedback from consumers. “Two exhibitions are organised for wholesale and retail hosiery sectors in June and July. During these exhibitions, we get feedback regarding the consumer demand, which helps us focus on manufacturing the right products. But, no exhibition could take place this year,” said Darshan Dawar, president, Knitwear Club and Ludhiana Woollen Manufacturers’ Association.Industry to rope in educational institutionsAhuja said with students coming up with various innovations that can useful for the industry, they will be roping in educational institutes, such as IITs.“We have also tied up Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College, Ludhiana, for the students’ skill development, which will equip them to graduate into industrial jobs with ease,” said Sushil Sharma, general secretary, Association of Ludhiana Machine Tool Industries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-covid-blues-ludhiana-industry-hoping-expos-will-be-breath-of-fresh-air/story-sgJTmXekuTf1NYqPNaIT3L.html
21-11-2020||City||Ludhiana woman decamps with in-laws’ cash, jewellery 16 days after marriage||A 25-year-old newly married woman and her three aides have been booked for stealing Rs 18,000 in cash and jewellery from her in-laws’ house in Sidhwan Kalan on November 16.The accused have been identified as Kamalpreet Kaur of Dodhar village, Moga; and Tejinder Pal of Gholiya Khurd village, Moga. Their two accomplices remain unidentified.The FIR has been lodged following the statement of Kamalpreet’s father-in-law Kulwant Singh of Sidhwan Kalan. He said his son, Gurpreet Singh, married Kamalpreet on November 1. While Gurpreet was away at work on November 16, Kamalpreet left saying she needed to pick up her maternal uncle from the bus stand, but never returned. When they looked for her, locals told them that they saw Kamalpreet leaving with three men in a car.Later, the complainant realised Rs 18,000 in cash and jewellery were missing from the house.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Anwar Masih, who is investigating the case, said a case under Sections 380 (theft in dwelling house, etc) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code had been lodged against the woman and her accomplices at the Jagraon Sadar police station. A hunt is on for their arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-woman-decamps-with-in-laws-cash-jewellery-16-days-after-marriage/story-ebSx1aeF7tKwk8yuTVnjEM.html
21-11-2020||Noida||Only 100 people to be allowed at wedding functions in Noida and Ghaziabad||Noida and Ghaziabad - the twin cities bordering national capital Delhi - have re-imposed cap on the number of guests to be invited for weddings.According to Hindustan Times’ sister publication Hindustan, the district administration in Noida and Ghaziabad have restricted the number of guests and weddings and other functions to 100.The authorities have also said that violators will face tough action, according to Hindustan. The decision has been taken due to a spike in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases.Uttar Pradesh recorded 2,326 new infections on Saturday, which took the statewide tally to 5,24,223, according to health department. Twenty four fresh fatalities were recorded in the last 24 hours, which pushed the death toll up to 7,524, officials further said.“So far, 4,93,228 Covid-19 patients have recovered from the disease in the state. The recovery rate stands at 94.09 per cent.” Additional Chief Secretary (Medical and Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said.He added that the count of the active cases in the state stands at 23,471. He also said that the positivity rate of November is 1.6 per cent.Till now, as many as 7,524 Covid-19 patients have died.He also informed that on Friday 1.73 lakh samples were tested, taking the total samples tested in the state to 1.78 crore so far.Meanwhile, national capital Delhi has witnessed a spurt in coronavirus cases since October 28, when the daily caseload breached the 5,000-mark for the first time, and recorded the highest single-day spike of 8,593 cases on November 11. The Delhi government had earlier this week capped the number of guests at wedding functions to 50, reverting to its earlier order.The Uttar Pradesh government has already started random checking of people coming from Delhi due to the spike in the number of cases.Delhi recorded 6,608 fresh Covid-19 cases in a day taking the infection tally on Friday to over 5.17 lakh, while 118 more fatalities during the same period pushed the death toll to 8,159. The positivity rate stands at 10.59 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/only-100-people-to-be-allowed-at-wedding-functions-in-noida-and-ghaziabad/story-4GB1jw1qwBL6C80wNkkKTP.html
21-11-2020||City||Govt invites objections to upcoming Mattewara industrial park in Ludhiana||Amid the row over establishment of an industrial park near Mattewara forest in Ludhiana, the Punjab department of town and country planning has sought objections/suggestions regarding land use amendments for the project.In a public notice issued on Friday, the department invited objections/suggestions within 30 days, even as different NGOs, under the banner of the joint action committee to save Mattewara forest, have been up in arms against the park.The NGOs contend that the park will damage the Mattewara forest and its wildlife, and further pollute the Sutlej river.The public notice issued on Friday states that objections/suggestions have been invited to allow modern industrial park/mixed-land use development by the Punjab government under a central scheme. The park has been proposed in a no-manufacturing zone within 1km belt along the Dhusi Bandh in villages Sekhowal, Ghari Fazal and Salempur with adequate flood protection measures, along with construction of a road over the embankment to sufficiently isolate the road. The objections can be submitted with the office of chief town planner, Punjab, PUDA Bhawan, Mohali.Social activist Kuldeep Khaira said, “NGOs from different parts of the state and even Rajasthan have opposed the project, as it will add to the pollution in Sutlej river, through which surface water is supplied to Rajasthan. It will also damage the Mattewara forest and its wildlife. The government is not even providing information about the project under the RTI Act, as we are working to file a petition in the National Green Tribunal to stop this project.”Convener of Faridkot-based NGO Naroa Punjab Manch, Gurpreet Singh Chandbaja said, “The state government has already failed to reduce pollution in Ludhiana Buddha Nullah, for which the industry is also responsible. Now, the government has proposed an industrial park near Mattewara forest. Ludhianvis are against the project and we stand by their side.”The state government has proposed to establish the industrial park in around 960 acres on government and panchayat land in Haidar Nagar, Sekhowal, Salempur, Sailkiana and Machian Kalan, among other villages.Earlier, the residents of Sekhowal village had opposed acquisition of 416 acres of village land, but it was eventually transferred to the government in September this year. The Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) has already acquired 960 acres for construction of the park.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-invites-objections-to-upcoming-mattewara-industrial-park-in-ludhiana/story-yRWgvJ80UsOwzYfvgq8W7O.html
21-11-2020||Pune||Wagholi and Kharadi residents in Pune choke in polluted air due to garbage burning||Hundreds of residents in the eastern suburbs of Wagholi and Kharadi are facing serious issues related to rampant and large-scale garbage burning in the area. The residents, especially small children, patients and elderly citizens are suffering from serious breathing issues due to pollutants floating in the early morning air and the burning plastic waste set on fire by miscreants. In Kharadi, indiscriminately dumped garbage on the open ground was set on the fire late night and at odd hours leading to breathlessness and pollution in the area, claimed area residents. “During the ongoing Covid-19 crisis, burning garbage is a crime and investigation needs to be done regarding who is behind the incidents. The CCTV surveillance project of PMC must be used to catch the culprits,” said Ameya Jadhav, a Kharadi resident.“Wagholi is suffering due to unplanned infrastructure and air pollution has increased considerably during the last few months as the main contributor is ineffective waste management. Since the existing waste treatment facility is in shambles, miscreants are burning the garbage openly during the night and endangering our lives. We have reported this issue to the gram panchayats and the concerned departments but to no avail,” he said. Satish Joshi, the former secretary of Marvel Cerise co-operative housing society and vice-chairman of Kharadi resident association said, “For the past three weeks, we are facing issues related to heavy smoke in the air and Kharadi residents are finding it difficult to breathe. The air outside has become unbearable now. Burning garbage is illegal and we wonder what is preventing the PMC from acting against the offenders.” PMC joint commissioner and solid waste management department head Dnyaneshwar Molak said, “Based on the complaints, a fact-finding team will visit the spot and take necessary action soon. The citizens must inform us about the incidents so that appropriate action will be taken.” Prashant Ranpise, PMC fire chief said, “Whenever the fire department control room receives a call about a fire our primary responsibility is to respond to the call in real-time and bring the fire under control. The maximum number of fires due to garbage burning is reported in the months of October, November and December. Garbage fire is major ones and we are keeping a close tab on such type of incidents in the city and surrounding areas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/wagholi-and-kharadi-residents-choke-in-polluted-air-due-to-garbage-burning/story-SvNcpVFTVzKhqMt8C0NAzK.html
21-11-2020||Pune||Man, mother assaulted in road rage incident in Pune||A 23-year-old man was injured and his mother sustained head injuries, after a man whom he had overtaken riding a motorcycle on the road in Daund, came to the injured man’s house and attacked him. The attack with blunt weapons took place on Wednesday night. However, a case in the matter was registered on Thursday. The attack happened at the injured man’s house in Swamichicholi in Daund taluka of Pune at 7:30pm. The 23-year-old has suffered head injuries and a fractured arm while his mother has head injuries and was allegedly molested by the men who pulled at her saree as she tried to intervene. The police have booked at least 10 people in the case and identified nine of them as, Ramkrushna Sudam Matre, Shivaji Matre, Sudam Matre, Jeevan Sudam Matre, Prashant Shivaji Matre, Prashant Hanumant Desai, Lakhan Matre, Bhagyavant Tatyaram Matre, and Chandrakant Pote, all residents of Pune district. The police have arrested one man identified a Lakhan Matre in the case and are looking for the others. “They live in the same village and know each other. One of the Matres and the injured man were going on a bike earlier that day when he allegedly cut him off while riding, which enraged the Matres. We do not know of any earlier rivalry yet. He is stable in a hospital in Bhigwan but has sustained grievous injuries,” said police sub inspector Katey of Daund police station who is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/man-mother-assaulted-in-road-rage-incident/story-KRIcROfACsR0CofCQUdP3J.html
21-11-2020||Pune||Good works of police during Maha lockdown in memoir to be published on 26/11||A memoir of the good work done by the state police will be published on 26/11 by the office of the director general of police (DGP), said DGP Subhodh Jaiswal in Pune on Friday. The police work during the lockdown announced in the light of the Covid-19 pandemic has garnered good public opinion among the citizens of Maharashtra, he said, while mentioning that the memoir will be in the form of a coffee-table book. “We have to build on the good public opinion formed during the lockdown. There was some unbelievable work done by the police in the state,” said DGP Jaiswal. “The trust deficit that we are suffering from has improved during the lockdown,” said Sanjay Kumar, ADG, training and special squads, Maharashtra police. Stories of the Pune police work during the lockdown were earlier published in a compilation called “Feel the Beat”, by the city police. During the lockdown, the state police have lost 295 officers to Covid-19, according to the DGP. DGP Jaiswal and ADG Kumar were among multiple speakers at the inauguration of the Common man - Police unit, at the Centre for Police Research (CPR), Pashan, on Friday. The two were also among the many senior officers, including Pune city police commissioner Amitabh Gupta, Pimpri-Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prakash, and Pune rural police superintendent Abhinav Deshmukh, who inaugurated the police museum at CPR. Also among the people present was retired DGP of Maharashtra police Vasant Saraf, along with Special IG Prakash Muttyal (retired) who last served with Pimpri Chinchwad police; and advocate Shihir Hire who serves as public prosecutor on multiple state cases. Books of Saraf, Muttyal, and Hire were also released by the DGP during the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/police-memoir-to-be-published-on-26-11/story-A6T2jPg3SH5OxztzJ6JQeO.html
21-11-2020||Pune||Murder convict flees from Yerawada open jail in Pune||A murder convict lodged in Yerawada open jail in Pune fled the premise on Thursday morning. The man was identified as Ajay Peter Tonapu, a resident of the open jail of Yerawada Central Jail and a native of Khatti district of Jharkhand. He was serving life imprisonment in a case of murder and destruction of evidence registered under Section 302, 24, and 201 of Indian Penal Code at Paud police station. On Thursday morning, Tonapu told the guards that he was visiting the bathroom and managed to flee the premise. The open jail is a colony made with fewer restrictions for prisoners for good behaviour or verity of crime. The police are yet to find the convict. A jail guard lodged a complaint in the matter and a case under relevant Section of Indian Penal Code was registered against the man at Yerawada police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/murder-convict-flees-from-yerawada-open-jail/story-soX062Aez7b5NtOguR1qGK.html
21-11-2020||Pune||Roads under duress pose risk to commuters in Hadapsar and Undri in Pune||Two roads which are vital in connecting Hadapsar and Undri and run parallel to water bodies are caving in due to non-construction and repair for the past two years. The Mutha Canal road which connects BT Kawade road to Race Course and the Dorabjee Heritage Mall road are now posing as a daily threat to commuters in the area. A major portion of the Mutha Canal road has collapsed due to water pressure in the canal. The three-kilometre road’s security fence has broken down at many places. According to commuters, if necessary, safety measures are not undertaken it would lead to vehicles landing straight into the canal. Similarly, the Dorabjee Heritage mall road which connects Mohammadwadi to Undri, Sayyednagar, Pisoli , Kondhwa, NIBM and other nearby suburbs has broken down near the Marvel Sangria turn. A major portion of the road has gone into the huge nullah which is usually flooded during monsoon with no repair work in sight. Sangeeta Patil, a commuter who stays in the BT Kawade road area said, “The road has become a death trap for the past two years and no steps have been taken by civic authorities to carry out repairs. The concerned government department is oblivious to our woes and have no time for either mending the fence or constructing the damaged portion. We are planning to agitate against the inefficiency of the administration as our lives are at risk. There have been instances when two-wheelers skid off into the caved portion of the road. Luckily, nobody lost their life.” According to Daljeet Goraya, secretary, Ganga Kingston society, Mohammadwadi, a tree fell down at the spot near Marvel Sangria nullah road some two years ago and since then the patch has developed. “The faulty patch of road caved further and we registered a complaint with the civic authority but they never paid any heed to it. Still, commuters are facing serious issues while travelling on the road but PMC is yet to respond. This patch was mainly caved in because of nullah running parallel to the road. The soil is continuously eroding since this nullah flows during rainstorm and damages the road,” Goraya said. According to Goraya, soil erosion has taken place due to continuous deforestation in the area. Pune mayor Muralidhar Mohol said, “We will inspect and find out all the technical reasons behind the road faults and a comprehensive road improvement programme will be undertaken at both the spots to ensure smooth and hassle-free travel to commuters.” V G Kulkarni, PMC road department said, “Currently, 30 per cent of the budget is reserved for maintenance of roads and only 10 per cent funds are available for any other works which need to be done. We are equally concerned about the roads mentioned and a permanent solution will be provided in commuters’ interest at the earliest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/roads-under-duress-pose-risk-to-commuters-in-hadapsar-and-undri/story-ulb9Trk8qsN46EhKeyZeGN.html
21-11-2020||Pune||BJP, MVA trade barbs ahead of Pune graduate constituency polls||With just ten days left for the Pune graduate constituency polls, campaigning has picked up pace as Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) nominee Sangram Deshmukh is locked in a tight battle against Arun Lad of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP).As many as 62 candidates are in the fray here for election to Pune graduate constituency. These seats are part of the five graduates’ and teachers’ constituencies of the legislative council for which voting will take place on December 1.From BJP, most of its senior leaders in the state plan to campaign for Deshmukh while for Lad, Congress-NCP and Sena held a crucial meeting in Pune on Friday in which they discussed to focus on key areas to wrest the constituency from BJP, which has lined up a battery of leaders including former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and party leader Ashish Shekar.Following the meeting of Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) leaders, Maharashtra minister and state NCP chief Jayant Patil accused the previous BJP-led government of pushing the state-run power transmission company Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) into a crisis due to the power bills allegedly worth Rs 67,000 crore outstanding from consumers in the state.His remarks came amid criticism being faced by the MVA government over the issue of inflated electricity bills, with demand growing for waiver of these bills.“During the BJP-led government’s five-year rule, power bills worth Rs 67,000 crore were outstanding, due to which the MSEDCL went into a financial crisis. Today, the common man is facing hardships due to the power bills. The previous BJP government in the state had put the MSEDCL into crisis...,” he said.Leader of opposition in Maharashtra Legislative Council and state BJP leader Pravin Darekar, on Tuesday, accused the ruling Shiv Sena and NCP of trying to overpower their ally Congress in the state by ignoring its demands.Darekar was in Pune to campaign for BJP’s candidate from Pune graduate constituency-Deshmukh.Targeting MVA government over backtracking on its promise of power bills, Darekar said, “While on one hand, those in power gave a package to the public transport department, the energy ministry, however, has been deprived of it.”“The MVA government has given a package to the state transport department which is headed by a Shiv Sena minister but refused to give any relief to the energy ministry the post of which is held by Congress’s Nitin Raut. Therefore, it is clear that the Shiv Sena and the NCP are trying to overpower the Congress party in Maharashtra,” Darekar said during a press conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/bjp-mva-trade-barbs-ahead-of-pune-graduate-constituency-polls/story-8sJkTVGxkcIz50gevZS8iL.html
21-11-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka CM warns pro-Kannada groups against imposing statewide bandh against Maratha Corporation||As pro-Kannada groups decided to go ahead with Karnataka bandh on December 5 against the establishment of the Maratha Development Corporation(MDC), Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Saturday asked them to withdraw it, as he warned against any forceful enforcement.Asserting that he was for Kannada and Kannadigas, Yediyurappa said, “I’m ready for all that is required to be done for Kannadigas, but it is not right to call for bandh for some other reason, people will not appreciate it.” Speaking to reporters here, he said he will not allow forceful enforcement of bandh anywhere.“I’m observing the burning of effigies and bad behaviours. we will have to take strict action.Let them protest peacefully, but the government will not tolerate attempts to give it a different turn,” he added.Pro Kannada organisations at a meeting on Friday had decided to go ahead with the bandh on December 5 as planned earlier, and have set a November 30 deadline for the government to withdraw its decision to establish Maratha Development Corporation.Terming the bandh call ‘unnecessary,’ Yediyurappa had earlier too warned pro-Kannada groups against forcing a bandh on the people of the state.He had even clarified that the decision to set up a Maratha Development Corporation had nothing to do with the Marathi language, and it is for the Maratha community residing in the state. Noting that his government was making all honest efforts to provide justice to all the sections of the society, Yediyurappa on Saturday said, there is no room for discrimination. “Let them (Kannada groups/activists) understand this and withdraw their bandh. I request the activists for cooperation with folded hands,” he added. Kannada activists have been opposing the creation of Maratha Development Corporation, ever since the government mooted the move earlier this month. It has now been approved by the cabinet also. The government had earlier announced the setting up of the Maratha Development Authority, but subsequently changed it to corporation, as authority has to be constituted by a law, by passing an act in the legislature. The creation of the corporation is seen as a move by the BJP to woo the Maratha community that has considerable presence in the Basavakalyan assembly constituency also Belagavi Lok Sabha constituency, which is due for a bypoll.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-cm-warns-pro-kannada-groups-against-imposing-statewide-bandh-against-maratha-corporation/story-SXfVgcaMu3Q2VnMXOwhFGP.html
21-11-2020||Pune||Pune varsity final exam students complain over discrepancies in results||After final year students of Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) and affiliated colleges complained of various issues faced by them during the online and offline exams, now in a new set of allegations they claim there are discrepancies in results.From October 12 SPPU started its final year exams for 3,300 subjects for which 2.5 lakh students enrolled. While for all those students who couldn’t attend the exams in the first regular schedule due to any reasons, they were allowed to reappear for the online exam from November 5 to 7.After SPPU started announcing results online students complained that some were allotted wrong marks, marked absent for exams and some have even got zero marks, among others.“Till now we have received more than 800 complaints from students of various departments related to the results. So today (on Thursday) we met Prof Nitin Karmalkar, vice-chancellor, SPPU, regarding these issues and demanded to take necessary steps immediately to resolve it,” said Kamlakar Shete, a final year student and Pune city vice-president of Yuvak Kranti Dal students’ organisation.Another student Ketan Gaikwad from commerce stream said, “My exam papers were good and I expected more marks, but I have scored very less in a couple of subjects. I have raised my issue with the college administration and want to review my marks.”Right from the first day of exams students who appeared for online and offline exams faced issues while writing the papers. For the offline exams, 113 centres were identified where the physical exams were conducted in Pune, Nashik and Ahmednagar districts. These exams were of 50 marks with multiple-choice questions (MCQ) for a duration of one hour.“SPPU has started announcing the results online and the process is still in progress. Those students who have doubts can approach the SPPU examination department. The issues will be resolved as per the rules and regulations of the examination,” said Mahesh Kakade, director, board of examination and evaluation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-varsity-final-exam-students-complain-over-discrepancies-in-results/story-mnKFMdpLClAfTqiFPUy0mK.html
21-11-2020||Pune||1.35 lakh properties registered in state during Diwali drawing in revenue of Rs 879 crore||The Inspector General of Registration and Stamps has, during a 15-day period prior to, and leading into Diwali, registered 1.35 lakh property documents, with a revenue of Rs 879 crore for the state exchequer.Till November 18, a total of Rs9,102 crore in revenue was generated. On Wednesday, November 18, alone, 7,500 documents were registered and a revenue of Rs 41 crore collected. Last year, the IGR office was shut on the occasion of Diwali.IGR Omprakash Deshmukh said, “We had kept registration offices open during Dusshera and Diwali. The festive season has seen a good response from property buyers which reflects the changing sentiments of buyers. It is a positive development.”According to the Confederation of Real Estate Developers of India (Credai), during the Covid lockdown period, March to July, there was a decline in the sale of properties and registration was at its lowest. As per Credai, property registrations have gone up by 36 per cent in September-November, when compared with registration in the corresponding months of 2019. Credai maintains that 2.73 lakh documents were registered in November alone, with 1.21 lakh documents registered in the first 13 days of the month.Credai state president Rajeev Parikh said that the state government’s decision to bring down stamp duty rates had a positive impact on the real estate market.“There is a significant increase in the number of property buyers across the state due to reduction in stamp duty and also a number of concessions granted by real estate developers to the buyers during the festive month. These buyers had halted their decision to purchase properties due to Covid-19, but have now gone ahead with their buying,” Parikh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-35-lakh-property-documents-registered-during-diwali-drawing-in-revenue-of-rs-879-crore/story-8u2qDtAclSgbVohQ0jtLGP.html
21-11-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab farmers to lift rail blockade completely from Monday||Punjab farmers will completely lift their nearly two-month-long rail blockade against the Centre’s new agriculture laws from Monday to allow goods and passenger trains to ply in the state. The announcement came after chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh invited leaders of all 31 farmer unions to Chandigarh for talks to break the deadlock over resuming train services in Punjab, the CM’s media adviser Raveen Thukral tweeted. “The decision was taken in response to the impassioned appeal by the chief minister at a meeting with kisan (farmer) unions,” he said. “The kisan unions will allow the resumption of all trains from day after tomorrow (Monday) evening. There will be no hampering of operations for 15 days during which the central government should open talks. If talks don’t happen in a fortnight then the agitation will resume after 15 days,” the government spokesman said. Capt Amarinder had also urged the Centre to support his government in creating a congenial environment for ending the agitation, which had grave repercussions for the state and the nation. Punjab farmers’ bodies on Wednesday had said that they would consider allowing passenger trains to run in the state if the Centre starts running the goods trains first. However, the railways had refused, saying it would either operate both freight and passenger trains or none. The suspension of goods trains has hit the supplies of fertilisers for the agriculture sector and coal for thermal power plants, besides adversely affecting the industry. Farmers, who are protesting against the three farm laws, have said that they will reach Delhi through five highways connecting the national capital on November 26 as part of their Delhi Chalo call. Farmers have expressed fears that the new laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the mercy of corporates. They have been demanding that the laws be repealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-farmers-to-lift-rail-blockade-completely-from-monday/story-alkFGBZj9JBZtyVbZ8ryHI.html
21-11-2020||Dehradun||33 trainee IAS officers test Covid-19 positive||As many as 33 trainee Indian Administrative Service officers have tested Covid-19 positive at Mussoorie’s Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration and prompted authorities to declare six hostels there as containment zones for 14 days beginning Friday.In an order issued on Friday, Dehradun district magistrate Ashish Srivastava said the hostels will be under complete lockdown from Friday and all residents will have to remain indoors.Sub-divisional magistrate Manish Kumar said the institute has been sealed for two days for complete sanitisation as per protocols. “The hostels will remain as containment zones for 14 days. All the patients are being taken care of inside the institute with continuous monitoring from the district administration.”In a tweet, the Academy said 428 trainees are on campus for the 95th foundation course. “Academy is taking every measure to break the chain of Covid-19 spread in consonance with guidelines of government. Food and other necessities are being delivered to the officer trainees in their hostels by staff who have been equipped adequately in protective gear.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/33-trainee-ias-officers-test-covid-19-positive/story-RvrO7ebtsRZkjJLofqRuZN.html
21-11-2020||City||Himachal to launch drive to find covid-19 cases in state||Shimla Himachal Pradesh is completely equipped to deal with the corona epidemic and the health department has adequate number of ventilators, pulse oximeters, oxygen cylinders and essential medicines, health secretary Amitabh Awasthi claimed on Saturday. He added that from November 25, an Active Case Finding Campaign will be launched in the state, under the name of “Him Suraksha”. As per its module, health workers will go door-to-door to collect information on covid-19 and symptoms of tuberculosis, leprosy and non-communicable diseases like diabetes and blood pressure etc. Appropriate treatment will be provided. “In many patients, only mild or no symptoms are available. Such persons are being advised to stay in home isolation,” said Awasthi, adding that it is ensured that all facilities are available in that person’s home as per guidelines and one attendant is needed, at all times, to take care of that person.He added a medicine kit, with a pulse oximeter is also provided. “A person can check his oxygen saturation level himself, using a pulse oximeter and in case of any discrepancy, the department must inform a doctor,” he added. As of now, of 6,381 active patients in the state, 5,673 are under home isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-to-launch-drive-to-find-covid-19-cases-in-state/story-FbOz9B82HD37pYvOTnTjuN.html
21-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC says false allegation of impotence against spouse amounts to cruelty||Levelling false allegation of impotence against a spouse amounts to cruelty, the Delhi High Court has held while upholding the divorce granted to a man, whose estranged wife had claimed that he was incapable of sexual intercourse.The high court agreed with the submission of the husband’s counsel that the allegations levelled in the written statement filed by the wife were “grave and serious”, and likely to impact the man’s self-image and adversely affect his mental wellbeing.“Thus, having regard to the law on the subject, we find no infirmity in the findings and observations of the trial court that the allegation of the appellant (wife) in the written statement with respect to the impotency clearly falls within the concept of cruelty as defined under law,” a bench of Justice Manmohan and Justice Sanjeev Narula said.The high court’s verdict came while dismissing the woman’s appeal against a trial court order granting the husband’s petition for grant of divorce under the Hindu Marriage Act.The estranged couple had got married in June 2012 here. While it was a first marriage for the woman, the man was a divorcee then.In the plea, the man had sought to declare the marriage null and void on the ground that it could not be consummated due to the woman’s alleged impotency and that his consent was obtained by concealing several material facts related to her psychological disposition. Had he known them, he would not have consented for the marriage, it said.The woman, in her response, in turn alleged that the man was suffering from impotency (erectile dysfunction) which was the true cause of non-consummation of marriage, his parents were quarrelsome, they demanded dowry and she was cruelly treated and even badly thrashed by the man in front of his parents.Before the high court, the woman sought to set aside the trial court’s order granting divorce decree and also prayed for restitution of conjugal rights, saying she was willing to save matrimonial alliance.The high court said the woman’s allegation was rejected by the trial court on the basis of the testimony of an expert witness who after physically examining the man had found that he was normal with no problem of impotence.It said mental cruelty is primarily contextual, pertaining to human behaviour or conduct with respect to matrimonial duties and obligations and it is essential to see whether the conduct of the party is of such a nature, that a reasonable person would neither tolerate the same, nor be reasonably expected to live with the other party.The high court noted that the woman had been reinforcing the allegation of impotency throughout the litigation and these false accusations which could not be proved are bound to cause deep hurt and anguish to the man, who can reasonably apprehend that it would be perilous for him to live with her.“It is also abundantly clear that due to the mental pain, agony and suffering caused by the false accusations, the respondent (man) cannot be asked to put up with the conduct of the appellant (woman) and to continue to live with her,” the high court said, adding there was an irretrievable breakdown of the marriage.It also said that no party can be excused of recklessness in allegations made before the court of law and the consequences of false assertions have to follow.Allowing a person to get away with the consequences of false allegations, or treating them as trivial, would not advance the cause of justice, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-hc-says-false-allegation-of-impotence-against-spouse-amounts-to-cruelty/story-8Y1fpoE0S4aClJKYTPpKCL.html
21-11-2020||Mumbai||Aaditya Thackeray slams opposition, says ‘parties indulge in politics, we focus on work’||Maharashtra environment minister Aaditya Thackeray, who visited the work of girder launching for the new Patripool rail overbridge (ROB) on Saturday, said that the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) has taken up several such developmental works across the state. “Patripool has been a major issue however now the work has been initiated after the mega blocks was permitted by the railway. Similarly, several such developmental works are undertaken across the state by the MVA,” said Aaditya Thackeray. Slamming the opposition party on developmental works he said, “Politics is a part of everything. Politics, for us, is only during the elections after which we focus on work. Other parties continue doing politics throughout.” While Shiv Sena MP Shrikant Shinde has been taking all the credits for the work of the Patripool bridge through his social media handles, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders have been slamming the state government and Shinde for delaying the project. Also read: ‘Desist from policy of supporting terror’ - India slams Pak over JeM attackIn March 2020, BJP party workers had staged a protest targeting the Shiv Sena for delaying the work. The 104-year-old Patripool bridge was dismantled on November 18, 2018, following which there has been a demand to build the new bridge as it affected the traffic movement in Kalyan-Dombivli. “It is a very big day for the entire Kalyan-Dombivli city as the launching of girder is carried out. When the bridge was dismantled two years back it was done in emergency considering the safety of the commuters as it was declared dangerous,” said Shinde. “The planning and procedure for the new bridge was initiated after the bridge was dismantled. This took time as we had to plan from the beginning and also redesign the plan due to the hurdles caused by a gutter. We had to get permissions from the railways and local body. After that, the lockdown affected the work as workers were not available. However, we managed to speed up the work and now it is in its final stage,” added Shinde. Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) MLA Raju Patil, who reached the spot, was not allowed by the police. “I reached the spot to have a look at the girder launching work. Police thought we arrived for a protest at the site. They were doing their duty for law and order. I wanted to meet the civic commissioner. If we are protesting, we intimate about it in advance.”The launch work of the 76-meter-long girder will continue tomorrow. The Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) has claimed to make the new two-lane bridge ready by December end for the commuters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/aaditya-thackeray-slams-opposition-says-parties-indulge-in-politics-we-focus-on-work/story-jkpCpT39vMU9x9XQ36S3ON.html
21-11-2020||Mumbai||Bombay high court says parties to dispute cannot be forced to arbitrate||Parties to a dispute cannot be forced to arbitrate by issuing a writ, the Bombay high court has said while dismissing separate petitions seeking a direction to the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) to refer to arbitration its demand for Rs 107.84 crore as its additional revenue share.The bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni said forcing parties to arbitration would be contrary to the concept defined under the Arbitration and Conciliation Act. It added it will also be contrary to the Indian Contract Act, under which free consent of the parties is a must for a valid contract.“It cannot be overlooked that lack of valid arbitration agreement is one of the basic grounds for setting aside an arbitral award,” said the bench. “Thus, to foist an arbitration agreement on a party is nothing short of imposing an illegality.”MEP RGSL Toll Bridge Private Limited and Raima Toll and Infrastructure Private Limited had moved the court after MSRDC rejected their proposal for referring to arbitration the latter’s demand for additional revenue from the toll collected.Senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, who represented the petitioners, cited a clause in their toll collection contracts with MSRDC and said it is akin to an “arbitration clause”. He added it was required to be read as a clause providing for arbitration in case of a dispute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-high-court-says-parties-to-dispute-cannot-be-forced-to-arbitrate/story-zyybG6OADj1DFeBToHdPMP.html
21-11-2020||Chandigarh||Three of six accused of gangraping Fazilka woman arrested in Amritsar||Three of the six men accused of gangraping a 25-year-old Fazilka woman, who was in Amritsar to pay obeisance at Golden Temple, have been arrested, police said on Saturday. The arrested were identified as Yuvraj Singh of Vanike village, Gurpreet Singh of Dhanoa village and Kuldeep Singh of Ranghar village in Amritsar district. A search is on for three more accused, including Gursewak Singh. All three arrested are unmarried and aged between 20 and 23 years. The police said that all six accused worked as labourers in grain markets and brick-kilns. The Fazilka woman was allegedly raped by the six at Attari village on Wednesday night. They were booked under Sections 363 (kidnapping), 376-D (gang-rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at A-division police station on Friday. ACCUSED OFFERED TO TAKE HER TO ATTARI The complainant said that she had come to Amritsar on Tuesday to visit Golden Temple and Gurdwara Shaheedan Sahib. “I slept in the gurdwara premises on Tuesday night. The next morning around 10am, I went to the city bus stand to return to my native place but Yuvraj Singh approached me and offered to take me to the Attari-Wagah border. He convinced me to accompany him,” she said. She told the police that the accused took her to an abandoned house in Preet Nagar instead where his friends and he took turns raping her and threatened to kill her if she informed the police. On Thursday morning, she was dropped at India Gate in Amritsar after which she reached the police station and narrated the incident. ARRESTED FROM HOMES AFTER RAIDS Station house officer (SHO) of A-division police station Narayan Singh said the woman was barefoot at the bus stand when Yuvraj took her to the market on the pretext of buying her a pair of shoes. He won her confidence and asked her to visit the Attari-Wagah border with him. Yuvraj called Gursewak to the spot and the two took her to an abandoned house on a motorcycle, where the other accused also reached. The SHO said that three of the accused were arrested after their houses were raided on Friday night. The medical examination of the woman was conducted on Friday and her statement was recorded before a judicial magistrate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-of-six-accused-of-gangraping-fazilka-woman-arrested-in-amritsar/story-k8z8WIsRHE7FSAW0NVMoBO.html
21-11-2020||Mumbai||‘State or concentration camp?’: BJP MLA slams Maharashtra govt over reopening of schools||Former Maharashtra school education minister and BJP leader Ashish Shelar on Saturday criticised the state government, saying it is doing little to minimise the confusion among parents over reopening of schools from November 23.The state government has allowed reopening of schools for classes 9 to 12 depending on the Covid-19 situation in local areas.“The role of local officials in deciding whether to open a school or not is important, but is the state government going to do anything or not? Will the government take a firm stand after holding talks with teachers, parents, officials and representatives of school staff. Students are scared over the chaos at the state level,” he told reporters.Shelar said students are suffering due to the state government’s decision on conducting examinations and also due to delay in declaring results of various examinations.“There is still no clue about admissions for various courses. There is no clarification on fees...Is it a state or a concentration camp?” he asked.He alleged the state government was not holding any dialogue with teachers, parents or students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-or-concentration-camp-bjp-mla-slams-maharashtra-govt-over-reopening-of-schools/story-tXM6WbXQHKCy4kBLXqjWyK.html
21-11-2020||Lucknow||CBI registers two FIRs against ex-UP Shia Waqf Board chairman, 4 others||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) registered two FIRs against former chairman of Uttar Pradesh Shia Central Waqf Board’s Wasim Rizvi and four others for alleged illegal sale, purchase and transfer of waqf properties in Prayagraj and Kanpur, CBI officials said on Friday. They said the two FIRs were registered with Anti-Corruption Bureau of the CBI’s Lucknow unit on Wednesday and Thursday. The UP government had recommended the CBI investigation into the alleged illegal sale and transfer of waqf properties worth several crores by UP Shia Central Waqf Board and the UP Sunni Central Waqf Board on October 11, 2019. In the same matter, two separate FIRs were registered in Prayagraj and Lucknow in 2016 and 2017 respectively. Also read: ‘Desist from policy of supporting terror’ - India slams Pak over JeM attackCBI spokesman RK Gaur confirmed that the premier investigating agency registered two regular cases against Rizvi and others, invoking charges of cheating, criminal intimidation and criminal breach of trust. In a video circulated on social media, Rizvi blamed a prominent cleric for the step taken by the CBI. He also said it was unfortunate that the cleric had succeeded in misguiding the government against him. In the FIR lodged on Wednesday, Allahabad Development Authority (now known as Prayagraj Development Authority) junior engineer Sudhank Mishra accused Rizvi and other unidentified people of illegal construction of shops at an Imambada in Allahabad (Prayagraj). In the second FIR lodged on Thursday, one Tausiful Hasan accused Rizvi and four others, including Naresh Krishna Somani, Vijay Krishna Somani, Shia Waqf Board Ghulam administrative officer Sayyden Rizvi and the inspector of the Shia Waqf Board for grabbing land in Kanpur through cheating and intimidating the caretaker of the property.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/cbi-registers-two-firs-against-ex-up-shia-waqf-board-chairman-4-others/story-fcYpIJsz7KDdEte93BZv7M.html
21-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi markets stay open: Shopkeepers geared up to take precautions, shoppers support||Due to the concern in rising cases of Covid-19 in Delhi, there were thoughts to shut the hotspot markets, to limit the crowds. But, in a recent statement released by Delhi Government, it has been decided that anyone found not wearing a mask in the market will be provided one, free of cost by the market associations. Shopkeepers have also been advised to keep handy, spare masks and hand sanitisers for shoppers. Those shopkeepers who were worried about facing more losses if the lockdown is implemented, have heaved a sigh of relief. Amit Gupta, a wholesale shopkeepers in Old Delhi’s Sadar Bazaar, says, “During the festive season, 50% customers were seen in markets without masks in Old-Delhi, they were carrying masks but were too careless to wear them. I remember I told most of them to wear them and then enter in my shop and they all obliged. So, I feel asking shopkeepers to give masks is a good idea, kam se kam market shutdown to nahi hogi... We have dealt with huge losses already.”Since the talk of markets getting shut down again has been in news, those in market associations have also been contemplating how to evade the situation, while making shopping a safe experience. Sanjeev Mehta, president, Khan Market Traders Association, says, “In Khan Market, we have hardly seen anyone without a mask, so making more masks available is indeed a good step. But in a complex such as Khan Market, it wouldn’t make much difference. However, we will provide extra masks and sanitisers to the shopkeepers as well as visitors.”But since the cases of Covid-19 are increasing rapidly, shopaholics who love to frequent markets are divided on whether not shutting down markets is a good move at this point in time. Kriti Khurana, a college student pursuing CA, says, “If you see the number of cases as compared to the number of beds available for the treatment even in extreme cases, one would get to know the huge difference and the need to take precautionary measures as soon as possible. I don’t support any sort of lockdown. But what is needed is absolute willingness from every Delhiite to take precautions and follow guidelines without the fear of any penalty!” “Yahan sab aaise ghum rahe hain jaise har medical shop pe vaccine available ho Covid-19 ki,” Akshit Taneja, a software engineer, adding, “Markets of hotspots should have been closed in the festive season, not now when the shopkeepers are trying to make their ends meet. And shopkeepers are offering to be alert and keep extra sanitisers, so what is needed is sincerity of shoppers to abide by the need of the hour and take all necessary precautions. Why even step out of the house without a mask, leave apart visiting a market?” Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-markets-stay-open-shopkeepers-geared-up-to-take-precautions-shoppers-support/story-Iy1QkienfmQEFsjX12P3CJ.html
21-11-2020||Kolkata||Light rain in Kolkata; IMD expects sharp drop in mercury in the next 48 hours||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said Kolkata and its adjoining areas could witness a sharp drop in the night temperature in the next 48 hours even as rain hit the city in the early hours of Saturday.“The minimum temperature is expected to drop from Sunday and we are expecting a sharp drop on Monday. The night temperature in Kolkata is expected to go down below the 20 degrees Celsius mark. This would be, however, temporary,” said Sanjib Banerjee, deputy director of the IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre in Kolkata.On Saturday, the minimum temperature was recorded to be 22 degrees Celsius, which was three degrees above normal. The city received 22.6 mm (ankle-deep rain) which is considered moderate in meteorological parlance.“While moisture-laden winds are gushing in because of the formation of a cyclonic circulation over the sea near Tamil Nadu, north-westerly winds are bringing in cold and dry winds. Under the influence of these two clouds formed triggering some rain,” said Banerjee.From Sunday, the flow of cold and dry winds from northwest and north would increase resulting in the drop in the mercury level. On Monday, there could be a sharp drop in temperature.“The temperature in the western parts of the state, in districts such as Purulia and Bankura, will drop to around 14 degrees,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/light-rain-in-kolkata-imd-expects-sharp-drop-in-mercury-in-the-next-48-hours/story-3uViGLFg1CoY4QjOd5ABZK.html
21-11-2020||Chandigarh||Kashmir, Himachal brace for fresh spell of snow, rain from November 23||The Kashmir Valley and the upper reaches of Himachal Pradesh are bracing for another spell of snowfall from November 23 even as the weatherman has forecast a further drop in the night temperature. The meteorological department in Srinagar said that there was 70% chances that the new cycle could bring snow across the Kashmir Valley and its intensity would be weaker than the previous cycles. “The fresh spell of snow could lead to the closure of Zoji La Pass and Mughal Road. The weather will remain dry for the next 24 hours in Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh,” the MeT office release said. MERCURY BELOW NORMAL ON SUNNY SATURDAY Snowfall is forecast in the higher reaches of Himachal Pradesh and rainfall in the middle hills as a fresh western disturbance is expected to hit the western Himalayan region. The minimum temperatures in the state were two to three degrees below normal while maximum temperatures were three to four degrees below normal on Saturday, though the weather was clear. State meteorological department director Manmohan Singh said that snowfall is likely at isolated places of Lahaul and Spiti, Kinnaur, Kullu and Chamba and rainfall is forecast in the middle hills up to November 25. MANALI SHIVERS AT -1°C The minimum temperature in the state capital of Shimla on Friday was 5.1°C, while Kufri recorded a low of 3.4°C. Manali shivered at minus 1°C, while Dharamshala and Dalhousie recorded lows of 5.6°C and 3.7°C, respectively. The minimum temperature in Solan was 3°C, Una 3.7°C, Hamirpur 6.2°C, Bilaspur 7°C and Nahan 11.4°C. Kalpa was freezing cold at minus 3°C, while Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district was the coldest place in the state with a low of minus 3.8°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kashmir-himachal-brace-for-fresh-spell-of-snow-rain-from-november-23/story-CBe67Lxm8nWSjSb6L5NNWP.html
21-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: BMC starts counselling of Covid-19 patients||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has started counselling Covid-19 patients at a centre for the treatment of the disease in Mumbai’s Goregaon as most of them complain of depression and sadness as they are away from their families for treatment there. Many Covid-19 patients have reported mental health issues with Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope underlining the need for their regular counselling.The BMC has taken the first initiative to provide counselling to Covid-19 patients at the centre, where moderately ill Covid-19 patients undergo treatment. It has identified some patients for counselling via 60 smartphones. “We have tied up with Prafulta-Centre for Psychological Wellness. Everyday for three to four hours, the counsellors counsel the patients. The medical staffers are trained to identify patients who need counselling. We have prepared a list of such patients. According to the list, the centre provides the time slots for counselling,” said the centre’s in charge, Dr Neelam Andhrade.“Though there is no scientific evidence available, we have seen that patients who talk regularly on phone with their relatives recover faster. In fact, the recovery rate is higher among older patients.”The BMC is planning to start similar telephonic counselling at other centres. “We are getting quite a good response from the centre. So, we are in talks to start the facility at other centres also. We have also ordered smart electronic pads for patients. We have allocated a budget worth Rs 9 crore for the procurement process,” said BMC’s additional commissioner Suresh Kakani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-bmc-starts-counselling-of-covid-19-patients/story-3w4DIKapCajJ1Mzhp8Gc7M.html
21-11-2020||Jaipur||Temperatures fall across Rajasthan; Churu coldest at 5.5 degree Celsius||Minimum temperatures dipped across parts of Rajasthan on Saturday with Churu being the coldest in the plains at 5.5 degrees Celsius.The night temperature in Mount Abu, the sole hill station in the state, was 1 degree Celsius.Sikar, Pilani, Ajmer, Ganganagar, Jodhpur, Bikaner and Jaipur recorded their respective minimums at 6.5 degrees Celsius, 7.9 degrees Celsius, 9.5 degrees Celsius, 10.3 degrees Celsius, 11 degrees Celsius, 11.4 degrees Celsius and 11.6 degrees Celsius.The night temperature in Jaisalmer was 12 degrees Celsius and 12.7 degrees Celsius in Barmer, according to the meteorological department here. The minimum temperatures are likely to dip further, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/temperatures-fall-across-rajasthan-churu-coldest-at-5-5-degree-celsius/story-cy6xc7gHHjporQdX2rYdOK.html
21-11-2020||Delhi||12 hospitalised in Delhi after bus coming from Agra rams roadside tree||Twelve passengers of an Uttar Pradesh roadways bus had to be hospitalised after their vehicle collided with a tree at Sukhdev Vihar early on Saturday. The bus was carrying passengers from Agra to Sarai Kale Khan in Delhi. Senior police officers said all passengers are out of danger with no life threatening injuries. The incident took place around 3.15 am. A call was received at New Friends Colony police station reporting the accident on Mathura Road near a CNG pump. A team from the police station rushed to the spot and found that a UP roadways bus rammed a tree on the roadside. “Many people were injured. Local police shifted them to AIIMS hospital and Trauma Center. CATS ambulances also reached the spot and the injured were given first aid at the spot by the ambulance staff. Ten passengers had sustained minor injuries and only required first aid. Twelve passengers, including a 16-year-old boy, required hospitalisation but all of them are out of danger. No one has sustained life threatening injuries,” said a police officer who wished not to be named. Deputy commissioner of police (southeast) RP Meena said a case of accident had been registered. “Enquiry at the spot revealed that the driver had absconded after the accident. He has been identified and search is being made to arrest him. The officials in the Agra depot have been informed about the accident,” the DCP said. The bus has been seized for inspection. Police are also checking CCTV footages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/12-hospitalised-in-delhi-after-bus-coming-from-agra-rams-roadside-tree/story-7uM8PczYPZrfQ2TRZ78CiL.html
21-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality improves marginally||Delhi’s air quality improved marginally on Saturday even as it remained in the poor category with the Air Quality Index (AQI) of 267 at 6 am. The AQI was lower than the average of 296 on Friday.Government agencies on Friday forecast that air quality may improve slightly over the weekend due to high wind speed.The share of stubble burning to the city’s PM 2.5 levels on Friday reduced to 15% from 20% the previous day.India Meteorological Department scientists said the average wind speed is likely to remain around 15-16 kph throughout the day and it will help in the dispersion of pollutants.“Air quality will improve over the next two days. No significant deterioration is likely in the air quality at least till November 23,” said a scientist.Weather scientists have predicted a cold wave-like condition over Delhi and other parts of Northwest India over the weekend. Saturday’s minimum temperature of 8.5 degrees C was 4 degrees below normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-air-quality-improves-marginally/story-LiYJWBHHuq0YX4RSvdBaXP.html
21-11-2020||Dehradun||Woman killed by Himalayan black bear in Uttarakhand, husband escapes by climbing tree||A 47-year-old man was killed by a Himalayan black bear on Friday in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district, said forest officials. Ashutosh Singh, divisional forest officer (DFO) Badrinath said one Maheshi Devi, along with her husband, in Vadhuk village had gone to a nearby forest for cutting grass for cattle fodder when a bear attacked them. “The husband climbed a tree and saved himself from the bear attack but the wife was mauled by the bear,” he said. Singh said after the required formalities are completed, the kin of the deceased woman would be given compensation. Singh said the woman died on the spot. “With the onset of winters, bear attacks increase as bears come down from snowy higher reaches in search of food. This is one of the main causes of the surge in man-bear conflict here in winter months,” he said. This is not the first incident of a bear attack in the state over the last one year or so. Also read: Winter arrives early in north as mercury dipsIn the first week of September, a 48-year-old man was killed by a bear in Pithoragarh district. The victim was a labourer working on a road project on Munsiyari-Milam road stretch. In May, a fire watcher of the forest department was attacked and severely injured by a bear in Khatna area of US Nagar while he was out on patrol. In February, Jagdish Singh, a resident of Nanakmatta area in US Nagar, had gone to a nearby forest to fetch fodder when he was attacked by a bear. In a similar incident, also in Nanakmatta, in January, Balwant Singh, a farmer, suffered grievous injuries in a bear attack in the Hanspur Khatta forest area. The Himalayan black bears can be found in and around Himalayan meadows at an elevation of 10,000 to 12,000 feet. They come down to 5,000-6000 feet in the winter months in search of food. The Himalayan black bear has been listed as a vulnerable species under the International Union for Conservation of Nature’s (IUCN) Red List of Threatened Species||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/woman-killed-by-himalayan-black-bear-in-uttarakhand-husband-escapes-by-climbing-tree/story-rMfi2azNx2rAI0681ggJvJ.html
21-11-2020||Jaipur||Amid surge in Covid-19 cases, Gehlot asks private hospitals to increase beds||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday asked private hospitals to increase capacity to admit Covid-19 patients as the average daily increase in coronavirus cases in the state in the past fortnight has been highest since the outbreak of the pandemic in March this year. The Centre had already sent a team of experts to help the state bring the increase under control, official data showed.On Friday, Rajasthan reported 8.36 percent increase (2,762 new cases) in Covid-19 cases taking the total number to 2,37,669. Since November 1, Rajasthan has reported around 40,000 new Covid-19 cases, which is about one-sixth of the total cases reported in the state since March 25. The number of active cases has also crossed the 20,000-mark for the first time in this pandemic, officials said.Most number of cases have been reported from Jaipur (41,547), followed by Jodhpur (35,159), Alwar (17,809), Bikaner (17,272), Kota (13,146), and Ajmer (12,531). Amid the pandemic, the state has also reported 2,130 Covid-19 deaths. State medical and health secretary Siddharth Mahajan said Covid-19 death rate in the state was 0.91 percent which was less than the national average of about 1.5 percent.Dr Ajit Singh, superintendent of Rajasthan University of Health Sciences, biggest Covid-19 government hospital in the state, said the reason of sudden spike in cases is the change in weather, decrease in temperature and community spread. “The next two months – December and January - will witness an increase in cases and then it will start coming down,” he said.Also read: Covid-19 vaccine - Bharat Biotech trials, Pfizer’s emergency use applicationSingh said the government is increasing Covid-19 health facilities with over 1,200 beds reserved for Covid-19 patients. However, he admitted that many hospitals were facing a shortage of beds because of the sudden increase in patients. “We are working to improve bed capacity in government hospitals,” he said.In a statement, chief minister Gehlot said that the private hospitals have been asked to increase beds for Covid-19 patients and provide treatment as per the guidelines and at the rates prescribed by the state government.Interacting with the representatives of private hospitals on Friday, CM Gehlot said the cases were increasing due to reasons such as dip in daily temperature and public rush during the festive season.“In view of this, it is necessary to increase the oxygen availability and intensive care unit (ICU) beds. The state government is continuously expanding medical facilities in state hospitals. Private hospitals should also increase the number of beds ensuring that not a single patient is denied treatment,” the government said in a statement quoting the CM.To control spread of the infection in rural areas, the government said oxygen reading meters have been provided to Anganwadi workers to check oxygen level of those showing Covid-19 symptoms and now they would be provided to Asha workers as well. The CM also asked people in rural areas to take the diseases seriously as about 27 percent of the total deaths accounted from the villages.On Friday, the Central government sent an expert panel headed by Dr V K Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog, to Rajasthan for assessing the ground situation and for holding discussions with the state health department officials. The team is also expected to visit districts from where the maximum number of fresh cases are being reported, said a health ministry statement.The Rajasthan government officials have ruled out imposition of a lockdown even though night curfew may be imposed in certain places, officials said. “District magistrates have been empowered to take measures to control the spread of Covid,” a senior Rajasthan government official said.Raman Sharma, senior professor, department of medicine, Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital, said it was the first winter of the Covid-19 pandemic and one would have to see how the virus behaves. “So far, we have seen that more patients are coming and the intensity of the virus load is also high. Therefore, in most hospitals the beds are full and we are making effort to provide medical help to the patients.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/amid-surge-in-covid-19-cases-gehlot-asks-private-hospitals-to-increase-beds/story-1NbLLOURO1aB87ZcW9jLFN.html
21-11-2020||Chandigarh||F&CC meeting: Terms for floating expression of interest for Manimajra multi-level parking project approved||After approving the Manimajra multi-level parking project on August 24, the finance and contract committee (F&CC) of the Chandigarh municipal corporation on Friday approved the terms and conditions for floating the expression of interest for it.The meeting was chaired by mayor Raj Bala Malik and attended by senior MC officials including MC commissioner KK Yadav and member councillors.The 2-acre parking project to come up near Rana Ki Haveli in Manimajra will resolve a severe parking problem in the city and also generate additional revenue for a fund-starved MC. It will be used for commercial parking in the day and for residents’ vehicles in the night.The project will be developed on a public-private partnership (PPP) model. The work will be allotted for a period of 15 years with a clause for an increase in revenue after every five years.After getting the nod of the F&CC, an expression of interest (EOI) will be invited from the prospective architects for making the conceptual design, preparing technical data, assessing technical and economic viability of the project so that it can generate maximum revenue for the MC. Approval will then be sought from the UT urban planning department.Other approvals accordedIn addition, 18 other approvals were granted for different projects. The awarding of the contract for managing legacy waste at the Sector-25 dumping ground to Kher Constructions, which had submitted the lowest bid at ₹0.3 per kilogram, was granted.Other approvals include rough cost estimate for re-carpeting of Phirni road and gaushala approach road in Maloya at an estimated cost of ₹44.85 lakh; revised rough cost estimate for construction of boundary wall, providing and fixing shed and paver blocks in shamshan ghat in Maloya at an estimated cost of ₹46.13 lakh; signing of an MoU with the school of public health, PGIMER, for phase-II project on capacity building training of street vendors on health and hygiene at an estimated cost of ₹49.4 lakh; and a rough cost estimate for the work of rejuvenation of the existing village ponds at Kaimbwala, Sarangpur and Khuda Ali Sher at an estimated cost of ₹48.94 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/f-cc-meeting-terms-for-floating-expression-of-interest-for-manimajra-multi-level-parking-project-approved/story-cQDYHueqDQFF3UgkghZ7SL.html
21-11-2020||Chandigarh||Generate own revenue to pay staff: CITCO writes to three Chandigarh hotels||Struggling to pay the salaries to its own employees, Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Development Corporation Limited (CITCO) has directed the managements of Hotel Mountview, Hotel Shivalikview and Chef Lakeview to generate their own revenues to pay their staff.Stating that the lockdown restrictions had been removed and the hotels were now fully operational, the CITCO management shot off letters to the three hotels, asking them “to increase the sales/revenues of their respective units so that salaries of the employees for the month of November 2020 and onwards may be arranged at your own from operational revenues.”CITCO had to take a loan against fixed deposits to pay the wages to its own employees. The corporation had recently sought a grant of ₹27 crore from the UT administration to run its day-to-day affairs and pay the wages to the staff.Notably, CITCO is yet to get ₹10 crore pending dues from the UT administration on account of expenses incurred for running the UT guest house in New Delhi and UT Secretariat canteen in Chandigarh.The UT’s plans to privatise the three CITCO hotels have also failed to materialise with the administration fearing no takers would come forward during the current economic slowdown. The administration has currently put on hold the selling of these hotels even though the privatisation of the UT electricity department is at an advanced stage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/generate-own-revenue-to-pay-staff-citco-writes-to-three-chandigarh-hotels/story-wAm2KEj7WmRWue8and9n8M.html
21-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Waterlogging in Sector 33 underpass makes it inaccessible, raises stink||After the recent spell of rain in the city, the underpass connecting the Terraced Gardens in Sector 33 has become waterlogged, with water stagnating here for days and raising a stink.The underpass that was inaugurated in January 2019 was constructed at a cost of ₹80 lakh for pedestrians to directly access one park from the other. Earlier, they had to climb the stairs and cross the road, which was more dangerous; a fatal accident had also occurred here. But owing to the present condition of the underpass, residents are being forced to do the same. General secretary of the Sector 33B resident welfare association (RWA) Kuljinder Singh Sra said, “Residents of Sector 33 have stopped using this underpass for the last few months now. Due to leakage from some pipes or some other reason, even during dry weather stagnant water remains present. Whenever we complain to the municipal corporation (MC) workers maintaining the parks, they ask us to register a formal complaint.”President of the Sector 33A RWA, Jagdish Singh Sarpal, said, “This problem existed even last year. The area isn’t lit at night and the underpass has become a hotspot for anti-social elements to congregate after nightfall. Most senior citizens have stopped coming to this side of the park.” He added that the police should post some personnel there especially during the evenings to ensure safety of the residents.Local area councillor Rajesh Kumar Gupta said, “There seems to be a problem with the level inside the underpass since the area doesn’t get drained on its own. I will speak to the MC officials about this and ask them to install a road gully inside to fix the problem.”Taking stock of the situation, chief engineer of the MC Shailendra SIngh said, “We will get the area checked. For the underpass, after rainfall a motor is needed to clear out the accumulated water, and we will ensure that work gets done soon.”The officials of the horticulture wing of the MC added that they hadn’t received any complaint on the issue, but will get it checked regardless.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-waterlogging-in-sector-33-underpass-makes-it-inaccessible-raises-stink/story-AFvwIErMzk16KAeJLSkveP.html
21-11-2020||Chandigarh||Heritage furniture missing from Panjab University: Unidentified persons booked||After 48 heritage chairs were found missing from the sociology department of Panjab University (PU), the Chandigarh Police on Friday registered a case of theft against unidentified persons. A complaint about the missing chairs was forwarded to the police on November 12 by the superintendent of the sociology department. A case under Section 379 of the Indian Penal Code was registered. Sources in the police claim to have certain definitive leads in the case, adding that the accused would be arrested soon.Sources in PU as well as the police said that the chairs had been found and PU officials were called for identification on Friday evening.The missing furniture includes 36 chairs from the sociology department’s seminar hall on the ground floor, 10 chairs from the second floor hall and two chairs from the superintendent’s office.As per the records tabled in the meeting on Friday by the sociology department of PU, it has been revealed that the department had 82 heritage chairs dating back to 1961.A member of the committee said, “Now we have asked for the verification about how many of these chairs are still in the department and how many are missing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/heritage-furniture-missing-from-panjab-university-unidentified-persons-booked/story-gwMjsFaOtBXUB070EdaNTM.html
21-11-2020||Chandigarh||Positivity rate among voluntary Covid tests 3% in Chandigarh||The Covid-19 positivity rate among random and/or voluntary tests conducted in Chandigarh’s containment zones, markets areas and among high-risk groups, in the span of the last 45 days, has come out to be around 3%, official data reveals.The UT health department had last month constituted five teams under its associated hospitals to conduct voluntary testing across the city.Most of the tests were conducted through the rapid antigen method, while the people exhibiting symptoms were tested through the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction technique (RT-PCR).Till November 19, the mobile testing teams conducted 10,645 tests out of which 312 were found to be infected.Dr VK Nagpal, joint director of the UT health department, said that the majority of those found positive were not exhibiting any symptoms and such an exercise was helpful to contain the spread. “This also gives an idea of the asymptomatic population that has been infected and we have been able to isolate a good number of people this way,” he added.Overall positivity rate in UT 12.6%Since the start of the pandemic in March till late September, the focus of the UT administration was on testing of close contacts of positive persons and those exhibiting major symptoms or persons with travel history. After the surge in cases in September, however, the strategy was modified to make testing more accessible in dispensaries around the city.UT has conducted a total of 1,30,070 tests out of which 16,472 were found to be positive, suggesting an overall positivity rate of 12.6%.For this month, the UT health department has said that the target is to test around 35,000 persons, against the 29,000 tests conducted in October. Dr Amandeep Kang, director UT health department, said, “Even though the number of tests decreased during the festive days, we are expecting it to increase to 4,000-5,000 during this month. The proportion of RT-PCR tests is being maintained above 30% of the total tests conducted.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/positivity-rate-among-voluntary-covid-tests-3-in-chandigarh/story-s6CBOd4YwjuSLvUdCnOSFO.html
21-11-2020||City||GMADA upgrading Togan road in Mullanpur to six lanes||With the Chandigarh administration allotting work for the road connecting Dakshin Marg to New Chandigarh (Mullanpur) in Mohali, the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority has also started the process to upgrade its 8km PR-4 road from Togan to Boothgarh from four to six lanes.The six-lane road, to be connected to Dakshin Marg via a 1.2km stretch towards Chandigarh, will connect to the Siswan-Kurali road on the Punjab side. This will provide better connectivity to Chandigarh and the upcoming Punjab Cricket Stadium (PCA) in New Chandigarh, which is expected to host domestic and international matches by September next year.A senior GMADA officer said they were working on a detailed project report (DPR) and hoping to complete the project by October next year. “Three bridges will be constructed on the existing causeways, with the project estimated to cost Rs 100 crore,” he said.As part of the upgrade, the road will also be equipped with trunk storm lines for developers in New Chandigarh.“This road will help with better connectivity between Chandigarh and Punjab, and with the PCA stadium soon to be operational, there is a need for an alternative route to handle the traffic pressure,” said Taraninder Singh, president of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CREDAI), Mullanpur. Currently, commuters have to go through Sarangpur via Madhya Marg to reach New Chandigarh. The 1.2km road via Dakshin Marg will shorten the distance between Chandigarh and Kurali by connecting National Highway 21 and Sector 39 through Kurali.The road will also connect directly to the new international cricket stadium coming up in New Chandigarh. Being constructed by the Mohali Cricket Association, the stadium is nearing completion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gmada-upgrading-togan-road-in-mullanpur-to-six-lanes/story-J3j9eMmueCLUgfxAK1axMM.html
21-11-2020||Chandigarh||25-year-old snatcher held, bike, gold chains recovered||With the arrest of a 25-year-old resident of Sector 40, the police claim to have solved two cases of chain snatching and one case of vehicle lifting in the city.The police said the accused, identified as Kamal Verma, was a drug addict and took to crime to fund his addiction. Verma was produced before a court on Friday and sent to three-day police remand.The accused was arrested at a naka at Sector 39/40 light-point and a motorcycle bearing a Haryana registration number that he had stolen in September 2019 was recovered. Two gold chains that were snatched in August and September 2020 were also recovered, the police said. A Class-12 passout, Verma has three cases, two of theft and one of snatching, registered against him in various police stations in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/25-year-old-snatcher-held-bike-gold-chains-recovered/story-U074kFyzZz2zo0HSD9kCAI.html
21-11-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Rush for NCR venues after wedding cap||Deepak Sharma (48), a bakery shop owner in Najafgarh, made frantic calls to relatives to look for a new venue for his son’s wedding, scheduled on November 25, after Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal approved the government’s proposal to restrict the number of guests at marriage-related events to 50 amid a spike in Covid-19  cases.Sharma had booked a resort in Mundka for the wedding. “With the help of our relatives, we found another resort in Ballabhgarh, Faridabad. Now, we are busy informing all our relatives about the change of venue and making arrangements for transportation. There is complete panic and chaos instead of fun,” said Sharma. Like Sharma, many people are now looking for alternative venues in places such as Noida, Ghaziabad, Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat etc. Tent houses, banquets and hotels claim that they are bombarded with cancellation calls or asking for refund.Nitin Gulati, owner of Gulati tent house, said that he has got nine cancellations in two days. “We had erected the tents for a capacity of 200 people. Now, our clients are looking for venues in neighbouring areas,” said Gulati.He added, “This year has been disastrous for us. After no work for 7-8 months due to Covid-19, we were looking forward to the wedding season to stay afloat. We had called labour from Bengali and UP. Now, I don’t know how to pay them, as clients are asking for a refund,” said Gulati.Also Read: 6,608 new Covid-19 cases in Delhi, positivity rate drops to 10.59%Vikaas Gutgutia, managing director and founder, Ferns N Petals said, “For the Indian wedding industry, recovery was on the cards, but businesses will again come to a standstill, as we are facing the brunt of Diwali crowds at markets. We have been getting calls from clients who had opted for a venue in Delhi, to enquire, if the functions can be organised at our venues in the NCR. In the coming days, all our 11 wedding venues are booked to host 10-12 weddings each but we are now anticipating changes or delays.”Associations of banquets, tent houses and hotels are still trying to approach the Delhi government and the L-G to reconsider the decision. Ramesh Dang, president of Community Welfare Banquet Association Delhi, said, “We have written to the CM to reconsider the decision, as it will result in a collapse of the sector. People are now opting for neighbouring areas in UP and Haryana. We have 1 million families associated with us. It will lead to unemployment,” said Dang.Struggling to retain their clients, hotels and banquets are trying to offer them different options. Greesh Bindra, vice president, operations, at Suryaa hotel, said, “We are getting a lot of calls from clients who are asking for refund. We have 4-5 venues, including big outdoor spaces at our hotels. We are suggesting different options such as holding events at two different venues or holding multiple events so that the guests can be divided. We have suggested that some guests come for lunch while others for dinner.”“This atmosphere of uncertainty will impact the next wedding season,” said Bindra.Calling the restriction unjustified, Pankaj Shokeen, general secretary, Delhi tent owners’ federation, said, “The cinema halls are allowed to operate at 50% capacity. Buses are running full capacity. Markets are crowded. But the restriction is just for weddings. Why? There is no logic in the decision.”The Delhi government did not respond to requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-rush-for-ncr-venues-after-wedding-cap/story-8YFFUA5wpYVIrhwM8gKiuM.html
21-11-2020||Chandigarh||CBI being exploited for politics, won’t allow it to enter Punjab without permission: Capt Amarinder||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday cited the CBI’s “poor track record” in the 2015 Bargari sacrilege case to announce that his government will not allow the Central Bureau of Investigation into his state without permission. Pointing out that eight states, including Punjab, had withdrawn permission to the agency to enter without permission, the chief minister said the agency was being increasingly used to play politics, and a fair probe could not be ensured through it. Dismissing the BJP as a non-entity in Punjab politics, the chief minister told a TV channel that the party was welcome to contest all 117 Vidhan Sabha seats in the state though it would not be able to win a single one without an alliance partner. The Congress had, in fact, no challenge in Punjab, with even the Akalis and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) posing no threat, he said, adding that neither of these parties had ever talked about anything positive in the interest of the state. With elections in the state still over a year away, it was not possible to say which issue will dominate the polls, he said, expressing the hope that the BJP will resolve the farmers’ grievances soon. “Farmers want MSP to remain and the Government of India should take steps to ensure that,” he said. The chief minister reiterated that corporates were welcome to buy foodgrains in Punjab as long as they followed the marketing system, built on ties between farmers and arhtiyas (commission agents). SAYS DISSENT IN CONGRESS SIGN OF INTERNAL DEMOCRACY Terming the dissent in the Congress a sign of internal democracy in the party, Capt Amarinder pointed out that those who had written to the party high command had been included in key committees constituted by party chief Sonia Gandhi. On the issue of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) elections, the chief minister said that he had been demanding those for long but the Akalis did not want polls to the body, which they had been using for their own political gains. Welcoming the ongoing joint Indian naval exercises with other countries, Captain Amarinder said China and Pakistan will not succeed in their nefarious designs against India. Punjab wants peace and development and will not allow Pakistan to foment trouble at any cost, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cbi-being-exploited-for-politics-won-t-allow-it-to-enter-punjab-without-permission-capt-amarinder/story-i7Zx5hvWnFDV1PhnDvttrO.html
21-11-2020||Chandigarh||Havaldar killed in Pakistani shelling along LoC in J&K’s Nowshera||Havaldar Sangram Shivaji Patil was killed in action and a soldier was injured in a ceasefire violation by Pakistan along the Line of Control in Nowshera sector of Rajouri district early on Saturday. Defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand said that the Indian Army retaliated strongly after the ceasefire violation around 1am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/havaldar-killed-in-pakistani-shelling-along-loc-in-j-k-s-nowshera/story-EGeN7qyqilfePMXO82gYbI.html
21-11-2020||Jaipur||‘Love Jihad’ a term created by BJP to divide nation: Gehlot||Love jihad is a word manufactured by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to divide the nation and disturb its communal harmony, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot said on Friday, remarks that came in the backdrop of some BJP-ruled states signalling that they are considering laws to regulate interfaith marriages between Hindu women and Muslim men. Gehlot stressed that “Jihad has no place in Love”, pointed out that marriage is a matter of personal liberty and asserted that laws to curb it “is completely unconstitutional & it will not stand in any court of law”.“They (BJP) are creating an environment in the nation where consenting adults would be at the mercy of state power. Marriage is a personal decision & they are putting curbs on it, which is like snatching away personal liberty,” the senior Congress leader tweeted.“It seems a ploy to disrupt communal harmony, fuel social conflict & disregard constitutional provisions like the state not discriminating against citizens on any ground,” he said in another tweet.His remarks drew a sharp reaction by BJP leader and Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, who said the BJP believes in development for all and alleged that hatred is the Congress’s “prerogative”.“Dear Ashok ji, Love Jihad is a trap that has thousands of young women believing the marriage is a personal affair, where later it turns out it isn’t. Also, if it is a matter of personal liberty, then why are the women not free to keep their maiden name or religion?Also Read| ‘Ignoring the suffering of our daughters’: BJP’s Poonia slams Gehlot over ‘Love Jihad’ tweets“Why are families of girls too forced to accept the other religion? Isn’t religion a matter of personal liberty? Ashok ji, Since Congress wants to support this act of deceit under the garb of personal liberty, isn’t it becomes a blatant display of its communal agenda.“Ashok ji, manufacturing terms, riots and hatred is a Congress prerogative. The BJP has believed in Sabka Vikas hence will ensure our women folk are not subject to injustice of any kind,” Shekhawat said in three tweets.Jaipur-based political analyst Narayan Bareth said that the timing of Gehlot’s remarks shows his importance. “Gehlot, being a prominent leader of the Congress, would have understood the need to speak on the issue as it was getting traction and could not be left unaddressed. His comments, coming at a time when the Congress leadership is busy handling infighting after electoral debacle in Bihar, have shown Gehlot’s growing political stature,” Bareth said. On Tuesday, the BJP-ruled Madhya Pradesh government said a bill —with a provision of five years in jail for forced conversions for marriage — will be passed in the next session of the state assembly to check “love jihad”, which Hindu activists describe as an organised conspiracy of Muslim men to trick Hindu women into marriages and effect a demographic change. Later on the same day, the Haryana government signalled its intention to constitute a committee of officials to study and draft a law to that effect. Earlier, Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka — all ruled by the BJP — have also promised to bring legislation to end love jihad. Despite the political mobilisation, experts say that the charges of love jihad are bogus and that adult men and women are free to convert under the constitutional right to freedom of religion. In February, the central government told Parliament that there was no definition of the term and no such cases were reported by agencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/love-jihad-a-term-created-by-bjp-to-divide-nation-gehlot/story-sUXFQ8baYIFvGor8MTZuyK.html
21-11-2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh districts under night curfew amid surge in Covid cases||The Madhya Pradesh government on Friday decided to impose night curfew in five districts, including Covid-19 hotspot Bhopal, Indore and Gwalior, from Saturday as the state reported 1,500 cases on Friday – the highest for the state in the past 40 days. The government also decided to close schools upto class VIII till December 31.Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said: “The night curfew will be observed from 10 pm to 6 am in the five worst-affected districts - Bhopal, Ratlam, Vidisha, Indore and Gwalior from Saturday. The night curfew will not be applicable to the transportation of goods and night shifts of factories.” “There is no plan of imposing a lockdown in the state but schools from class 1 to 8 will remain closed till December 31,” he said. The CM said complete lockdown was not a solution and there was a need to create more awareness.It may be recalled that the union home ministry has prohibited states from imposing complete lockdown without its permission.“The district administrations have been asked to ensure implementation of Covid-19 guidelines and also asked people to use mask and sanitiser,” the CM said.The decision was taken at a meeting to review the rise in Covid-19 cases in the state, in which a decision was taken to ask district Covid committees to submit suggestions to check spread of Covid by Saturday.According to official data, the Covid positivity rate in Madhya Pradesh on Friday doubled to 4.8% from the rate in November 5, which was about one percentage point higher than the national average. In MP, there are 10,402 active cases of Covid 19 even though the total cases reported so far were 1.76 lakh.A health department official, privy to the data, said most number of cases were being reported from Bhopal and Indore, which had witnessed first wave of Covid-19 in May and June. In the past 24 hours, the highest 387 cases have been reported from Bhopal followed by Indore with 313 cases. In wake of spike in Covid cases, the central government on Friday decided to send a team of experts to the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-districts-under-night-curfew-amid-surge-in-covid-cases/story-C0ARUFopSDMUEYyqS9n63H.html
21-11-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra govt mulls halting flights, trains from Delhi||The Maharashtra government is considering halting flight and train services from Delhi to Mumbai and other cities in the state due to the recent surge in Covid-19 cases in the national Capital, which is under its third wave of infections, officials said, adding that the final decision is yet to be taken.Government officials, however, concede that such a move is unlikely due to the Centre’s latest “unlock” guidelines, issued on September 30, which stated that inter-state movement cannot be restricted. Maharashtra would also need the central government’s approval for such a move. “We have been constantly reviewing the situation. In the wake of the high surge in Covid-19 cases in Delhi, we need to take precautionary measures to ensure that Maharashtra is not affected. There are very limited train and flight services currently operating between Delhi, and Mumbai and other Maharashtra cities. The decision to either curtail the number of services or stop them entirely will be taken in due course,” Maharashtra chief secretary Sanjay Kumar said. The jump in the number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi was discussed in a meeting convened by Kumar to discuss the pandemic situation in the state earlier this week. Maharashtra is the country’s worst affected state from the pandemic, recording over 1.7 million Covid-19 cases and over 46,000 deaths.Also Read: 6,608 new Covid-19 cases in Delhi, positivity rate drops to 10.59%Officials from Maharashtra government said it would be difficult for the government to entirely ban the flight services due to the pressure from the central government. “Central government does not concede to our proposal of entirely banning the flights between Mumbai and Delhi, which is the busiest route in the country. Even when we tried to push the resumption of the flight services by a few weeks in May, Centre was bent on starting it. In such a scenario, we will have to go for stricter screening at the airports if we are not allowed to completely stop the operations,” said an official requesting anonymity. The official added: “The policy over the operations of the flights will have to be uniform for the state and it cannot be only for Mumbai. The final decision is expected after a meeting with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.”Out of the 150 flights operated from Mumbai airport daily, most fly between the two cities. Another limited number of flights operate between Delhi and other cities such as Nagpur, Aurangabad, Pune and Nashik. AVIATION MINISTRY/MHA RESPONSE Another official said on the condition of anonymity that the trains not only originating from Delhi, but also passing through the capital city, will have to be stopped if Maharashtra wanted to stop people coming to the state from Delhi, a task that would not only be monumental but also one that could halt travel from many other states in north India.The Railway Ministry on Friday said that no such decision has been taken by the ministry regarding cancellation of trains on the Mumbai-Delhi route. “There have been reports in section of media today about cancellation of certain trains on Delhi-Mumbai sector. It may be clarified that Railways has not taken any decision regarding cancellation of trains on Mumbai Delhi sector.” tweeted the Ministry of Railways.Also Read| Covid-19: What you need to know today“The decision will be taken by the railway ministry on the operation of trains between both the cities but the Maharashtra government can propose on cancellation. Earlier the West Bengal government had done the same which included trains from Maharashtra,” said a senior Western Railway official. There are currently five trains operating daily between Mumbai and Delhi, and another ten that are routed through Delhi to other states from/to Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-maharashtra-govt-mulls-halting-flights-trains-from-delhi/story-Iypag4ARFa02TrHKH3c6fI.html
21-11-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Khan Market’s most enduring chai||It pays off to head to Khan Market on a full stomach. This way, you don’t have to pay the high price of eating there. In the Capital’s most upscale shopping enclave, cafes and restaurants are as super-expensive as the rest of the market. Consider the humble chai. A famous Khan Market cafe used to charge ₹155 (plus taxes) for one cup. The place shut down following the coronavirus-triggered lockdown, but if you insist, there still are places here to burn your cash for tea. Or, alternatively, you can have an equally tasty but far cheaper chai from JP. Unlike many Khan Market destinations that keep appearing and disappearing with puzzling regularity, JP’s chai is an institution. It has remained in business for 35 long years. Started by late Rama Nandan, it is now run by his grandson. While his distant cousin Daya Shankar makes the chai, the aforementioned JP (Jai Prakash), serves it. With one arm holding the deliciously-chipped chai kettle and the other carrying a stack of paper glasses, JP can be seen throughout the day busily walking about the market lanes. His patrons include folks working as shop assistants in the fancy showrooms, as well their doormen and door women, and the showroom owners themselves.A native of Jaunpur, in UP, JP arrived in the city in 2002 to carry on his grandfather’s legacy while his father kept being a farmer in the city. “My wife and children live in the village,” says JP on being ambushed with queries during his rounds in the Middle Lane. JP, 39, turns out to be very friendly and polite, he speaks Hindi, and seems to be smiling as he talks, even though he’s wearing a mask. Watching him walk about the market is like seeing a man strolling inside his own home. “I live in Khan Market,” he says, freely giving out the address of the room he shares with his cousin.Daya Shankar and JP’s chai has the flavour of home, with a strong flavour of adrak (ginger). Some days it tends to be a tad too sweet, but this cold smoggy evening it is just perfect.But taste is not the only point of JP’s chai. It is also about the kick that one gets on dunking down this delicious offering for so cheap (₹10 only) in this unimaginably pricey destination. Sipping it is like partaking in a Khan Market secret, beyond the reach of the passing fashionable crowd. JP serves from 10am to 1pm, and from 3pm to 6pm. It’s easy to spot him in the lanes—just look out for the tea kettle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-khan-market-s-most-enduring-chai/story-eVtSQva9NzAOHLl7Y3x7IN.html
21-11-2020||Delhi||6,608 new Covid-19 cases in Delhi, positivity rate drops to 10.59%||The city on Friday reported 6,608 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), recording fewer than 7,000 cases in a day while conducting the regular 60,000 daily tests for the first time since early-November. The positivity rate — the number of samples that return positive among total tested — also dropped on Friday to 10.59%, the lowest since November. Experts see positivity rate as a crucial metric to assess an outbreak in a community and, when this number is coupled with an increase in new cases, it can determine how fast a contagious disease is spreading. The daily positivity rate had gone up to 15.3% on November 15, but has dropped regularly from that number in the days since. On Thursday, 62,425 tests were conducted, of which almost 38% were done using the reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method. The test is known to detect more positive cases than the alternate rapid antigen test, which is less sensitive.“It appears that there are some good signs in the last 4-5 days. On November 15, the positivity rate was 15%. On November 17, this reduced to 13%. Today, it is 10.5%. In the last five days, the positivity rate reduced by five percentage points… It appears that the cases are reducing. We are keeping our fingers crossed...,” Kejriwal said at the 18th Hindustan Times Leadership Summit on Friday.Also Read| HTLS 2020: Delhi’s Covid fight didn’t start from zero, yet we have done well, says KejriwalDr Shobha Broor, former head of the department of microbiology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) said she hoped the CM was right, but also urged caution. “We need to watch the numbers for at least a week. Once this wave is over, I think we will see sustained but fewer cases...” The number of deaths, however, remained high. On Friday, 118 deaths due to the viral infection were reported, the second-highest single-day toll in the city. The most deaths reported in a day was on November 11, when 131 fatalities were recorded.On Friday, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said most patients with Covid-19 in the city die 10 days after hospitalisation. “There are some deaths that still happen within three days of hospital admission, however most deaths happen after 10 days. If you see the proportion of deaths, it has remained the same at about 1.57%. This is almost comparable to the national average of 1.48%,” Jain said during a press briefing.The improvement in timely hospitalisation of Covid-19 patients was acknowledged by NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul in a press briefing this week. Also Read: Delhi health minister ropes in Superman, Batman to fight Covid-19“Initially, when the pandemic had started – till about June – nearly 60 to 70% of the deaths in hospitals happened within the first 72 hours. Half of these deaths happened within the first 24-hours of admission. In Delhi, there has been a dramatic change since. We are still monitoring the mortality as it shows the efficiency of the system – mobilising patients from home, ambulance service, access to beds, and efficiency of the treatment,” Dr Paul had said. Meanwhile, the Delhi government have roped in Batman, Superman, and Flash in their fight against Covid-19, with the health minister posting pictures of the superheroes in masks on Facebook. The caption on the photographs read, “Heroes wear masks. Put on your mask and save lives. #BeAHero.” This comes as the Delhi government increased the fine for not wearing mask in public places from Rs 500 to Rs 2,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/6-608-new-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-positivity-rate-drops-to-10-59/story-ZTVRANQuZB2lsQqS7x5JqK.html
21-11-2020||Chandigarh||Custodial rape allegations against Haryana cops: HC turns down plea for medical exam by external board||The Punjab and Haryana high court has turned down the plea for getting two cousins, who have levelled allegations of custodial rape by Haryana cops, examined by an external board. The high court was hearing a plea from a Sonepat woman seeking medical examination of her daughter and niece. The allegations are that one of the girls was gangraped by cops in custody and another sexually assaulted. The duo were booked in an FIR registered on June 30. The FIR was of murder of two cops in which one Amit was accused, who subsequently died and these two girls were arrested on July 3. The court observed that medical examination was conducted twice upon arrest, which specifically mentioned that no visible mark of injury was seen over the bodies and private parts of these two girls. Even the report submitted by the magistrate concerned reached the conclusion that the medical evidence with regard to the commission of rape is inconclusive at this stage, the bench said. “This shows that multiple times, medical examination of the victims were conducted, but there was total silence maintained by them, at every opportune time, to disclose about the occurrence so caused. Considering the very fact of the victims, having been medically examined multiple times, it will not be appropriate to further direct the constitution of a medical board for comprehensive examination of both the victims, more particularly, considering the duration of time having lapsed since then,” the court said, adding that moreover, a special investigation team led by a woman IPS officer is probing the matter. The court, however, directed the Karnal Central Jail superintendent and Karnal observation home in-charge to take appropriate steps for extending medical treatment to both the girls at PGIMER, Chandigarh. The allegations in the plea were that the girls had gone to meet Amit in Karnal, when two cops in inebriated state misbehaved with them, which led to a fight between cops and Amit, wherein the cops got injured. When the girls came to know about the murder of cops, they approached the police, but police booked them in the murder case of cops and eliminated Amit, the plea had alleged, adding that the girls were raped by 10-12 cops in custody. It was also alleged that family was not allowed to meet them. However, the court said that the record produced by the police revealed that nearly a dozen times, either family members or some lawyers had met these two girls since their arrest. In future, family members be allowed to meet them as per rules, the court directed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/custodial-rape-allegations-against-haryana-cops-hc-turns-down-plea-for-medical-exam-by-external-board/story-SXzHE84vVIeahM6svLr47O.html
21-11-2020||City||Haryana health minister gets trial dose of indigenous Covid vaccine||Haryana health minister Anil Vij was on Friday successfully administered a trial dose of indigenous coronavirus vaccine, Covaxin, at the civil hospital in Ambala Cantonment under the observation of a team of doctors. In order to quell doubts and apprehension about the potential vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), Vij had announced to volunteer to take the trial dose. Vij said if the trials end in time, the vaccine would be available for the public at the earliest. “It is a matter of great pride for us that to fight the infection, an Indian company is making the vaccine. The first two phases of the trial have been successful and the third phase has started in which the vaccine will be tested on 25,800 people across the country,” Vij added. Civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said, “A well-equipped ICU facility was set up in the emergency area and a team of doctors was deputed to tackle any exigency. A medical team from PGIMS, Rohtak, including nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Dhruva Chaudhary, had come to administer the vaccine.” “He (Vij) was kept under strict observation for an hour, during which his vitals remained within normal limit and he experienced no discomfort,” the doctor added. Vij said anyone can become a volunteer by contacting the helpline number 941-644-7071 or sending an e-mail to snoh.covid19@gmail.com. 3,104 fresh cases, 25 more deaths in Haryana Haryana on Thursday registered a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases with 3,104 people testing positive for the infection and 25 succumbing to the deadly virus.With the fresh cases and casualties, the total number of infections in the state rose to 2,12,355 and the death toll to 2,138. According to the state health department’s daily bulletin, of the fresh cases -- the highest single-day spike so far -- more than half of these were reported from the worst-hit Faridabad (881 cases) and Gurugram (793) districts, which fall in the National Capital Region.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vij-gets-trial-dose-of-indigenous-covid-vaccine/story-Ecb08Day9kXoN12wFZA2ZK.html
21-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana shuts schools till November 30 after 180 students test Covid positive||The Haryana government on Friday closed down all schools in the state till November 30 after more than 180 schoolchildren and over 110 teachers tested positive since the institutions opened a fortnight ago. The school education department directed the district education officers to ensure sanitisation of all schools. Haryana education minister Kanwar Pal Gurjar, meanwhile, clarified that no such decision has been taken for college students and those going to coaching centres to prepare for competitive and other exams.The health department collected samples of students for testing from Sonepat, Fatehabad, Bhiwani, Jind and Jhajjar districts. Students in Rewari, Jhajjar, Jind, Hisar and Rohtak districts have been found infected so far. Dr Sanjay Dahiya, chief medical officer, Jhajjar, said most of the teachers and students contracted the infection during Diwali festival as they must have ventured out. “The government has taken a good decision by shutting down the schools for next 10 days. The virus chain will break and schools will likely reopen from December 1. We have witnessed a sharp increase in Covid-19 cases and deaths in the past one week. We urge the people to tread with caution. Most of the infected students are asymptomatic,” he added.He said the report of 423 students, whose samples were taken from five schools, is expected to be out late night. The health department has also collected samples of 362 students from three schools in Hisar, report of which will be declared by Saturday evening.1.62 lakh students attend schoolAs many as 1.62 lakh students of classes 9 to 12 attended the school on Friday, which is highest since the state government reopened schools on November 2.Rewari, which leads the tally of Covid-19 students, registered 49% attendance after Mahendergarh, where 55% students came to school on Friday. Palwal and Fatehabad each recorded 45% attendance each, followed by Kaithal at 43%. Gurugram schools logged 22% attendance, while 29% students attended schools in Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-shuts-schools-till-november-30-after-180-students-test-covid-positive/story-U1CadWEcl5mGl67zI4VWXJ.html
21-11-2020||City||Woman strangles two kids, hangs self in Haryana’s Fatehabad||A 28-year-old woman hanged herself from a ceiling fan after allegedly strangulating her two kids, aged three years and two months, at her parental home in a Fatehabad village on Friday, police said. The woman, whose husband works in Haryana Police department, had come to Fatehabad with her two sons two months ago. Preliminary probe suggested that the woman took the extreme step after having an argument with her husband, who had been “mounting pressure” on her to divorce him, investigators said. “My sister committed suicide when her parents and other family members went to a local market. She had been living with her parents ever since her second son was born. She came here after her husband started mounting pressure on her to get a divorce. He accused my sister of having an extramarital relation. Before her suicide, the couple had a heated exchange on phone. They had married four years ago,” he added.Fatehabad deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Subhash Chander said prima facie, it appeared that the couple had differences and often engaged in disputes. “The woman was staying with her parents for the last couple of months as her husband accused her of having an affair. We are in process of recording the statements of both the parties. The woman’s husband works with the Haryana Police. We will question him about his wife and two kids’ deaths. We have launched a probe,” the DSP added. The police have sent the bodies to a hospital in Ratia for autopsy. Mason found dead in Yamunanagar Body of a mason with his throat slit was found near Sector 18 in Yamunanagar on Friday. The victim has been identified as Arjun, a resident of Kansali village. Station in-charge Bhupinder Singh said, “Arjun’s throat was slit with a sharp weapon, but we are yet to recover it. We have registered a case on the complaint of his son and launched a probe, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-strangles-two-kids-hangs-self-in-haryana-s-fatehabad/story-8SIeRNv9Gcagv4XzCP4gEI.html
21-11-2020||City||Former Panipat councillor ‘suicide’: Sub-inspector, ASI suspended||Panipat superintendent of police (SP) Manisha Chaudhary on Friday evening ordered the suspension of sub-inspector Baljeet Singh and assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Mahabir Singh, who were leading the team that raided the residence of former Panipat councillor Harish Sharma. Harish had jumped into a canal on Thursday, for which his family accused the cops who had booked him under various sections of the IPC and the Explosives Act. His body is yet to be recovered. Sub-inspector Baljeet Singh was also a complainant in the FIR registered against Harish, his daughter Anjali Sharma, a sitting councillor, and eight others under IPC sections 186, 188, 201, 323, 332, 353, 379 A, 506, 511 and 34 and Explosive Act Section 9B.Two more persons, including his brother Satish Sharma and friend Rajesh Sharma, had jumped after Harish to rescue him, but failed to take him out. While Satish was saved by a local, Rajesh’s body as fished out later. Meanwhile, the three-member committee formed by home minister Anil Vij under ADGP Sandeep Khirwar to investigate the case has started its probed and reached Panipat on Friday, where it met Harish’s family. “We are investigating the case. We will submit the report to home minister soon,” the ADGP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-panipat-councillor-suicide-sub-inspector-asi-suspended/story-WFh7ccBi5dUPEYwMeFyVmO.html
21-11-2020||Chandigarh||Conduct medical tests of physically disabled free of cost: Human rights body to PGIMS, Rohtak||The Haryana Human Rights Commission has directed the director of Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak, to ensure that medical tests of a physically disabled patient from Rewari are done free of cost by the institute. As per an order issued by the commission chairperson Justice SK Mittal and member Deep Bhatia on Thursday, the poor patient had approached the human rights body for facilitation of medical and financial assistance. The Rewari civil surgeon had referred the patient to PGIMS, Rohtak, for assessment and certification of his disability. The PGIMS doctors advised an MRI of brain and imaging of spine. However, the patient, whose name has been withheld by the commission, said he was extremely poor and did not have the financial resources to get these tests done. The commission ordered that in such circumstances, all such tests should be done by the PGIMS free of cost. “The PGIMS should also submit a report regarding the disability of the complainant to the commission,” said the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/conduct-medical-tests-of-physically-disabled-free-of-cost-human-rights-body-to-pgims-rohtak/story-kKI1RJKO9AUpKmk14hdL1H.html
21-11-2020||City||Bird watchers rejoice as winged guests fly into Haryana||More than 80 species of migratory birds have been spotted at various birding sites in Haryana’s Rohtak, Jhajjar and Rewari districts, much to the delight of bird watchers. At popular locations such as Baland, Mandothi, Dubaldhan, Bhindawas Bird Sanctuary, Dighal, and Rewari’s Masani village, birders have spotted greylag goose, bar-headed goose, ruddy shelduck, tufted duck, eurasian teal, greater spotted eagle and many other species. The region usually witnesses migratory birds from across Kazakhstan, Iran, China, Mongolia, Nepal and Bhutan.Rakesh Ahlawat, a bird watcher from Dighal village, said the migratory birds have started arriving at various birding sites in the region.“Over 80 species of the birds have flown into Haryana from colder regions of Europe and Central Asia. At many places, less birds were spotted due to lesser rainfall in the month of August, but the number of migratory birds has been increasing with rise in winter. This time, we have seen dunlin and spotted crake, which has caused excitement among the bird watchers,” he added.He claimed that over 100 species of migratory birds visit the wetlands of Rohtak, Jhajjar and Rewari in the end of October and November, and stay till March.Shiv Singh, district wildlife officer, Rohtak, said every year, they witness a large number of migratory birds at the bird sites in the region from various corners of the world.“The process starts in the month of October and continues till February. This year, we found fewer birds at many sites, including at Dighal, due to less water in the wetland. The birds fly to Haryana due to favourable climatic conditions and availability of food. There are many species which have been flocking to the region for the past many years,” the wildlife officer added. He further said this year, they have witnessed a drop in number of winged guests arriving at the popular sites. Moreover, less number of people are visiting the bird sites due to the Covid-19 pandemic.“There is no impact of the virus on the migratory birds, but certainly on the visitors. We are accessing the data of birds visiting the sites,” Shiv Singh added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bird-watchers-rejoice-as-winged-guests-fly-into-haryana/story-uPCYAl0mwNX6eHxHpMxJiK.html
21-11-2020||City||V-C’s failure to act on anomalies during predecessor’s tenure led to mess at Punjabi University||The failure of Punjabi University vice-chancellor Prof BS Ghuman to act on alleged irregularities in the recruitment of staff and misuse of funds during the tenure of his predecessor Jaspal Singh from 2009 to 2017 led to administrative and financial mess at the varsity. The delay on part of Ghuman, who has already tendered resignation, in deciding on the inquiry reports related to the irregularities also created differences between the varsity administration and the state government which wanted the former to put its house in order before asking for more funds. While issuing a special grant of Rs 20 crore to the varsity on July 22, finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal had categorically asked the university to fix responsibility and submit a report on the alleged glaring financial irregularities. The minister had even directed the varsity to control its expenditure and adopt austerity measures. But no action was taken on 13 internal inquiry reports into allegations of corruption, nepotism and misuse of funds during the tenure of Jaspal Singh. Ghuman could not be reached for comments despite repeated calls and messages. The probe reports deal with purchase of fire extinguishers to the tune of₹80 lakh, faulty recruitment of 62 assistant professors; priority given to wait-listed candidates in teaching and non-teaching departments; hiring of outsourced employees, recruitment of teachers on fake scheduled caste/backward class certificates; purchase of paper and answer book cases at exorbitant rates; undue promotions; purchase of faulty software for distance education department and the examination branch; incorrect pay fixation and allowing service extension to retiring employees. Increased salary bill, dip in income As per the budgetary proposals for the current fiscal, the varsity expects an income of₹380 crore against an expenditure of ₹676 crore, leaving a massive Rs 296-crore deficit. The main reason behind increasing deficit is increase in the salary bill, which is Rs 425 crore against Rs 199.27 crore in 2010. On the other hand, the overall income of the university has decreased from Rs 445 crore in 2017 to Rs 344 in 2019-20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/v-c-s-failure-to-act-on-anomalies-during-predecessor-s-tenure-led-to-mess-at-punjabi-university/story-bquSRHLvtbqDIyZfTNoQxO.html
21-11-2020||HTLS||HTLS 2020: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal hopes 3rd wave may recede if trend holds||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday expressed hope that, based on positive signs over the last four-five days, the national Capital was crossing the third peak of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), with the positivity rate of tests and the number of infections consistently declining during this period.The cases in Delhi have surged in their third and the deadliest wave so far, with the positivity rate (the number of those infected as a percentage of those tested) spiking to 15%. The Delhi government recently sought tighter curbs on weddings in city and asked the Union government for approval to lock down market places if they were turning into hot spots.“It appears that there are some good signs in the last 4-5 days. On November 15, the positivity rate was 15%. On November 17, this reduced to 13%. Today, it is 10.5%. In the last five days, the positivity rate reduced by 5 percentage points… It appears that the cases are reducing. We are keeping our fingers crossed. I hope that if this trend continues, then maybe we – the people of Delhi and those from the central government and all organisations – I think we are crossing the third peak,” Kejriwal said at the 18th Hindustan Times Leadership Summit.Also Read: HTLS 2020: No VIP category should be created for Covid-19 vaccine, says KejriwalThe Delhi chief minister said that even after 8,593 daily cases recently, the Capital’s health care infrastructure did not collapse under the surge of infections, something that was noticed in several metropolises across the world, including New York City. “A total of 7,500 beds are vacant, and 450 ICU beds are vacant right now,” he said, praising the efforts of health care workers. “We will add 1,000-1,500 ICU beds in the next 1-2 days,” he added.Referring to the intensity of the third wave, the Delhi CM said that experts indicated the disease pattern was aggravated because of increased air pollution. He said the fundamentals of the “Delhi model” that his government devised to fight the pandemic a while back — testing, home isolation, public data, hospital beds, and plasma therapy — remained strong even today, and the current situation did not go out of control because of the robustness of this strategy.On Friday, the national capital recorded 6,608 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the infection tally to 517,238 , while 118 deaths in a day pushed the death toll to 8,159.Kejriwal also said that his government was in the process of creating a health information management system that will integrate and track hospitals and other such facilities across the Capital. “All Delhi government hospitals, mohalla clinics, poly clinics... all will be connected with each other. At the click of a button, you will know on the cloud… what all is available at which hospital. All citizens will be given e-cards and their medical history will be available on the cloud... I hope we will be able to implement it in a year.”The CM added that the system will begin only with Delhi government hospitals but the plan is to expand it. “It is a modular structure in which extra things can be plugged in subsequently. In one year, we will try to bring Delhi government hospitals on this. I would like private and central government hospitals to come on board subsequently. The entire health infrastructure of Delhi should be on this platform finally, but in Phase 1, it is going to be only Delhi government infrastructure.”He said that under the system, when a patient visits a health facility for the first time, their history will be fed in. The details will then keep getting updated with each visit. The CM added that the system, planned for two years, was brought into urgent focus because of the pandemic and the tendering process for it had been completed.Also Read| HTLS 2020: ‘Congress has collapsed as a national party’: Delhi CM Arvind KejriwalThe Delhi CM said that when the pandemic began early this year, several factors were beyond Delhi’s control, leading to the ballooning of Covid-19 cases. “We found out about the coronavirus in February and March... Indians wanted to return from countries ravaged by the disease at that point. By March 22, about 32,000 people returned and spread across Delhi. We asked DCs to identify them and isolate them but it wasn’t practically possible. Delhi didn’t start from zero, we started with several thousands.”When asked which aspect of the disease was the most challenging to tackle, he said the “rate of the spread of the infection”. “It spreads so fast. If you are not on your toes 24 hours a day, then your structure collapses.”He said the Delhi government’s decision to begin home isolation for mildly symptomatic or asymptomatic cases was a game-changer. “If all patients come to the hospitals, then we can’t manage. Without home isolation, there would have been no beds for serious patients,” he said.Kejriwal also said that the decision to implement a nationwide lockdown in March was a good move as it gave governments time to build infrastructure and acquire equipment. On the question of whether a lockdown could return in the Capital, he said: “A lockdown doesn’t end corona; it delays the infections. The day the lockdown ends, cases will rise.” He added that governments should clamp lockdowns only when facilities are overrun with infections, emphasising that it was essential to keep up economic activity even while fighting the pandemic.Also Watch: Covid: Delhi vs New York comparison by CM Kejriwal amid 3rd wave #HTLS2020 He defended the Covid-19 testing record of Delhi, saying that the government responded to the worsening situation swiftly. “August 16, when cases started rising [in the second wave], within a week we increased the number of tests. Even now, as the cases started growing, we started testing more.”Kejriwal said that the accuracy of rapid antigen tests was doubtful, but RT-PCR tests took much longer to return results. “Ideally, all tests should be RT-PCR,” he said. But the CM said the turnaround time in these tests was two days on average.The Centre recently announced that it will double the testing capacity in Delhi to 100,000-120,000 with a focus on increasing RT-PCR tests, deploy mobile testing labs and ramp up ICU beds.Kejriwal also said that the entire world was desperately waiting for a vaccine. “For vaccine delivery in India, the entire distribution plan will be made by the central government. But if they ask us for suggestions, there shouldn’t be ‘VIP and non-VIP’ culture...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/htls/htls-2020-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-hopes-3rd-wave-may-recede-if-trend-holds/story-QLaG4iqTGYnCDbXhEGXalO.html
21-11-2020||City||Will probe 261% rise in power bill arrears during BJP government: Maharashtra energy minister||The Maharashtra government will investigate the “unreasonable” rise in arrears of powers bills in the five years of the previous government led by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), state energy minister Nitin Raut said on Friday. In the cabinet meeting held on Thursday, the ministers were informed that the unrecovered power bill amount of the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) has increased to Rs59,102 crore by October end. This means Rs36,992 crore was not recovered in the past five years, the officials said. “By the end of March 2014, the unrecovered amount of power bills in the state was Rs14,154 crore which increased to Rs51,146 crore by the end of March this year. This issue was discussed in the state cabinet meeting. Following the directives of the CM, we are going to investigate the matter,” Raut said. “The profit generated by the power company has reduced in the past five years. They (BJP) have made bogus claims that the financial position of MSEDCL has improved in the five years. Their credibility is in question now,” Raut said, taking on the Opposition party, which has declared to start a state-wide agitation against the state government for not providing relief to consumers from inflated power bills during the lockdown period of three months — April, May and June. Raut said he would be happy if the BJP could agitate against the Centre, which is not ready to provide funds worth Rs10,000 crore sought by the state energy department. “I have requested them to provide us Rs10,000 crore. They are yet to clear the state’s share of Rs28,000 crore in the Goods and Services Tax (GST). We are ready to provide relief to people if they (BJP) could bring back state’s money from the Centre,” he said. Meanwhile, the state BJP unit clarified that the amount of unpaid power bills increased because of surge in power consumption owing to drought. “Power consumption increased in the past four years as the state was reeling under drought. Consequently, the unrecovered amount of power bills also increased. But the then BJP government never cared about money and provided power to farmers according to their requirement. This is the reason why power consumption for agricultural activities increased by 60% in 2019,” said BJP spokesperson Vishwas Pathak, who is also former MSEDCL director. Meanwhile, during Thursday’s meeting, the cabinet also cleared a proposal of an amnesty scheme to encourage farmers to clear power bill arrears, as around power bills of agricultural pumps used by the farmers to irrigate farms amount to Rs41,000 crore. The energy minister had also said that the state has not shelved its plan to waive off the power bills up to 100 units to poor families and those living below the poverty line (BPL). He further said that the panel formed to give its recommendation on waiving off power bills up to 100 units could not meet due to the pandemic. “We will ask the study group to submit its report to the state government. This move (to waive off bills up to 100 units) is likely to bring a financial burden of Rs6,000 crore on the state exchequer every year,” the energy minister said. The state had planned to formulate a scheme on the lines of Delhi, where the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government had in 2019 announced 100% power bill waiver for households consuming up to 200 units of power in a month and subsidised bills for those consuming power between 201 and 400 units. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/will-probe-261-rise-in-power-bill-arrears-during-bjp-government-maharashtra-energy-minister/story-5LtjO2LNwEHvBaMdLMrQKP.html
21-11-2020||Mumbai||Thane district sees drop in Covid-19 cases post Diwali||Post-Diwali, Thane district has noted an improvement in Covid-19 cases with 94.72 per cent recovery rate. From among the 2.3 lakh cases within the district, 2.1 lakh have been discharged and the number of active cases has come down to 13,000 as well.The mortality rate within the district has come down to 2.52 per cent currently. A total of 5,423 deaths are recorded till date.In September first week, the recovery rate in the district was 86.60 per cent with more than 20,000 active cases. The active cases in mid-October were as high as 30,000.The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has, so far, reported the maximum number of Covid-19 cases at 56,167, followed by 50,127 in Navi Mumbai and 49,362 in Thane city.Out of the total deaths, Thane city has recorded 1,183, Navi Mumbai 1,034 and Kalyan-Dombivli 949. A slight decrease in the number of cases has been noticed across the district in the last week. Opening of labs in each corporation helped see a dip in positive cases, claimed the district authorities.Rajesh Narvekar, collector, Thane District, said, “In the beginning of the pandemic, Thane district did not have a single testing lab. However, now every municipal corporation has testing laboratories that have ensured quick initiation of treatment. We are also in the process of building a testing unit in Padgha, which will cater to the rural areas within the district. We have identified places with infrastructure to accommodate more patients in case of a second wave.”The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has a recovery rate of 95 per cent with mortality rate coming down to 2.31 per cent even as the number of testing done is between 5,000 to 6,000 on a daily basis.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, TMC, said, “Although the situation is under control, we request support from residents in following social distancing rules, sanitize regularly and wear masks. For more than a week, the daily average number of cases has been consistently below 150 cases.”KDMC had the most number of cases within Mumbai Metropolitan Region. However they are presently at 96 per cent recovery rate. Dr Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC, said, “We have handled the situation well and are ready to tackle more cases. Even if we get 900 daily cases, we have the provisions but residents have to take precautions, especially with educational institutions and public transport gradually opening up.”The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation has hardly a few active cases. It reported less than 200 cases over the last few days. Similarly, Bhiwandi-Nizampur City Municipal Corporation had zero cases on Diwali despite the number of testing in these areas continuing to be the same.Bhiwandi had managed to control the pandemic in the early stages itself. Since mid-September, two-thirds of the Covid beds in the city had been given for patients from rural areas and other municipal corporations. Door-to-door testing was also initiated from September in the city leading to a decrease in positive cases. Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation is also at 93% recovery rate, “We have recently inaugurated our testing lab and will be adding 260 more beds within the city. We are well prepared if at all a second wave happens,” said Raja Dayanidhi, commissioner, Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation.Within Thane rural, the Zilla Parishad had asked villages in July to hoist a green flag in the gram panchayat if they did not have a single case in 28 days. Currently, there are 209 villages within Thane rural areas that have hoisted green flags. Till now, there have been around 35,785 positive cases within the rural areas of the district.“Less than 70 cases are being reported daily this week from across rural areas of the district now. We also took special efforts to remove fear in the minds of the locals, created awareness and testing were conducted regularly,” said an official from Thane Zilla Parishad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/thane-district-sees-drop-in-covid-19-cases-post-diwali/story-nMOL78nqSebPBVGWq60MUJ.html
21-11-2020||Mumbai||Low-key Diwali: Less cases reported at Navi Mumbai’s National Burns Centre||The low-key Diwali celebrations this year have reduced the number of burn cases reported at the National Burns Centre (NBS), Airoli, to seven. The number reported last year was 25. Out of the seven cases this year, five are of girls below 10 years whose dress caught fire and two are men who got burnt while bursting crackers.According to the centre, every year, around 20 to 25 cases of burn injuries are reported in the centre post Diwali. Most of them occur due to dresses catching fire from oil lamps.Dr Sunil Keswani, head of the National Burns Centre, said, “Small girls are usually dressed up in flowing traditional dresses, which get caught in diyas while playing. The five children admitted have received around 30 per cent burns. For an adult, this is a recoverable percentage but for children this could be fatal.”The two men got burn injuries while lighting a flowerpot.Keswani added, “Cracker burn cases are usually minor. They don’t have to get admitted. The victims are usually a parent who happens to burn their hand or face while lighting a firecracker for the child. Eight out of 10 firecracker burns happen while lighting a flowerpot.”He said that last year there were two deaths of women above 60 years who were comorbid and had sustained burn injuries after their sarees caught fire from diya.“This year, people did not indulge in crackers and diyas. Moreover, most of them stayed at home. The pandemic was a blessing in disguise for fall in the number of Diwali burn victims,” Dr Keswani said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/low-key-diwali-less-burn-cases-reported-at-navi-mumbai-s-national-burns-centre/story-pr1VmCckJ6SJyiKcuhc2WM.html
21-11-2020||Mumbai||Maternity, multi-speciality hospitals to boost Kalyan-Dombivli health infrastructure||The Covid-19 pandemic situation has finally awakened the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) to the need for better health infrastructure in the twin cities. At present, Kalyan-Dombivli has merely two civic-run hospitals, four clinics and 15 primary healthcare centres to cater to a population of more than 15 lakh.Civic commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi, who has been vocal about the poor state of health infrastructure, has taken up two major projects for the same.The KDMC plans to redevelop an existing maternity home at Patharli in Dombivli. This has been shut for more than seven years. It also plans to add a multi-specialty hospital along with the maternity hospital. The corporation also announced a new medical college and 500-bedded hospital in Kalyan.Both these projects have been sanctioned by the general body last week.Ashwini Patil, medical health officer, KDMC, said, “The civic body has plans to come up with better infrastructure facilities, which is the need of the hour. We had plans to develop these facilities earlier. However, it never took off. The commissioner has now prioritised them.”The multi-specialty hospital with a maternity home will be built under Public Private Partnership (PPP) basis in Dombivli. The construction will be in two parts – the first will be the maternity hospital and the second, multispecialty hospital.The corporation will operate the state-of-the-art maternity home on the first and ground floors that include OPD, waiting area, radiology centre, reception room, security guard cabin, pharmacy, casualty, laboratory, record room as well as two operation theatres. The private agency will operate the multi-specialty hospital on the second floor.This ground-plus-one storeyed 30-bedded maternity home in KDMC was turned into a scrap shop in 2018 as it was shut for renovation. It was built in 1983 during the establishment of the municipal corporation, and shut in October 2013 due to its dilapidated condition.Till the time it was operational, many women visited the maternity home on a daily basis. After its closure, the services provided at the maternity home were diverted to the Shastri Nagar civic hospital in Dombivli and Rukminibai civic hospital in Kalyan.In 2015, the KDMC health department claimed that work cannot be started due to lack of funds.Suryavanshi said, “We have got a nod for the development of this maternity home and multi-speciality hospital and also the 500-bed hospital and medical college from the general body. The state health minister also assured to provide all the help for the same. We will take up these projects on a priority basis.”Raju Shinde, a resident of Dombivli, expressed that the civic body should take this pandemic as a lesson to improve infrastructure. “The existing civic hospitals are not capable of dealing with more patients or giving advanced treatment to the patients. If the civic-run hospitals are as good as a private hospital or at least have the basic facilities, people will get quality treatment at affordable prices.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maternity-multi-speciality-hospitals-to-boost-kalyan-dombivli-health-infrastructure/story-nSx12XdrrlqQV2AbcveQJK.html
21-11-2020||City||Schools closed till December 31: Thane teachers throng Covid-19 testing centres amid confusion over decision||Thane district collector Rajesh Narvekar late on Friday evening announced that schools in the district will remain closed till December 31. “We had a meeting with Thane guardian minister Eknath Shinde and decided that although the Covid-19 situation in the district is under control, there are chances of a second wave. So keeping the safety of children in mind, we have decided that all schools will remain closed till December 31,” said Narvekar. The development came following confusion over the reopening of schools in Thane district prevailed throughout the day on Friday, as the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had announced to not reopen schools this month in the morning. As confusion prevailed over the reopening of schools in Thane, teachers thronged the Covid-19 testing centres, leading to overcrowding at the facilities. The Covid-19 testing centres at Vasant Valley in Kalyan witnessed a huge crowd and teachers complained of mismanagement at the facilities, which led to delay in testing of most of the teachers who waited for long hours in the queue. Rajaram Patil a teacher of Sharda Vidyamandir Kalyan and president of Maharashtra Rajya Shikshak Parishad, said, “There was complete chaos at the centre as there was no proper management by KDMC (Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation). Several teachers who waited in the queue for the testing on Thursday had to come on Friday again as their testing was not done the previous day. There were several arguments between the teachers and the staff.” KDMC epidemic officer Dr Pratibha Panpatil said, “We have set up five testing centres in Kalyan and made proper arrangement at all the centres for the testing with whatever manpower we have.” Overcrowding was also observed in rural areas of the district. Sudhir Ghagas, president, Maharashtra Shikshan Kranti Sanghatna, said, “We received an official statement on November 17 about mandatory tests to be conducted for all teachers before schools reopened. It was difficult to complete the procedure within a week, that too before the weekend. This led to teachers gathering outside testing centres and forming long queues to get themselves tested. In Shahapur, there are fewer testing centres but many teachers. Teachers were worried that overcrowding at the testing centres could lead to spread of the virus. “The staff at the centre I visited in Thane asked me to provide a doctor’s prescription for the test. I had to explain to them that the government made it compulsory for teachers to get tested. As the testing centres were not aware of this rule, it added to the confusion. As we had limited time, it was difficult to get a doctor’s prescription first and then approach the testing centre ,” said Kalyani Karmarkar, a teacher of a civic school in Thane. Meanwhile, Raigad collector Nidhi Choudhary has announced that schools can continue to function if parents give a confirmation to send their children to school. However, Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC), which falls under Raigad district, has postponed reopening of schools until December 31. “If parents give consent and the RT-PCR reports of all teachers come negative, the schools can reopen from Monday . But, PCMC schools will remain closed for some more weeks as there are concerns of a second Covid-19 wave,” said Choudhary..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/schools-closed-till-december-31-thane-teachers-throng-covid-19-testing-centres-amid-confusion-over-decision/story-VJPidlN6TJQa6SuEhw9EJM.html
21-11-2020||Mumbai||Sale of top-end vehicles not impacted by lockdown as registration in Thane RTO rise||The economy might have suffered during the lockdown. However, that has not affected the sale of top-end imported cars and motorcycles, as per the Regional Transport Officer (RTO) Thane records.The RTO has registered 30 imported cars and bikes alone in the last three months in Thane region, including a ₹7.25Cr Rolls Royce and ₹2.5Cr BMW. The RTO also has earned ₹1.75Cr in revenue from taxes by registering these high-end vehicles merely in just the last three months.As per the RTO records, it had registered 88 vehicles from January to December, 2019. Jayant Patil, Deputy Regional Officer, RTO, Thane, said, “This year, since March the sale was not good due to lockdown. However, it has taken off in the last three months when we registered 30 vehicles in merely three months out of a total of 58 imported vehicles till date this year. The sale has especially been good since Dussehra. We have earned revenue of ₹1.75Cr in the entire Thane region, with taxes as high as ₹20L for a single car.”With the limitation on public transport, most people invested in private vehicles. The safety of private vehicles was also one encouraging factor.Patil added, “After the complete lockdown in March, the RTO had started registering vehicles from May. Registration in the first two months was low. However, it increased as there were no signs of public transport resuming.”Some of the vehicles sold during this period included Rolls Royce, Land Rover, Mark, BMW, Mercedes, Audi, Ferrari, Porsche cars, and BMW and Yamaha motorcycles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sale-of-top-end-vehicles-not-impacted-by-lockdown-as-registration-in-thane-rto-rise/story-zKi1gvBo8XW6zcdx0NXapM.html
21-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra third state in country to cross 1-crore Covid-19 tests mark||With 70,546 tests conducted in the past 24 hours, Maharashtra became the third state in the country to cross 1 crore Covid-19 detection tests, after Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. Since the outbreak, Maharashtra has tested 10,035,665 samples with a positivity rate of 17.62%.Health experts, however, maintain that the state, which has more than 500 laboratories including private labs, has not fully utilised its testing capacity. They said the state would have to ramp up testing to keep the probable second wave of Covid-19 in check by testing close contacts and super spreaders.According to data shared by Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance office, 60.43% or 6,064,735 of the total tests were reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests and the remaining 39.57% or 3,970,930 were rapid antigen tests.Maharashtra continued to report more than 5,000 cases for the third consecutive day with 5,640 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday. The total caseload in the state touched 1,768,695, of which 78,272 are active. The state also reported 155 fatalities, pushing the death toll to 46,511.After eight days of clocking less than 1,000 cases daily, Mumbai on Friday reported 1,031 new infections, taking the city’s tally to 273,486. The last time Mumbai reported more than 1,000 cases was on November 11. The city also reported 12 deaths, pushing death toll to 10,639. The number of active cases in Mumbai stood at 11,822.As anticipated by health experts and authorities, the number of cases reported is seeing an increase than the previous weeks. On Friday, Pune reported 748 cases, followed by 517 in Thane district (including municipal corporations in the district), 463 in Nagpur district and 379 in Nashik district.State health minister Rajesh Tope said he was concerned about the gradual increase in Covid-19 cases in Mumbai. Tope, who was in Ratnagiri on Friday to take stock of the situation, said people in the state must learn from what Delhi is facing and must not lower their guard. The minister added that if the second wave hits the state, it will prove “costly” for everybody.“Today, cases are gradually going up in Mumbai, and it is concerning. Therefore, people must remain cautious. We must learn from Delhi and Kerala where the growth rates are going up. People do not wear masks and are taking the situation for granted. The second wave will prove costly for everybody and we must prevent it,” he said.Awate, however, said there was no increase in case positivity rate and attributed the increase in cases to higher number of tests. “There is no major increase in cases and the positivity rate is still under 10%. The testing during Diwali period had decreased due to several factors. The increase in cases could be attributed to that. However, we are taking all precautions to contain the spread,” he said.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, advisor to the state on Covid-19 control and member of a state-appointed committee on communicable diseases, said the state must increase testing. “There was a downward trend before Diwali, and we are seeing some increase in cases in some cities and districts. Despite appeals from the chief minister, ministers and experts, people have not been adhering to Covid-appropriate behaviour. Besides, the state must increase testing to its full capacity. For instance, Pune conducts around 3,500 test daily, but it should increase to 6,500-7,500 tests per day,” Salunkhe said.N Ramaswami, commissioner, health services, said the department has already directed to increase testing to contain the spread of the coronavirus. “During the festival season the number of tests had gone done. We have already instructed our field missions to conduct the maximum number of tests. Besides regular tests, we also have to test teachers now as schools are going to reopen. Testing is the only way we can control the spread,” he said.Tope said while the state government has unlocked almost all activities, people have to take masking and social distancing seriously to prevent another wave. The minister added that the state would now increase the limit of people allowed to attend weddings in the state.When asked if the need could arise for another lockdown in the state to prevent the second wave, Salunkhe said he would not recommend lockdown. “Now the role of lockdown would not be much. As there are multiple complex issues involved in it, I won’t prescribe a lockdown. But I certainly want people to wear a mask and follow social distancing,” he said.Ramaswami said the state’s health infrastructure is prepared even if there is a surge in cases as predicted by health experts and authorities. The second wave could hit the state by December-end or in January-February, according to the two prediction models. “We have already instructed that districts must prepare for 10% additional cases to what the district had recorded earlier. We are concentrating on prevention. Even if there is a surge, we will be able to tackle it. We are geared up satisfactorily,” he said.Meanwhile, Friday also saw 6,945 patients being discharged after recovery, taking the tally of total recovered patients to 1,642,916. The recovery rate in the state improved to 92.89%. Currently, 558,090 people are in home quarantine and 4,883 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-third-state-in-country-to-cross-1-crore-covid-19-tests-mark/story-uxNfN7HYg5WQI7aY8ibXNO.html
21-11-2020||Mumbai||5 of chain-snatching gang arrested in Navi Mumbai||The Navi Mumbai crime branch arrested five persons from a chain-snatching gang, solving at least 20 cases in the city. The gang had started robbing women of gold chains shortly after the lockdown. They operated in a group of four men riding two motorbikes.The police have recovered valuables worth ₹20 lakh from their possession. Two of the prime accused were arrested from the Odisha-Jharkhand border early this week, police said.The men especially targeted elderly women in isolated locations, pillion riders on the bike would rob their victims. The other biker would follow the first bike to prevent them from getting caught in case the victims chased the robbers, police added.The gang managed to evade police for almost the entire year. Prior to resorting to chain snatchings, some of the accused were arrested for pickpocketing train commuters.“While investigating the recent chain snatching cases, we started tracing the bikes that the men used in the crimes. With the help of informants, we learnt that the prime accused was headed to Kolkata by train and with the help of Odisha and Jharkhand police, the accused was nabbed in time,” said Giridhar Gore, senior inspector, unit 2, crime branch.After it was confirmed that the prime accused, Tanvir Shaikh alias Dipak, 22, was on board a train with his accomplice, the Navi Mumbai crime branch coordinated with the railway police and authorities to track the train route. With a coordinated attempt at various railway stations, Shaikh and his accomplice were nabbed at Rourkela station.They were brought to Navi Mumbai on a transit remand and later placed under arrest following which the other accused were identified. Shaikh worked with Akil Khan, 25, a taxi driver, Harun Sayyed, 23, an auto rickshaw driver, Tasharruf Shaikh, 22, and a fourth wanted accused.The fourth suspect is the husband of Shabnam Shaikh, 25, who is a hawker in Panvel. After robbing their victims, the accused men would hand over the stolen jewellery to Shabnam. She would sell it to different jewellers.Since January, 45 chain snatchings have been reported in Navi Mumbai, out of which only 13 were solved until the gang’s arrest. Of the remaining 32 unsolved cases, 20 chain snatching robberies were found to have been committed by Shaikh’s gang.Police recovered ₹20 lakh worth gold valuables along with two motorbikes from their possession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/5-of-chain-snatching-gang-arrested-in-navi-mumbai/story-TOuMrXPDBE0uepasdKw1VO.html
21-11-2020||Mumbai||Pedestrian killed as garbage dumper crashes into mini-bus in Navi Mumbai||A 42-year-old pedestrian was killed while four persons travelling in a mini-bus were injured after a garbage dumper crashed into the bus in Vashi on Friday afternoon.The Vashi police are on the lookout for the dumper driver who fled the scene.The pedestrian, Gaurav Dhal, 42, a resident of Kamothe, was killed in the crash while he was crossing the road. He was working in a Vashi-based finance company.The crash occurred at around 4 pm opposite Arunachal Bhawan in Sector 30, Vashi. The mini-bus was transporting employees of a pharmaceutical company from Mahape. The bus driver had dropped one of the employees at Vashi railway station and was further going to drop five others at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) at the time of the incident.“The bus had crossed the junction near Kalyan Jewellers when a garbage dumper coming from the adjacent road at a high speed crashed into it from the rear,” said Sanjeev Dhumal, senior inspector at Vashi police station.Police said it was unclear if the dumper first hit the pedestrian or the bus. Impacts of collision was seen on the dumper’s front and the rear left portion of the bus.“The dumper hit the bus towards the left rear side, causing it to topple to its side. We are still checking the CCTV footage to arrive at the conclusion as to how the crash took place,” said an officer from Vashi police station.Police said Dhal was returning home after finishing work in Vashi. Four employees in the bus sustained minor injuries and all of them were taken to MGM Hospital in Vashi. Dhal was declared dead at the hospital.The Vashi police were in the process of registering a case against the dumper driver for rash driving and causing death due to negligence under sections of Indian Penal Code.Police said that after crashing into the bus, the dumper driver left the vehicle and fled the spot. Police have contacted the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation for help in tracing the driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pedestrian-killed-as-garbage-dumper-crashes-into-mini-bus-in-navi-mumbai/story-rUPSDA6ngjgubxFSdQRllM.html
21-11-2020||Mumbai||Do not visit Chaityabhoomi on Ambedkar’s death anniversary, Mumbai civic body appeals to citizens||Fearing a second wave of Covid-19 in Mumbai, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has appealed to citizens to not visit Chaityabhoomi this year on December 6 which marks the death anniversary of Dr BR Ambedkar. Civic officials said no arrangements, such as temporary sheds, drinking water, mobile toilets among others, will be made for visitors this year. However, devotees can pay tribute from their homes as the event will be live telecast this year.Every year on December 6, followers of Ambedkar visit Chaityabhoomi in Dadar, where Ambedkar was cremated, to pay their respects to the Dalit icon. As per BMC’s estimates, nearly 10 lakh people visit Chaityabhoomi every year on the occasion.Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner of G North ward (Dadar), said, “No stalls will be given any permission and no arrangements will be made for visitors. It is an appeal to citizens to pay tributes from their homes through the live telecast in these extraordinary times. We are also making sure that we are prepared with complete crowd controlling measures at the site.”Generally, around 500 stalls of books, lamps, calendars, decorations, posters, T-shirts, watches and other such with images of Ambedkar are put up at Shivaji Park for the occasion. Temporary sheds spread across around 1 lakh square foot are set-up by BMC for visitors. Apart from this, nearly 200 mobile toilets and several drinking water taps are provided by the civic body every year for visitors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/do-not-visit-chaityabhoomi-on-ambedkar-s-death-anniversary-mumbai-civic-body-appeals-to-citizens/story-W7g3FaxayuEU8i2RQlF0TJ.html
21-11-2020||Mumbai||This year, most celebrate Chhath Puja from their building terraces in Thane, Kalyan||With an appeal from the state to avoid overcrowding at the water bodies, women from the north Indian community observed the Chhath Puja from the terrace of their residential buildings on Friday. Merely 3,000 to 4,000 people visited the seven lakes in the city compared to the one lakh people who visit every year.Chhath Puja is celebrated widely among the north Indian community wherein women observe a three-day fast and present offerings to the rising and setting sun facing any water body.Dhananjay Singh, Founder, Rudra Pratishthan, an organisation that works for the welfare of the north Indian community in Thane, said, “People who visited the lakes were sent one at a time maintaining social-distancing. We had volunteers at various spots to ensure rules of wearing masks were followed. We took many precautionary measures. The artificial lake at Upvan saw hardly 70 devotees whereas Railadevi Lake had more than a thousand devotees visiting on Friday.”Meanwhile, those who could not visit the lakes in the city carried out the ritual on their building terrace facing the setting sun on Friday.“We are supposed to perform the rituals facing the setting sun on Friday and rising sun on Saturday. We spent the entire year celebrating low key. This ritual is for the well-being of the family and hence as part of that we chose to stay indoors. Every year the lakes are overcrowded and we did not want to be a part of that during the pandemic, hence we completed the rituals within our society terrace,” said Ritu Jha, 32, resident of Umapati building in Kalyan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/this-year-most-celebrate-chhath-puja-from-their-building-terraces-in-thane-kalyan/story-zcHdDSH8NsprauUAqpVlOJ.html
21-11-2020||Mumbai||Decision to not reopen schools in Mumbai till December 31 should have been taken earlier: Principals, parents||Schools in Mumbai have welcomed the civic body’s announcement to not reopen schools on November 23, but said that the decision should have been taken earlier. The schools will remain closed till December 31 owing to fears of a second Covid-19 wave in the city. After the Maharashtra education department’s green signal, schools had begun preparations to reopen for Class 9 to Class 12 students. In the past few days, around 9,000 teachers from schools in Mumbai underwent the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test for Covid-19, after the state made testing mandatory for them in the standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued on November 10. A total of 25,000 teachers, including those from aided, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and private schools had to be tested. “The past few days have been really stressful for teachers and schools as they had to prepare for the reopening as per the guidelines. So while we welcome BMC’s decision to not reopen schools this month, we wished that the announcement would have been made earlier,” said Prashant Redij, spokesperson, Mumbai Principals Association. Several schools had also sanitised their premises as a preparation for schools to reopen. “The government has not given us any money for this and now all that effort has gone down the drain,” said the principal of a suburban school. Prasad Tulaskar, a Dadar-based parent who had been writing to the education department urging officials to not start schools, said parents heaved a sigh of relief after the announcement. “Our only question is why was our request not heard before? In a city like Mumbai, Covid-19 cases have always been high and it made no sense to announce reopening of schools. The state should understand that when a child goes to school, along with him, his family members also become vulnerable [to the virus],” said Tulaskar. On Friday, state education minister Varsha Gaikwad said that while the department has allowed schools to reopen for the higher classes, the final decision to do so rests with the local administration. “Local administration from each place would be able to take a decision on the basis of prevailing conditions and in consultation with principals and other stakeholders,” said Gaikwad in a statement. The SOPs too had mandated that the local administration has the final authority to decide on school reopening. The department had, however, said it would permit schools to reopen from November 23 following safety protocols like sanitisation of school premises, daily temperature checks of teachers and students, conducting a mix of online and offline learning and ensuring there is one student per bench in a class. Supplementary exams on schedule, students, staff allowed to take trainsThe department said the ongoing supplementary exams for Class 10 and Class 12 will continue as per schedule and the students, teaching and non-teaching staff will be allowed to travel by local trains till December 10. The CR and WR issued the permission late on Friday, on the directives of the railway ministry. Valid identity card and hall tickets of students will be checked while entering the railway station premises..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/decision-to-not-reopen-schools-in-mumbai-till-december-31-should-have-been-taken-earlier-principals-parents/story-FBzOMyBXyIYdRgc1DJUq3N.html
21-11-2020||Delhi||Lowest November minimum temperature in Delhi since 2006, shows IMD data||The minimum temperature in Delhi dropped to 7.5 degrees Celsius on Friday morning, the lowest in November since 2006, according to data from the met department, as experts predicted an early winter for the national capitalOn November 29, 2006, the minimum temperature had dropped to 7.3°C, officials said. Data from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) shows that till November 16, the average minimum temperatures recorded in the city have been two to three degrees below the normal for the season.Friday’s minimum temperature was five notches below normal for this time of the year.In November 2019, the lowest temperature was 11.4°C and in the same month the previous year, this was 10.5°C.According to IMD scientists, the minimum temperature does not usually drop below 10 degrees Celsius in November. “It’s unusual for minimum temperatures to drop to single digits in mid-November. Winter is setting in early this year. The drop in night temperature is mainly due to a combination of cold winds blowing from the snow-clad western Himalayan region and largely clear skies in Delhi. When there is no cloud cover, the ground cools faster and minimum temperatures stay low,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre.He added that snowfall in the Himalayas, which is an annual phenomenon, has an impact on temperatures across northwest India, but local factors such as absence of cloud cover also play a crucial role. Delhi this year also saw the coldest October in 58 years with the mean minimum temperatures for the month settling at 17.2°C. The last time it was this cold at night in the national capital was in 1962, when the mean minimum temperature for October was 16.9 degrees Celsius, as per IMD data.VK Soni of IMD’s environment monitoring research centre, said the minimum temperature is likely to remain around 7-8 degrees Celsius over the next two days. “On November 23, there will be a slight increase in the minimum temperature because of cloud cover in Delhi. Whenever there are clouds, there is a rise in minimum temperature,” he said.Meanwhile, falling temperatures and continuing stubble fires have kept the air quality in the far-end of the ‘poor’ category, despite strong winds. The average wind speed on Thursday was 15-16kmph, favourable for the dispersion of pollutants.Also Read: Delhi’s air quality deteriorates again, may improve marginally tomorrowAs per the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) 4pm bulletin, the average air quality index (AQI) was 296, up from 283 on Thursday.“The deterioration in air quality is mainly because the wind direction is north-westerly and since some stubble burning activity is still continuing, the smoke is travelling to Delhi and not allowing improvement. However, wind speeds are likely to remain high over the next two days and there may be a slight improvement in air quality. We don’t expect any significant deterioration at least till November 23,” Soni said.As per the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), the Union earth science ministry’s air quality forecasting wing, the air quality may touch ‘very poor’ by Friday night, as the winds turn calm during the night. But, it is likely to improve marginally thereafter on November 21-22 with good winds speed expected in the city.The share of stubble burning to levels of PM2.5 (the most harmful aerosols in Delhi’s air) in the city on Friday reduced to 15% from 20% the previous day, the Safar bulletin stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/lowest-november-minimum-temperature-in-delhi-since-2006/story-dvWfoCtZgBo0rfVdyFOecM.html
21-11-2020||Delhi||IIT-K’s air quality sensors highlight the need for hyper-local air quality monitoring||The air quality index (AQI) and particulate matter levels flashing on your nearest Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) monitoring station might not be correctly reflecting the air quality in your neighbourhood, according to an analysis of data recorded by IIT-Kanpur’s hyper-local air quality monitoring sensors in Delhi. Data from 30 hyper-local air quality sensors installed across Delhi show the role of local factors such as vehicular movement, local fires on the air quality and how it changes every few kilometres. These sensors were installed from October 21 with an aim of assessing neighbourhood air quality data. Some of these sensors are located near CPCB stations while others are at a distance of 1 to 10 km away.When entire Delhi was reeling under an air emergency between November 5 and November 11, recordings of PM 2.5 levels (ultrafine particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) in CPCB’s 36 monitoring stations and the hyper-local sensors installed by IIT, were similar.Also Read| Lowest November minimum temperature in Delhi since 2006, shows IMD dataHowever, on November 12 and November 13, when, according to CPCB’s monitoring stations, the pollution levels improved to ‘very poor’ levels (PM 2.5 levels below the 250ug/m3 mark) in places such as Mundka (near Ghevra), Rohini sector-4, Pooth Khurd Village, Narela sector A-8 and Chhawla BSF Camp, the PM 2.5 levels recorded by the hyper local sensors at the same places continued to remain above the 450ug/m3 mark (emergency levels).Scientists said this was proof of how important it was necessary to have more air quality monitoring at a local level and across the city. Professor Sachchida Nand Tripathi, head of the department (civil engineering), member of the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) who is leading this project along with professor Abhay Karandika, director, IIT-Kanpur, said while data from primary air quality monitoring stations were important, it was those from these hyper-local sensors that actually affected the lives of people. “If I want to go out for a run or I have a senior citizen or a child at home and want to know the air quality levels in my area, I need to know the pollution level in my location. The nearest CPCB or DPCC (Delhi Pollution Control Committee) monitoring station could be six, seven or even 10 kilometres away. So, what is actually affecting me is not shown in the readings of monitoring stations,” explained Tripathi. For instance, in an area like Najafgarh, which has sources such as stubble fires, open burning and road dust, there is only one monitoring station covering a 30 km area. Similarly, despite the heavy traffic volume in Dhaula Kuan, the nearest CPCB monitoring station is located at RK Puram, around eight kilometres away.On November 15, a day after Diwali, the readings of these IIT-Kanpur neighbouring sensors showed that in 28 out of the 30 localities, the PM 2.5 levels were above 480ug/m3. It shows that in residential areas such as Rohini sector-4, Noida sector-134, Noida sector-78 and RK Puram, the levels were higher compared to industrial areas and transport hubs, which clearly showed the impact of cracker bursting. Between October 21 and November 3, when the city was receiving relatively cleaner air, the PM 2.5 reading at the Sahibabad sensor was above 200ug/m3 for 13 out of the 14 days. In Jahangirpuri, Anand Vihar and Bawana, the levels were above the 200ug/m3 mark for 12 out of 14 days. Explaining the data reading, Tripathi said when micro-climates in a locality were at play, there was a difference in the recordings of these sensors compared to the 36 CPCB monitoring stations.It was also noted that in the absence of any major change in micro-climate (local factors), the readings in these sensors and the CPCB stations were similar. “This shows the accuracy of these low-cost neighbourhood sensors. Delhi-NCR is a vast region and improving air quality monitoring is the only way to solve the problem of pollution here. At present, we have around 36 monitoring stations, but for a city like Delhi, you need at least 200-300 air quality sensors to correctly assess the pollution levels. In cities such as Beijing and London, there are hundreds of air quality monitoring systems, which ensures the accuracy of information,” he said. A senior CPCB official, who did not wish to be identified, said they are working with states concerned in Delhi and NCR to increase monitoring. “From around 16-17 stations, we have increased our monitoring to 38 and now we will be increasing the network more. Surely, with more data, the analysis of pollution will be better,” the official said. Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment, also stressed on the importance of neighbourhood monitoring for a more accurate analysis of pollution levels.“Importance of accurate data cannot be underestimated because for any action to control pollution levels will have to come after analysing this. In many states in northern India, pollution levels are high but because there are only one or two AQI monitoring stations, we do not get a clear picture of the extent of the problem,” she said. Also Read: Delhi’s air quality deteriorates again, may improve marginally tomorrowThe development of these sensors, which have been designed to measure particulate matter of the size 10 micrometres (PM 10) and 2.5 micrometres (PM 2.5), is part of a collaborative project between IIT-Kanpur, Mumbai-based Respirer Living Sciences and Ericson (India), which for the first time in India has used the Narrow Bandwidth-Internet of Things (NB-IoT) technology. This new technology primarily helps saves energy and can sense and transmit more effectively than the air quality monitoring sensors already installed in Delhi-NCR, IIT-Kanpur scientists explained. Data generated from these sensors will be shared on a common platform to help community groups in understanding air quality situation in their areas and will government agencies to mitigate policies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/iit-k-s-air-quality-sensors-highlight-the-need-for-hyper-local-air-quality-monitoring-in-delhi-ncr/story-rSqUbTGV08v2ska1XjHXsO.html
21-11-2020||Delhi||Finer, deadlier PM1 shoots up in Delhi due to crop burning, crackers||Unchecked instances of crop stubble burning in the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana and the cracker bursting in Delhi on Diwali has resulted in a steep rise in the tiniest and deadliest of air pollutants, the PM1 or particulate matter with a diameter less than 1 micrometres, in the Delhi-NCR between October and November, according to a joint research by three Central universities. PM1 is so fine that it can reach the blood stream and organs. Scientists say these particles are highly toxic as they are formed by complex chemical reactions between pollutants in the air, and are at least 50-70 times finer than human hair. In comparison, PM10 is around 5-7 times finer than hair, and PM2.5 is around 20-30 times finer. PM10 can reach up to the upper air passage of the human body, and PM2.5 can reach the lungs.The new analysis conducted by researchers from Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Delhi, Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) and the Delhi University shows that the levels of PM 1 in Delhi was between 200ug/m3 and 300ug/m3 in October and November, as compared to less than 100ug/m3 in September this year. Unlike PM2.5 and PM10, which have set permissible limits, there is still no global safe limit for PM1 because it is a pollutant which started being measured only recently. Between November 6 and November 11, the 24-hour observations show a very high concentration of both PM2.5 and PM1. The analysis was conducted jointly by SK Dhaka, associate professor of physics, Rajdhani College, Delhi University; AP Dimri, professor, JNU; and Palak Balyan, Centre for Atmospheric Sciences, IIT-Delhi. While the levels of PM1 are not recorded by either the Central Pollution Control Board or the Delhi Pollution Control Committee, the analysis has been conducted based on a new network of low-cost sensors set up in Delhi-NCR and in Haryana, Punjab and western Uttar Pradesh. The initiative has been funded by National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Nasa) and is led by RTI International, in collaboration with IIT-Delhi and Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW).At present, there are about 35 sensors operational, which are providing real time data along with temperature and humidity. The analysis shows that PM1 particles were of high density, ranging between 250-280ug/m3, between November 7 and November 11, primarily because of high humidity levels and low temperatures, which formed a conducive environment for the accumulation of these fine particles. Also Read: IIT-K’s air quality sensors highlight the need for hyper-local air quality monitoringAccording to Balyan, PM1 can penetrate the mucous membrane of the lung and enter the blood stream. “Depending on the chemical nature of the particle, it can precipitate acute inflammatory reactions in persons with compromised heart function and can cause acute cardiovascular events such as myocardial infarction. It can trigger systemic allergic reactions as well,” he said.Professor Dhaka said immediately after Diwali even as rain and easterly winds cleaned up the air, and the air quality index moved from ”severe” to ”poor”, PM1 gained in density.Explaining the health risk associated with prolonged exposure to PM1, Dr Arun Sharma, director, community medicine, University College of Medical Sciences, Delhi University, said, “Particles of size 1.0 micron or less are more harmful, as they can cross the mucus barrier and through the blood stream enter any organ to cause damages or increase the risk of cancer.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/finer-deadlier-pm1-shoots-up-in-delhi-due-to-crop-burning-crackers/story-ZdAAmxKw5lOwblhFqdzywJ.html
21-11-2020||Delhi||Tubs, cemented tanks and inflatable bath tubs: Chhath Puja performed amid unprecedented restrictions||From humble tubs and cemented tanks on terraces to inflatable bath tubs and pits hastily dug on empty plots, devotees in Delhi found their own way -- in the face of unprecedented restrictions owing to the spike in Covid-19 cases -- to offer prayers to the sun god as part of the Chhath Puja festivities that began on Friday evening. With worship in public spaces banned by the Delhi government, many were compelled to share common water spots, which eventually meant that the threat of infection remained despite them not visiting the Yamuna ghats, where the crowds, had they been permitted, would have been much higher. The more fortunate ones were able to arrange private water spots as well as ensure that only those without infection shared the worship space. The water body plays an important role in Chhath Puja as devotees have to stand in water and offer prayers, before taking a dip. In any case, the Delhi Police said there were no violations of the government order, issued last week, prohibiting Chhath prayers at the common ghats. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, on Thursday, had appealed to residents to perform the Chhath prayers from their homes rather than venturing to the ghats. Also Read: 6,608 new Covid-19 cases in Delhi, positivity rate drops to 10.59%While a few devotees said that a week-long notice was enough for them to make alternative arrangements, others said they struggled to come up with practical options. Ram Yadav, a professional photographer living in Dwarka’s Sector 22, said eight Purvanchali families in his colony joined hands to set up two cement tanks on the terraces. “Four people performed puja in one tank, and three others used the other one. Although the risk of infection exists while sharing a tank, we were fortunate to know that none of us was infected,” said Yadav. Raj Kishore, a driver who lives with some other poor families in jhuggis near JNU in south Delhi, said he and three other families had to dig a pit in the fields nearby to perform the puja. “We had to do the digging on our own as we didn’t have the money to hire anyone. And this is a festival that can’t be missed, even on account of a pandemic or anything else,” said Kishore. Kanchan Devi, a resident of south Delhi’s Sanjay Vihar, joined hands with a few neighbours to dig a pit measuring 6X4 feet in an empty plot near their house and then used a water pump to fill it. “Relatives were insistent on many of them attending the puja. But we had to be firm and ensure only two performed the puja at once,” said Devi. Many said the puja this year was a “compromise” and that they lacked the “satisfaction”.“The tradition is to take a dip in the water body. But how do you take a dip in a tub,” said Archana Karn, a resident of Mandi House who had earlier performed the puja at the India Gate pond. This time, she bathed in her house and then visited the terrace to do the puja. “I sought forgiveness of Chhath Mata for any mistakes. It’s the first time in 25 years that we have had to make such arrangements,” said Karn. In neighbourhoods where residents did not have avenues to make arrangements, local Chhath Puja samitis stepped in. Arvind Thakur, president of the Purvanchal Chhath Puja Committee (Dwarka-Najafgarh), said that people living as tenants mostly faced problems due to lack of space and terraces. “We advised them to use plastic sheets and bricks to prepare makeshift tubs. We knew of the restrictions in time and alerted them to make alternative arrangements,” said Thakur. He said while no one missed out on performing the puja eventually, the fervour was missing. “It is a different joy to gather in thousands at the ghats. We tried to make up for it by playing puja songs on loudspeakers,” said Thakur. In south-east district, the local police distributed tubs to slum residents to perform the puja, said the deputy commissioner of police, RP Meena. Also Read| Religious institutions to help distribute masks: KejriwalPolice said that they had been urging residents not to gather at the ghats. “We made announcements in Bhojpuri, and sent out WhatsApp videos about the new rules. We held over 50 meetings with local residents. We also deployed our personnel at the ghats to prevent a gathering,” said Atul Kumar Thakur, DCP (south).The police said that there were no gatherings at the ghats across the city. PK Mishra, DCP (Rohini), said that areas in his jurisdiction such as Aman Vihar, Prem Nagar and KN Katju Marg have a high population of Biharis. “We deployed our personnel since noon itself. No one visited the ghats,” said the DCP. A similar puja is scheduled for Saturday morning, but the police said they were prepared for that as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/tubs-cemented-tanks-and-inflatable-bath-tubs-chhath-puja-performed-amid-unprecedented-restrictions/story-9B1auIwb7iaSz2gkZDM2PO.html
21-11-2020||Delhi||Religious institutions to help distribute masks: Kejriwal||On a day when the fine for not wearing masks in public spaces was hiked from Rs 500 to Rs 2000, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said a few religious institutions have come forward to help the government in prevention of Covid-19 by distributing masks.In a series of tweets, Kejriwal said he spoke to the heads of Akshardham temple, Iskcon India and Radhasoami Satsang Beas, who assured him that their volunteers would distribute masks in public.Kejriwal tweeted, “I just spoke to Baba Ji of Radhasoami Satsang Beas on phone. He assured his support in dealing wid corona situation in Delhi. He assured that he will ask his followers to not only wear mask themselves but also distribute it to those not wearing it in public places Thank u Babaji.”With more than 7,000 Covid cases being reported in the city daily, the Delhi government is stressing on preventive measures. The decision to increase the fine on not wearing masks was a step in this direction. Kejriwal is reaching out to religious institutions to create awareness about the need to wear masks.On Thursday, after he announced an increase in the penalty for not wearing g masks from Rs 500 to Rs 2,000, Kejriwal had urged religious and spiritual leaders to join hands in distribution of masks.Earlier, Kejriwal, who is the national convener of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), had asked all MLAs, councillors and party volunteers to distribute masks in public places.After he spoke to the head of Akshardham temple, Kejriwal tweeted, “Just spoke to Sh D B Swami ji of Akshardham temple. They have agreed to combine efforts with Delhi govt by mobilizing their volunteers to help distribute masks at public places. Extremely grateful for their support.The CM also spoke to Iskcon India’s chairman Gopal Krishna Goswami. Kejriwal tweeted, “Spoke to Iskcon India’s chairman Gopal Krishna Goswami and sought his support in our fight against Covid. He has assured me their support and said that devotees of Iskcon will follow all the preventive measures, distribute masks and create awareness.”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/religious-institutions-to-help-distribute-masks-kejriwal/story-9PyP3wHviOR6WtuO6PF0JI.html
21-11-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 in Delhi: Survey to test people at high-risk kicks off||The Delhi government started a door-to-door survey on Friday to screen people for Covid-19, encourage more testing and to ascertain the number of high-risk individuals, including the elderly, pregnant women, and those with co-morbid conditions, senior government officials said.The survey is expected to cover around 5.8 million people – more than one-fourth of Delhi’s total population of around 20 million – mainly residing in the over 4,500 containment zones and localities in the 11 revenue districts.Also Read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayHealth minister Satyendar Jain Friday said the survey would first cover containment zones in the city and then move on to other areas.The containment zones in the city collectively have under surveillance a population of around 180,000, including around 22,000 active Covid-19 cases. All other residents in these containment zones would be identified as high-risk individuals and their records will be maintained, said a senior government official, on condition of anonymity.Senior government officials said the ambit of the survey would be expanded over the weekend. Around 9,500 teams of government health officials and civic agency employees will conduct the survey, the senior official quoted above said.Also Read| HTLS 2020: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal hopes 3rd wave may recede if trend holdsThe survey queries would include age, medical history, symptoms, contact with Covid-19 patients, the proximity of residence and workplace to containment zones and hot spots, among others, said a second senior official, also on condition of anonymity.The second official further said, “On the basis of the assessment, residents will be screened and encouraged to get themselves tested. Parallelly, the number of testing centres are also being increased. High-risk individuals, whose records will be maintained in a separate database, will be visited periodically to ascertain their well-being.” The survey was directed by Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday in his meeting with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and lieutenant-governor Anil Baikal. Shah had also directed that tests should be doubled in the national capital, in the light of the sharp rise in Covid-19 cases.Delhi on Friday recorded 6,608 new Covid-19 cases and 118 more deaths, the government’s health bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-starts-mammoth-door-to-door-survey-to-identify-those-at-high-risk-of-getting-covid-19/story-PQ4SGUhxP9PJpqGpemkeAI.html
21-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC warns of contempt notice over damage to 300-yr-old Banyan tree||The Delhi High Court on Friday came down heavily on the Delhi government’s tree officer and the North Delhi Municipal Corporation for their failure to remove concrete around a 300-year-old Banyan tree that has been damaged due to illegal construction in Old Delhi’s Nai Sadak area. The court asked why a notice of contempt should be not issued against officers for “wilful disobedience” of the court’s order.Justice Najmi Waziri said it appears the officer has not visited the site and so is not aware of the ground reality. He said photos shown to the court pointed to the presence of a concrete structure and iron girders at the basement of the tree.The court was hearing a plea filed by one Nitin Gupta, filed through advocate RK Kapoor, seeking restoration of the tree that had been damaged due to construction. Kushmakar Rastogi, a resident, had also filed an application to save the banyan tree. On Friday, Rastogi’s counsel showed pictures showing iron girders and other construction causing damage to the tree base. He said the authorities, including the Delhi government’s tree officer and the North Delhi civic body, had done no work to restore the tree.The pictures irked the court, which said the tree officer had “given up” and MCD officials had done “no work” at the site . He said his earlier direction of setting up a tree helpline was also not implemented.The court said due to the “wilful disobedience of its repeated instructions, it is inclined to conduct contempt proceedings against all authorities”. He asked the authorities to file an affidavit with details of the situation.The court asked the deputy commissioner of the North MCD to file an affidavit, saying the “grand old tree” is like “a patient who has to be nourished”.It appears the tree officer has not visited the site. The photos show status quo with the iron girders still present and the tree suffering as earlier. “Nothing has been done so far as the ground is dug up,” the court said.The court asked advocate Gautam Narayan, additional standing counsel of the Delhi government, to ask the principal secretary, forest, to look into the matter while threatening to seek a report from the chief secretary.“Let’s do something for the city. We are gasping for fresh air,” the court said and posted the matter till November 27.North Delhi mayor Jai Prakash said the court’s directions should have been complied with. He said everything would be done to address the issue. The forest department did not comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-hc-warns-of-contempt-notice-over-damage-to-banyan-tree/story-hPxvF2NcHywLQ4JltquySK.html
21-11-2020||Delhi||No lockdown, but please ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour: CM to traders||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday urged trader bodies and market welfare associations to ensure Covid-19 appropriate behaviour in their business areas even as he tried to allay concerns about a possible lockdown.“I met representatives of market associations and removed their anxieties. The government does not wish to shut any market. They assured that anyone not wearing a mask in the market will be provided a free mask by the association. All shops will be asked to keep spare masks and sanitisers. The agenda of the meeting was to seek cooperation in ensuring Covid-19 appropriate behaviour at market places,” said Kejriwal.Representatives of several trader bodies and market associations participated in the meeting through video conference facility.Also Read: 6,608 new Covid-19 cases in Delhi, positivity rate drops to 10.59%“We have specifically pointed out about all forms of encroachment in Delhi markets. Because of encroachment, there is hardly any space left for social distancing in markets. Unless the government works in this regard, they cannot ensure full compliance of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. We are yet to get any assurances on that,” said Sanjay Bhargava, president of Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal.Brijesh Goel, president of the chamber of trade and industry, said: “The meeting with the CM has helped calm down anxieties among traders. We will work towards further ensuring Covid-19 appropriate behaviour in markets.”Kejriwal had said on Tuesday that he has sought permission from the central government to allow the Delhi government to temporarily shut down markets assessed as potential Covid-19 hot spots from time to time in the light of the violation of social distancing norms and Covid-19 regulations.Under the present guidelines, states need the approval of the Union home ministry for imposing any local lockdown-like restrictions.The announcement has led to anxiety among traders in the city even as the government has been insisting that this should not be perceived as a “lockdown”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/no-lockdown-but-please-ensure-covid-appropriate-behaviour-cm-to-traders/story-TOumkRb2MDFf1xRXePVjgL.html
21-11-2020||Delhi||Umar Khalid and Sharjeel Imam’s judicial custody extended||A Delhi court on Friday extended the judicial custody of Umar Khalid and Sharjeel Imam, arrested under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) for their alleged role in the Delhi riots, till November 23.Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat extended their judicial remand after the duo was produced through video conferencing from Tihar jail.During the proceedings, special public prosecutor (SPP) Amit Prasad said their custody should be extended for three days till November 23 as it would also mark the end of the 90 days of the arrest. Police have to file charge sheet in a case within 90 days, but in connection with UAPA cases, the timeline to file the charge sheet can extended up to 180 days after getting the court’s permission.The special prosecutor said it would let the court know on the next hearing about the supplementary charge sheet in the case. While the police have charged 15 people, including former AAP councilor Tahir Hussain, former Congress councillor Ishrat Jahan and several student activists for allegedly orchestrating the riots, it is yet to file a charge sheet against six more persons, including Imam, Umar Khalid and Faizan Khan (who was accused of supplying a sim card to Jamia scholar Asif Iqbal Tanha).During the hearing, the court asked Khalid if he was facing any problems in jail after he had complained of mistreatment on the last date of hearing, October 23. Khalid said he was not facing any other issues apart from “a curb on his liberties and a malicious investigation.” Advocate Surabhi Dhar, who appeared for Imam, told the court she filed an application seeking certain writing material of Imam which he had penned while he was in custody at Assam. At this juncture, Khalid said some people from jail no 1 had come to his cell and were looking for Imam’s notebooks, which have gone missing. On the last date, Imam had told the court that while he was brought from Guwahati to Delhi, the authorities had seized some of his documents and still not returned them. He had told the court the papers included documents related to his PhD and submissions to professors, and should be returned to him.The matter would be now heard on November 23.Communal riots had broken out in north-east Delhi riots in February, claiming 53 lives and leaving 400 others injured .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/umar-khalid-and-sharjeel-imam-s-judicial-custody-extended/story-nEYoiw0nr6DYhku6u7LgVJ.html
21-11-2020||Pune||Pune sees spike in fresh cases post Diwali, early indication of ‘second wave’||Pune: Post the five-day Diwali festive season, Pune district has reported an alarming number of new Covid-19 cases indicating early signs of the much anticipated second wave of the virus. Despite the administration’s repeated messages to residents to follow respiratory hygiene and social distancing norms in public places, Punekars were found to be roaming without masks and even spitting at crowded places. The central team during its visit in October had warned the administration of a possible second wave post Diwali, following which the local authorities had started preparations based on the state government’s strategy paper for the second wave. The administration, including the city mayor, have repeatedly warned citizens to not let their guard down, but markets on Laxmi road, Tulsibaug and Mandai areas were found to be crowded throughout the week before Diwali which could have possibly led to the spike in fresh cases, according to experts. Pune district recorded a declining trend in cases prior to Diwali since the second half of October. The district saw the highest active cases on September 16 when 82,172 were still undergoing treatment for Covid in hospitals or were in home isolation. The number of active cases continued to drop as more people were discharged as compared to fresh cases being reported. However, post Diwali, the number of new cases rose leading to more number of active cases. The city that reported a daily average of 200-300 new cases in 24 hours in the week prior to Diwali found itself burdened with above 500 positives since the festival. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, epidemiologist and chairman of the state technical committee on communicable diseases, said, “This is exactly what we had anticipated and what we are witnessing. The cases are rising drastically. Although, we do believe that the severity of the second wave would not be as much as the first one as we are seeing in European countries, however, there is still a sizable population in the city which has not yet been exposed to the virus which is still as much susceptible as they were earlier. So, we need to be more careful. Even after the vaccine comes in, it will take time to reach the last person in the line and so we much not behave irresponsibly.” Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol tweeted that Pune is seeing a spike in cases and citizens need to strictly follow safety norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-sees-spike-in-fresh-cases-post-diwali-early-indication-of-second-wave/story-wKh988U2Zf7swUlXessCgJ.html
21-11-2020||Pune||IISER study finds 15% sero survey samples in Pune might never develop antibodies against Covid||A follow-up study by city’s Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) on the pilot sero (seroprevalence) survey has found that about 85% samples tested positive for neutralising antibodies which can act effectively against SARS-CoV-2 which causes Covid-19, while the remaining samples tested negative. The samples were collected from the city’s five most affected wards and tested positive for antibodies indicating that they were infected at one point of time. However, 15% of the samples tested for neutralising antibodies showed no such activity hinting that this is the vulnerable group if a second wave hits Pune. The study was conducted by multiple institutes and led by IISER and Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU). It was a follow up of the pilot sero survey conducted in July and made public in August. Random samples were collected from 1,659 asymptomatic individuals from five sub-wards in Yerawada, Kasbapeth-Somwarpeth, Rastapeth-Ravivarpeth, Lohiyanagar-Kasewadi and Navipeth-Parvati. Out of these, 51% had tested positive for antibodies. Experts involved in the study had said that although it needs to be further studied if these antibodies have the neutralising activity to fight against SARS-CoV-2. The paper states: “From the 857 (receptor-binding-domain) RBD-IgG (Immunoglobulin G) positive sera, 697 samples were randomly selected and tested for the ability to inhibit the binding of SARS-CoV-2 RBD to human angiotensin converting enzyme-2 (ACE-2) using a specific ELISA-based surrogate virus neutralisation test (sVNT)20. At least 85•1% of the RBD-IgG positive sera were sVNT positive.” Dr Aurnab Ghose, associate professor, IISER and also the corresponding author of the paper said, “Out of the samples that we tested to detect neutralising antibodies against Covid, we found that 85% did show the neutralising properties which are the early indicators of population level immunity loosely also referred to as herd immunity. However, in the remaining 15% of the samples there were no traces of such antibodies which states that even though they might have been infected at one point they are vulnerable in the second wave.” The paper further states: “While 57•2% of the 18-30 years age-group showed ≥50% inhibition, this increased to 64% in the 31-50 years category and became 75% in the population above 50 years (p<0.001 or less than one in a thousand chance of being wrong). However, no association was found with sex. An explanation for the age factor could be the association of RBD-binding antibody levels with age, as high sVNT values are likely to be positively correlated with high RBD-binding activity.”Dr Ghose said the samples that tested positive for neutralising antibodies showed varied proportions of the antibodies ranging from as less as 25% to more than 75% depending on age groups. The paper also stated that the presence of chronic illness, travel history, working status, exposure to Covid patients, history of quarantine, participation in social gatherings, self/family members working in health care set up did not reveal any significant association with sero-positivity. While infection risk was similar between men and women, the sero-prevalence (presence of antibodies) in the elderly population (65+ age-group) was lower than the younger population. This observation is in contrast to what has been reported from Delhi and Mumbai. Dr Ghose said that it will take further studies to identify these vulnerable groups which will help the administration to keep a close watch on such vulnerable populations. A similar study was done by BJ Medical College based on the number of plasma donors who approached the hospital for blood donation. The study found that of the 351 plasma donors who were tested for antibodies only 237 tested positive and could donate plasma for the treatment of Covid patients which is 67.52% of those tested positive for the antibodies. Both the studies indicate that while there is a considerable chance that a person who has been infected once is likely to be re-infected even if they do test positive for antibodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/iiser-study-finds-15-sero-survey-samples-in-pune-might-never-develop-neutralising-antibodies-against-covid/story-oiNapRP96GRTc4i9R71MnO.html
21-11-2020||Pune||Schools in Pune city to resume for Class 9-12 from Nov 23||After the Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced to restart schools from November 23, Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar on Thursday and Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh on Friday issued orders to resume physical classes at schools within Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits. All the PMC-run, government and private schools are allowed to resume the academic session, offline, for Classes 9 to 12 from Monday, November 23. The schools have been instructed to strictly follow Covid safety protocols and standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the state government. The order issued by Kumar states: “All the schools in PMC limits with standard 9 to 12 are allowed to restart their classes for standard 9 to 12 from November 23. Also, hostels and residential schools for same standards, especially for foreign students, are also allowed to restart from the given date”. The order issued by Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh on Friday also stated the same information. According to the guidelines issued by the authorities, it is compulsory for each student coming to school to get a written permission from the parent. According to a circular issued by PMC additional commissioner Rubal Agrawal on Friday, PMC officials will be visiting the schools under its jurisdiction and check the safety measures as per the SOPs given by the education department. Schools will be allowed to resume classes only after getting permission from these officials. Meanwhile, parents of students are anxious about the Covid infection risk. “I am worried to send my daughter to school from November 23 as there is always a risk of getting infected. My husband is willing to send the child as he says that all safety measures will be followed by the school,” said Archana Kakade, a parent. “Medical experts say that despite the coronavirus spread, a large number of people do not show symptoms. In such a situation, how to constantly check the children or teachers? The big question can arise if a teacher is tested positive. If 50 per cent of children are present, how will parents plan transportation and creche for them? How can we ensure that children keep a safe distance during the 50 per cent attendance? Does the consent of parents end the responsibility of schools? The government has not given satisfactory answers to all these issues,” said Mukund Kirdat, coordinator, Pune Parents United. “The government should first implement a home-based nutritious diet for poor-weaker section children. Another issue is the need to strengthen online facilities. A temporary competent direct education system should be set up using unemployed diploma in education (DEd) and teacher eligibility test (TET) teachers. Also, the upper fee cap should be announced for online education immediately. An ordinance should be issued amending the Fee Regulation Act with reference to court orders from other states regarding school fee concessions. Otherwise, the minister will be responsible for the academic loss of children,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/schools-in-pune-city-to-restart-from-nov-23/story-MGEfoHv9o6bMHoeX9or1yH.html
21-11-2020||Pune||Pune varsity plans to resume offline classes soon||Though the University Grants Commission (UGC) has issued guidelines to restart colleges from November 5, Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) is yet to decide on resuming offline classes. SPPU vice-chancellor Prof Nitin Karmalkar on Monday met the college principals affiliated to the varsity and discussed the steps to be taken to resume the academic session. “It is now necessary to go ahead and plan to start offline classes for students. With the guidelines issued by UGC and following the Covid safety protocols, we plan to start classes soon,” said Prof Karmalkar. “Our admission process has completed and online classes have started. With the state deciding to start physical classes for Class 9 to 12 students, SPPU should also take a decision soon,” said Pratik Shah, a Science student.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sppu-plans-to-resume-offline-classes-soon/story-sohZY5EXh2Yx8HiHn7BZHJ.html
21-11-2020||Pune||Pune district sees 748 fresh Covid cases, 60 deaths||Pune The state health department reported over 748 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday and 60 deaths in 24 hours in Pune district. The district has reported 3.47 lakh Covid cases of which 3.20 lakh have recovered, 7,299 have been reported dead and 16,531 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or are in home isolation. Pune city reported 335 new cases taking the total count to 176,708 and 16 deaths taking the death toll to 4,149, while Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 165 new cases taking the final count to 86,942 and 33 deaths with 1,241 as death toll. Pune rural reported 248 new cases taking the final count to 81,100 and 11 deaths taking the death toll to 1,876, according to the state health department. The state health department reported that 6,945 patients were discharged on Saturday taking the final count to over 16.42 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 92.89%. Also, 5,640 new cases in the state were reported on Monday taking the total to over 17.68 lakh. In addition, 155 Covid deaths were reported in the state taking the death toll to 47,507. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.63%. Of the 10,035,665 laboratory samples, 1,768,695 have been tested positive (17.62%) for Covid until Friday. Currently, 558,090 residents are in home quarantine and 4,883 in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-district-reports-748-fresh-covid-cases-60-deaths/story-qJW36Ve4eFuzczO5en8k3H.html
21-11-2020||Arts||Click hear: This Mumbai duo beat pandemic blues with radio-era live gigs||Do you remember Saturday Date? That All India Radio show, popular from the ’60s until well into the ’90s, that played mailed-in requests from Bombay folks who wanted to hear easy-listening pop that everyone simply called English numbers? The 10pm weekend hour was a double treat – a rare chance to hear contemporary Western music and dedicate a song to a loved one. In the lockdown, one Mumbai cover band has given the long-forgotten format a 2020 revival. For Reena & Lindsay’s Saturday Date, requests pour in as Facebook posts. The set-list is determinedly retro — think Jim Reeves, Dolly Parton and stuff your uncle hums. But their weekly gigs on Facebook Live, beamed via mobile phone, with a living room sofa in the background, have become something of a weekend staple for thousands of fans around the world. “We started in May with hour-long gigs like the radio show,” says Reena Vaz, 42. “But people loved the idea and requests kept coming in. On Facebook, listeners can also see what others have picked and keep adding new songs.” An average of 500 requests are made every week. And what started as an hour-long show at 10pm now extends past midnight.  Sample their sound here:Lindsay Pitter, 50, Vaz’s partner and the other half of the cover band, says the secret lies in the playlist. “We play the music that the radio show would have aired, we even play bits of the signature title tune,” he says. “Christians loved that show. Their children grew up with these songs playing at home, and the community has spread around the world — some families, now in five different countries, coordinate on WhatsApp so they can all watch together.” Comments on the Facebook page have people saying they clear out Saturday-night chores to hear the band, or make a party of it with drinks and terrace barbecue. Nostalgia fans are tuning in from The Netherlands, Greece, Italy, Korea, and Malaysia. “I think it’s also because no radio channels really play this kind of music any more,” Vaz says. In a typical gig, Reena & Lindsay croon their way from The Bellamy Brothers and Kenny Rogers to the ’80s’ power ballads and ‘90s’ boy band harmonies. Ricardo Pereira, 42, a Mumbai-based travel service provider, has been watching the duo live for years. He’s now a regular at their Saturday Date. “It’s a great selection of songs and Reena and Lindsay have a nice sense of humour between their renditions,” he says. “It’s not quite like a live show, where the crowd would be dancing too, but it’s amazing to see the comments flying in as thousands more fans tune in.”The duo’s chemistry comes through too. Their professional and personal partnership goes back 20 years, to when they broke from a six-piece band to perform covers together. They’ve played parties, wedding receptions, hotel lounges and events and, before the pandemic, were typically booked for four to six nights a week. “There were 24 gigs in February alone,” Vaz says. “I was so exhausted, I just wanted to do nothing for one month.” The lockdown made them both regret that wish. It also gave Pitter the idea of playing virtually from home. “Even though we’re at home and the gig is free, we treat it like every other show,” he says. They dress in their stage outfits. Vaz puts on make-up and slips into heels, even though they’re never in the frame. The free gig has led to paid virtual engagements too, and offers to play to new audiences in Goa, Singapore and Uganda when it’s safer to travel. It’s also being monetised by Facebook’s Stars initiative, which allows users to shower stars, priced at one cent each, on popular performers. Foreign viewers have been especially benevolent. “They’ve rained stars down like the Milky Way,” Pitter says.Even when the pandemic ends, they say, neither is willing to give up Saturday Date. “We’ll move it to a different day, perhaps play a Sunday brunch so people in different time zones can tune in comfortably,” Pitter says. “It’s unbelievable how far and wide the show has reached. Someday, I’m going to write a book about it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/art-and-culture/click-hear-one-mumbai-duo-beat-pandemic-blues-with-a-retro-radio-revival/story-6JmniNcJQl6M2VcE7gQS7H.html
21-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra mulls freeze on flights, trains from Delhi as Covid-19 cases spike in Capital||The Maharashtra government is considering halting flight operations and train services between cities, including Mumbai, in the state and Delhi owing to a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases in the national capital. Maharashtra chief secretary Sanjay Kumar said a final decision was yet to be taken on implementing the curbs. “We have been reviewing the situation. In the wake of surge in Covid-19 cases in Delhi, we need to take precautionary measures to ensure that Maharashtra is not affected. There are limited trains and flights operating between Delhi and Mumbai and other cities in Maharashtra. The decision to either curtail them further or stop them entirely will be taken in due course,” said Kumar.The issue was discussed at a recent review meeting, convened by Kumar, and the state government, according to officials, is also deliberating measures to ensure the infection does not spread through people entering Maharashtra from other cities and states that have high cases. Maharashtra government officials, however, said implementing a completing ban on flights and trains between Mumbai and Delhi will be difficult. “Central government will not concede to our proposal of entirely banning flights between Mumbai and Delhi, which is the busiest route in India. Even in May, when we had tried to push the resumption of flight services [between the two cities] by a few weeks, the Centre was firm on starting it immediately. In such a scenario, we will have to go for stricter screening of passengers at airports if we are not allowed to completely stop operations,” said a state government official, on condition of anonymity. Also Read: Covid-19 patients may be most infectious during first week after symptom onset: Study. “The policy will have to be uniform for the state and it cannot be only for Mumbai. The final decision is expected after a meeting with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.”Another official, on condition of anonymity, said trains not only originating from Delhi, but also passing through the national capital, will have to be stopped. He said it could be a tough task as it could halt travel from many other states in north India.The railway ministry, meanwhile, clarified that no decision had been taken regarding cancellation of trains on the Mumbai-Delhi route. “There have been reports in sections of media today about cancellation of certain trains on Delhi-Mumbai sector. It may be clarified that Railways has not taken any decision regarding cancellation of trains on Mumbai-Delhi sector,” the ministry tweeted on Friday.Railway officials, however, said that as earlier the West Bengal government had restricted movement of trains from places with high coronavirus cases, the Maharashtra government can do the same. “The decision will be taken by the railway ministry on the operation of trains between both the cities, but the Maharashtra government can propose on cancellations. Earlier, the West Bengal government had done the same, which included trains from Maharashtra,” said a senior Western Railway official, who did not wish to be named..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-mulls-freeze-on-flights-trains-from-delhi-as-covid-19-cases-spike-in-capital/story-6FqCLG8nZRvDYIhOCvErsO.html
21-11-2020||Mumbai||64.52 lakh consumers in Maharashtra have not paid power bills since April: MSEDCL||Around 64.52 lakh consumers in the state have not paid a single rupee towards their power bills since April 1, recent data shared by the Maharashtra Electricity Distribution Company’s Limited (MSEDCL) showed. The state discom supplies power to over 2 crore consumers in the state.According to a circular issued by the state discom in November, non-payment of dues this year has amounted to ₹7,154 crore (till October). Of this, high-end user dues amount to ₹946 crore while low-end user dues across categories amount to ₹5,089 crore. It has further to recover close to ₹700 crore for power supplied for street lights and other utilities. As per data shared by MSEDCL, the total arrears as of October-end is ₹59,149 crore.According to the circular, it has assigned roles to various employees with a target to recover dues by the year-end. A senior official from MSEDCL said, “The employees have been asked to get in touch with consumers and public representatives to give them information about the various schemes and achieve their targets by year-end.”In August, the state had said that it was planning to waive excess bills by bearing the surplus amount for April, May and June. State energy minister Nitin Raut in October had also said that consumers will get good news during Diwali. However, on Tuesday, Raut announced that the state will not be able to provide any relief to consumers owing to its poor financial status and lack of aid from the Central government. The announcement came as a shock to thousands of consumers who had reported inflated bills after the lockdown period.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) slammed the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, alleging that it had betrayed the people who were reeling under pandemic-induced problems.Leader of Opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said that Raut was misleading people by giving wrong statistics related to the losses to electricity companies. “The MVA government is cheating the people of Maharashtra. The announcement was done by some of the ministers after a cabinet meeting. Now they have been saying that it was not possible because of the financial burden. To cover up their failure, the ministers have now been pointing fingers at the Central government. The state government should not have announced the bill waiver in the first place when it was not possible to give one due to the financial constraints. The Centre was ready to give loans to the electricity companies, why did not the state government opt for it?” he said.Vishwas Pathak, BJP spokesperson, said, “So many people lost their jobs during the pandemic. The inflated bills just added to their woes. The government was expected to provide relief to the common man, but they could not. People have seen the insensitive face of this government again.”On Wednesday, Raut took to Twitter to say that the BJP could not recover pending dues even in “normal times”, and the losses mounted to ₹50,000 crore during its reign. “MSEDCL faced its biggest loss when BJP was in power. The losses just mounted during the Covid-19 period,” he said. Owing to the pandemic, the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) had suspended meter reading and asked discoms to charge consumers based on an average. However, since lakhs of consumers complained of hefty bills, the state energy department had proposed providing relief to consumers.As of Wednesday, a total of 37,048 complaints related to inflated bills have been received, of which 31,151 are of MSEDCL, 3,016 of BEST, 2158 of Tata Power and 723 of Adani Electricity. The power suppliers together have to recover ₹5,676 crore from consumers. The state had also sought a grant of ₹10,000 crore from the Centre to tide over the financial stress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/64-52-lakh-consumers-in-maharashtra-have-not-paid-power-bills-since-april-msedcl/story-tmlQwSYp5MuW1sfQ9RMjwK.html
