22-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai man arrested for sexually assaulting two minors||Dharavi police on Saturday arrested a 35-year-old man for allegedly sexually assaulting two minor girls, both aged below 10 years, in his neighbourhood. The accused took four girls to his residence by luring them with eatables and then sexually assaulted two of them. After one of the girls informed her mother, the matter was brought to the notice of police. While the accused managed to escape initially, he was later nabbed on Saturday. The accused lives in 90-feet road area and works as a driver at a private firm. According to Dharavi police, he is a relative of one of the four girls. “On Friday night, the accused, with an intention to sexually assault, took the four girls —two aged five, one aged seven and the other girl aged eight years — to his place after luring them with eatables. He latched the door from inside and allegedly sexually assaulted two of them and later asked all of them to go home and not to tell anyone about it. However, one of the girls told her mother about it, following which the parents went to the accused’s house. But by then the accused had managed to escape,” a police officer said. After the matter was reported to Dharavi police, they launched a manhunt for the accused and arrested him from Sion (West). “The accused has been booked under sections 376, 354 and 342 of Indian Penal Code and 4,8 and 12 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offenses (Pocso) Act for sexually assaulting the two minor girls,” said Ramesh Nangre, senior inspector, Dharavi police station. Medical examinations of the girls were done and the reports are awaited. Meanwhile, their clothes as well as that of the accused have been seized as evidence. In cases under Pocso Act, prosecution heavily rely on statements of the minors as they are recorded before the magistrate under section 164 of Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). In this case, the court will take the call on whether to record the statement of the girls or not as they are too young, said an officer. “On Sunday, the accused was produced before a special court and has been remanded in police custody till November 27,” Nangre said. The police will also check if the accused similarly exploited other girls in past, another officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-man-arrested-for-sexually-assaulting-two-minors/story-1VDr8ZPJhTkVujqcuXEBdJ.html
22-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra records more than 5,000 Covid-19 cases for fifth consecutive day||The state registered 5,753 Covid-19 cases, more than 5,000 for the fifth consecutive day, taking the tally to 1,780,208 on Sunday, as deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar hinted at a potential lockdown in the near future. With 50 deaths clocked in the past 24 hours, the toll touched 46,623. Mumbai, too, saw a rise in daily caseload as the number crossed 1,100 after 22 days. A total of 1,135 new infections took the tally to 275,714. In the wake of the rise in cases and anticipated spike over the next few weeks, Pawar said a decision over imposition of lockdown could be taken after a review after eight to 10 days. He said the number of cases is expected to rise because of the drop in the temperature and crowding during Diwali.“In many other states, a surge in Covid-19 cases is being witnessed. There is a need to be cautious for the next few weeks. Like during Ganesh festival, people stepped out of their houses during Diwali in huge numbers. We have been in discussion with the departments concerned to take a call on lockdown,” he said. Pawar said the crowding during Diwali was uncalled for. “We did not take action for violation of the Covid protocol as it was a festive season, but strict action needs to be taken now. I do not want to create panic by saying anything related to the lockdown at this stage,” he said. As part of the preparedness to fight the potential surge in the Covid-19 cases, the state authorities have increased testing. Super spreaders are being aggressively tapped through tracing drive to contain the spread of virus.The daily average of the tests in the past three days (November 20-22) has increased to 82,636 from 42,978 daily a week before. A total of 92,556 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours, with the positivity rate of 6.21%. The overall positivity rate stands at 17.43%. Followed by Mumbai, Pune clocked 770 cases (241 in rural parts, 323 in city and 206 in Pimpri-Chinchwad), Nagpur reported 483 cases, Ahmednagar logged 293 cases and Nashik reported 211 cases. Of the 50 deaths reported on Sunday, 30 are from the past two days, 6 reported over past one week, while remaining 14 are from the period before, according to the state health department. Of them, 19 are from Mumbai, 11 from Pune, 12 from Nagpur. The state’s case fatality rate stands at 2.62%. State authorities have stated that the rise in the number of cases is owing to the increase in testing post Diwali. “It is true that in the past five days, the number of cases has risen, but the comparison is with the caseload registered during Diwali, when people tend to not report the illness to doctors. We have also started tapping super-spreaders like vegetable vendors and shopkeepers to contain the spread. Our positivity rate is still in control at 7.5%, which means the situation is under control. There is a possibility of a major spike in cases by the end of December, but we are trying to keep it restricted by launching a massive outreach programme,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer. Dr Awate said the state authorities will roll out the third phase of ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ initiative in December to identify the suspected patients. With 4,060 patients reported to have recovered in the past 24 hours, the number of active patients dropped to 81,512, with the recovery rate reaching 92.75%. The state has 515,976 patients under home quarantine and 5,615 are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-more-than-5-000-covid-19-cases-for-fifth-consecutive-day/story-byQz2Zhz6cClow3XCGMPML.html
22-11-2020||Mumbai||BJP, MNS announce protests over inflated power bills in Maharashtra||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) have announced agitations against the inflated power bills and the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government’s failure to give the people any relief from them. The BJP has announced a protest to burn the copies of inflated electricity bills across the state on Monday, while the MNS has announced protest marches in all districts on November 26. After the state government announced its inability to give any relief from the excessive electricity bills consumers received during the Covid-19 lockdown, the opposition has decided to take to streets on the issue. The BJP has termed the government’s announcement on its inability to provide any relief as cheating as the government had earlier promised to give waiver in electricity bills. The MNS put up banners with the message ‘My Bills, My Responsibility’ across the city mocking the state government’s ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ tagline for the Covid-19 outreach programme. The party had warned the government with aggressive agitation on the issue if the relief was not given to the consumers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bjp-mns-announce-protests-over-inflated-power-bills-in-maharashtra/story-TwN1qc2afhgUoWUKmasO3L.html
22-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Mira Road college accused of forcing students to withdraw complaints to FRA; authorities deny allegations||Management studies students of NL Dalmia Institute of Management Studies and Research in Mira Road have alleged that they are being forced by the institute authority to withdraw their complaint to the Fee Regulatory Authority (FRA) over illegal collection of fee by the college, to be eligible to appear for placements.“The institute has told us that only those students, who have paid their full fees, will be allowed to sit for placements that are likely to start soon. Meanwhile, those of us who had filed complaints with FRA have been asked to sign an undertaking withdrawing our complaint or we will not be allowed to appear for campus placements,” said a second-year student pursuing Masters of Management Studies at the institute.Seema Saini, chief executive officer and administrative head of NL Dalmia Institute of Management Studies and Research, said, “The allegation made by the students is completely false. We haven’t contacted the students who filed complaints with FRA.” She, however, refused to comment on the fees structure. FRA had approved an annual fee of ₹1.87 lakh for the academic year 2019-20. Several students from the 2019-20 batch had earlier written to FRA complaining that the institute was charging almost ₹2.3 lakh over and above what was approved by the regulatory body. Based on the complaint, FRA, which regulates fees for all professional courses offered by colleges in Maharashtra, had sought a response from the college.To this, the college responded to FRA by seeking a review of the approved fees retrospectively. In a relief to the students, FRA last week held that colleges cannot review their fees with retrospective effect.With the Covid-19 pandemic affecting the incomes of families of students, while the matter is being heard by FRA, some students haven’t paid their full fees. They alleged that the college was pressuring them into paying full fees and withdrawing their complaints. “We are being intimated that there will be consequences if we do not take our complaints back,” said another student.“Saini laid emphasis on the excellent infrastructure, best placement record and many other welfare measures undertaken by the institute. In our view, the point raised is not germane to the issue on hand… the institute, shall within a week, make a written submission in the matter of complaint lodged by the students,” FRA noted according to the minutes of a meeting held on November 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-mira-road-college-accused-of-forcing-students-to-withdraw-complaints-to-fra-authorities-deny-allegations/story-fCLHXn3AGpp9dqKU9NJ2PJ.html
22-11-2020||City||4-yr-old boy killed as e-rickshaw overturns in Ludhiana village||A four-year-old boy died after an e-rickshaw that he was travelling in, overturned due to the alleged negligence of the driver, in Ayali village on Saturday. The deceased has been identified as Ankush of Ayali Kalan village. The Sarabha Nagar police have lodged an FIR against driver, identified as Sunil of the same village, on the statement of the victim’s grandfather Kushehwar Das. Das said that he, along with his grandson and other family members, had gone to the Jhammat bridge of Sidhwan Canal to observe Chhath Pooja. They had hired an e-rickshaw to return home. On the way, the driver took a sharp turn, due to which the vehicle turned turtle. Ankush fell out of the rickshaw and died on the spot due to a head injury. The rickshaw driver managed to flee immediately after. Assistant sub-inspector Ravinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said that the police have seized the vehicle and registered an FIR under Sections 279 (reckless driving) and 304-A (causing death due to negligence) of the Indian Penal Code against the driver. A hunt is on for him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-yr-old-boy-killed-as-e-rickshaw-overturns-in-ludhiana-village/story-anNhYU9PthJgRbI8bYKjlM.html
22-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai parents of preschoolers explore home-bound, activity-based learning during Covid-19 lockdown||A few months after schools in the state closed in March due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the resultant lockdown, Navi Mumbai-based journalist Amit Srivastava’s daughter Saani was just a few days away from going to Senior KG. While the Srivastavas continued online learning prescribed by the preschool where their daughter was enrolled, they soon met with several challenges. “The school asked us to download a mobile app where they would upload videos and activities. My daughter, who is only four-and-a-half years old, could not navigate the application. A young child that she is, when we would give her the phone, she would start playing games. We realised that this was not working. At the same time, the school continued to charge the entire fees and we were not benefitting in any way. Thus, we decided to stop her school lessons for a few months and teach her ourselves at least until physical schools begin,” said Srivastava. As schools remain closed, parents of pre-schoolers (children aged between two and five years) are now exploring alternatives to playgroups and preschools. Teaching children at home for the interim, using activity-based material available on the internet, supplementing everyday activities at home with learning kits offered by schools and private players are some of the ways that parents are finding solution in the absence of physical classes. Anamika Saha, a parent from Dadar, had planned to send her three-year-old daughter Anaya to a preschool this year. However, due to the current situation, she has decided against it and has stalled her plans for at least a year. “Most preschools in the city are charging anywhere between ₹50,000 to ₹1 lakh for half-a-year which is a lot to pay, especially at a time when children are not physically attending school. Right now, schools are only taking 30-minute live classes in which most kids are not attentive as they are too young and have not mingled with their teachers or peers yet. Hence, we decided to teach our daughter at home with the help of various learning kits available on the internet,” she added. Saha was initially worried about how she could manage her job as an accountant at a private firm and teaching. “But it turned out pretty okay. We have set a schedule of our own and this way, both my daughter and I can do things at our own pace,” she added. Hemali Gada, a Malad-based entrepreneur who designs flash cards and activity kits for young children, said the demand for such material has grown during the lockdown. “Parents have realised that children of this age group need developmental simulation, something which online classes will not be able to provide. While children are usually conditioned to learn from teachers, during the pandemic, as everyone is cooped up in their homes, parents realised that teaching their young children is not such a difficult thing to do,” said Gada. Arunprasad Durairaj, CEO of Flinto Learning Solutions which promises to deliver a preschool programme at home, said that every month, the demand for self-learning kits created by his company has seen a steady growth over the past six months. “In May, we came up with the idea of Flintoclass where parents get one kit every month consisting 12 days of activity and eight days of bonus activities, and it was an instant hit. Every day parents can just take out an hour or so and do these activities with their children which help explain some fundamental concepts that they need to learn at that age with ease,” he added. The programme is designed for children aged between 1.5 and 6 years. While many parents are trying to substitute preschool learning with learning at home, Amrutha Langs, an educator and a home schooling parent, said one must be cautious before calling the model home schooling. “The basic idea behind home schooling is to teach the child as per liking and at his/her pace. Merely teaching concepts taught in school at home cannot be called home schooling. Also, home schooling is usually a long-term, committed effort and not just an adjustment for a few days or months. Having said that, we are definitely seeing a surge in the number of parents who want to explore home schooling as the pandemic has taught them that it is not undoable,” she added. Durairaj said that even after schools are allowed to reopen, the teaching-at-home model would still continue for preschoolers. “In addition to safety concerns, another key challenge would be to find a preschool in the neighbourhood. With many preschools having shut shop over the past few months, parents are likely to have fewer options to choose from and are thus likely to prefer the at home model.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-parents-of-preschoolers-explore-home-bound-activity-based-learning-during-covid-19-lockdown/story-j663QGjR8AdRBZ0GTij1pM.html
22-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai doctors, activists seek plan to help with post-Covid-19 health expenses||The Sars-Cov-2 virus that causes Covid-19 is causing long-term impacts on the health of patients after recovery. This is not only affecting their lifestyle but also burning large holes in their pockets. Patients and social workers have now raised the need for an affordable post-Covid-19 rehabilitation program. Jyotsna Maru, a resident of Mahalaxmi, was diagnosed with Covid-19 in August and received treatment at a private hospital. In a rare incident, she developed Covid-19-triggered paralysis named as Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) – an autoimmune disorder in which the body’s immune system that is supposed to protect the person, starts destroying them. It mistakenly starts attacking the nerves of the hands and legs, leading to sudden paralysis.The 38-year-old dancer spent around ₹7 lakh on treatment at the hospital but her expenditure has not stopped there. Even after getting cured of the virus, in the last two months, she has spent ₹1 lakh more on post-Covid-19 related expenditures. “When I was discharged from the hospital, I had to hire a caretaker to look after me around the clock as I couldn’t stand due to the numbness in my legs. Though I have improved a lot, I am still on medication and physiotherapy for my GBS. This costs me around ₹30,000 per month, excluding other expenses,” said Maru. Just like Maru, thousands of patients across the state are forced to bear the burden of additional expenses, most of which are not covered under medical insurance. According to city doctors, many recovered patients are developing Covid-19 instigated illnesses like lung fibrosis, neurological disorders, chronic fatigue, muscle weakness and blood clot formation.Poor patients are the most affected as they cannot afford months-long post-recovery treatment at private hospitals. The same has been echoed in the study — Planning for the Post-COVID Syndrome: How Payers Can Mitigate Long-Term Complications of the Pandemic published in the Journal of General Internal Medicine. “These [post-recovery] complications are likely to place additional medical, psychological, and economic burdens on all patients, with lower-income individuals, the uninsured and underinsured, and individuals experiencing homelessness being most vulnerable,” the study mentioned.For instance, 45-year-old Gopi Shelar, a slum dweller from Dharavi who suffered from a Covid-19 instigated stroke, is struggling to arrange money for his weekly physiotherapy at a private clinic. “I used to work as a daily wager at construction sites but lost my job due to the lockdown. After four months, finally, my wife has started working as a domestic help. But her income isn’t enough to afford my father’s treatment. The stroke has left my father paralysed on the right side of his body. To pay for his physiotherapy, I need ₹12,000 per month,” said Ramesh, Shelar’s son. Shelar was diagnosed with Covid-19 in October and underwent treatment at Lokmanya Tilak General Hospital (Sion hospital). Though the state health department does not have any cumulative data about post-recovery complications, as per city doctors, such cases are increasing. “Post-recovery health complications are more among older people with comorbid health issues. However, we have also received patients with health issues who were mildly symptomatic,” said Dr Gautam Bhansali, consultant general physician at Bombay Hospital.Dr Hemant Deshmukh, dean of King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital, Parel, said that they receive some of the most seriously-ill patients. “We are getting Covid-19 recovered patients with complaints of numbness in their legs or breathlessness. Some have been diagnosed with lung fibrosis, and many have developed neurological issues. We refer them to specialists in the hospital as per their symptoms,” he said.Covid-19 is not only leading to physical complications but also adding to the mental health issues, which leads to further medical expenditures. Many city psychiatrists are currently treating recovered Covid-19 patients for depression and anxiety. “Spending days in isolation wards among medical staffers wearing personal protective equipment (PPE) is leaving people with a history of mental illness, traumatised. I am getting many of my recovered patients who have redeveloped anxiety or depression,” said Harish Shetty, a psychiatrist from Khar. Taking note of these issues, doctors have raised the need to focus on post-recovery health infrastructure, especially pulmonary rehabilitation which focuses on monitored exercise to increase the functions of the lungs, along with physiotherapy. “Even though there are hundreds of hospitals providing treatment for Covid-19, there are hardly any hospitals that focus on overall rehabilitation. They should include chest rehab programmes, breathing exercises, lung ventilation, among others,” said Dr Sundeep Salvi, director of Chest Research Foundation. “Many people who can’t afford it in private setups may report delayed recovery, which can have long-term implications,” he said. Health activists want the state government to put a cap on prices for the treatment of ailments related to Covid-19 infections, to make them affordable. “Considering the need of the hour, the health department should create some regulations to make the treatment of post-Covid-19 infections affordable for all,” said Dr Abhijit More, co-convenor of the NGO Jan Arogya Abhiyaan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-doctors-activists-seek-plan-to-help-with-post-covid-19-health-expenses/story-T2MhdgZ1Gdy09BFwDeDZDI.html
22-11-2020||Gurugram||Desert finch sighted for the first time in India||Birdwatchers on Sunday photographed a desert finch in Sirsa district, marking what is possibly the first sighting of this avian species in the country. As a passerine bird, native to southern Eurasia, the finch typically resides at higher altitudes in south-west Pakistan, particularly Balochistan. However, it has not been previously reported from India.The incident created ripples among the birding community in Haryana and Delhi-NCR. The sighting comes on the heels of another significant recording in Faridabad’s Mangar Bani, where a Himalayan bluetail was photographed on November 21. This marks the perhaps the first recorded appearance of the bluetail in Delhi-NCR, although it can otherwise be seen in the hilly states of Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh. The desert finch, which has been identified as a female specimen from its wing pattern and black bill, was spotted by birders Sanjeev and Shafina Goyal in the Nathusari Chopta, about 20 kilometres from Sirsa. “At about 8:30am on Sunday, I noticed a group of doves in an open, marshy area. One of the birds stood out and when I peered through my binoculars, I saw there was a marked difference. I was able to follow it for a few minutes and take pictures before it flew off,” said Goyal, who did not immediately recognise the species.“The bird was finally identified by others in the community through my pictures. I also did a reverse image search on my photos and the results threw up a lot of finches. We were eventually able to identify it as a desert finch. I was extremely surprised since it has never been seen in India before,” said Goyal, who first took up birdwatching about seven years ago. “The finch was a purely lucky find,” he added.The bluetail, meanwhile, was photographed by Pritpal Panjeta, a Gurugram-based birder who frequents Mangar Bani for walks and birding excursions. “On November 21, I noticed a bird which has a slight tinge of blue in its plumage. I initially thought it was a juvenile Tickell’s blue flycatcher, but after examining my photographs, I confirmed that it was a female Himalayan bluetail. This bird is usually seen at an altitude of 3,000-4,000 meters in summer. During winter months, it makes an altitudinal migration to about 1,500 meters, but it’s very rare to see one in the plains,” Panjeta said.Birders speculated that cold weather conditions in the north may have driven these birds, both finch and bluetail, to the plains. Rakesh Ahlawat, a birder from Dighal village in Jhajjar who helped identify the finch, said, “Places like Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh have received fresh snowfall in the last few days. When it gets cold in the hills, it’s not uncommon for birds to travel to lower altitudes where it is warmer.” Ahlawat also said that the Himalayan bluetail has been previously seen in Haryana’s Kalesar National Park, though he was unable to recall the year of the sighting. Others partially agreed with Ahlawat’s view. “I’m not entirely sure what brought the desert finch to Haryana. It’s a freak sighting. With the bluetail that was spotted in Mangar, it is likely that colder conditions in the hills drove it into the plains, but with the finch, we really don’t know,” said Pankaj Gupta of the Delhi Bird Foundation.Asad Rahmani, a former director of the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) and a veteran ornithologist, was also reluctant to speculate on what caused these sightings to happen within a day of each other. “It is certainly possible that colder weather has something to do with it, but we can’t be entirely sure. Birds move around for a lot of reasons. Nevertheless, the finch is a significant find. It is always exciting to add a new species to India’s checklist.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/desert-finch-sighted-for-the-first-time-in-india/story-n4oLS2GEIuxGgQoYB4D57N.html
22-11-2020||Gurugram||City air remains ‘poor’; likely to deteriorate further||Air quality in the city remained “poor” on Sunday, recording 242 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) daily air quality index (AQI) bulletin, down from 256 the previous day in the same category. Experts attributed the slight improvement to strong surface winds blowing from the northwest direction that helped in the dispersion of pollutants. The level of ultrafine particulate matter 2.5 (PM 2.5), which has a diameter of 2.5 microns or less, the city’s primary pollutant, was 166.0 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m³) on Sunday, as per the CPCB’s air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan in Sector 11. This was down from 188.55µg/m³ on Saturday. According to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the air quality is likely to deteriorate and remain in “very poor” category on Monday and Tuesday. The air quality is expected to deteriorate further and enter the upper end of “very poor”on Wednesday and Thursday on account of unfavourable meteorological conditions for dispersion of pollutants. The city’s minimum temperature was recorded four degrees below the normal at 9.5 degrees Celsius on Sunday, same as the previous day. The maximum temperature settled at 23 degrees Celsius — a marginal improvement from Saturday’s 22.8 degrees Celsius. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that temperature may increase marginally on Monday on account of a western disturbance. As per IMD’s weekly forecast, the maximum temperature will hover around 24 degrees Celsius while the minimum temperature is expected to stay at eight degrees. As per the weekly forecast, fog and mist will prevail in the morning hours on Monday followed by clear skies during the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/city-air-remains-poor-likely-to-deteriorate-further/story-XyXyGUuLZtlnsOjd9abp9K.html
22-11-2020||Gurugram||DTCP stops development of a realty project in Farrukhnagar for violating rules||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) has put a hold on the approval of the building plan and the issuance no-objection certificate and other permissions to a real estate project in Farrukhnagar for allegedly selling more residential units than permitted. Officials said as per DTCP rules, developers must sell 15% of the plots after receiving the completion certificate. This ensures availability of proper infrastructure. However, Sabyasachi Developers, the company in question, has already sold all plots, which is in contravention of rules, stated a notice issued by DTCP on Friday. The notice issued by the department states that, as per the terms and conditions of the licence agreement, it was clearly mentioned that 15% of the saleable area in the layout plan was to be issued along with the licence and revenue details. This is to be freezed due to mortgage deed having been registered in the revenue record against bank guarantee given by the developer. The area to be freezed shall be allowed to be sold only after de-mortgage of the land as shown in the land schedule. RS Bhath, district town planner, said that after receiving complaints in the matter, the project site was inspected and it was found that all the plots, which were freezed/mortgaged, have been sold in the form of agreements and receipt of payments. “An executive of the developer also informed them on query that only one plot in the colony was available and that too in resale,” said Bhath. Taking cognisance of the violations, the DTCP officials decided to put a hold on all development in the project. “We have put on hold all development in the project. Permission for building plan sanctions, NOC for transfer and sale, and other such things have been stopped till the developer explains the situation within the next seven days,” said Bhath. DTCP officials said that reason developers of plotted colonies under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) have been asked to reserve 15% plots till the project is completed is to ensure that all infrastructure and services are laid out as per the plan. “We don’t want a situation where the developer sells all plots and leave without developing the necessary infrastructure and services,” said Bhath. Manoj Dubey, an official of the developer, said that they have followed all the licence norms and sold only those number of plots which are legally allowed. “We have not committed any violation. Only the permitted number of plots have been sold,” he said. In a related development, the enforcement wing officials said that they would be again visiting DLF Phase-2 area to conduct an inspection of the areas where the encroachments were removed last week. Officials said that there were complaints that despite the removal of dhabas and other commercial establishments from residential plots, the violators were again trying to resume operations. “An inspection would be carried out within the next two days and criminal action would be initiated against violators if they repeat the offence,” said Bhath. The department also said that they have decided to hold sudden inspections in areas where unauthorised colonies were coming up to ensure construction activities don’t resume.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/dtcp-stops-development-of-a-realty-project-in-farrukhnagar-for-violating-rules/story-XI26TzONGxSr9gxViVRf1J.html
22-11-2020||Gurugram||Haryana drafts new policy to set up women hostels||The department of town and country planning(DTCP) has drafted a new policy for private developers to set up women hostels in different parts of the state to make housing for working women easily available. The draft policy has been put up on the website of the DTCP and the department has sought suggestions and objections from various stakeholders regarding the policy, said officials. Under the policy, girls up to the age of 18 years and boys, up to 10 years, would be allowed to stay in these hostels with their mothers. Senior DTCP officials said that the step has been taken due to increasing number of working women in the state, particularly in the NCR districts.The draft document states that this policy aims to cater to the housing needs of working women, who have come from other states and districts, and need accommodation in cities such as Gurugram, Faridabad, Panipat, Panchkula and others.Sanjeev Mann, senior town planner, Gurugram, said that the draft policy has been proposed by department keeping in view the high requirement of such accommodation for working women. “The department has sought suggestions from the public and stakeholders and the policy will be finalised thereafter. It will create more hostels for working women, who will be able to get good quality housing in urban areas,” he said. The draft policy states that these hostels must have a mess or a common dining space, a laundry, a common room with indoor facility. A day-care facility for young children shall also be required. The projects under this policy shall be allowed only in residential zones of development plans, the policy states. The minimum and maximum areas allowed for such projects are 0.5 acre and two acres respectively. The maximum floor area ratio allowed is 225 and the ground coverage allowed for these projects is 50%. All projects under this policy will be monitored by a district committee headed by the deputy commissioner and will include senior DTCP officials. This committee shall have the power to monitor these projects, conduct inspections to assess the quality of services being given, the document said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-drafts-new-policy-to-set-up-women-hostels/story-vMEfbOncmoJ57vRdsOfv5K.html
22-11-2020||Gurugram||Dumper driver booked for attacking policemen during a raid against illegal mining||A dumper driver was booked for attacking policemen, who flagged him and asked him to stop the vehicle loaded with allegedly illegally mined stones from a crushing zone near Panchgaon village in Manesar on Saturday night. The police said the suspect pelted stones at the police personnel and even tried to run the dumper truck over one of them. Later, however, he managed to flee from the spot after a two-hour-long chase. The police said three official vehicles and one private car were damaged while the special investigation team was chasing the dumper. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said, the incident took place around 12.20am, when the mining team of South Haryana received information that some people were working in a stone-crushing zone in Panchgaon and that a dumper loaded with illegally mined stones will cross Bilaspur Road. “The crushing zones are selling illegal stones and are under scanner. Although illegal mining operations have been taking place in the Aravallis for over two decades, it was in November 2019 that senior IPS officer Amitabh Singh Dhillon, who was also the director-general of mines and geology department of Haryana, put together an enforcement team to crack down on illegal mining operations in this region,” he said. Sangwan said teams were deployed at the stretch connecting Bilaspur with Dharuhera near Sidhrawali on National Highway-8. The police teams spotted a speeding dumper coming towards them and, within minutes, the driver rammed in the dumper into their parked vehicles. Two teams started chasing the dumper, but the co-driver started pelting stones at them. When police vehicles tried to intercept the vehicle, the driver again rammed it into the vehicles.Sangwan said more than three times the driver tried to run a dumper truck over the police officers. “The suspect escaped towards Tauru near Panchgaon. After a chase that lasted for more than two hours, the suspect informed villagers, who surrounded the police vehicles. Women and children obstructed the road and a few of them lay down on it. The suspect took advantage of this and fled from the spot,” said Azad Kataria, sub-inspector of SIT mining, South Haryana. The police said a commuter, who was driving a Wagon-R and was a witness to the chase, refused to complain against the dumper driver. The car was severely damaged, said the police. A case was registered against the suspects under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others), 379 (theft), 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions),of the Indian Penal Code(IPC) at Bilaspur police station in the wee hours on Sunday, said the police. According to the police, the jurisdiction of the state to check illegal mining is divided into two parts and two police officials have been given charge of two regions. While assistant commissioner of police(ACP) Rajesh Phogat has been given the charge of the Sonepat region, ACP Preet Pal Sangwan has been given the task of curbing illegal mining in Gurugram and Nuh. According to the police, illegal mining is most active in Nuh and Gurugram. The areas that are particularly notorious for illegal mining include villages of Pipaka, Panchgaon, Raina, Tapkan, and Dhulawat villages — all of which fall under the Tauru belt. The police added that during the course of the anti-mining operations, several police officers have been attacked by truck drivers carrying illegal material. Over four dozen cases of attempted murder have been registered against such drivers over the last six months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/dumper-driver-booked-for-attacking-policemen-during-a-raid-against-illegal-mining/story-Dsho5fn5pjfhhlNvsE67KJ.html
22-11-2020||Gurugram||Delhi residents flock to Gurugram for weddings||Wedding venues in the city have seen an uptick in enquiries from Delhi residents after the Delhi government reduced the cap on weddings guests to a maximum of 50 amid the spike in Covid-19 cases. Owners of banquet hall owners said that there had seen a significant increase in booking requests from Delhi residents, whose wedding plans had gone awry due to the recent diktat. As per the unlock order shared by the district administration on October 1, the ceiling on the number of guests has been placed at 200. The city has 72 banquet halls. Owners of these venues, however, said that due to pre-booking of dates, they were able to accommodate only limited requests from Delhi. Anil Rao, president of Haryana Party Lawns Association, with which all banquet halls in Gurugram are registered, said that the demand for wedding venues in the city has shot up due to the Delhi government’s move. Rao said that harried Delhi residents were looking out for alternative wedding venues with the reduction in guest capacity in Delhi banquet halls. “We have been receiving many customers from Delhi ever since the Delhi government reduced the ceiling on guests from 200 to 50. We are providing customers with the options of banquet halls or tents, depending on the availability. The demand is very high, but options are limited since facilities have been booked in advance,” said Rao. He said that the Delhi government’s sudden decision has families scrambling for last-minute replacements, while the business of banquet hall owners has taken another hit. “Delhi imposed a sudden drastic cut from 200 to 50 due to which people were caught off guard. Banquet hall owners have already suffered a lot during the past eight months since the lockdown was imposed in March,” said Rao. He said that while the demand for venues in Gurugram had soared, hall owners had not been able to benefit much since bookings had already been made. “There is complete chaos in the market due to the sudden decision of the government. We get so many enquiries but are unable to accommodate them due to the paucity of facilities,” said Rao. Owners of such facilities also emphasised that the decision of the Delhi government has come at a time when the wedding season is due to begin, this week, and accommodating last-minute requests is a challenging experience. “We have been getting many requests for bookings from Delhi but the wedding dates are limited, due to which the scope of accommodating requests is low. The wedding season will last for 15 days, from November 25 till December 12. On a daily basis, we are getting three to four enquiries from Delhi,” said Vinod Saini, director of Notting Hills, a banquet hall located on the Old Delhi Road. Sanjeev Kumar, the managing director of Bliss Premiere, a banquet hall in Sector 17, said that while the enquiries had definitely increased, not all requests were translating to bookings. “On average, we are getting five to 10 booking requests daily from Delhi in the past five days. However, from the point of view of our business, we are not getting any benefit despite the increase in enquiries,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/delhi-residents-flock-to-gurugram-for-weddings/story-NlVFZ3iv2QsALhAN3LgTOP.html
22-11-2020||Gurugram||Covid-19 cases surge but positivity rate decreases||Over the past week, the district reported 4,273 new cases of Covid-19, which was up from the 3,948 new cases reported a week prior. However, despite the increase, officials in the health department painted a positive picture of dealing with the spread of the virus, particularly as testing numbers have been augmented.The district tested its highest weekly sample aggregate between November 16 and November 22, totalling 37,073 tests. This marks a significant jump from the 21,466 samples tested a week prior.As a result, Gurugram’s weekly test-positivity rate (TPR) dipped from 18% between November 8 and November 14 to 11% last week. “This is a good sign. If increased testing is met with rising positivity rate, it indicates a faster spread among the population. Fortunately, we have increased tests and found the positivity rate to reduce, which means we are still keeping up with the spread to a degree,” said Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, surveillance officer, Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme, Gurugram.Despite the dip in positivity rate, experts and officials called for continued adherence to social distancing norms. “Even if the positivity rate is low, in absolute numbers, the cases are still going up. This may eventually start putting added strain on hospitals. It is important at this point to have stronger public messaging, and to rigorously test, trace and isolate,” said Dr Rajesh Kumar, epidemiologist and former professor of community medicine at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh.In a recorded address to the public on Sunday, deputy commissioner Amit Khatri said, “We have all become a bit careless, a bit lazy and are not taking the disease as seriously as we should. Therefore, in the current situation, I would like to remind you that we need to be cautious as we celebrate the various upcoming festivals. We need to follow social distancing and hygiene protocols.”Gurugram’s total tally of Covid-19 infections now stands at 44,206, up from 39,387 cases a week ago. The number of active cases has reduced slightly, from 5,990 active patients on November 15 to 5,693 active cases on Sunday. Of these, 422 patients are currently hospitalised, which is up from 405 a week ago, while 5,264 patients are under home isolation, which is down from 5,575 a week ago. Another seven patients, down from 10 a week ago, are under observation at district Covid care centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/covid-19-cases-surge-but-positivity-rate-decreases/story-PyP7l6V44GP2GYUQ6Jq1qO.html
22-11-2020||Gurugram||Students downbeat by Covid-hit campus life||These are tense times, says 18-year-old Kajal Raghav, a first-year BCom student at the Government College for Girls in Sector 52, who started going to the college last week. She says that the importance given to social distancing and mask hygiene in college has changed the classroom experience.“Attending a class in Covid times is a different experience. Even while everyone is under the same roof, a sense of connection is missing. Everyone is all masked up, due to which breaking the ice seems a little difficult,” said Raghav.However, despite the challenges, she is happy that college has resumed and is looking forward to the experience, even if it continues to be different from the “normal”.With the beginning of the new academic session last week, thousands of first-year undergraduate students such as Raghav started their college life on a different note, due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. Routinely, the academic session begins in July or August. This year, due to the outbreak of Covid-19 and the subsequent lockdown, the new session started on November 16, after a delay of nearly four months.While some colleges have adopted a blended model, comprising online and offline classes, others will be conducting classes in multiple shifts while adopting an odd-even formula. From classes in shifts to limited interaction opportunities, the pandemic has curtailed the overall college experience, say students.“Masks and sanitisers have a lingering presence now. While I am becoming more familiar with the faces behind the masks with each passing day, making new friends will take time. Right now, we attend classes with minimal interaction and head back home. Hanging out with friends is difficult due to the spike in cases,” said Raghav.Adapting to college life under the shadow of the pandemic has been particularly challenging for outstation students, who had to move bases. This has also caused uncertainty among others who were planning on moving to the city.Mohit, of Rohtak, who is pursuing BCom (honours) at Dronacharya Government College, said that he was yet to meet or interact with anyone from his class or make friends in the new city. “We got the chance to meet some teachers this week but there has been no interaction or connection with classmates. Once we are allocated sections or added to WhatsApp groups, we might get the chance to know our classmates. In the absence of any interaction, the experience of starting college feels incomplete for now,” said Mohit, who goes by his first name.While some colleges have made schedules for students to visit the campus two days per week, others are concentrating on online classes for now.Eighteen-year-old Komal who was looking forward to discovering a new city after moving from Rewari now has to contend with online classes due to the pandemic. She said that while college life wouldn’t be the same with the usual activities taking a back seat, outstation students, especially girls, might be discouraged from moving cities during the pandemic.“Starting college is akin to starting a new chapter as an adult. Beyond lessons, one looks forward to discovering new places, interests and meeting people. The pandemic upturned all our plans. I’m not even sure if my parents will allow me to move to Gurugram now,” said Komal, who is enrolled for a BSc course at Girls College in Sector 14.She will be starting online classes next week. “I have been added to a WhatsApp group with some of my classmates. Technically, we are connected remotely, but at the end of the day, these are just unknown faces,” said Komal, who goes by her first name.Pooja, another first-year student of BSc(non-medical) at Dronacharya Government College, said, “My school friends and I used to be very excited about college life but all our plans went awry due to the virus. Classes are not taking place in a full-fledged manner. We don’t know if our batch will have an orientation or fresher’s party like before. Due to coronavirus, campus life is very limited.”Principals said that classroom experiences and campus life were bound to be affected due to the pandemic. Besides classrooms, canteens and student hostels will also undergo changes in view of social distancing concerns. Most colleges are yet to start canteens or hostel facilities.“We are trying our best to prioritise the safety of students in the new session. Due to restrictions and distancing needs, it can’t be business as usual,” said Satyamanyu Yadav, principal of Government College in Sector 9.“Until last year, we used to hold introductory sessions where teachers would be introduced to students. Students used to be familiarised with the teachers in charge of various extracurricular and sports clubs. Teachers would introduce them to sports, NCC group and other activities so that students could transition well and take up different hobbies. This year, there has been zero development on this front,” said Yadav.He said that due to curtailment of extracurricular activities, identifying and honing the potential of students would be difficult. “Students are clueless about the various activities that used to take place in normal circumstances. Due to the restrictions and online-offline nature of classes, we have not had the chance to introduce them to new activities. Teachers are also not familiar with the interests of students. A personal connection between students and teachers is missing,” said Yadav.Despite the circumstance, the excitement of starting a new phase of life has not dulled for many. “There are limitations but there is excitement too. The sense of association that comes with being classmates will develop with time, even if it’s through online platforms or limited physical meetings,” said Deepak Bartwal, a BSc (non-medical) student.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/students-downbeat-by-covid-hit-campus-life/story-FbQEhdz43UDueagIOq1b1N.html
22-11-2020||City||Subhash Barala is BJP in-charge for Ambala MC polls||In the run-up to the elections of Ambala municipal corporation (MC), the Bharatiya Janata Party (Haryana unit) has approved the names of the in-charges for the polls in Ambala.Announcing this on Sunday, BJP state chief Om Prakash Dhankar appointed former president and chairman of Haryana Bureau of Public Enterprises, Subhash Barala, as prabhari for Ambala.The ruling BJP has its own MLA in the city constituency, Aseem Goel, who said, “Barala’s vast experience in the party will help us in Ambala and we are sure to gain a majority in the corporation along with the mayor seat. Booth-level meetings are going on in full swing.”On being asked about the sudden inauguration of projects, he said, “The projects that are completed on time have to be inaugurated. The opposition has nothing to talk about, rather there is no opposition here, and all are in our favour.”The election heat is on, but the schedule has yet to be announced. Other than BJP and Congress, former minister Nirmal Singh’s Haryana Democratic Front (HDF) and former union minister Venod Sharma’s Jan Chetna Party have also announced they will contest the civic body polls.None of the parties, however, has declared its candidates and all are somehow waiting for the dates. A BJP office-bearer said the schedule could be announced anytime this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/subhash-barala-is-bjp-in-charge-for-ambala-mc-polls/story-6StPUNL0mJwgspvxdoEAKM.html
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||Woman booked for confining, thrashing two minors in Ludhiana||A woman was booked on Sunday for confining two minors in her house and thrashing them.The accused has been identified as Saroj Gupta of Geeta Colony in Jagraon. The FIR has been lodged based on the complaint of Sanjiv Gupta, a resident of the same colony. He alleged that his son, Parshiv Gupta, 11, and his friend, Ansh Singla, were playing in the locality on October 28 when Saroj slapped them and took their bicycles. When they went to her house to get the cycles back, she confined and thrashed them badly, Gupta said.Sub-inspector Jaspreet Kaur, who is investigating the case, said that an FIR has been lodged under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 342 (wrongful confinement) of Indian Penal Code and the accused will be arrested soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/woman-booked-for-confining-thrashing-two-minors-in-ludhiana/story-sR2aCcNsV59PnKgau6TslM.html
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||Post-matric scholarship: PU’s ₹21 crore still pending with Punjab government||Panjab University, which is already facing a revenue gap this year, has yet to receive around Rs 21 crore under the post-matric scholarship (PMS) scheme from the Punjab government.The matter was discussed in the last meeting of PU’s budget estimate committee. Due to the pandemic this year, the university did not receive revenue from many sources and the varsity is expecting to face a revenue gap of Rs 31 crore under the income heads of examination fee and income from hostel during the financial year 2020-21.In its last meeting, the budget estimate committee had observed that the university should request the Punjab government to release the pending grant under PMS to cover the projected revenue gap this year. The pending amount has risen over the years as the number of students opting for the scheme has increased.Under the PMS, financial assistance is provided to the Scheduled Caste students studying at post-matriculation or post-secondary stage to enable them to complete their education.A member of the panel on the condition of anonymity said, “We have recommended that the university should make efforts and ask the Punjab government for the pending money. The pending funds can be utilised to cover the deficit in budget and that can also be utilised for other projects.”Earlier this year, the varsity had written to the Punjab government seeking the release of pending dues of Rs 15.23 crore at that time.Already, the annual fee hike was put on hold this year and a concession of 5% in semester fee for all students meant losses to the tune of Rs 2 crore to the university. Not expecting to earn any revenue from the usual sources, including hostels, the university has also asked its departments to cut spending and suspend the leave travel concession to teachers.Officials at the university’s finance and development office said that PU had also written to the Punjab government and secretary to the governor of Punjab requesting the immediate reimbursement of the pending funds under the PMS. “Despite our efforts, we did not get an appropriate response,” said an official at the finance department of PU.The budget estimate committee in its last meeting had recommended that the university should reflect the projected revenue gap in the budget and request both the central government and the Punjab government to release supplementary grant and pending grant under PMS, as the case may be, to cover the gap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/post-matric-scholarship-pu-s-21-crore-still-pending-with-punjab-government/story-O47prw1MCFRWONbTA4MpWI.html
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||10 workers have narrow escape after fire breaks out in Ludhiana godown||Ten workers had a narrow escape after a fire broke out at a rag godown in Salem Tabri on Sunday. The incident took place at around 12pm.The owner of the godown, Ashok Kumar, said newspapers, cardboard boxes and plastic materials kept in the godown caught fire, resulting in the blaze.Atish Rai, sub-fire officer (SFO), said no casualty has been reported. He said 10 workers were putting waste material in a compressing machine when it suddenly caught fire due to a short circuit. The workers raised the alarm and took cover. Soon, the fire department was informed.Rai said that 22 firefighters were pressed into service and 32 fire tenders were used to douse the flames.“We had managed to control the fire completely By 3pm ,” he added. The SFO said no fire safety arrangements were in place at the godown.Later, municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal and Zone-D commissioner Kulpreet Singh visited the spot where they were gheraoed by residents.The residents demanded the shifting of the godown from the vicinity. They said fires had broken out in the godown twice earlier, due to which their houses had also caught fire, resulting in economic losses.The officials assured them that they will look into the matter and necessary action will be taken.No lesson learntIt has been over three years since the then local bodies minister Navjot Singh Sidhu had announced a fire safety audit of properties in Ludhiana after a plastic factory blaze in 2017 claimed 16 lives, including nine firefighters. The audit is yet to be completed. Thousands of factories and commercial units in Ludhiana are still functioning without no-objection certificates (NOCs). Though the process was initiated in March 2018, it was suspended after a month.At that time, the fire brigade and Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) officials had claimed that all buildings, both commercial and industrial, will be inspected under the survey and corrective steps will be taken. The audit team was also supposed to check how many units were illegally storing highly inflammable material. but However, the survey is still in doldrums.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/10-workers-have-narrow-escape-after-fire-breaks-out-in-godown/story-6eZgx4BiGNGQZaLV3pahuM.html
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||Projects sought by Chandigarh councillors caught up in MC-UT admn mire||While the municipal corporation (MC) has failed to act on the development projects sought by its councillors, ruing paucity of funds, the UT administration, too, has left them high and dry.There are more than 70 major works and projects, most of them requested by the councillors for their wards, that are awaiting either the approval of the UT administration or implementation.As per a list prepared by MC, the incomplete works range from construction of community centres, booth markets and underground escalators to road works, underground parking, transfer of properties, bus stops, cleaning of seasonal rivulets, creation of primary health centres, etc. Many of these works are pending for several years now, in some cases for the entire elapsed period of the current MC House.The list was collated by collecting information from the councillors. “The list has been prepared so that MC officials can follow up on the pending approvals or implementation with UT’s departments concerned,” said a senior MC official.‘Not able to face electorate’s ire’With the MC elections less than a year away, the councillors are worried their electorate will put them under the scanner for non-delivery of promised works. “There is nobody listening to us, neither the administration nor the MC,” said Satish Kumar Kainth, Congress councillor.For the pending works in his ward, Kainth blames the administration’s non-responsiveness. “Even after approvals in place, the renovation of the primary health centre in Palsora village hasn’t started. A 300-ft approach road is pending completion in the village for more than three years now. The Chandigarh Housing Board has not yet started work on the green park in Sector 56 even though approval is in.”Hira Negi, a councillor from BJP, said, “There is a provision of a sampark centre at the Sector 50 community centre, but the administration has yet to set it up. The construction of the community centre and booth market in Sector 63 is also pending.”In BJP councillor Sunita Dhawan’s ward, 15 works are awaiting execution. Even for the pruning of trees in Sectors 23, 24 and 36, Dhawan said no action had been taken by the UT engineering department. “The construction of the skating rink in Government Senior Secondary School, Sector 23, even though approved, is pending implementation. We keep contacting the officials but only get assurances,” she said.Even in the ward of mayor Raj Bala Malik, the cleaning of vegetation from the bed of Patiala Ki Rao, a seasonal rivulet, is pending with the UT engineering department, despite Malik writing to the UT chief engineer on the issue.Works approved as per priority: AdviserUT adviser Manoj Parida said, “There is a priority list of works, which will be approved and implemented in order.” Arun Sood, former mayor and BJP state president, said, “Lack of coordination between the administration and MC is the main reason for the pendency of works. The meetings of MC and the administration coordination committee should be restarted on priority for resolving such issues.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/projects-sought-by-chandigarh-councillors-caught-up-in-mc-ut-admn-mire/story-4VnLQR7yvNsXthHhhVZlHL.html
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||Three Ludhiana Basketball Academy-trained players to represent India in FIBA Asia Cup 2021 Qualifiers||As many as three basketball players of the Punjab team, trained by the Ludhiana Basketball Academy, have been selected by the Basketball Federation of India (BFI) to represent India in Window 2 of the FIBA Asia Cup 2021 qualifiers scheduled to be held at Manama, Bahrain, from November 24 to December 1, 2020.Teja Singh Dhaliwal, general secretary of Punjab Basketball Association, informed that Princepal Singh (19) and Amjyot Singh Gill (28) have also been drafted by the National Basketball Association (NBA) to play in the US. He added that Jagdeep Singh Bains (34) is the senior-most player of the LBA and has represented the country in at least 10 countries as a part of its national team. RS Gill, former DGP Punjab, praised the discipline and dedication of the players.District Basketball Association general secretary Sukhbir Dhaliwal and treasurer Brij Goyal said that the hard work of the coaches at LBA had paid dividends as the academy has popularised basketball not only in Ludhiana but the entire Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-ludhiana-basketball-academy-trained-players-to-represent-india-in-fiba-asia-cup-2021-qualifiers/story-GVHuRhNNgI8RXfRwAoUA9K.html
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||Ex-Ludhiana agri varsity professor SN Sewak passes away at 85||SN Sewak, former English professor and head, department of agricultural journalism, languages, and culture, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), passed away at the age of 85 in New Delhi on Saturday.Founder of Punjabi Culture Academy, Sewak was a noted director in the world of theatre. He was also the founder of the PAU Young Writers Association.His poetic drama ‘Farhad,’ drama ‘Socrates,’ a collection of gazals ‘Rut Kandyali’ earned him recognition.Dr Sewak was also the editor and the moderator of the tri-monthly newsletter ‘Jeevan Sanjha te Sanchar.’ He had been instrumental in publishing several articles of the commoners.Vice-chancellor Baldev Singh Dhillon, senior officials, and the staff of the university expressed their grief over Sewak’s demise and prayed for his soul.Dhillon said that Sewak’s contribution to PAU as well as the field of literature would be remembered as a source of inspiration to the younger generation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ex-ludhiana-agri-varsity-professor-sn-sewak-passes-away-at-85/story-WBRcu1aqiZWbozUUTv5qbO.html
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||Drive against begging in Ludhiana mostly successful||The drive initiated by the police against begging has brought expected results at most of the crossroads of the city, but outside religious places, the beggars have learnt to trick the police: they either run away or spend the day at other places only to return in the morning and night to throng outside shrines for alms and food.The police had nabbed 25 women who along with their children were begging on the crossroads a week ago, but released them with a warning.Three women and their children who beg at Bhai Bala Chowk said they lived nearby and came there to clean windshields of cars in return for money. On being asked if the police didn’t deter them, the children said they would run in the streets on seeing the cops.‘Have been begging for generations’Women beggars said that begging had become difficult lately as the police personnel were on a lookout for them. Luxmi from Jalore in Rajasthan said that they were nomads and did not have permanent jobs or work for earning a livelihood, and were therefore dependent on alms. Mother to an infant, Luxmi said they had been begging for generations.According to her, people often give more money and eatables to women with children, and that she makes somewhere between ₹250 to ₹300 a day. Earlier, there were more than 20 beggars in her area, apart from eunuchs, seeking money from commuters.The police had initiated the drive in February this year and identified 1,170 beggars at 19 busy locations of the city. In one month, the number of beggars had dropped to 435. But the Covid-induced lockdown threw the drive off-track.Shri Durga Mata Mandir near Jagraon bridge is a favorite haunt among beggars, as good Samaritans often distribute food and woollens among them. An elderly beggar Kedarnath said the police had been asking him to leave the place for the past few days, but he had nowhere to go at his age. He and other beggars spend the day hiding and return to the temple for food in the morning and evening, he added.An eatery outside the temple is also contributing towards feeding the beggars. The eatery owner gives a discount on paranthas if they buy them for beggars.Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said they were working towards rehabilitation of beggars and making arrangements to send some of them to their native places.He said they had chalked out a special plan to deter the problem: Beggars with disabilities will be shifted to shelter homes, children will be sent to child shelters; others who are fit will be asked to earn their living by working somewhere.The commissioner added that the police had released a WhatsApp number (9115601159) and appealed to the people to share pictures of beggars along with their locations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/drive-against-begging-in-ludhiana-mostly-successful/story-Fr8Qgu7KEu5wN1u7DcFcDM.html
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||Online fraud: Pinjore woman loses more than ₹3 lakh||A woman has reported loss of more than Rs 3 lakh in an online fraud after she shared her OTP (one time password) over phone with an unknown caller. A case has been registered.A case under section 420 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at the Pinjore police station on Sunday after Rajni Dwivedi complained that the money was debited from her savings account through fraud.A man claiming to be the branch manager of Dwivedi called to tell her that her debit card would expire soon and asked for an OTP to renew it. “At 10:28am, I shared the OTP and he debited Rs 3,34,900 from my account,” she said.An FIR was registered after the case was sent to the cyber cell for investigations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pinjore-woman-loses-more-than-3lakh-in-online-fraud/story-4XWMJv1bvaa4VqFSmsPviI.html
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||2 held, trucks with illegally mined sand, gravel seized in Kharar||Two tipper trucks were impounded and the drivers arrested by Kharar police after mining department officials intercepted the vehicles transporting illegally mined sand and gravel. The drivers , Kulwant Singh, a resident of Majri block in Mohali and Ranjodh Singh from Ropar, were booked on the complaint of mining inspector Rohit Kumar.According to the FIR details, Kumar complained to the police that of the two vehicles he intercepted at the Majri block, one was transporting sand and the other gravel. When asked, the truck drivers could not produce documents permitting them to carry the material or give details of how the raw material for the gravel was procured.A case has been registered at the Sadar Kharar police station under section 4(1) and 21(1) of the Mining Act, police officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-held-trucks-with-illegally-mined-sand-gravel-seized-in-kharar/story-yqhmQmfRBLXMu3R0OlUzMJ.html
22-11-2020||City||26-year-old Mohali man ends life, wife, mother-in-law booked||Upset due to harassment by his wife and mother-in-law, a 26-year-old allegedly hanged himself to death at his house in Manauli village on Saturday night.Police have booked the two women for abetment to suicide following a complaint by the deceased’s father and recovery of a suicide note.In the note, the youth wrote that his wife and mother-in-law had been torturing him for the past couple of days, forcing him to take the extreme step.His father told the police that his son got married in 2017 and started living separately with his wife. Soon after, they had marital discord and his wife left for her mother’s house around four months ago after discovering that she was pregnant. Since then, his son had been visiting his mother-in-law’s house in Kumbra village to meet his wife.On Friday, the complainant was informed that his son was sick at home. When he rushed there, he was shocked to find him lying dead on the bed, and was told by neighbours that his son had hanged himself from the ceiling fan. ASI Sanjay Kumar, the investigation officer, said the women were at large, but will be arrested soon. The body was handed over to the deceased’s father following autopsy on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/26-year-old-mohali-man-ends-life-wife-mother-in-law-booked/story-61eCiXNLE5RwKnXHbPxAPN.html
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||251 fresh cases in tricity, two dead in Chandigarh||As many as 251 people tested positive for Covid-19 in the tricity on Sunday, even as two patients also succumbed to the virus in Chandigarh.Mohali led the daily case tally with 96 infections, followed by Chandigarh with 80 and Panchkula 75.With this, the total cases in Chandigarh reached 16,671 and death toll 260.Those who died included two men, aged 87 and 65, residents of Sector 8 and Sector 40, respectively. Both were also suffering from type-2 diabetes and hypertension.There are still 1,094 active cases in the city, while 15,317 patients have been cured till date. Also, 119 patients were discharged on Sunday.Mohali’s case tally rose to 14,396 with 96 new cases, while no death was reported. Of the total 96 cases, 76 were from Mohali (urban), 17 from Kharar, two from Kurali and one from Banur. With 116 patients being discharged on Sunday, the total recoveries have reached 12,885, but 1,245 cases remain active. A total of 266 people have died due to Covid-19 in the district so far. Majority of Panchkula’s 75 cases, which took the total to 8,345, were from Panchkula city (58). Besides, four cases were reported from Mansa Devi Complex, three from Kalka, two cases each from Ramgarh, Pinjore and Barwala, and one case each from Surajpur, Saketri, Hangoli and Karanpur.As many as 509 patients are still infected in the district, while 7,715 have been cured. The district has recorded 121 Covid deaths so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/251-fresh-cases-in-tricity-two-dead-in-chandigarh/story-U89FzDzJ407HiS0QgDsNpN.html
22-11-2020||Lucknow||Bribe traced to officials properties, accounts in Rs 1500 cr Gomti river front scam: CBI||After questioning retired irrigation department superintendent engineer (SE) Roop Singh Yadav for two days, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has extracted crucial details related to the channelization of money made illegally from the multi-crore Gomti river front scam in Lucknow, CBI officials said Sunday. Roop Singh and a senior assistant of the irrigation department, Raj Kumar Yadav, were arrested on Thursday for their alleged involvement in financial irregularities in the beautification of the Gomti river front project worth ₹1,500 crore during the Samajwadi Party rule between 2012 and 2017, the officials said. Court had granted their custody remand to the CBI for four days from Friday. A senior CBI official said the investigating team had recovered incriminating evidence regarding mode and amount of payment of bribes to certain engineers, including Roop Singh. Also Read: Former Congress minister Roshan Baig arrested by CBI in Rs 2,500 cr IMA scam He said contractors paid bribes to these engineers in cash by withdrawing money from bank accounts and even through banking transactions. He said details of properties equivalent to bribe amounts received by certain engineers have also been found. He further said disproportionate assets obtained by the accused engineers have also come to notice during the investigation.The official said the accused channelized the bribe money by investing it in the name of their wives. Also Read: Hathras gang-rape accused taken to Gujarat for lie detector test and brain mappingThe CBI had taken over the case on November 30, 2017, after registering an FIR with its Lucknow unit. The FIR included the names of the then three chief engineers of the irrigation department, Gulesh Chandra, SN Sharma and Qazim Ali, four senior engineers, Shiv Mangal Yadav, Akhil Raman, Roop Singh Yadav and Kamleshwar Singh, executive engineer Surendra Yadav and some other people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/bribe-traced-to-officials-properties-accounts-in-rs-1500-cr-gomti-river-front-scam-cbi/story-YlXzKMZ6N1wG0HLNXuIebN.html
22-11-2020||City||HC puts Punjab govt, builder on notice for land misuse at Zirakpur housing society||The Punjab and Haryana high court has issued a notice to the Punjab government and the builder of Victoria Heights, a housing society in Zirakpur, where flats and shops have been allegedly built on land reserved for parks. Acting on a petition by the society’s Residents’ Welfare Association, the court has directed the Punjab government, its local bodies department as well as the builder to file their responses by November 25. This will be their last chance to give a clarification, following which hearings in the case will start on December 1. In its petition, the RWA contended that the builder had cheated the Real Estate Regulatory Authority by producing forged building plan, which showed wrong details of the placement of flats and shops. “When we approached the tehsildar over the issue, he said he registers the land based on the building plans. The department did not physically verify the original plan on site,” the plea stated.“Not just shops, the builder has also erected flats on land reserved for parks. Yet, the Zirakpur municipal council has not take any action against the builder,” said Sukhdev Chaudhary, chairman of the society’s RWA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hc-puts-punjab-govt-builder-on-notice-for-land-misuse-at-zirakpur-housing-society/story-O3W0QNW1ko2Bhttv3lhWSM.html
22-11-2020||City||5 deaths, 564 fresh Covid cases in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir recorded five more deaths and 564 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total Covid count to 1,06,548 and death toll to 1,629.Officials said 290 people tested positive in Kashmir and 274 in Jammu. Four persons succumbed to the disease in Jammu and one in Kashmir.With 579 persons discharged on Sunday, as many as 99,219 people have recovered in the UT so far, taking the recovery rate to 93.12%. With this, there are 5,700 active cases in the UT.The total number of tests conducted in the UT has crossed 28.10 lakh.In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 107 more people tested positive, followed by Baramulla at 52 cases. In Jammu division, highest number of cases was recorded in Jammu district at 106, followed by 44 in Udhampur. Srinagar tops the case tally with 22,350 cases and 403 deaths, followed by Jammu district with 19,746 cases and 289 deaths.Till date, 7.63 lakh people have been enlisted for observation – 19,180 in home quarantine, 5,700 in isolation, and 46,800 under home surveillance. Besides, 6.90 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/5-deaths-564-fresh-covid-cases-in-j-k/story-7ea3v8bzTUTISPt5JUijlI.html
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||Aunt asks rape victim not to reveal crime, held with 2 men in Panchkula||PanchkulaPanchkula police on Sunday arrested three persons in a rape case, including the aunt of the minor victim who asked her not to reveal the crime.Naveen Sharma (29), Jatin (27) and the paternal aunt (26) of the minor were arrested under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act after the 14-year-old victim’s grandmother (53) complained to the police that the teen had been raped by two men and her aunt had asked her to not reveal the crime. The grandmother said her daughter was divorced and two of her three children, including the victim, had been living with their father. “When my granddaughter visited me, I saw blood on her clothes. When asked, she revealed that two men had raped her and that her paternal aunt had asked her to not talk about it to anyone,” she said.The teenager was then taken to hospital for medical tests and a case under POCSO was registered.Sharma, Jatin and the girl’s aunt were then arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/aunt-asks-rape-victim-not-to-reveal-crime-held-with-2-men-in-panchkula/story-YVfHSXGeNAWF9nCsogSuMM.html
22-11-2020||City||BSF detects trans-border tunnel from Pakistan to J&K’s Samba sector||The Border Security Force (BSF) on Sunday detected a trans-border tunnel originating from Pakistan apparently used by four Jaish terrorists, who were eliminated at Ban toll plaza near Nagrota on Thursday.BSF inspector general NS Jamwal said, “The tunnel, which has entered around 160 meters in the Indian territory, has been detected near Regal post in Samba sector on Sunday.”The IGP said, “It was used by four Jaish terrorists, who were eliminated at Ban toll plaza on Thursday morning. The tunnel originated from the Chak Bhura post of Pak Rangers and it was strengthened by small wooden planks. It was dug 20-feet deep and was 3-feet wide. We have recovered ropes and Pakistan made sandbags with Karachi written on it were also found at the mouth of the tunnel to hide it.”Watch | BSF detects tunnel in Samba, link suspected with terrorists killed in Nagrota Jamwal further said that the tunnel established Pakistan’s involvement in the Ban toll plaza encounter.“We are going to lodge a strong protest with the Rangers with all the evidence and pictures,” he added. A senior intelligence official said that the four terrorists were in constant touch with their handlers in Pakistan via digital mobile radio.The handlers, in the Shakargarh area of Punjab’s Narowal district in Pakistan, had asked the terrorists about their whereabouts and if they have reached safely. The recovered digital mobile radio has been manufactured by a Pakistani company Micro Electronics and QMobile smartphone.In addition, a wireless set and a GPS device have also been recovered.It may be recalled here that the four Jaish terrorists, believed to be Pakistan nationals, had sneaked into India from the Samba sector on Thursday night along with a huge consignment of arms and ammunition, including six AK-56 rifles, five AK-47 rifles, three pistols, 16 AK magazines, a packet of RDX, 20 Chinese hand grenades, six UBGL grenades and 20 kgs of explosive.Acting on intelligence inputs, security forces intercepted the truck carrying the terrorists at around 4.50 am at Ban toll plaza near Nagrota in Jammu district. The terrorists were shot dead in the gun battle that followed. Two security officials suffered injuries in the operation. They are said to be stable. “A few days ago, (Jaish founder Masood Azhar’s brother) Abdul Rauf Asghar aka Rauf Lala was seen across the International Border in Shakargarh area of Narowal district. The area has launch pads (to push terrorists into India),” said official requesting anonymity. Intelligence agencies had warned of a possible infiltration bid and a major terror attack on November 26 (coinciding with the 2008 Mumbai attacks and just before the beginning of the local body elections), the official said. He added that the Special Operations Group of the Jammu and Kashmir Police and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel were prepared. The truck that was carrying the terrorists had a fake number plate, according to the officials who have identified the vehicle. It was spotted at 8.31 pm on November 1 at Lakhanpur when it crossed over to Punjab. It returned to Lakhanpur with rice grains from Punjab around 10.33 am on November 9, they added. The truck was not seen on the highway from November 10 to November 18. On November 19, it was seen at Sarore toll plaza in Samba district on the Pathankot-Jammu highway at 3.43 am, where it paid toll tax, the officials said. It reached the Ban toll plaza, the site of the encounter, at around 4:45 am via Bajalta Chowk on Sidhra by-pass of Jammu district, according to the investigators. According to them, the terrorists were asked to surrender but they fired at the security forces and threw grenades at them. The truck, loaded with rice sacks, caught fire during the encounter. As guns fell silent, the bodies of the terrorists were recovered from the truck. Officials said that medicines with Pakistani markings recovered from the terrorists proved they infiltrated from across the border. “Once into the Indian territory, it is not a big deal for these terrorists, trained in guerrilla warfare, to cover the distance from the International border to Jammu-Pathankot highway and the possibility of sleeper cells on Indian side helping them is also not ruled out,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bsf-detects-trans-border-tunnel-from-pakistan-to-j-k-s-samba-sector/story-Y024PAjiuocja0fLcHQe7I.html
22-11-2020||City||Shopkeeper held with 2kg cannabis in Kullu||A shopkeeper was arrested for possession of 2.05gm cannabis at his shop in Kullu. The accused is Dola Singh, 55, of Palhach village in Kullu. The accused owns a general store in Palhach from where he used to sell drugs as well, police said.The accused was arrested after the Kullu police received a tip regarding the drug smuggling. Police raided the shop and recovered the contraband after which Singh was arrested and the cannabis was seized.Kullu superintendent of police (SP) Gaurav Singh said a case has been registered under Section 20 of the NDPS Act. The accused was previously arrested under the NDPS Act in September, 2007, as well and was even convicted by the Himachal Pradesh HC in 2011.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shopkeeper-held-with-2kg-cannabis-in-kullu/story-j0DHFOJxqsyb0jK5mnypJL.html
22-11-2020||City||State govt will take all preventive measures to contain Covid-19 spread: Jai Ram||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Sunday urged residents to stay vigilant during winters as there were chances of Covid-19 spread and said that if required, the government would not hesitate in taking stern steps to contain the spread of the virus. While inaugurating and laying foundation stones online of various developmental programmes worth Rs 15 crore in Mandi district, the CM said that the state government is determined to provide better facilities to people and keeping this in view Palampur, Solan, and Mandi’s towns have been given the status of municipal corporations. “The government had to amend the act in the Vidhan Sabha as Mandi and Palampur were not fulfilling the population criteria as per the census of 2011. This decision would help in the further development of these towns as there would be special budget provisions and they would also get funds for various developmental projects from the Centre as well,” said Thakur.He said that the government has also constituted seven new nagar panchayats, one nagar parishad, and 387 new gram panchayats to facilitate the people of the state.CM said that the pandemic has hampered various developmental works initiated by the state government but it was resolute to resume these projects in the near future. “The government would ensure that all the projects see the light of the day,” he added.Jai Ram Thakur said that keeping in view the Covid crisis, the state government has started Shahri Rozgar Yojana for providing employment to the urban people on the analogy of MNREGA and Himachal Pradesh was the first state to take this step.He inaugurated the primary health centre in Pandoh and Bhimakali, parking at Mandi town under Asian Development Bank to be constructed at an estimated cost of Rs 9 crore, lift water supply scheme from Kangnidhar to Dudar Bharaun in gram panchayat Dudar Bharaun of Tehsil Sadar. He also laid foundation stones for the new building of the government primary school in Bal Mani (U-block).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/state-govt-will-take-all-preventive-measures-to-contain-covid-19-spread-jai-ram/story-2plaZwkAbJ5n7dhmzXtIwN.html
22-11-2020||City||Himachal Covid tally reaches 34,327, state likely to impose more curbs||Himachal Pradesh recorded 627 fresh Covid-19 infections on Sunday taking the state tally to 34,327, while the death toll mounted to 528 as 19 more people succumbed to the contagion. State recorded highest number of fatalities today. Eighteen people had died due to the virus on Saturday. Of the new cases, 169 were reported in Shimla, 120 in Mandi, 110 in Kullu, 61 in Solan, 54 in Bilaspur, 40 in Hamirpur, 27 in Una, 15 each in Kangra and Sirmaur, 12 in Kinnaur and four in Chamba. There are 7,034 active cases in the state while 26,733 people have been cured so far. On Sunday, 644 recoveries were recorded. Shimla surpassed Mandi in terms of cases. Shimla now has 5,521 cases and Mandi 5,512. Solan 4,432 cases, Kangra 4,347, Kullu 3,065, Sirmaur 2,523, Una 1,950, Bilaspur 1,800, Hamirpur 1,775, Chamba 1,746, , Lahaul-Spiti 950, and Kinnaur 706. GOVT TO IMPOSE NEW RESTRICTIONS Meanwhile, the Himachal Pradesh government is considering imposing more curbs in the wake of steep rise in Covid-19 cases in state. The proposed measures include a strict vigil on the border and barring entry of people with Covid-like symptoms into the state. For this, more police and health workers will be deployed at the inter-state borders. The matter is likely to come up for discussion in the upcoming cabinet meeting. Himachal has seen a steep rise in Covid-19 cases in November, registering over 12,000 more cases. There has been a 53% jump in new infections. Also, a total of 216 people have died of Covid this month alone, taking the case fatality ratio to 1.5%. The state government has already imposed restrictions on social gatherings with a ceiling of 100 people in close spaces. Covid-19 tests for catering staff in such gatherings have been made mandatory while organisers will have to take permission from the authorities before the events.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-covid-tally-reaches-34-327-state-likely-to-impose-more-curbs/story-xBaH4uioF733xKPXFLQNbM.html
22-11-2020||City||3 doctors suspended over death of differently-abled student in Srinagar||The Jammu and Kashmir government on Sunday suspended three doctors alleged to be responsible for the death of a differently-abled Class 10 student in Srinagar last week.“Taking action against those held responsible for death of the student, the Jammu and Kashmir government suspended three members of the district medical board in Srinagar along with a Class-4 employee,” said a government spokesman on Sunday evening.The student, Suhaib Ahmad, who was suffering from muscular dystrophy, had died after being denied a scribe by the J&K Board of School Education to write for his Class 10 exam in view of his inability to write the paper himself due to his poor health.“Sister and mother of the deceased approached the Medical Board on November 17, and requested that the victim be examined in a vehicle parked outside the exam centre due to his severe disability and lack of facilities at the centre. But he was not attended. When he felt breathless, doctors rushed to him and referred him to a hospital wherein he was declared brought dead,” the recommendation letter for suspension of the board members read.No health worker or doctor had reportedly accompanied them up to hospital. The board members placed under suspension include SDH Ganderbal consultant physician Dr Neelofar, Leper Hospital medical officer Dr Shuja Rashid, and Government Gousia Hospital Srinagar ophthalmologist Dr Farhan Bashir, besides nursing orderly Ghulam Hassan.The suspension order has come after advisor to lieutenant-governor, Farooq Khan, who is in-charge of social welfare department, had asked for a report from SWD principal secretary after a video surfaced on the social media in which a girl hailing from Chanapora in Srinagar alleged that her brother died at the door of Well Mission Health Centre Jawahar Nagar in Srinagar due to “negligence and unbecoming behaviour of the medical board doctors and staff.”He has asked authorities of the education department to take strict action against the officers and staff concerned at BOSE who are at fault in the death of the student.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-doctors-suspended-over-death-of-differently-abled-student-in-srinagar/story-tBf73LnA2Zxs0SeVYpJtAI.html
22-11-2020||City||GMADA to demolish 60 illegal houses at Jujhar Nagar||The Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has issued notices of demolition to owners of 60 houses built illegally at Jujhar Nagar, located near Chandigarh’s Sector 39 (West).While GMADA plans to demolish the structures on November 25, residents claim they built their houses three years ago after buying plots through a builder, who claimed it’s an approved colony.“We bought the plots through our hard-earned money. We don’t know where to go and what to do. Our families will be rendered homeless,” said Prem Singh Bisht, a resident of the colony.Another local Sayed Akthar said despite the notices by GMADA, the builder was not replying to queries and saying he has stay orders from court.GMADA’s estate officer Tarsem Chand said the notices had been issued as the houses and colony were illegal, and will be demolished soon.Despite repeated attempts, builder Gurdev Singh was not immediately available for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gmada-to-demolish-60-illegal-houses-at-jujhar-nagar/story-ouxpBnM3F87C8hQ1gDTIFO.html
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s night temperature drops to 8.1°C in season’s lowest yet||Residents woke up to a chilly Sunday morning with the overnight temperature dropping to 8.1°C, which was one degree below normal and the lowest yet this season. However, the minimum temperature is likely to rise in the coming days, as light rain is likely on Wednesday and Thursday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).“Due to the prevailing wind systems, cloudy skies are likely in the city on Monday and Tuesday, due to which the minimum temperature will return to 12°C. However, with rain expected on Wednesday and Thursday, the maximum temperature can fall by 1-2 degrees,” said an official at IMD, Chandigarh.On Sunday, the maximum temperature rose slightly from 22.2°C on Saturday to 22.5°C, which was still four notches below normal, while the minimum temperature decreased from 8.4°C to 8.1°C. In the next three days, the day temperature will remain between 20°C and 22°C, while the night temperature is expected to rise to 13°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-night-temperature-drops-to-8-1-c-in-season-s-lowest-yet/story-oUYT1dah3ZoXNr4mI5gsJI.html
22-11-2020||Pune||Pune’s positivity rate rises; cases increase as compared to number of tests||As per the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), with rising cases of Covid-19 over the past weeks, the city’s positivity rate has gone up from below 10 per cent before Diwali (November 6 to November 12) to close to 13 per cent in the week after Diwali (November 13 to November 19).Although the civic body has been increasing its testing numbers, in the week after Diwali, the city saw a drastic rise in the number of cases in comparison to the tests conducted by the civic body.Since October, the number of fresh Covid-19 cases were reducing which had led to a drop in the number of tests being carried out by the administration. In the week before Diwali (November 6 to November 12), the city conducted 15,555 Covid-19 tests in which 1,468 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported and the positivity rate fell down to 9.4 per cent, whereas in the week after Diwali (November 13 to November 19), the city conducted 13,260 Covid-19 tests of which 1,722 fresh Covid-19 positive cases were reported, which led to a rise in the positivity rate to about 13%.Positivity rate defines the spread of the infection and is measured as per the number of cases reported for every 100 detection tests conducted. The civic body is now increasing the number of tests conducted in 24 hours. Priori to Diwali, the civic body conducted around 1,000 tests which has now gone up to over 4,500 as of Sunday.PMC additional commissioner Rubal Agarwal, said, “We were informed about some technical issues at the NIV which affected the number of samples being tested on a daily basis from earlier 100-1,200 to only 600. This might have brought down the number of tests being collected temporarily. During Diwali too, we had kept all our testing centres open, but unfortunately no one came forward. However, we have increased the testing numbers to more than 4,500 now since the past three days and we will increase them even more in the coming days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-s-positivity-rate-goes-up-as-cases-increase-as-compared-to-tests/story-Lic1V4k58EJNAspQoqhXtI.html
22-11-2020||City||Fresh snowfall in higher reaches of Himachal till November 26||The higher reaches of Himachal Pradesh is likely to receive snowfall while rain is expected in the middle hills of the state till November 26. The state’s meteorological department has issued a yellow warning for seven districts— Chamba, Kangra, Kullu, Mandi, Shimla, Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti—for November 25 resulting in heavy snowfall and rainfall at isolated places.However, the weather is likely to remain dry in the lower hills and plains for the next few days with rainfall forecast on November 25.The maximum temperatures on Sunday were three to four degrees below normal while the minimum temperature was two to three degrees below normal.State’s meteorological department director Manmohan Singh said that snowfall is likely to occur at isolated places of Lahaul-Spiti, Kinnaur, Kullu and Chamba and rainfall in middle hills for the next few days. The weather will remain clear from November 27 onward.The minimum temperature in the state capital, Shimla on was 5.1°C while Kufri recorded a 3.6°C minimum temperature.Prominent tourist destination Manali recorded 0.2°C while Dharamshala and Dalhousie recorded 6°C and 3.8°C, minimum temperature respectively.The minimum temperature in Una was 4.2°C, Solan 1.7°C, Bilaspur 5°C, Hamirpur 4.7°C, Nahan 11.7°C and minus 2.6°C in Kalpa while Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district was the coldest place in the state as it recorded minus 6.4°C minimum temperature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fresh-snowfall-in-higher-reaches-of-himachal-till-november-26/story-AGnvam214puHWNmJQUystI.html
22-11-2020||City||Bike rally to highlight Tibet-China conflict resumes in Shimla||With an aim to highlight Tibet’s issues with China, the Tibetan Youth Congress (TYC), an NGO in exile, on Sunday resumed the bike rally from Dorje Dhak Monastery Panthaghati, nine kilometres from Shimla.The five-day bike rally was flagged off on November 18 by Member of Parliament (MP) Kishan Kapoor and concluded today in Bir, of Kangra district in which 56 bikers including five Tibetan women and a member of Tibetan parliament-in-exile Lhagyari Namgyal Dolkar, travelled around 1,000 kms.TYC president Gonpo Dhondup said that the activists visited the Nesang valley situated near the Indo-Tibet border region in the Kinnaur district. The rally aimed at propagating the message of boycotting made in China goods, counter and control Chinese intrusions into the Indian territory, and demands the release of all political prisoners in Driru county of Tibet.“Bikers of seven different regions of Regional Tibetan Youth Congress in India participated in this rally and so far and they have covered nearly 1000 kilometres and when the rally will conclude in Bir, they will cover around 1200 kilometres” said Gonpo Dhondup.Recently, a Tibetan singer was captured by Chinese authorities in Driru province of Tibet, he added.Lhagyari Namgyal Dolkar said that as an elected representative of the Tibetan community-in-exile, it is her duty to support the cause of Tibet.She also thanked the Tibetan community-in-exile and Dalai Lama for granting them democratic freedom.She said that Tibetan Buddhist monks of Shimla also extended their support to the rally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bike-rally-to-highlight-tibet-china-conflict-resumes-in-shimla/story-e5Xim1wlrYJ0y6xk8P22IN.html
22-11-2020||City||J&K election commissioner holds review meeting||The state election commissioner, Jammu and Kashmir, KK Sharma, on Sunday said that all advanced arrangements are being put in place to ensure transparent, safe and secure conduct of first time District Development Council elections, ULB and panchayat by-elections in the Union territory.These remarks were made by Sharma while chairing a meeting held to review the law and order situation and security arrangements for ensuing polls being held between November 28 to December 19.He said that adequate security arrangements shall be provided to all candidates whether party-based or independent including star campaigners besides all other facilities.Officials said that Sharma held a meeting scheduled with Kashmir divisional commissioner Pandurang K Pole and Inspector General of Police, Vijay Kumar.The government said that Sharma was here to review the election-related arrangements with the divisional administration. The SEC is also scheduled to hold a meeting with the deputy commissioners of the districts on Monday.“Briefings by divisional commissioner, IGP, DCs who function as District Panchayat Election Officers (DPEOs) are part of agenda of state election commissioner,” a government spokesman said.The meeting comes after the chairperson of PAGD, Farooq Abdullah wrote a letter to Sharma on Saturday in the context of upcoming district development council (DDC) elections stating that their candidates were not being allowed to canvass freely.Former J&K chief ministers Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti have also alleged that candidates of parties opposing the BJP were not being allowed to campaign freely for the upcoming DDC polls on the pretext of security while the saffron party was being given a free hand.The official Twitter handle of J&K’s information department tweeted an interview of L-G Manoj Sinha to a news channel denying these allegations.“There is no truth in this. We will ensure that elections are held free and fair and everybody will get equal opportunity. I want to assure the people of J&K that every candidate will get an equal opportunity to campaign and there will be no disparity with anybody. We want to guarantee free and fair polls,” Sinha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-election-commissioner-holds-review-meeting/story-eTWZJZXYKrHX8lvrPwbgyL.html
22-11-2020||City||Former ministers, legislators in fray for DDC polls||Three former ministers and four former legislators are contesting the district development council (DDC) polls as candidates of the Congress, BJP and Apni Party.Two-time former minister and senior Congress leader, Taj Mohiuddin is going to contest DDC polls on a Congress ticket from north Kashmir’s Uri. He is the first former minister to try his luck in the DDC polls which are being held in eight phases.Taj Mohiuddin had earlier represented north Kashmir’s Uri assembly segment twice and both the times he served as cabinet minister first in the PDP Congress coalition government and then in Congress NC coalition government. He, however, lost the elections in 2014 from Uri.Mohiuddin is one of the few Congress leaders who have been winning elections from Kashmir.He confirmed that he will be filing his nomination for the DDC polls on Monday. “It’s not about the protocol or the status of the seat, it’s about the development of my area which has been completely ignored from the past many years. My participation is only to get the development of my constituency back on the track.”Mohiuddin, however, said that from Kashmir, he could be the only former minister in the fray. “From Jammu, I think some former legislators and ministers are contesting polls,” he said.Uri is the border constituency and in the last elections, NC from the constituency after the veteran political leader, Mohammad Shafi won from the constituency. In the parliament elections, independent candidate engineer Shiekh Rashid garnered the highest votes from the constituency. The Uri assembly segment has been divided into two DDC seats, Boniyar and Parenpella. Taj Mohiuddin will be contesting from Parinpella which is the ST seat.Mohiuddin is not the only former legislator who is contesting DDC polls from neighbouring Sangrama, former legislator Shoaib Lone is also contesting as the candidate of Apni Party from Sangrama in Baramulla. Lone who was district president of the Congress joined the Apni party earlier this year.Lone said that he is contesting the election because his area has been ignored in developmental projects by successive governments.Another former minister, Shabir Khan, and former legislator Choudhary Akram is also contesting from Poonch. Both are Congress candidates.J&K Pradesh Congress state president, Ghulam Ahmad Mir said that three former legislators are contesting the DDC polls. The workers and people compelled them to contest these polls to resolve the problems of their areas.Shakti Raj Parihar, former minister and Bharat Bhushan are contesting DDC polls on the BJP tickets from Doda and Jammu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-ministers-legislators-in-fray-for-ddc-polls/story-mz8DGg1XOfxXm3lRHakPxK.html
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||Parents of girl killed in Kangra school bus accident get ₹5-lakh relief||The Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT) has awarded a compensation of over Rs 5 lakh to a Kangra-based couple, who lost their seven-year-old daughter in an accident in April 2018.Seema Devi, 30, and Parveen Kumar, 40, of Ther Fangota village, Kangra district, Himachal Pradesh, had filed a complaint against the principal of Wazir Ram Singh Pathania Memorial Public School, Gurchal village, Kangra, and National Insurance Company Limited, Sector 17-C, Chandigarh.In their petition, they stated that on April 9, 2018, their daughter, Ritika Devi, was returning home in her school bus. “The vehicle was being driven at a fast speed and in a rash and negligent manner by driver Madan Lal. There were about 30 passengers in the bus. Lal lost control of the vehicle as he reached near Cheli Khuther village and it fell into a 250-metre-deep gorge,” the parents mentioned in the petition.Their daughter died in the accident that also claimed the life of the driver.A case in this regard was registered under Sections 279 (rash driving), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code at the Nurpur police station in Kangra district.The school authorities responded that no such accident took place as alleged, so the claim petition was not maintainable and the amount claimed (Rs 75 lakh) was highly exaggerated. The insurer stated that neither this court had the jurisdiction to try the petition nor had the cause of action accrued within the territorial jurisdiction of this court. Also, the driver didn’t have a valid licence.After hearing the arguments, the tribunal directed both respondents to pay a compensation of Rs 5.05 lakh, along with 7.5% interest per annum from the date of filing of the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/parents-of-girl-killed-in-kangra-school-bus-accident-get-5-lakh-relief/story-uxj0G1VrH4dVTG6f1jcVvN.html
22-11-2020||Bangalore||Former Congress minister Roshan Baig arrested by CBI in Rs 2,500 cr IMA scam||Former Karnataka Congress minister and seven-time MLA Roshan Baig has been arrested in the IMA scam by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Sunday after a marathon 10 hour grilling. IMA scam refers to I Monetary Advisors, an investment company purportedly run in compliance with Islamic banking rules. IMA collapsed in May last year when it was unable to repay either the deposits or dividends on the deposits it had illegally accepted.IMA co-founder Mohammed Mansoor Khan at the time of his arrest had alleged that Baig had cheated him of Rs 400 crore and forced him to gift expensive cars and jewellery. Baig, at that time, had vehemently denied the charges and claimed that except for some donations to Haj facilitation centers, he had not accepted any money. More than 51,500 depositors are said to have lost Rs 2,500 crore collected by IMA and its numerous subsidiaries in the ponzi scheme.Also Read: Karnataka govt permits CBI to prosecute two senior IPS officers in IMA scamWhile initially a police probe was ordered with a Special Investigation Team being setup, in September 2019, the state government handed over the case to CBI. Baig, who after being arrested by the CBI, was produced before a magistrate, has been remanded to CBI custody for 14 days for further investigation.Earlier in June 2019, Baig had been suspended from the Congress party after criticizing leader of opposition Siddaramaiah as well as the then KPCC President Dinesh Gundu Rao. Baig had also attempted to join the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/former-congress-minister-roshan-baig-arrested-by-cbi-in-rs-2-500-cr-ima-scam/story-6WhEYywEzGClnO6UWIqScI.html
22-11-2020||City||Two dead, 7 injured as SUV falls into gorge in Shimla district||Two persons have been killed while seven sustained injuries as a Bolero (HP 63D 2386) plunged into a 200-metre deep gorge near Mashobra.The deceased have been identified as Chaman (34), a resident of Kandi village in Theog sub-division and Tilak (48), a resident of Parlog village, Tehsil Karsog of Mandi district while injured have been identified as Bhim Singh (30), Peer Singh (25), Hem Ram (40), Megh Singh (30), Hom Krishan (34) all residents of Karsog Tehsil, Mahesh Verma (23), a resident of Theog Tehsil and Harish (39), a resident of Suni Tehsil in Shimla district.The accident took place on Sunday at around 6:30 am on Basantpur Gumma link road near Swankyar.Police along with ambulance and fire service personnel reached the spot as soon as they received information and rescued the injured as well as recovered the bodies with the help of local residents.The injured were taken to Community Health Centre (CHC) Suni where they are undergoing treatment. A post-mortem examination of the deceased will also be conducted there.Shimla additional superintendent of police Praveer Thakur confirmed the report and said the police are conducting the investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-dead-7-injured-as-suv-falls-into-gorge-in-shimla-district/story-OLMq0TC73b4aRUd3KYMRcN.html
22-11-2020||City||8K teams of health workers to start door-to-door campaign to screen Himachal residents||The Himachal Pradesh government will carry out a month-long Him Suraksha Campaign from November 25 under which 8,000 teams of health workers will move door-to-door to detect symptoms of Covid-19, tuberculosis, leprosy, sugar and high blood pressure.Health secretary Amitabh Awasthi informed that the campaign will be launched by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on November 24 from Ridge Maidan, Shimla.On the same day, people would pledge to follow all Covid guidelines.Awasthi said that the campaign is a collective effort of departments of health, Ayurveda, women and child development, panchayati raj and concerned district administrations and will end on December 27.“Each team will have two members. Information on various symptoms of Covid-19, tuberculosis, leprosy, sugar and high blood pressure diseases will be collected through a mobile application. If symptoms of any disease detected in any person, samples will be collected for further investigation and if needed, free treatment will also be provided to all,” he said.He said that if anyone has any symptoms of COVID-19 like cold, cough, fever, loss of taste or smell, difficulty in breathing, the person must share the information with the health workers their checkup done as per the requirement.He further informed that all types of health-related facilities were available in the state. He said that currently there has been an increase in the number of Covid-19 cases still people should not panic and take necessary precautions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/8k-teams-of-health-workers-to-start-door-to-door-campaign-to-screen-himachal-residents/story-WpHJWWg8K8HxSHEwMWWa3O.html
22-11-2020||City||Infant deaths in Ramnagar: PMO asks state licensing authorities to take action||Taking cognizance of the complaint of Jammu-based social activist Sukesh C Khajuria regarding the death of infants due to spurious drugs in Ramnagar tehsil of Udhampur district and other parts of north India, Prime Ministers’ Office has instructed the state licensing authorities to take necessary action in the matter.Khajuria had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to intervene in the matter and requested him to take action against the guilty besides taking corrective measures at the policy level to stop the recurrence of such incidents in the future and adequate compensation and treatment of victims.In his letter, he brought to the PM’s notice, the death of several children and severe deformities to others in some parts of northern India due to consumption of spurious drugs since December 2019.He had highlighted the unfortunate deaths and deformities of infants in J&K, Punjab, Haryana, and Himachal Pradesh and had also even taken up the issue of adequate compensation to the families of the victims and those who are deformed with the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) and concerned state/ UT governments.Sukesh Khajuria had charged that in view of inadequate response from these agencies and a larger mafia operating in different states, the issues of the lack of coordination between the central and state governments on regulatory measures to check and punish such unscrupulous elements who are selling spurious drugs in connivance with quacks and corrupt drug authorities and the issue of adequate compensation to the innocent victims needed to be tackled at the highest level in the country.The PMO in communication to Khajuria had responded that the matter related to the product quality of drug Coldbest-PC Syrup has been forwarded to the concerned state licensing authorities for taking necessary action in the matter.Over a dozen children had died in Ramnagar Tehsil due to spurious “Coldbest PC syrup”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/infant-deaths-in-ramnagar-pmo-asks-state-licensing-authorities-to-take-action/story-Y2jsoZZRuSjqDuidZhBXAK.html
22-11-2020||City||Punjab health minister checks on ailing academician||Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Sunday checked on the health of Charanjit Singh Walia, president, Nursing Training Institutes Association, Punjab, who is undergoing treatment at Fortis hospital in Mohali.Also the chairman of Mata Sahib Kaur College of Nursing and Dr Dayal Singh Memorial School of Nursing, Sri Anandpur Sahib, Walia was admitted to the hospital due to a chest infection. The minister urged the hospital administration to provide all medical treatment to Walia and wished him a speedy recovery. He said Walia is a well-known and respected name in the field of nursing training, and nurses trained from Mata Sahib Kaur College of Nursing are working in various hospitals, making their college and Punjab proud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-health-minister-checks-on-ailing-academician/story-c20ZYG8BtgLGwFIbQ5GPDJ.html
22-11-2020||Jaipur||‘Chose a thankless job’: Tweet of transferred Rajasthan IPS officer goes viral||After his recent transfer from the office of SP Kota city, allegedly due to a police lathicharge on Congress workers in Rajasthan’s Kota under his watch, a tweet by IPS officer Gaurav Yadav has gone viral on social media.However, Yadav refused to link it with his recent transfer and claimed his tweet was not only incidental but was also blown out of proportion.“You chose a thankless job, you can’t be upset when nobody thanks you. Don’t start chasing applause and acclaim. That way lays madness,” Gaurav Yadav had tweeted.The tweet was seen in light of his recent transfer as the superintendent of police, Kota City. However, when HT contacted Gaurav Yadav, he said that “The tweet was done by me randomly and was actually copied from the wall of my friend but it does not have any link whatsoever with my recent transfer and it has been blown out of proportion”.You chose a thankless job, you can’t be upset when nobody thanks you. Don’t start chasing applause and acclaim. That way lies madness.Gaurav Yadav has been transferred to the criminal investigation department- crime branch (CID CB) in Jaipur.His transfer came nine days after a police lathicharge on Congressmen on November 10 before mayoral polls were held in Kota. The Rajasthan government transferred him earlier this week and appointed IPS officer Dr Vikas Pathak as the new SP of the city.Also Read: Amid surge in Covid-19 cases, Gehlot asks private hospitals to increase beds More than half a dozen Congressmen were injured and hospitalised after a baton charge by Kota city police on November 10 at Command area development (CAD) circle when the party workers tried to stop a bus carrying BJP corporators and also an independent corporator, Lekhraj Yogi, who the Congressmen claimed was being abducted by the BJP leaders.Minister Shanti Dhariwal was in Kota during the mayoral polls and he had objected to the police lathicharge on Congressmen.Later, the Rajasthan government asked home secretary NL Meena for a probe into the incident. After submission of Meena’s report, Rajasthan government transferred Gaurav Yadav to CID CB Jaipur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/chose-a-thankless-job-tweet-of-transferred-rajasthan-ips-officer-goes-viral/story-4fS0PL9oM1LrlouxBCaDjK.html
22-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality ‘poor’, likely to deteriorate further||Delhi’s air quality remained “poor” on Sunday and government agencies said it is likely to deteriorate further due to unfavourable meteorological conditions.The city’s 24-hour average AQI was 274 on Sunday It was 251 on Saturday, 296 on Friday, 283 on Thursday and 211 on Wednesday.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.The central government’s Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi said Delhi-NCR’s air quality is likely to deteriorate to the “very poor” category on Monday due to unfavourable meteorological conditions.The predominant surface wind direction was northwesterly and the maximum wind speed 12 kmph on Sunday, it said, adding that the wind speed is likely to drop to eight kmph on Monday.The central agency said the AQI is likely to deteriorate to the upper end of the “very poor” category between Tuesday and Friday.As many as 649 farm fire counts were observed over Punjab, Haryana and adjoining regions on Saturday, according to the Ministry of Earth Sciences’ air quality monitor, SAFAR.Stubble burning accounted for 12 per cent of Delhi’s PM2.5 pollution on Sunday. It was 13 per cent on Saturday, 15 per cent on Friday, 20 per cent on Thursday and eight per cent on Wednesday.The minimum temperature settled at 6.9 degrees Celsius on Sunday,  the lowest in the month of November in 17 years, according to IMD.Calm winds and low temperatures trap pollutants close to the ground, while favourable wind speed helps in their dispersion.  Delhi’s ventilation index -- a product of mixing depth and average wind speed – was around 6,500 m2/s on Sunday and is likely to drop to 1,500 m2/s on Monday and Tuesday.Mixing depth is the vertical height in which pollutants are suspended in the air. It reduces on cold days with calm wind speed.A ventilation index lower than 6,000 sqm/second, with the average wind speed less than 10 kmph, is unfavourable for dispersal of pollutants.Earlier in the day, Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai said the Public Works Department has installed 23 anti-smog guns and deployed 150 tankers for water sprinkling at key intersections and construction sites to reduce dust pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-air-quality-poor-likely-to-deteriorate-further/story-SsULit6XKmRTgVgi4RVmYJ.html
22-11-2020||Bhopal||MP minister orders probe into temple kissing scene in web series Suitable Boy||MP home minister Narottam Mishra on Sunday said that he has instructed state officials to initiate action against web series ‘Suitable Boy’ for showing a kissing scene in a temple.The web series, based on a novel of Vikram Seth, published in 1993, was recently released on an OTT platform.Mishra said the kissing scene was filmed in a temple where people are singing Bhajans in the background. “There are so many such scenes in the series which hurt the religious sentiments of Hindus. I have taken objection to the scene and have asked officers to inquire into the matter and examine the scenes to know the purpose behind filming such obscene scenes in the temple premises. Action will be taken against the producer and director of these scenes,” the home minister said.Also Read: In MP cabinet meet on cows, a host of key decisionsHis comments came a day after a Bhartiya Janta Yuva Morcha leader, Rewa, Gaurav Mishra, lodged a complaint with the superintendent of police against the web-series for hurting religious sentiments.Also Read: ‘Interfaith marriages in families of BJP leaders examples of Love Jihad?” questions Bhupesh Baghel Mishra said, “If the OTT platform doesn’t remove these scenes, we will protest against the OTT platform and the director and producer of the web series for promoting Love Jihad and insulting Hindu sentiments.”Rewa superintendent of police Rakesh Singh said he has ordered an inquiry in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/mp-minister-orders-probe-into-temple-kissing-scene-in-web-series-suitable-boy/story-OwLxmwWoheomvfMP0Q3zrL.html
22-11-2020||Ranchi||Covid-19 impact: Boarding schools turn milk vendors in Jharkhand||Jharkhand’s some of the big boarding schools have turned into milk vendors due to peculiar challenges posed by covid-19 outbreak. These institutions, which have been shut down due to the pandemic are facing acute fund crunch due to their fixed monthly expenses, such as the cost of raising cows and horses, kept for milk supply and horse ride lessons to students.Ranchi’s oldest boarding school, Vikas Vidyalaya, lost seven of its 120 cows due to unavailability of good quality fodder during the initial days of the lockdown. Inaugurated by the first President of India, Rajendra Prasad, in 1952, the school is spread over a sprawling campus of 175 acres and houses 300 students and close to 130 school staff including teachers.The institution has been rearing cows since its beginning about seven decades ago.“Sudden lockdown brought serious problems for us. We have 120 cows which yield over 350 litres of milk daily for consumption by students and school staff. After the lockdown, we faced a serious problem of consuming the milk. Also, the cost of keeping such a large number of cows is enormous,” said school principal PS Kalra.He added, “For initial three months, we used to make vedic bilona Ghee from these milk assuming that we could serve ghee to our students after reopening. It takes nearly 45-50 litres of milk to prepare one kg of ghee through this method. We sell it at the cost price of Rs 1700 per kg.”“But, in July, some of the school alumni persuaded us to start supplying milk in Ranchi as they themselves were ready to purchase it. It all started from July 10 and now we are supplying milk in bottles to about 70 households in Ranchi. “The milk being supplied to almost 70 customers shall continue even after school reopens as it is surplus of our requirements.With this, we are able to curtail our losses to some extent,” Kalra said. According to the school principal, the cost of producing one litre of milk comes to around Rs 50. During the lockdown, the school faced another problem of procuring fodder for the cows. The prices of fodder had shot up by three times during the lockdown, further aggravating the challenge.Another boarding school, Taurian World School, too, is facing similar problems as it keeps 65 cows and 15 horses.“Boarding schools have a different set of problems than day schools. The number of staff in the former is three-four times higher than the latter. We have to keep the entire facility intact even when the school is closed. We can’t remove teaching and non-teaching staff. The fixed expenses are about 80-85%. The only reduction in our expenses came in the form of fuel cost and direct food cost during the lockdown,” said school owner Amit Bajla.He added, “We have 65 cows. The dairy cost is much higher. We are presently selling milk in the local market. Our horses are lying idle.”Bajla said that the school has incurred a whopping loss to the tune of Rs 15 crore in the last eight months.Vidya Vikas Samiti, which runs a chain of schools, Saraswati Sishu Vidya Mandir, across Jharkhand and Bihar, has not faced much problem as they have less number of cows.Samiti’s secretary Mahavir Singh said, “We have few boarding schools in Madhupur, Basukinath and Gumla. We have 22 cows in Madhupur and nearly 7-8 cows at the other two centres. We didn’t face a shortage of fodder during lockdown as the schools are situated near semi-urban areas in close proximity to villages. We are selling milk to local sweet shops. We incurred losses during the three months lockdown period. But, now it’s no loss, no profit.”An association of 1,426 unaided private schools in Jharkhand has moved the Jharkhand high court challenging the government’s June 25 order which stated that private schools in the state were only allowed to collect tuition fee from students and instructed them not to charge other allied fees during the covid-19 pandemic as long as schools are closed.Citing their woes, association’s president Abhay Mishra said, “Under the garb of government’s order, about 60-70% parents had not been paying monthly tuition fee since the outbreak of the pandemic. After running the schools for about nine months since then with the previous revenue earnings, we have virtually exhausted all our funds.”The high court has sought the state government’s reply and fixed the next date of hearing in December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/covid-19-impact-boarding-schools-turn-milk-vendors-in-jharkhand/story-8z7Ckurp0F01WJj1MhyHZK.html
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||Regular sightings indicate rise in number of snow leopards in HP||The number of endangered snow leopards appear to be increasing as more sightings have been reported in the remote, high mountainous areas of Himachal Pradesh even as the survey of the animals has stalled because of the Covid-19 pandemic. According to the census being conducted by the wildlife wing of the forest department and the Nature Conservation Foundation, Mysuru, 52 snow leopards have been identified in 10 selected remote sites in Lahaul, Spiti, Chamba and Kinnaur. The snowy higher mountain ranges here are breeding grounds for the rare feline, also known as the ‘grey ghost’ of the Himalayas.Covering large areas, wildlife experts have used camera traps, images and pugmarks to trace the elusive cats in Spiti valley and check if they are breeding .The population of the animals has reportedly increased in the valley since the wildlife wing initiated the Snow Leopard Conservation Project and began monitoring the animals in 2006 as part of measures to conserve their habitat in Spiti valley.HP is the first state of have initiated a move to protect the animals by setting up the Himalayan Snow Leopard Research Centre.154 sightings across 10 sitesAbout 52 animals during the survey were identified from 154 sightings across 10 sites, with the upper Spiti landscape recording the highest number of detections: 13 animals spotted 51 times , while 10 animals were found in the upper Kinnaur regions and six around the villages of Tabo in Spiti. Pin valley with its treacherous mountain terrain also has a good population of snow leopards, with seven found in 15 detections.Other places where the cats were spotted included, Bhaga, Chandra, Pin valley and upper Spiti valley in tribal Lahaul and Spiti; upper Kinnaur region and Chitkul valley in Kinnaur district, Lippa Asrang in the upper reaches of Kinnaur and the Great Himalayan National Park as well as the Bharmour in Chamba district.The snow leopard’s habitat ranges from the Kibber Wildlife Sanctuary in Lahaul and Spiti to Pangi in Chamba district. The cats are usually found in rugged terrain at altitudes between 9,800 feet and 17,000 feet.The ambitious project was initiated in January 2018 and expected to be completed by December 2020. However, things slowed down after the Covid-19 outbreak since March.Field work completed“ As of March 2020, we have completed field work and gathering of primary data from 10 sites across the state for population estimation of snow leopard using camera traps and double observer surveys for assessing the population of wild prey” says principal chief conservator wildlife Archana Sharma.After the survey was halted due risk of spread of Covid-19, “our team is geared to resume work as planned in the project proposal once the situation improves,” she addes.The wildlife wing had trained 73 frontline staff for the survey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/regular-sightings-indicate-rise-in-number-of-snow-leopards-in-hp/story-2AbeK9qSUghmK0fs5UeCUP.html
22-11-2020||Dehradun||50 trains to run from new Yog Nagri railway station in Rishikesh during Kumbh||The newly built Yog Nagri railway station Rishikesh, which is the first station of ambitious Rishikesh-Karanprayag Char Dham railway line, will get operational during Ardh Kumbh fair, said officials. Trains will be operated from Yog Nagri station for the mega fair, which commences from early next year. Yog Nagri station work got completed in July earlier this year and speedy work is going on at Veerbhadra--Devprayag section. Keeping in mind the expected number of pilgrims to be in the range of five to eight crores, fifty routine and special Kumbh trains will be operated from across the country for Haridwar to ease the expected congestion on the route due to the pilgrimage. “Trains to be plied during Kumbh fair though will also depend on Covid-19 spread and as per government guidelines during next few months. Already railway track broadening work at Laksar-Haridwar line is in full swing, railway over bridge construction and basic amenities are being developed at Haridwar, Rishikesh, Roorkee, Laskar and Jwalapur. Railways are well prepared to ferry passengers during Kumbh fair with best of facilities,” said Ashutosh, general manager, northern railways. Also Read: Snowfall likely in Uttarakhand districts over next few days: IMD bulletinFour additional trains will be kept in reserve during the Kumbh fair, which will be used in case there is a spike in passenger numbers during the major festive bath known as Shahi Snaan. Haridwar railway station has been given a unique temple shape look in accordance with the religious-spiritual aura of pilgrim city. A thermal scanner has also been installed at Roorkee railway station as part of covid-19 preventive measures. Expansion work has been completed at city railway station while at Jwalapur, work is in the last phase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/50-trains-to-run-from-new-yog-nagri-railway-station-in-rishikesh-during-kumbh/story-HkObOTzr4s5DDgP73xLECP.html
22-11-2020||Pune||23-year old booked for illegal sand mining||The Sangvi police have lodged a case of illegal sand lifting at the confluence of Ramnadi and Mula river behind the sewage treatment plant (STP) in Aundh.The incident occurred on Saturday morning from 1am to 4.30 am, and the police have arrested one person on charges of illegal sand mining and booked two others in the case.Vaishali Patkar , president of Aundh Vikas Mandal lodged a complaint against three persons in connection with the crime. Based on the complaint, Vijaykumar Chhakam Sav (23), a native of Jharkhand, a resident of Takli Haji in Shirur taluka of Pune district has been arrested in the case.Police officials have seized mined sand worth Rs 8,000 from their possession. Besides, they have taken custody of the machine which was being used to lift sand from the river bed. The police have invoked IPC section 379 (theft) (IPC) and section 9 and 15 of the Environment Protection Act against the accused.According to the FIR, the incident took place between Friday and Saturday. On receiving a tip off, Patkar along with another activist Pushkar Kulkarni carried an on the spot inspection near Pimple Nilakh crematorium and caught them red-handed. They called the police after which a team led by police sub-inspector Rakesh Sarde raided the spot and nabbed Sava while but two of his associates managed to give them a slip under the cover of darkness.Patkar informed HT, “Initially there was confusion over registration of FIR under on jurisdiction line. Later, Sangvi police registered the FIR after against illegal sand lifting.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/23-year-old-booked-for-illegal-sand-mining/story-ilqbrjvFhEil5A1DG44GTL.html
22-11-2020||Lucknow||PM launches Rs 5,555 cr piped water for 41 lakh residents in UP’s Vindhya region||Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the Rs 5,555 crore ‘Har Ghar Nal Yojana’ or water tap for every house scheme for Sonbhadra and Mirzapur districts in the Vindhya region of Uttar Pradesh through video conference on Sunday.The scheme aims at providing piped water supply to over 41 lakh people in the two districts. The prime minister said piped water supply to about 3,000 villages will bring positive changes in the lives of locals.The PM also praised chief minister Yogi Adityanath and his team. He said that UP has set an example by marching forward on the development journey despite the challenges posed by the global coronavirus pandemic.“Earlier, people used to have a perception about UP. But the way UP has launched one developmental project after another is completely changing the image of Uttar Pradesh, the state government and its employees,” Modi said.While tackling the Covid-19 challenge, the state government took care of people who returned from the cities and made arrangements for their employment, he said, adding further that the UP government did not let the Covid-19 situation slow down the pace of development in the state.The prime minister also praised the state government for successfully handling Japanese Encephalitis cases in eastern Uttar Pradesh.“The way in which the number of cases of Japanese Encephalitis decreased in Uttar Pradesh, due to the efforts by the state government led by chief minister Yogi Adityanath, is being discussed far and wide. Even experts talk about it,” he said and added that every resident of Uttar Pradesh would have been “blessing” the CM and his team for saving the lives of innocent children”. Also Read: Quota for Covid-19 warriors’ children: Minister thanks PMThe prime minister alleged that villages, tribal areas and their residents were previously not given as much priority as his government was giving to develop city-like facilities, including LPG connections, there.“Despite having many natural resources and enjoying blessings of rivers like Son, Belan, Karmanash, Van Ganga, Kshipra, the Vindhya region faced neglect for decades since independence... The region was identified by drought. Be it Vindhya region or Bundelkhand, the whole region became one of dearth and scarcity. As a result, several people had to migrate from here,” PM said.“But during the last few years, continuous efforts were made by the government to ensure clean tap water to every house and to develop irrigation facilities in the region. As a result, last year, a big water project was started in Bundelkhand region and today, the scheme worth Rs 5,555 crore has been launched in the Vindhya region to ensure supply of clean water through pipes to every house,” he added. Also Read: PM Modi greets Mulayam on his 81st birthday, prays for his healthy lifeHe said piped water supply would make the life of our mothers and sisters easier in the villages and also reduce many diseases like cholera, typhoid, encephalitis caused by dirty water.PM said that 1250 van dhan kendras had been set up in tribal areas, adding that a district mineral fund had been created for development of tribal areas.The idea was to spend a large chunk of the fund generated from the tribal areas on its development, he said.PM Modi also recalled that Apna Dal founder, the late Sone Lal Patel, had been quite worried about the lack of water in the Vindhya region.“With the launch of 23 schemes, 14 in Sonbhadra and nine in Mirzapur, his soul will be content and he will shower his blessings on us,” the prime minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/pm-launches-rs-5-555-cr-piped-water-for-41-lakh-residents-in-up-s-vindhya-region/story-XW35gxoBzmCHErIwMoPlhJ.html
22-11-2020||Pune||Fmr corporator, son arrested in Ambegaon garbage plant case||A former corporator and his son, Shankar Beldare (55) and Kunal Beldare (35) were arrested by Pune police on Friday in the case of setting Ambegaon garbage processing unit ablaze on November 2.“They were produced in court on Saturday and granted bail,” said senior police inspector Jagannath Kalaskar of Bharti Vidyapeeth police station.The two are accused of provoking people to charge at the garbage processing unit and set it ablaze. The entire place was damaged and the fire was alight for over two days.The police are also investigating other people’ involvement in it.A case under Sections 435, 427, 143, 147, and 149 of Indian Penal Code was registered at Bharti Vidyapeeth police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/fmr-corporator-son-arrested-in-ambegaon-garbage-plant-case/story-CbryRk7JnDv3VmBgwIOvDI.html
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||Soldier commits suicide at LoC post in Poonch||A soldier allegedly died by suicide at a post along the Line of Control in Poonch district in the late hours of Saturday.The man holding a havaldar’s rank belonged to the Indian Army’s 39 Rashtriya Rifles regiment and was stationed at the Nambal post in Salotri village. Police have initiated inquest proceedings under section 174 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC).A court of inquiry has also been initiated, a defence spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/soldier-commits-suicide-at-loc-post-in-poonch/story-MLLq4Pmn1w81TX0KHP7hzI.html
22-11-2020||Pune||YourSpace: Pune residents vow to keep places of worship Covid-free||Places of worship have opened in the city much to the relief of the faithful, however, posing a whole set of new challenges in terms of coping with government Covid guidelines. Pune readers share their experience so far.Namaz in a public space only after vaccine My father used to offer namaz at our local mosque along with my brother on a regular basis before the lockdown. Once the lockdown was announced, that stopped and he started giving azaan from our balcony and praying in the house. My husband also offers namaz at home. We are not yet sure if it is a good idea to offer namaz in a public space. Maybe when the vaccine is available, we might go back to the previous ways but not before that. Sultana Khan Not visiting temple anytime soon I’m a resident of Satara and I used to travel to Ekmukhi Datta Mandir Narayanpur on almost every single Thursday. I used to do this since my children were born over two decades ago, in 1992. If the weather was good, I’d take a two-wheeler or else I would go in a bus. But I did pay my respects at least a couple of times every month. Since the lockdown, however, it has stopped completely and even now, I do not see myself going back anytime soon mainly because my family is opposed to it. When regular buses begin, I will consider going because winter has started and I need to change buses to reach the temple.Ashok BagalPrefer online pooja, dakshina Once the restrictions were lifted, my husband and I went to our local Shiva temple in Chinchwad. We were glad to observe that the guidelines of social distancing were being followed. The pandits and other devotees too were wearing masks. A sanitizer was provided. We plan to visit the temple regularly in the future, with the necessary precautions. However, a new facility is being provided now which is virtual pooja. We sponsor the necessary funds to the temple’s account - and the pandit performs the pooja while we attend it on a video call. The Dakshina is also accepted online. Devayani KulkarniGoing to temple not worth the risk The temple close to my house is now open; it has only been a few days. I was a daily visitor before the lockdown, but I do not think going to the temple is worth the risk as I have elderly parents in the house. I am sure they are taking necessary precautions to keep temple visitors safe, but I will still wait for things to settle down. Rajesh Kirad Ensured fewer church-goers through Whatsapp group For our last Sunday mass, we planned the number of visitors by coordinating on our WhatsApp group. We restricted the number to only 35. Everyone from the church was satisfied by the arrangement and we plan to go ahead with this for the next few months. The turnout was not as it used to be before. Joel Gavali Devotees are self-aware to take precaution In Jain temples, everybody is required to compulsorily wear a mask. The devotees are not allowed to get any kind of fruits, flowers or rice. A limited number of devotees are allowed inside and once their prayers are over then the next batch is sent in. The best part is that people are self-aware and everybody is taking their own protection and ensuring the compliance of others. So if somebody forgets a mask, people point out to them and ensure that they wear a mask or do not enter the premises without a mask. Akshat Jain||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/yourspace-pune-residents-vow-to-keep-places-of-worship-covid-free/story-iF2r0j1pjn4aqnxlDYkh3J.html
22-11-2020||Pune||19-year-old murdered in Hadapsar||A 19-year-old was attacked and killed with bamboos and sharp weapons in the wee hours of Saturday in Hadapsar.The deceased was identified as Aniket Shivaji Ghayatdak (19), a resident of Malwadi, Hadapsar.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Prakash Ghadage (22), also a resident of Hadapsar and a friend of the deceased who was present when he was attacked.The deceased, complainant, and one other friend of theirs had gone to the house of one of the accused to collect money. However, the accused man and his accomplice launched an attack on Ghayatdak.The police are on a lookout for five people in the case. Assistant police inspector Manoj Patil of Hadapsar police station is investigating the case.A case under Sections 143, 147, 148, 149, and 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code along with Section 4(25) of Arms Act and Section 37(1)with 135 of Maharashtra Police Act was registered at Hadapsar police station against five people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/19-year-old-murdered-in-hadapsar/story-kAV2h5hjPcXrJMr9GeMVfN.html
22-11-2020||Lucknow||CBI takes along Hathras case accused for polygraph, brain mapping test||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) team on Sunday took along the four accused persons in the Hathras case, for polygraph and brain mapping, said Jail Superintendent Aligarh.Yesterday, the CBI took the accused persons to Gandhinagar in Gujarat from Aligarh Jail, Jail Superintendent informed. The Supreme Court had earlier directed that the Allahabad High Court will monitor the probe, being conducted by the CBI, into the case related to the alleged gang-rape and subsequent death of a Dalit girl in Hathras.The 19-year-old had succumbed to her injuries at Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital on September 29 after being assaulted and allegedly gang-raped in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras on September 14. Her body was cremated by the Uttar Pradesh Police and the administration allegedly without the consent or the presence of the victim’s family. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/cbi-takes-along-hathras-case-accused-for-polygraph-brain-mapping-test/story-xtGwbeJe0MuWJrdllUUakJ.html
22-11-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand CM orders probe into govt press release promoting inter-caste, interfaith marriages||After a controversy erupted over a press release by district social welfare officer of Tehri Garhwal, promoting a government scheme for incentive for inter-caste and interfaith marriages, Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat ordered an inquiry into the matter. Rawat ordered the state chief secretary on Saturday evening to conduct the inquiry to find out the circumstances necessitating the press release by the social welfare officer. Confirming the development, Rawat’s media coordinator Darshan Singh Rawat said, “The CM has taken a serious note of the incident and ordered an inquiry by the CS.” “He has asked him to probe the conditions under which the district social welfare officer issued the press release on a government scheme when the government is strictly against any interfaith marriage with religious conversion,” said Darshan. He informed that the scheme has been in place since the formation of Uttarakhand in 2000 as it was adopted like other schemes from Uttar Pradesh which is the parent state. “The government will soon work on discontinuing the scheme as it cannot tolerate disturbance in peace and harmony in the state with marriages done after religious conversion,” said Rawat. Earlier on Saturday, the Uttarakhand government had come under severe criticism on social media after a copy of the press release made rounds on it. Many Twitter users including some right-wing leaning ones had accused the Uttarakhand government of promoting interfaith marriages when other states are making laws against ‘love jihad.’Also Read: 57 trainee IAS officers test Covid-19 positive in 2 days at IAS Training Academy in Mussoorie  The press release by the social welfare officer stated, “To promote communal harmony and social unity, interfaith and inter-caste marriages are very important as it will help remove differences among different communities.” “To promote such marriages, the social welfare department gives an incentive of R50,000. The inter-caste or interfaith couples can avail this by applying for the same free of cost at the office of social welfare within one year of the marriage,” it stated. It also mentioned conditions that in inter-caste marriage, one partner has to be from the Scheduled Caste community and in case of interfaith marriages, the marriage should have been held in a government approved place of worship like a temple, church or a mosque. Following the controversy, the economic advisor to chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, Alok Bhatt, on Saturday said: “The press release… is concerned with one scheme in force under one such scheme of the Uttar Pradesh government since 1976 as made applicable to Uttarakhand. The actual incentive under the scheme was Rs 10,000, which the then Congress government in 2014 increased to Rs 50,000.” Clearing the BJP government’s stand on the move, he tweeted: “No one from the government has spoken in support of promoting interfaith marriages. No-one in the BJP government in their wildest dreams will support anything that is made out here.” The Opposition Congress however attacked the BJP led state government saying, “If the government says that it was our government which had increased the incentive amount then why didn’t they discontinue it?” “This scheme has been in the state since its formation. BJP has had at least four CMs in the state, why none of them discontinued this? It is raking up such issues because it has done nothing for the development of the state. It can discontinue the scheme but can’t stop two individuals from different faiths or caste to marry which is allowed in the constitution,” said Dhasmana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-cm-orders-probe-into-govt-press-release-promoting-inter-caste-interfaith-marriages/story-lxdzIAQZ4rcb96BnmW468O.html
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||Army men rescue 7 as vehicle overturns in J-K||Army personnel on Saturday rescued seven civilians trapped in a vehicle that overturned because of sleet on Mughal Road, which connects Shopian in south Kashmir with Poonch district.A Tata Mobile slipped and toppled near the 24 km milestone at 5 pm due to sleet on the road (near Pir Ki Gali). All the passengers were trapped inside, a defence spokesman said. “After getting the information soldiers from the Army post at Poshana in Rajouri acted swiftly and rushed to the spot. They saved seven passengers, including three women,” he added.Later the vehicle was recovered and the passengers provided first aid and refreshments on the spot, the spokesperson said.The passengers thanked the men in uniform and locals for their quick response in helping them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/army-men-rescue-7-as-vehicle-gets-trapped-in-snow-in-j-k/story-yG1TFef4pnfKykFwPgka7L.html
22-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body to visit again houses found locked in anti-Covid drive||Fearing another wave of Covid-19 due to reverse migration, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will revisit nearly 15,000 homes that were found locked during its door-to-door survey under ‘My Family My Responsibility’ initiative. These households would have nearly 70,000 people who will be surveyed again. In the two phases implemented under the initiative in last two months, BMC has so far surveyed 3.5 million households and covered over 14 million population.A list of the homes that were found locked has been prepared and they will be revisited, screened and tested for Covid if needed. Civic officials said that this will ensure proper screening of the population that has migrated back to the city.“Nearly 12, 000 of these households are in slum pockets and many of them could belong to the migrated population,” says Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner (health). BMC will also set up medical camps at these locations if needed. “The revisits will follow up with screenings of people for Covid. In case if there is a significant number of people that need to be screened, medical camps will be set up at identified areas,” he added.A post-Diwali surge was being feared which could lead to a second wave of Covid cases in Mumbai. While the city saw a Covid peak in September, when daily cases were recorded above 2000, there has been a drastic plunge in November where cases have gone as low as 409 in a day. The city has reported over 1, 000 daily Covid cases in the last two days. Active cases have also hit the lowest as of now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-to-visit-again-houses-found-locked-in-anti-covid-drive/story-FtJa4r8V5vkyIjAOR68EHI.html
22-11-2020||Delhi||3.7 lakh surveyed, first time RT-PCR tests more than antigen tests in Delhi||For the first time, the number of RT-PCR tests in Delhi has exceeded the number of rapid antigen tests, while over 3.7 lakh people have been surveyed as part of the efforts to curb the spread of coronavirus in the national capital, the Union Home Ministry said on Sunday. Amid the spurt in coronavirus cases in Delhi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah took the lead in ramping up medical infrastructure and formulating a new strategy to combat the Covid-19 surge in the national capital. “For the first time, the number of RT-PCR tests in Delhi have exceeded the rapid antigen tests,” a spokesperson of the Home Ministry said. According to sources, the number of real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests in the city surpassed the number of rapid antigen tests on Friday. A total of 250 ventilators have been delivered to the DRDO hospital and are being installed. The house-to-house survey, as directed by Shah, has started in Delhi and till Friday, 3,70,729 people have been surveyed. AIIMS has also started the process for recruitment of additional 207 Junior Resident doctors, the spokesperson said. The actions come in the wake of 12 decisions taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Shah on November 15 after Delhi saw fresh spike in Covid-19 cases. The spurt in coronavirus cases in Delhi has been witnessed since October 28 when the daily rise breached the 5,000-mark for the first time and it crossed the 8,000-mark on November 11. Delhi recorded 5,879 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday and a positivity rate of 12.90 per cent, while 111 more fatalities pushed the death toll to 8,270. The rising coronavirus cases in Delhi were attributed to the festive season, non-compliance of the Covid-19 safety behaviour and rising pollution in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/3-7-lakh-surveyed-first-time-rt-pcr-tests-more-than-antigen-tests-in-delhi/story-cRWCn4L76vLc6aaxpMesbN.html
22-11-2020||Mumbai||Sena’s Sanjay Raut launches fresh attack on BJP||Sanjay Raut, the chief spokesperson of the Shiv Sena and a member of the Rajya Sabha (RS), slammed the ally-turned-rival Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) leaders from Maharashtra over allegedly politicising reopening of places of worship after denial to celebrate Chhath puja in the state amid the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. Raut said Prime Minister Narendra Modi should ask his party members to desist from indulging in politics over Covid-19. He maintained that the BJP must follow a uniform nationwide policy for Chhath puja celebrations. Though the BJP had sought permission to celebrate Chhath puja, which is largely performed by people from eastern Uttar Pradesh (UP), Bihar, and Jharkhand, the state government did not give permission citing it as a precautionary measure to contain the spread of the contagion. Earlier on November 16, the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition government, comprising the Sena, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), and the Congress, had reopened the places of worship. In his weekly column, Rokh Thok, published in the party mouthpiece Saamana every Sunday, Raut said the BJP was on mission mode to wrest West Bengal from the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) after retaining power in Bihar. However, the Sena leader had a poser for his political rival: when will the BJP be able to overcome genuine challenges such as the battle against Covid-19 and revive a shrinking economy? He also criticised Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s “misplaced confidence” and claimed that the spike in the viral infection in the national capital occurred due to the easing of all restrictions.Raut pointed out that Covid-19 has struck Delhi, where the President and PM live. “People are dying in front of their eyes. It would be a big national service if the PM could tell his own party members not to play politics over the Covid-19 pandemic in one of his addresses to the nation,” he said.He also turned his gaze on the BJP leaders from Maharashtra and alleged “… those who are associating the fight against Covid-19 with Hindutva are the enemies of the people”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sena-s-sanjay-raut-launches-fresh-attack-on-bjp/story-xh8Kz9spEuslEox0keqJWO.html
22-11-2020||Patna||Tejashwi Yadav faces corruption charges, must not become leader of opposition: JD(U)||The ruling JD(U) in Bihar on Saturday demanded that RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav refrain from becoming the leader of the opposition since his name was involved in a number of corruption and criminal cases. The JD(U)’s demand came two days after party leader Mewa Lal Chaudhary resigned as the state’s education minister over a corruption taint. At a joint press conference here, JD(U)’s state president Vashishtha Narayan Singh, working president Ashok Choudhary and spokesmen Sanjay Singh, Neeraj Kumar and Ajay Alok slammed Yadav for having targeted Chief Minister Nitish Kumar over appointment of Mewa Lal Chaudhary as the education minister. Shortly after Mewa Lal Chaudhary resigned, Yadav had attacked the chief minister for inducting into his cabinet a “corrupt” person. Chaudhary has been named in an FIR lodged three years ago in connection with irregularities in recruitments at an agriculture university in Bhagalpur district while he was its Vice Chancellor during 2010-15. The JD(U) leaders asserted that the resignation of Chaudhary, barely two days after he was allocated the portfolio, was in line with the chief minister’s “zero tolerance for crime, corruption and communalism”.They said that unlike the clean record of the chief minister who is also the JD(U), Yadav carried the taint of a number of cases “lodged under various sections of the IPC and even SC/ST Act”. They pointed out that the state government has asked the superintendent of police of the district concerned to go ahead with the prosecution, which proved that Chaudhary, an MLA of the ruling party, was not being shielded. The governor’s nod is awaited in the matter.The JD(U) leaders alleged that while filing his nomination papers from Raghopur assembly seat, Yadav had not disclosed full details of cases in which he was named and urged the Election Commission to take note of the “deliberate omission”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/tejashwi-yadav-faces-corruption-charges-must-not-become-leader-of-opposition-jd-u/story-gj2Y0iS6K1XKlUmZSL4kpJ.html
22-11-2020||Delhi||At 6.9°C, Delhi feels the chill as November cold breaks records||Delhi on Sunday recorded a minimum temperature of 6.9 degrees Celsius, breaking the previous November record of 7.3 degrees Celsius witnessed in 2006, India Meteorological Department (IMD) recordings showed. On Sunday, the Safdarjung observatory, which is the official marker for the city, recorded a minimum temperature of 6.9 degrees Celsius, 4 degrees below normal. At Lodhi Road, the minimum temperature went down further --- to record 6.4 degrees Celsius --- while the minimum temperature at the Aaya Nagar observatory was 6.8 degrees Celsius. IMD data shows that Delhi recorded 7.3 degrees Celsius on November 28, 2006. It was the previous record for the lowest minimum temperature since IMD began maintaining data from 1990. The lowest ever minimum temperature was recorded on November 28, 1938, when the minimum temperature dipped to as low as 3.9 degrees Celsius.IMD scientists have warned that this time the Capital is likely to have a colder winter than usual this year, because of a Pacific Ocean weather phenomenon known as La Nina, which leads to a cascading impact on global weather in winter months.During La Nina, temperatures in central Pacific Ocean drops below normal levels, triggering wind patterns that can influence weather in faraway regions. This has been linked to colder than usual winters in northwest India.“Both maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to remain around 2-2.5°C below normal this entire season. Also, since winter is setting in early with temperatures already low, the minimum is likely to fall to 5-6°C as early as December 10. This usually happens after December 20,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre (RWFC).He added that day temperatures, or the maximum temperature, will begin falling in early December.Local factors, too, have contributed to making days colder. Delhi has had a cloudless streak, with only one western disturbance so far bringing in moisture. “When there are no clouds, the ground cools faster and the minimum temperatures stay low,” Srivastava explained.On Friday, Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 7.5°C, five notches below normal and the lowest November temperature in 14 years. On Saturday, it rose slightly to settle at 8.5°C, while the maximum was at 24.6°C.Experts said a western disturbance on November 23 will briefly cause a slight increase in temperatures. Once that passes, days and nights will become colder again.“When global conditions like La Nina are prevailing, there is a tendency for regions under northwest India to get colder,” said VK Soni of IMD’s environment monitoring research centre.Soni added that at present, the dip in mercury is accompanied by strong winds that helps in blowing away pollutants but after November 23, wind speed is likely to reduce and trigger a deterioration in air quality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/at-6-9-c-delhi-feels-the-chill-as-november-cold-breaks-records/story-NpL3FZ12ZDWsCbnVfjWgwK.html
22-11-2020||Lucknow||Samajwadi Party workers celebrate Mulayam Singh Yadav’s 81st birthday in Lucknow||Samajwadi Party (SP) workers celebrated party supremo Mulayam Singh Yadav’s 81st birthday outside his residence and the party office in Lucknow on Sunday morning.The area around Malayam Singh’s residence was decorated with poster greetings on his birthday. Party workers were seen reaching the SP headquarters in large numbers to congratulate their leader.“Netaji (Mulayam Singh Yadav) is our inspiration, he sacrificed his entire life for humanity and socialism. He is a living example of an ideal public servant,” Armaan Khan, SP leader, told ANI.The SP leader also said that under the guidance of Mulayam Singh Yadav, Akhilesh Yadav will become the Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh in 2022.“The 2022 elections are round the corner and today I want to reiterate that under the guidance of Mulayam Singh Yadav, our leader Akhilesh Yadav will become the Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh once again,” he said.Union Minister Nitin Gadkari took to Twitter and wished the former UP Chief Minister for his long and healthy life.“Happy Birthday to the former chief minister of Uttar Pradesh and founder of Samajwadi Party, Mulayam Singh Yadav Ji. On this day, I pray to God for your healthy and long life,” Gadkari wrote in Hindi.Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla also took to Twitter to wish the leader, he wrote in a Hindi tweet, “Happy birthday to senior politician and Lok Sabha MP from Mainpuri (Uttar Pradesh) Mulayam Singh Yadav Ji. Wish you good health and long life.”Meanwhile, SP’s official Twitter handle poured wishes for their leader on his 82nd birthday. “Hearty congratulations and best wishes to the revered Netaji, the father of Samajwadi Party. With the blessings of Netaji, we all are determined to strengthen the Samajwadi Party by continuing the struggle for social justice together. Prayers to God for Netaji’s longevity and health,” it read. (Roughly translated from Hindi).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/samajwadi-party-workers-celebrate-mulayam-singh-yadav-s-82nd-birthday-in-lukcnow/story-w5tgSti9xTw0c620BKLMoL.html
22-11-2020||Delhi||Wedding guests in Delhi, 50 only: Denizens shift venues to Noida, Gurugram||Delhi government’s cap on weddings guests to a maximum of 50, amid the Covid-19 pandemic, has left many opting out of Capital, to host functions in venues available in NCR especially Gurugram and Noida, where 100 and more guests are allowed. Pawan Sehrawat, a Delhi-based businessman who is now exploring wedding venue options in Gurugram, says, “My sister is to get married in a week, and we had already distributed the cards. So we cannot call up people and reduce the guest list from 100 to 50; it will be so embarrassing! We are now in the process of looking for some place in Gurugram where we can shift the wedding function.”Hotel rates in Noida see an upward swing Raghubir Singh, from BMP weddings, says hotels in NCR are also banking on this shift and increasing rates. “People are shifting and moving towards Gurugram. Delhi mein jaise 50 log ho gaye hain, toh woh apni wedding yahan se cancel karwake Gurugram ki taraf jaa rahe hai. Sarkar ne badi strictness kar di hai iss baat pe, aur chalan bhi kaat rahe hai jaise news mein aa raha hai. Aur Noida mein bhi shift ho rahi hai. Noida walon ne apne rate thode up kar diye hai. Ache rate pe woh hotel book kar rahe hain,” he says. Look at Gurugram venues, February onwardsUncertain policies seem to be the reason behind this shift, says wedding planner Rudhir Sharma, from Wedding & Event Design by Rudhir. “People who have weddings till February are going forward with their 50 people wedding in Delhi only. They don’t have an option since they have already made certain advance payments. However, February onwards people are looking at venues in Gurugram because Delhi seems very uncertain with its policies right now,” he adds. Booked in Delhi earlier, shifting venue nowAkash Kumar Dubey, director, Darshweddings Pvt Ltd, says, “Whenever we talk about a social gathering, it’s never that if we invite 200 guests then 200 will appear. The highest number it reaches is 60% of the total gathering invited... Since Delhi has restricted the guest list to 50, people are not only coming to attend functions in Gurugram, but those who had their functions booked in Delhi are also in the process of shifting venue from Delhi to Gurugram. Weddings in our society are something are directly related to sentiments, emotions and status, and no one wants to compromise on these. Our government should also understand that when people are allowed to gather in a political rally, and markets are seeing lakhs of visitor turnout, then why is it that only the wedding industry should suffer, wherein all safety measures are being taken care of.”Limited venues in NCRThe revival of cap on weddings in Delhi has led to a paucity of venues in NCR, too. “People are really preferring to go to Gurugram for their functions. But venues are not available there anymore since they are already booked. So those who couldn’t find an alternative at the last minute, have had to either postpone or cancel their events,” says Salil Chaudhry, from Dew Events at Khan Market. However, Jivika Mehra, another city-based wedding planner, is of the opinion that “People are already starting to limit their guest list as a safety precaution, considering the rise of Covid-19 cases over all.” Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/wedding-guests-in-delhi-50-only-denizens-shift-venues-to-noida-gurugram/story-PMYreUq8MjvmcZ4mvUMTWN.html
22-11-2020||Mumbai||Students appearing for board exams can travel in Mumbai local: Western Railway||Students appearing for the Maharashtra state secondary and higher secondary examinations will be allowed to travel in Mumbai local trains if they have valid identity proof on them, the Western Railway has said.“For the duration of Maharashtra state secondary and higher secondary examinations, the railways has allowed students to travel by suburban services on the Mumbai suburban network with their I-D card and their hall tickets. Teaching and non-teaching staff will also be allowed to travel in local trains till December 10, 2020,” Western Railway tweeted. महाराष्ट्र राज्य की सेकेंडरी और हायर सेकंडरी परीक्षाओं के लिए रेलवे ने छात्रों को अपने हॉल टिकट तथा शिक्षण और गैर-शिक्षण कर्मचारियों को अपने I-CARD के साथ मुंबई उपनगरीय नेटवर्क पर उपनगरीय सेवाओं से 10 दिसंबर, 2020 तक यात्रा करने की अनुमति प्रदान की है। pic.twitter.com/iKydtTpjz0Local trains were shut for the general public since March due to the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The Maharashtra government and the Indian Railways have been increasing the daily services on the suburban network month by month since July.As many as 610 trains — 314 by Central Railways (CR) and 296 by Western Railways (WR) — were added to the list of running trains on November 1. “Currently, 704 suburban services on WR and 706 on CR are running. Additional services will be operated from Sunday. It is requested that travellers follow medical and social protocols as mandated for Covid-19,” according to a statement issued by the CR and WR in October-end.The railways operated 3,141 suburban services — 1,774 CR and 1,367 WR— before the nationwide lockdown was imposed.Meanwhile, Maharashtra on Saturday recorded 5,760 Covid-19 cases, pushing the infection tally in the state to 1,774,455. The active cases slightly increased to 79,873 and death toll due to the virus reached 46,573.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/students-appearing-for-board-exams-can-travel-in-mumbai-local-western-railway/story-bcBJqB9JlV9DZ1bfNeM7eN.html
22-11-2020||Lucknow||UPPSC declares PCS (Pre)-2020 results, 5393 candidates successful||Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission (UPPSC) has declared the results of Combined State/Upper Subordinate Services (Preliminary) Examination-2020, commonly known as PCS (Pre)-2020, and Assistant Conservator of Forest/Range Forest Officer (ACF/RFO) Preliminary Examination-2020.In light of the online claims by candidates of general eligibility and special eligibilities for the posts, the preliminary results of the recruitment exam concerned have been declared in five separate groups while the result of ACF/RFO Preliminary Exam-2020 has been declared separately, informed UPPSC secretary Jagdish.In PCS (Pre)-2020, a total of 5,393 candidates and in ACF/RFO Preliminary Exam-2020 a total of 180 candidates have been conditionally declared successful. The results have been made available on the official website, he added.The commission will soon issue a separate release regarding further instructions for these candidates to appear in the mains examination on a basis of their preliminary exam results. The qualified candidates need to take note that their results are conditional and they are expected to go through this release once issued and undertake the necessary action as specified in it, failing which their results would be cancelled, he said.UPPSC secretary also made clear that the results of these recruitment exams are subject to the final decision of the Allahabad High Court in the Special Appeal (D) 475/2019 filed by the Uttar Pradesh government.Also read: As Covid-19 cases surge, these states have imposed night curfewHe said that final answer key, details of marks obtained and category wise cut-offs would be released by the commission on its official website and published in newspapers after the declaration of the final results of the recruitment exams. As a result, no applications would be entrained by the commission in this regard under the RTI Act-2005, he said.A total of 5,95,696 candidates had registered for the preliminary exams that were held in two shifts: 9.30 am to 11.30 am and 2.30 pm to 4.30 pm on October 11, 2020. The exams were conducted at 1,282 centres in 19 districts of the state. A total of 3,14,699 (52.82 per cent) of the total registered candidates appeared in the exam. The districts where the exams were conducted included Prayagraj, Agra, Azamgarh, Bareilly, Gorakhpur, Ayodhya, Ghaziabad, Jaunpur, Jhansi, Kanpur Nagar, Lucknow, Barabanki, Meerut, Moradabad, Mirzapur, Rae Bareli, Sitapur, Varanasi and Mathura. UPPSC had issued the notification for the exams on April 20 and were to be conducted on June 21 but were then postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic. The commission had conducted the PCS (Pre) exam-2020 for filling 487 posts while the ACF/RFO exam was for 12 posts.The posts included in PCS-2020 include deputy collector, deputy superintendent of police, block development officer, assistant regional transport officer, assistant commissioner (commercial tax), district commandant home guards, treasury officer/accounts officer (treasury), cane inspector and assistant sugar commissioner, superintendent jail, manager credit (small industries), manager marketing and economic survey (small industries), executive officer grade-I/assistant nagar ayukta, district basic education officer/associate DIOS and other equivalent administrative posts like assistant director industries (marketing) and assistant labour commissioner, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uppsc-declares-pcs-pre-2020-results-5393-candidates-successful/story-fWZ5PnJLkB73Q7p6gU9BnK.html
22-11-2020||Delhi||At 262, Delhi’s AQI still in poor zone on Sunday||The national capital’s air quality index (AQI) was still in the “poor” category on Sunday at 262 at 6 am. An AQI between 201 and 300 is considered to be in the “poor” category. Delhi’s AQI on Sunday morning was marginally higher than Saturday’s overall AQI of 251, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The AQI is set to improve on Sunday due to higher wind speed, which helps pollutants to disperse, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). IMD scientists said the average wind speed is tipped to be up to 16 kilometres per hour (kmph) during the day. “The AQI will improve during the weekend. It is unlikely to further worsen till Monday (November 23),” said an IMD scientist. Weather scientists had predicted a cold wave-like condition over Delhi and other parts of north-west India on Sunday. On Saturday, the minimum temperature recorded in Delhi was 8.5 degrees Celsius (C) --- four degrees below the season’s normal. Delhi had recorded a minimum temperature of 7.5 degrees C -- five notches below normal – on Friday. It was the lowest minimum temperature recorded in November since 2006.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/at-262-delhi-s-aqi-still-in-poor-zone-on-sunday/story-lXwHG4h04n3eM7wd1vdM7M.html
22-11-2020||Kolkata||TMC govt enforces ban on Chhath puja at two major lakes in Kolkata; crusaders relieved||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) government deployed huge police contingents around Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar, the two major water bodies in Kolkata, on Friday and Saturday to stop devotees from performing Chhath puja rituals in violation of court orders. Artificially created by the British government in the 1920s, Rabindra Sarobar was declared a national lake by the Centre in 2002. It is protected under the National Lake Conservation Plan. The Supreme Court on Thursday ruled that Chhath puja cannot be allowed at the Rabindra Sarobar which is considered one of the lungs of the city because of its green cover and is home to more than 200 varieties of resident and migratory birds. In a simultaneous development, a division bench of the Calcutta high court banned the puja at Subhas Sarobar, a waterbody of equal importance and located in the north-eastern part of Kolkata. Environment activists, who had moved the court to protect the water bodies and greenery, were relived as devotees could not enter these sites till Saturday afternoon when the festival came to an end. On Friday, some people tried to forcibly cross the makeshift barriers erected around Rabindra Sarobar but were chased away by the police. Also read: 4 Jaish terrorists were commando trained, walked 30 km in moonless night“We are happy that the police carried out the court orders. But this is not enough. The same should be done in the coming years as well,” said Sumita Banerjee, the green activist who had moved the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in 2018, seeking ban on the rituals at Rabindra Sarobar and bathing by devotees. Although the NGT ordered a ban, it was rampantly violated in 2018 and 2019. The Supreme Court on Thursday upheld the NGT’s order, setting aside an appeal by the state government to allow the rituals amid certain restrictions. “Around a dozen painted storks have arrived at Rabindra Sarobar after four years. They have set up nests on an island. As many as 122 varieties of birds have been recorded so far this year. These include black-headed cuckooshrike, long-legged buzzard, changeable hawk-eagle, Swinhoe’s minivet, pied harrier and brown-headed gull. In 2018 and 2019, a lot of birds simply vanished after firecrackers were used by the devotees inside the protected site,” said Sudip Ghosh, who organised ardent birders into a group that have recorded the sightings over the years. Amid allegations by opposition parties that chief minister Mamata Banerjee is concerned about Hindi-speaking voters because of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) victory in Bihar assembly polls, the Kolkata Municipal Development Authority (KMDA), the custodian of the two water bodies, appealed to the Supreme Court and Kolkata high court to allow the puja this year.On Thursday afternoon, Banerjee requested Hindi-speaking people to observe Chhath puja at home or in their respective neighbourhoods, using the 1,500 water tanks the government had created over the past few days. While addressing a Chhath puja gathering, BJP state president Dilip Ghosh targeted Banerjee. “The chief minister is worried about people from Bihar because elections will be held here in a few months. Had she been seriously concerned, the government would have made alternative arrangements long ago. These people will vote for us,” he said. Banerjee addressed two Chhath puja gatherings in Kolkata. “In Bihar, the government has sanctioned only one holiday for Durga puja (a four-day festival) but in Bengal, we have listed two holidays for Chhath puja,” she said on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/tmc-govt-enforces-ban-on-chhath-puja-at-two-major-lakes-in-kolkata-crusaders-relieved/story-XOV2y9hOrVcNctBqlI8iWJ.html
22-11-2020||Bhopal||MP police to conduct dog’s DNA test to settle ownership dispute||The Madhya Pradesh police has decided to perform the DNA test of a three-year-old Labrador dog in an attempt to ascertain its parentage, and through that, its ownership, after two people claimed they were the dog’s human. The Hoshangabad police was not willing to take chances as tone claimant is a journalist and another is a political activist.Hoshangabad Dehat police station, in-charge, Hemant Shrivastava said that about three months ago Shadab Khan, a journalist, lodged a complaint that his three-year-old dog Coco was missing.“On November 18, he claimed to have found his dog in the house of an Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) leader Kratik Shivhare. Shadab called the police and took the dog with him. Later, on November 19, Shivhare reached the police station and claimed that the dog belonged to him. He said the dog’s name Tiger and he purchased the dog from Itarsi a few weeks ago,” Shrivastava said.Shrivastava said that the dog is responding to both the names, Coco and Tiger, and friendly with both claimants. “As neither of them were willing to budge for two days, we decided to perform the DNA test. Shadab Khan said the parent of the dog was in Panchmarhi while Shivhare said the parent of his dog was in Itarsi,” said the police officer.On Saturday, Srivastava dispatched a police team each to Panchmarhi and Itarsi to collect blood samples of the dog’s parents. The dog’s blood samples were collected on Friday night by district veterinary doctor and the police decided to allow Shivhare to keep the dog. Both Khan and Shivhare insisted that the test will reveal the truth. Khan said, “I have submitted all the documents including a vaccination card to the police to prove my ownership and I insisted on a DNA test.” Shivhare said, “Shadab took the dog from my house without my permission and the test will prove the truth.” Meanwhile, animal activist group People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) blamed the police for being insensitive. The PETA co-ordinator in the state, Swati Gaurav Bhadoriya said, “The dog fell ill because the police didn’t take care of him. He is suffering from high fever. We want an FIR to be registered against the police and the person who made the false ownership claim under the sections of Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act.” Hoshangabad superintendent of police Santosh Singh Gaur denied the claim. “We are dealing the case sensitively to ensure the dog gets its rightful owner.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/mp-police-to-conduct-dog-s-dna-test-to-settle-ownership-dispute/story-7ojhxZEL0w50kUsdELHDuI.html
22-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: Gulfisha gets bail in Jafrabad violence case||A Delhi court on Saturday granted bail to student activist Gulfisha Fatima in one of the Delhi riots cases. However, she will continue to stay in jail in connection with another case in which she was booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) for allegedly conspiring to orchestrate riots.Granting bail to Gulfisha on a bail bond of Rs 30,000, additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat said there is nothing to state that the witnesses are under threat as the identity of two of them has not been revealed and the rest are police personnel. The case pertains to violence Jafrabad, in which one person had died, during the riots in February.The judge also said that other accused persons in the case, Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal, have also been granted bail in this case and their role is stated to be similar to that of Gulfisha’s. Gulfisha was arrested on June 3 and is currently lodged in the Tihar jail. While Kalita was granted bail by the Delhi high court on September 1, Narwal was granted bail on September 17.According to the prosecution, there were violent protests against CAA, NRC and NPR by the organized mob led by the arrested persons. It said that due to the aggression of the mob on February 24, several protesters/rioters gathered with common intent to cause rioting at different places in the area of police station Jafrabad and various other places of north east district.It said that Gulfisha “conspired and has been constantly instigating the local inhabitants since December 2019 under the garb of peaceful protest against CAA, NRC and NPR. It said that she opened her office near the protest site at Old Bus Stand, Seelampur, Delhi and their core group came for meeting and further steps for their protest and riots. It contended that the meeting was also attended by several persons including other arrested persons and other local political leaders. The police said that pursuant to the conspiracy, accused persons blocked the main Jafrabad Road under Metro Station Jafrabad on February 22 at around 9.30pm along with her other associates and local protesters thereby causing a great inconvenience to the general masses at large and created major problems for the police to maintain law and order.Gulfisha’s counsel, advocate Mehmood Pracha told the court that his client has been falsely and maliciously implicated. He said that no role has been attributed to Gulfisha except vague and unsubstantiated allegations which have no link with the alleged crime. Communal riots had broken out in the city, claiming 53 lives and leaving over 400 injured. Many student activists arrested in the riots cases have accused Delhi police of launching a witch hunt against anti-government voices. Police have denied this and said they are conducting a fair investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-riots-gulfisha-gets-bail-in-jafrabad-violence-case/story-osmMjaCa5ijtOgQ6d0GH5K.html
22-11-2020||Delhi||Manish Sisodia urges people to wear mask, warns violators as Covid-19 cases surge||Deputy chief minister on Saturday Manish Sisodia urged people to wear masks to protect themselves and others from Covid-19 and asserted that the government would crack down upon violators, as hiked fines for flouting mask and distancing norms in the Capital came into effect. On Day 1 of the increased penalties, Delhi Police personnel said they had issued fines of Rs 2,000 to at least 1,306 people for not wearing masks, while 51 others were fined for flouting distancing norms. Click here for complete coverage on Covid-19 The government had on Friday issued a notification increasing fines for breaking these Covid-19 norms from Rs 500 to Rs 2,000 in the wake of the rising Covid-19 cases across the city, a hike which became effective on Saturday. “Delhi government has taken every possible step to handle the Covid-19 situation with proper home isolation measures and by providing enough Covid-19 beds in hospitals. But, it’s important to prevent the spread of the disease. Until there is a reliable vaccine, it is important to follow Covid appropriate behaviour,” Sisodia said while participating in a mask distribution drive at his assembly constituency, Patparganj.All ministers, MLAs, councillors and local leaders of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday joined free distribution of masks in various parts of the city.“While distributing masks, we told people about how important masks are in the fight against Covid-19. People should encourage others around them to wear masks. We also conducted an awareness campaign on social distancing. We have urged shop owners to keep spare masks for distribution,” said AAP’s Kalkaji MLA Atishi.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Congress volunteers have also distributed free masks across the city.Meanwhile, Delhi Police additional spokesperson Anil Mittal on Saturday said, “Till 4pm on Saturday, 1,306 fines were issued for not wearing masks.”Police teams across the city also distributed masks to people in crowded areas. Deputy commissioner of police (central) Sanjay Bhatia said his teams distributed face masks at ITO and Karol Bagh. “People were also sensitised about the new norms and increased fine amount. Those who were caught violating the directives were fined while others were made aware,” Bhatia said.Atul Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (south) said his teams patrolled areas like Saket, Malviya Nagar and Mehrauli to ensure the new order is complied with. Together, the police and district administration have so far distributed more than 600,000 masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/manish-sisodia-urges-people-to-wear-mask-warns-violators-as-covid-19-cases-surge/story-al6qtoC10cGvpsweD0CmyL.html
22-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi adds 5,879 cases, third-highest one-day deaths||The city reported 5,879 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Friday, even as fewer tests were conducted on the day than usual, owing to Chhath Puja festivities. However, the number of fatalities remained high, with state authorities reporting 111 deaths of the infection on Saturday, the third-most reported in a single day in the Capital. November 18 saw the highest single-day toll — 131.Saturday’s deaths took the Capital’s Covid-19 toll to 8,270.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageMeanwhile, just over 45,500 tests were conducted as per Saturday’s health bulletin, as against an average of over 62,000 over the last three days. However, a high proportion of Saturday’s tests — almost 48% — were conducted using the more accurate RT-PCR method, while the rest used the cheaper and faster, but less sensitive rapid antigen method.In Delhi, the ratio of RT-PCR and rapid antigen test had been skewed since it was deployed in mid-June. In a review meeting with union home minister Amit Shah last week, Delhi was asked to double the number of tests conducted in a day, while increasing the number of RT-PCR tests, which are considered the gold standard for Covid-19 diagnosis. With nearly half the tests being conducted using RT-PCR, the positivity rate — proportion of samples that test positive among those tested – also went up to 12.9% on Saturday’s. This had dropped to 10.59% the day before. “There were fewer cases — 3,000 or so — on Diwali and Sunday [the next day] as well. So we cannot go by one day’s trend. The numbers have to remain low for at least a week before we can say the third wave of infections is over,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head of the department of microbiology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). Even though fewer cases were reported on Saturday, the number of hospitalisations was the highest so far in the city. As per the bulletin, 9,522 people were admitted to various city hospitals. At present, 55% hospital beds earmarked for Covid-19 patients are occupied, as per the state government’s Delhi Corona App. Further, 86.8% of all intensive care unit (ICU) beds were occupied as on Saturday.Over the past week, the Delhi government added 663 ICU beds in its hospitals, while 500 ICU beds were operationalised in a DRDO facility in Dhaula Kuan, and 42 private hospitals — in addition to 33 that had been ordered previously — were asked to reserve 80% of their ICU beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-adds-5-879-cases-third-highest-one-day-deaths/story-uBNpcbVPt363InJnjP5jJO.html
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||22-year-old killed in bike-truck collision in Karnal||A man was killed while his brother sustained serious injuries when the bike they were riding met with a head-on collision with a truck on the Indri-Karnal highway near the grain market on Friday.The victim, Sumit Kumar, 22, of Garhi Jenesro village died on the spot while Gaurav Kumar’s condition remains critical. The siblings were on their way to purchase vegetables when they met with the accident. Indri Police station in-charge said that Satpal Singh said the police have registered a case under Section 304 A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code. The truck has been seized. The body was handed over to family members after postmortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/22-year-old-killed-in-bike-truck-collision-in-karnal/story-2uysnu7gvPx13YCDhHY3FJ.html
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||Liquor vend shooting: Contractor booked for fabricating evidence||The Yamunanagar police on Saturday booked a liquor vend contracter for fabricating evidence and filing a false attempt to murder case at the Bilaspur Police Station in July.On July 5, the complainant, Kulbeer, who owns liquor vends in four villages, had alleged that one Baljinder alias Binder, who sold illegal liquor, had broken into his car. Later, at night he and his accomplices had threatened his managers in Machhrauli village and fired at the vend, he had claimed.“The bullets pierced the shutter and hit the freezer. They also damaged two of my cars that were parked outside,” he had said. The accused had been booked under Sections 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 307 (attempt to murder), 427 ( mischief causing damage) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections of the Arms Act against Binder, Kaka, Bablu and 15-20 other accomplices. Three men were arrested in July but the prime accused, Binder, was arrested on November 16.‘Complainant fired at his own vend’ On Binder’s family’s urging superintendent of police (SP) Kamaldeep Goyal ordered a reinvestigation. The case was transferred to Criminal Investigation Agency (CIA-1) inspector Manoj Kumar who submitted his findings on Friday: “My enquiry found that the complainant Kulbeer had fired at his vend himself to falsely frame the accused,” Kumar submitted.Kulbeer of Butgarh village and his accomplices have now been booked for giving false information and providing fabricated evidences under Sections 285 (negligent conduct), 211 (false charge of offence made with intent to injure), 195 (giving or fabricating false evidence), 182 (false information, with intent to cause public servant to use his lawful power to the injury of another person) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections of the Arms Act at Bilaspur Police Station. Binder’s advocate Sehdev Singh Nehra said that his client was given bail on Thursday.“His family met the SP on Wednesday and told him that Binder had not discharged any weapon and demanded a reinvestigation. The case was transferred to the CIA, and the agency confirmed their claim,” Nehra said.‘Supplementary chargesheet to be filed’The SP said a supplementary chargesheet will be filed without the relevant sections in the July case. “Kulbeer presented fabricated evidence regarding a weapon being discharged, as per the CIA probe.Charges of damaging the vehicles and beating up people will stay and a supplementary chargesheet will be filed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/liquor-vend-shooting-contractor-booked-for-fabricating-evidence/story-iCTTQ3boyIDbvsCHMoIaKM.html
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||Facebook friend held for kidnapping 15-year-old Panipat girl||An 18-year-old boy was arrested on Saturday for kidnapping a minor girl from Panipat on pretext of marriage. The accused, Mohit Kumar, a resident of Delhi, who went by the name Zaheer on Facebook, had befriended the 15-year-old girl on social media, police said. The victim was rescued and the accused was sent to judicial custody. Panipat DSP Virender Saini said the minor will be handed over to her family members after counselling. A medical examination will be conducted after getting her family’s consent.The victim’s father said the Class-11 student had gone to market to buy clothes on Friday but did not return home. The victim’s friend told her parents that she was with her Facebook friend ‘Zaheer’.A case was registered under Section 363 (kidnapping) and 366A (procuration of minor girl) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/facebook-friend-held-for-kidnapping-15-year-old-panipat-girl/story-kf7OrpWQTWCXRCkIbjRUoO.html
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana reports 2,666 fresh cases, 25 deaths||Haryana on Saturday reported another major spike of 2,666 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the caseload to 2,15,021 while 25 more fatalities took the death toll to 2,163.Of the fresh cases, the maximum 939 were reported from the hardest-hit Gurgaon district, the second highest single-day spike so far, according to the state health department’s daily bulletin.Gurgaon and Faridabad (630 new cases) are the two hardest-hit districts, both of which fall in the Delhi-National Capital Region.Other districts which reported a significant spike included Hisar (179), Sonipat (110) and Rohtak (101). The fatalities included five from Faridabad, four from Bhiwani and three each from Gurugram and Hisar.Active cases in the state currently stand at 20,325 while the recovery rate is 89.54%, the bulletin said. Haryana conducts record 35,037 tests in a dayThe Haryana health department on Saturday conducted a record 35,037 Covid tests on Sunday — the highest ever so far since the outbreak of the pandemic in March. Additional chief secretary (ACS) health Rajeev Arora said 10,200 samples were tested in Gurugram alone, of which at least 5,700 were Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) tests, which are considered to be the front-line tests for Covid-19. around 5,700 RT-PCR tests and 4,500 rapid antigen tests were conducted in the city, he said.too is the highest so far. Similarly a record number of 4,500 Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT) were also conducted. The ACS said the government had set a target of conducting 30,000 tests per day. “At present, we are concentrating on Gurugram, Faridabad, Hisar and Rohtak where active cases are the highest,” he said.  As many as 25 volunteers were administered a trial dose of potential coronavirus vaccine, Covaxin, at Rohtak’s Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) for Phase-3 trail of the vaccine. Principal investigator, Dr Savita Verma, said 200 volunteers had consented for the trail. “ We have vaccinated 25 volunteers so far, including Haryana health minister Anil Vij, who became the first volunteer on Friday,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-reports-2-666-fresh-cases-25-deaths/story-KcqtUtiad93dBAf5ell47O.html
22-11-2020||City||Patiala Police forms special teams to study accident blackspots||In a bid to remove the underlying causes for accidents, Patiala Police, in coordination with other departments and the civil society, has constituted 25 accident resolution teams (ARTs) to study all accident blackspots in the district and suggest remedies with respect to road engineering and other related causes.The teams will be led by the station house officer of the area concerned and constitute of stakeholders such as traffic in-charge, motor vehicle inspector, NHAI project manager, engineers, municipal councillors/sarpanch, besides representatives of the general public.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Vikramjeet Singh Duggal said so far, 55 accident blackspots have been identified in the district and every ART has been tasked with visiting and inspecting the blackspots in their respective jurisdictionsThe teams will visit the accident blackspot, identify and study the causes of accidents and suggest both short-term and long-term actionable points to reduce accidents in the area. “The recommendation would be sent to the department concerned for implementation of the solution at the earliest,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patiala-police-forms-special-teams-to-study-accident-blackspots/story-0lOo5C93IqGcZtoYFY55XK.html
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||2 more students test positive in Jhajjar||A day after the state government announced closure of schools till November 30 in the wake of 207 students testing positive across Haryana, two more students tested positive in Jhajjar on Saturday. The samples of 1,718 students from Karnal and Jhajjar were collected two days ago, of which two returned positive, a health official said. “The samples of 483 students were collected in Jhajjar, of which two tested positive. None of the 1,235 students tested in Karnal had contracted the virus,” he said. As many as 207 students have tested positive in nine districts so far — 75 were found infected in Rewari, 46 in Jind, 36 in Jhajjar, 15 in Charkhi Dadri, 13 in Kaithal, 12 in Panipat, six in Hisar, three in Rohtak and one in Karnal. No student was found positive in Bhiwani though the report of 89 students is pending,” said Dr Rajesh Kumar, Bhiwani’s nodal officer for Covid. The report of over 350 students in Hisar is also pending.Dr Sanjay Dahiya, chief medical officer, Jhajjar, said, “After today’s report, different stakeholders including teachers, parents, children and the administration heaved a sigh of relief. We have collected over 2,500 samples , of which only 36 tested positive. All the infected students are asymptomatic. All contacts of the infected students have been quarantined and the schools are being sanitised,” Dahiya said.However, health department officials said the number of infected students and teachers may go up as the samples of all students have not been tested. “Everyday we hear students are testing positive, which has parents worried. Now, all of us have to get ourselves tested to ensure that the infection has not spread to the entire family,” said one Praveen Kumar of Nilokheri, whose son had been attending the school regularly before November 20. Panipat chief medical officer Sant Lal Verma said, “After students from the district tested positive, samples of all students, their family members and friends are being collected for testing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-more-students-test-positive-in-jhajjar/story-4DMQp2FvzM6BHjFOslflSI.html
22-11-2020||City||Punjab’s vaccination drive against foot-and-mouth disease hit as owners oppose ear tagging of cattle||Amid cattle owners’ apprehensions against ear tagging of animals, the Punjab animal husbandry department is set to miss its target for the foot-and-mouth disease (FMD) vaccination.The department was to vaccinate around 60 lakh animals by November-end, but so far, it has only been able to cover around 10 lakh animals.As per the Centre’s vaccination programme, all animals have to be ear tagged after vaccination, and linked to the Aadhar card of the owner. Farmers fear that this will lead to more taxes for them under the new Electricity Act-2020. “Farmers are ready for FMD vaccination but we have learnt that ear tagging will lead to higher charges for power under the Electricity Act. The animal husbandry department should perform vaccination but we do not consent to ear tagging of our cattle,” said Gobinder Singh, Sangrur block chief of BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan).“This is a misconception among farmers. The tagging has nothing to do with taxes or power charges. Tagging is necessary so that the government can show proper records for the vaccination, at the international-level,” said Dr Naresh Kochhar, state coordinator FMD vaccine. He added that as per the central government’s guidelines, there can be no vaccination without tagging. “I appeal to farmers to not be scared and let the department officials vaccinate the cattle as the project has to be completed within the set time for it to work effectively,” said Dr Kochhar. The vaccination drive had started on October 15 and is to be completed within 45 days. Kochhar further said that in the absence of vaccination, there is a high risk of an outbreak, which will eventually lead to losses for the cattle owners. He revealed their target is to eradicate the disease within five years. Staff shortageMeanwhile, veterinary officers, on the condition of anonymity, said the animal husbandry department is also facing a shortage of staff for vaccination which is also a cause for “low performance”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-s-vaccination-drive-against-foot-and-mouth-disease-hit-as-owners-oppose-ear-tagging-of-cattle/story-OyYZdxBbIYvhWf303eYgzN.html
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||Capitol Complex: Contentious multilevel parking on list of upcoming projects shared with Unesco||The Chandigarh administration has apprised the Unesco about new constructions, including the contentious multi-level basement parking, to come up at the Capitol Complex, a world heritage site.In its annual “state of conservation” report submitted recently, the administration also listed plans for the construction of the Punjab and Haryana high court extension and a chiller plant to come up near the Punjab secretariat, confirmed a senior UT official.The report was prepared by the UT department of culture in collaboration with the Chandigarh College of Architecture. The yearly report is submitted by the administration to Unesco through the ministry of culture. As per operational guidelines for implementation of the World Heritage Convention, the administration has to describe any potential major restorations, alterations or new constructions intended within the property, buffer zones or corridors or other areas, where such developments may affect the outstanding universal value of the property, including authenticity and integrity.The administration has submitted the report after a gap of two years, and this time around, unlike previous years, the report was submitted within the due date of November 13.About the multilevel parkingThe proposed multilevel underground parking site falls in the buffer zone of Capitol Complex and many experts have warned that the new construction may put its heritage status in jeopardy.“Unesco can raise a red flag over these new constructions if it considers these to be detrimental to the preservation and conservation of the world heritage site. In that case, it would communicate the same to the culture ministry, which will have to intervene in the matter. Unesco can also put the status of heritage site under the category of ‘endangered’ if it considers the new changes as potentially harmful to the site,” said another UT official, requesting anonymity.The proposed site also falls within the Sukhna eco-sensitive zone (SESZ) around the Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary that was notified in 2017. The UT environment department had recently communicated to the UT engineering department that construction is allowed there as per the SESZ norms as it is in “regulated zone”.The proposed site also “slightly” falls within the Sukhna catchment area, where all construction activity is prohibited. Notably, the court has ordered no construction in the catchment area.On December 20, 2019, the HC had even directed the UT administration to submit the layout plan for the proposed multi-level underground parking lot opposite the high court museum within four weeks.The HC direction had come after the administration official submitted that the site falls within the SESZ and buffer zone of Capitol Complex. However, the bench was of the view that if parking can’t be constructed, how can a Tourist Information Centre came up on the same site. It further observed that amendments can be made in the Master Plan and also questioned as to how a green belt could come under heritage status.As per the layout plan submitted with the HC in January this year, a multi-level basement parking with three underground floors has been proposed. In the first phase the parking lot will have space for over 2,800 cars. In the second phase, installation of stacks has been proposed to accommodate 5,000 cars. The ground level of the parking lot will be green area. Ramps for exit and entry of vehicles to the basement parking spaces will be the only construction on it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/capitol-complex-contentious-multilevel-parking-on-list-of-upcoming-projects-shared-with-unesco/story-RXPk2gnUGPMqbbS8cQLlXI.html
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||Manesar land scam:ED questions Haryana government silence on 268 acres||Questioning the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation’s (HSIIDC’s) ‘conspicuous silence’ on 268 acres of Manesar land, the enforcement directorate (ED), which is probing the land scam, has sought details of the land deals.The Haryana government had not announced deemed award for 268 acres, which were part of the 688 acres land under probe. Setting aside the Congress regime’s August 24, 2007 decision to drop acquisition proceedings for 688 acres of land in Manesar and adjoining villages, the Supreme Court had in 2018 said an award is deemed to have been passed on August 26, 2007 with respect to lands that were covered by declaration under Section 6 of the Land Acquisition Act, and which were transferred by landholders between August 27, 2004 and January 29, 2010. In its November 20 reply filed before the SC, the ED said the HSIIDC’s affidavit focused only on 420 acres despite the SC’s ruling. ‘Need to examine transactions’ The agency said that under the garb of ‘change of beneficial ownership’, transferees had accrued undue benefits. “All such transactions are required to be examined as they led to generation of proceeds of crime,” the ED said. In its plea before the apex court, the ED said that HSIIDC should be directed to not grant any refund to different entities without obtaining a no objection certificate from them. ‘In principle land release, not actual’ “The HSIIDC in its affidavit said land of RP Estates and Subros Ltd formed part of the Section 6 notification and land of Subros was released in principle by state government based on the decision of the Ministers’ Committee,” the ED said. “In the case of Subros Ltd, the release was granted in principle and was not an actual approval. Thus, it appears the said portions of land are part of the 268 acres, details of which are being requested. It is submitted that detailed investigation with regard to current ownership, change in ownership of land and any other entity owning the land, which is under Section 6, is essential to determine the undue benefits derived,’’ the ED said. ‘Unjust enrichment is proceed of crime’ The ED also sought directions for HSIIDC to confirm the exact area of land released after the Section 6 notification since the corporation mentions 70.49 acres of released land in its affidavit: “Mere land release after Section 6 did not entitle the entities to enjoy benefits as the apex court had directed that an award is deemed to have been passed in 2007 in respect of lands covered by Section 6 declaration. It is to be examined and investigated what all benefits stand to be derived by way of defying the schedule offence and generation of proceeds of crime gained by middlemen and ultimate gainers under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act,” said the ED.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/manesar-land-scam-ed-questions-haryana-government-silence-on-268-acres/story-w1l3Ba6cObJoT54Rvhtx5H.html
22-11-2020||City||Kapurthala Sainik School finally opens its doors for girl students||In a significant development, Sainik School, Kapurthala, has invited applications from girl students for the first time since its establishment in 1961. The decision comes following a recent directive issued by the Ministry of Defence. There are a total of 33 Sainik Schools across the country, which help young cadets prepare themselves to be part of the National Defence Academy, Kadakwasla. But none of the schools had been admitting girl students until now. In line with the Union government’s objective of enabling greater participation of women in the Armed Forces, and strengthening the motto of ‘Beti Bachao Beti Padhao’, all the Sainik Schools will be enrolling girl students from the next academic session. Col Prashant Saxena, principal of the Kapurthala Sainik School, said the school’s curriculum enables cadets to explore their potential and realise it to the fullest. “Along with studies, military training will be given to girls in the same manner as it is being conducted for boys, and enable them to join as officers in the armed forces,” he said.He further said that arrangements are being made to make the stay of the girl students safe and comfortable in the school. The school will be conducting the entrance exam at five centres across the state i.e. Kapurthala, Amritsar, Ludhiana, Patiala, Faridkot.The application process for All India Sainik School Entrance Examination started on October 20, and the last date for submission is December 20. The entrance exam will be conducted on January 10, 2021, by the National Testing Agency. Candidates, who are seeking admission to Class 6 and Class 9 in any of the 33 Sainik Schools across the country, can register themselves at aissee.nta.nic.in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kapurthala-sainik-school-finally-opens-its-doors-for-girl-students/story-cLdDzlGUKD0oxySHthtmLO.html
22-11-2020||Mumbai||Battle for Mumbai civic body: BJP gets into poll position versus Sena||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is aiming to win the polls for the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), which is controlled by the Shiv Sena for more than three decades. The elections for one of Asia’s richest civic bodies, with an annual budget of ₹33,441 for the 2020-21 fiscal, is slated to take place in the next 15 months. The BJP has also geared up to win sizable seats in 14 other civic bodies — five of which will go to polls soon, and the remaining nine will hold elections in 2022. The party held its first meeting of the executive committee for Mumbai civic body polls three days ago. It has appointed its Kandivli legislator Atul Bhatkhalkar as election in-charge for Mumbai, while Bandra legislator Ashish Shelar, Member of Legislative Council (MLC) Prasad Lad and Airoli legislator Ganesh Naik have been assigned responsibilities for Thane, Vasai-Virar and Navi Mumbai, respectively. The campaigns will be spearheaded by former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, who squarely targeted the Shiv Sena during the party’s first executive meeting on Wednesday. “Shiv Sena’s life is stuck in BMC and we should hit where it hurts them the most. Each ward will have a key leader as in-charge and the youth and women wings of the party will engage in person-to-person and home-to-home outreach,” Fadnavis said. BJP’s state unit chief Chandrakant Patil said the party’s Mumbai unit will have a parliamentary board which will take decisions related to BMC elections with approval from the state parliamentary board. According to a BJP office-bearer, the party is looking to hurt the political prospects of the Sena, which is seen as its prime political rival after the two snapped ties last year. “The relations between the BJP and Sena have strained beyond repair. The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) has sternly opposed any ties with the Sena in future. In the 2017 elections, we fought separately and attacked each other very strongly, but we still continued to be alliance partners in the state. This time, it will be an even bitter tussle,” he said, adding that the party has started making in-roads in Sena citadels and the results will be better than the elections in 2017. Meanwhile, the Sena has sharply reacted to BJP’s attack. “The BJP wants to control Mumbai, its businesses, financial turnover and land. They want to diminish its importance. [But] Mumbai voters will decide which saffron flag they want to see hoisted at the BMC headquarters,” Sena’s parliamentarian Sanjay Raut said a couple of days ago.Political analyst Hemant Desai said the BJP has an edge over other parties as far as the preparations are concerned. “While the three ruling parties have not held even a single coordination meeting, the BJP has started preparations for BMC elections. The BJP has strategically started raking up issues of Hindutva, Chhath Puja, reopening of temples and excessive power bills, which impact different set of voters in Mumbai. The Sena’s connect with the common people, which was its strength, appears to be lost,” said Desai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/battle-for-mumbai-civic-body-bjp-gets-into-poll-position-versus-sena/story-7I5u02bglNIE8sdR7lAzfJ.html
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana farmers on edge as bajra procurement hits snag||sunil.kumar3@htlive.com Farmer unions and Opposition leaders have accused the Haryana government of ‘running away from the procurement process’, after government agencies stopped purchasing bajra (pearl millet) from mandis.Procurement of bajra had started on October 1 at ₹2,150 per quintal but was inexplicably stopped six days ago. A farmer, Sunil Kumar of Bhiwani’s Garwa village, said he had received a message asking him to bring his bajra crop to Behal mandi on November 17. However, once he got there, officials refused to purchase his produce citing lack of verification: “The officials told me procurement will be done after verifying my status as a farmer. I have visited the mandi many times since but officials are yet to procure my crop,” he said.Haryana Kisan Sabha secretary Dayanand Punia, a resident of Bhiwani, says thousands of farmers in the district and still more across the state are waiting for government agencies to procure their bajra, moong and groundnut. However, no crops have been purchased since Diwali.“Farmers have to start sowing wheat but their produce is still lying in mandis. Do we wait for procurement to start or prepare our fields for sowing? Farmers should be given more time to sell their produce. The government should ensure that the purchase is not merely made on paper,” Punia said.Farmers await payment: ChautalaEllenabad Indian National Lok Dal MLA Abhay Singh Chautala said, “The government’s real face has been exposed as it has failed to procure bajra, paddy, moong and groundnut from farmers. Thousands of farmers are still waiting for their turn to sell their crops. Bajra farmers have been waiting for payment for the last two weeks. The government has been creating hurdles for farmers. First, they barred entry of farmers from neighbouring states. Now, they are stopping farmers from Punjab from purchasing urea from Haryana.”Bhiwani deputy commissioner Jaibir Singh Arya said he had formed teams to verify farmers whose bajra was yet to be procured: “Officials concerned will submit the list by November 21, after which we will start bajra procurement. Bajra will be procured till November 27,” the DC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-farmers-on-edge-as-bajra-procurement-hits-snag/story-iQavOfRwmiue3xi4Xy1NXN.html
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||Coldest November night in three years makes Chandigarh shiver||Minimum temperature in Chandigarh dropped to 8.4°C, a notch below normal, in the early hours of Saturday, the lowest for the month of November in the past three years. According to the weatherman, the chill is likely to continue.“It is a result of the snowfall in Himachal Pradesh. The current wind system has a northerly flow. The winds are cold and there is less intermixing with hot air,” said Surender Paul, director, Indian Meteorological Department, Chandigarh.Paul said minimum temperature is likely to stay below normal in the city up to the first week of December. “It can even drop to 6°C in the coming days. There will be a chance of cold wave conditions too during this period,” he said.According to the IMD, cold wave is declared in a region when minimum temperature falls below 10°C and stays between 4-5°C below normal.Even maximum temperature fell from 23.5°C on Friday to 22.2°C on Saturday, 4°C below normal. In the next three days, maximum temperature is likely to remain between 22°C and 23°C while minimum temperature is expected to remain between 8°C and 12°C.Due to cold temperatures and relatively high humidity, there is a chance of fog and mist forming in the city in mornings and evenings. The chances will be higher around open areas, and the weatherman has asked people to stay alert on open roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coldest-november-night-in-three-years-makes-chandigarh-shiver/story-ktcpePUsTbdybYs9TMoKTI.html
22-11-2020||Pune||Fund crunch puts brakes on development of tourist spots in Pune region||The joint project of Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC) and Pune district administration to develop 115 tourism spots in the district has hit a roadblock due to paucity of funds. According to MTDC and district administration, a number of projects like ropeways, and laser, sound and light shows are put on hold as the Rs350 crore plan is facing fund shortage of Rs 237 crore. The joint venture drafted by MTDC and the district administration and aimed at boosting the tourism potential of the district was submitted to the the government for approval. However, the project got stuck due to administrative laxity and many projects that could create employment could not start. The Maharashtra government had issued a government resolution (GR) in 2014 seeking tourism development plan from districts. Pune district officials have been regularly following up the progress of the plan that it had submitted. District collector Rajesh Deshmukh said, “Our plan to develop sites that could generate tourism revenue have been put on hold due to fund shortage,” he said. MTDC officials stated that the government had conveyed that it would assess the tourism potential of the suggested places on studying the reports submitted, but no acknowledgement has been done till date. Plans that await state government’s green signal Laser shows, sound and light show arrangements at tourist spots Erection of museums at tourist spots Waters spots at dams and water bodies Bhima Shankar sanctuary development programme Bird watching centres Agri tourist infrastructure Conservation of historic and heritage sites, like forts Development of waterfall sites, including social forests and forest development||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/fund-crunch-puts-brakes-on-development-of-tourist-spots-in-pune-region/story-mhXZAGs5BrCu0lZnPp0NdN.html
22-11-2020||Pune||PCMC to review school reopening on November 30||Looking at the current covid situation, Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has held its decision to start school for class 9-12 on November 23. The decision will be reviewed on November 30.PCMC commissioner, Shravan Hardikar said, “Schools will remain shut till November 30 as of now. The preparation towards opening of schools will continue in the meantime which would include Covid testing of teaching and non-teaching staff, taking consent from parents and preparing school infrastructure for social distancing, hand hygiene, school transport enforcement and disinfection.”“The decision will be reviewed on November 30,” added Hardikar.PCMC mayor Usha Dhore said, “Since we have seen a surge in cases after Diwali, we cannot take the risk of reopening schools. Surge can also happen like the way it happened after Ganesh festival so care needs to be taken promptly by all.”Bharatiya Janata Party leader Ashish Shelar has criticised Maha Vikas Aghadi government for leaving the decision of reopening of schools on local bodies.“The government has simply shrugged off its responsibility and asked local bodies to take a call. This has created confusion on reopening of schools everywhere,” said Shelar.As of Friday, PCMC reported 165 new cases taking the total count to 86,942 and 33 deaths taking the death toll to 1,241.Parents were happy with the decision as they were in two minds about sending children to school or not. “My son Jay is in Class 10 at New English School, Bijlinagar, Chinchwad. I was nervous about sending him to school looking at numbers which are again going up. I hope the administration takes the right decision on November 30,” said Aarti Mankar, parent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pcmc-to-review-school-reopening-on-november-30/story-Izmlc5nkkZgjQw7MFy9pZP.html
22-11-2020||City||Pregnant woman, mother booked for abetment after husband commits suicide in Mohali||An eight-month pregnant woman and her mother have been booked for abetment to suicide after her 26-year-old husband hanged himself to death at their rented accommodation in Mohali’s Manauli village on Saturday. The case was registered under Section 306 of the Indian Penal Code at the Sohana police station on the basis of a suicide note left by the man.The victim used to repair photostat machines, said police. He had moved out of his family’s house and taken a house on rent as his wife was not on good terms with his parents. The couple had a fight on Friday night, following which he took the extreme step, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pregnant-woman-mother-booked-for-abetment-after-husband-commits-suicide-in-mohali/story-uacl15xMQ500ImHchkqlJN.html
22-11-2020||City||Car-borne men loot truck driver of ₹14 lakh at gunpoint in Panchkula||Four men in a car robbed a truck driver of ₹14 lakh at gunpoint at Garhi Kotaha village in Raipur Rani, about 30 kilometre from the Panchkula district headquarters, police said on Saturday.The crime took place on Friday evening when truck driver Dharambir was returning to Madawala town in Pinjore from Jagadhari.Complainant Nirbhai Singh, who trades in scrap metal, told police that Dharambir was sent to a factory in Jagadhari with a consignment of scrap aluminium on Thursday. After supplying it and collecting ₹14 lakh from the factory owner, he left back for Pinjore around 3:15pm on Friday. It was around 5:30pm that Singh got a call from Dharmabir, informing him about the loot.The driver alleged that when he reached near Raipur Rani, four men in a silver Maruti Alto, which had its number plate covered with tape, blocked his way. While the car driver kept sitting inside, three others barged out with one pointing a gun at Dharambir. They allegedly shattered the truck’s windowpanes too on not being able to open its door. Apparently aware about the money, they kept asking about the “packet”, which was lying under the driver’s seat, and later fled with it towards Naraingarh, Singh told police.A case has been registered under Section 392 (robbery) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) besides under the Arms Act at Raipur Rani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/car-borne-men-loot-truck-driver-of-14-lakh-at-gunpoint-in-panchkula/story-k9AL4fgWJkT61IXPHh1LrJ.html
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh school teacher duped of ₹1 lakh in credit card fraud||A school teacher lost ₹1 lakh to fraudulent online transactions on her credit card, the police said on Saturday.In her complaint, Tamanna Thakur, 40, of Sector 52, told the police that on September 24, at about 11.41am, she had received a message on her mobile phone intimating her that she had spent ₹1,00,000 through her credit card on online portal Flipkart.She called the credit card customer care asking them to stop the payment, but it was too late.A case under Sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 419 (cheating by impersonation) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code was registered.Police have booked two immigration consultants for duping people on the pretext of sending them abroad.In his complaint, Radha Krishan of Sector 41 alleged that the accused, Happy, alias Vikash Sethi, of Sector 37, had taken ₹3.7 lakh from him in 2018 assuring him a visa for Cyprus. But despite the payment, he neither got the visa nor was the money refunded.A case under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 of the IPC was registered.Another complaint of cheating was lodged by Harjap Singh of Moga against one Gurminder Singh and his wife.Harjap alleged that the accused had duped him of ₹7.5 lakh in lieu of a study visa for Australia in April 2016.A case under Sections 420 and 120B of the IPC was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-school-teacher-duped-of-1-lakh-in-credit-card-fraud/story-LW0gfSyvdNc6IkYINDAbIN.html
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||Carpenter held with 20 heritage chairs missing from Panjab University||Making the first breakthrough in the case of missing heritage furniture from Panjab University, Chandigarh Police have arrested a carpenter who had bought the chairs from the thief.Also, 20 of the 48 chairs that had gone missing from the sociology department between November 1 and 3 have been recovered. Efforts are on to identify and arrest the thief, said police.The carpenter has been identified as Sarafraj, 48, of Baltana in Mohali. Police said he deals in heritage furniture items, collecting them from thieves and further supplying them to brokers and junk dealers after repairs.He was arrested by the crime branch from near the jungle area behind Panjab University on Friday. He was carrying two chairs and turned towards Dhanas on seeing police. Later, his interrogation led to the recovery of 18 more chairs from the jungle area. He was produced in court on Saturday, and remanded to three-day police custody.The missing furniture included 36 chairs from the department’s seminar hall at the ground floor, 10 chairs from the second floor hall and two chairs from the department’s office. After the theft surfaced, the department made internal inquiries. A complaint was forwarded to police on November 12, and an FIR was registered under Section 380 (theft in dwelling house, etc) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on Friday. After the carpenter’s arrest, Section 411 (Dishonestly receiving stolen property) was added to the FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/carpenter-held-with-20-heritage-chairs-missing-from-panjab-university/story-Id18f0JbSNwIdlNMAG5x6O.html
22-11-2020||Mumbai||Ready to extend full cooperation to ED in TRP scam probe: Maharashtra home minister||A day after the Enforcement Directorate (ED) filed a case in the television rating points (TRP) scam, Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Saturday said that the Maharashtra government is ready to extend full support to the central agency. Deshmukh also added that ED is probing only the money laundering part of the scam.“Mumbai Police are investigating the TRP scam properly. The money laundering part will now be investigated by ED. We are ready to extend full cooperation to the central agency,” Deshmukh said on Saturday.Both the state and the Centre were at loggerhead over the investigation of the case, in which the Mumbai Police has named Republic TV, two Marathi channels and few other individuals.The state government on October 21 had withdrawn general consent accorded to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to probe cases in the state. Following the withdrawal of the consent, CBI will require the state’s permission to enter Maharashtra for carrying out any investigation. The decision came a day after the probe of the TRP scam was handed over to CBI following recommendations made by the Uttar Pradesh government. Deshmukh had also said the state government suspected the possibility of TRP case’s transfer to the central agency for political reasons.The alleged TRP scam came to light last month when ratings agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) filed a complaint through Hansa Research Group, alleging that certain television channels were rigging TRP numbers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ready-to-extend-full-cooperation-to-ed-in-trp-scam-probe-maharashtra-home-minister/story-hrdiV9RCNQKd3FfEbDi6kI.html
22-11-2020||Pune||Bhima Koregaon inquiry panel to resume in January if Covid subsides||The Bhima Koregaon inquiry commission may resume work in January after one year of being out of action with the three-month extension granted by the state government.“January we will begin. We are waiting for a bigger physical space for the hearings to observe social distancing. The government is very much keen on the hearings to resume. There are around seven more people scheduled to record evidence,” said advocate Shishir Hire who is representing the state government at the commission.“After the extension, we had written to the government. Our recommendation was that whenever Covid-19 subsides, we should resume. It has now subsided at a considerable level. However, we have to observe the conditions and if they remain favourable, we can resume by January,” said VV Palnitkar, secretary of the inquiry commission.The two-member Bhima Koregaon inquiry commission headed by retired chief justice of Calcutta High court, Jay Narayan Patel includes former chief secretary and the present chief information officer of Maharashtra, Sumit Mullick as members.The commission has six terms of reference including identifying causes of the January 1, 2018 riots that took place in Pune, identify responsible groups, determine whether police and administration were prepared enough, and recommend short and long term measures.The commission which was formed in February 2018 works out of public information office at Madam Cama road, Mumbai and the Zilla Parishad building in Bundgarden, Pune.The commission has asked for a bigger space for the hearings to be conducted and made suggestions. Among the few spaces suggested is Yashwantrao Chavan memorial auditorium or a visiting hall in Mantralay.The seventh extension to the commission was granted in October and a report was expected to be submitted by December 31. However, the commission hearing did not resume in time for the report to be submitted by December 31.The five names scheduled to appear before the commission when it resumes are Sharad Pawar, Nationalist Congress Party chief ; Saurabh Rao, former district collector and current division commissioner; Suvez Haque, former superintendent of Pune rural police; Ravindra Sengaonkar, IPS officer; and Rajendra Gaikwad, descendant of Govind Gopal Mahar whose tomb was allegedly desecrated at Vadhu Budruk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/bhima-koregaon-inquiry-commission-to-resume-in-january-if-covid-exits/story-04RW2ATYaWNzl7knLGNITI.html
22-11-2020||Pune||Police manual overhaul close to completion, awaiting govt nod: DGP||The reworked police manual, a three-volume document, which promises to be much more exhaustive than its previous editions, is awaiting a nod from the state government, according to Subodh Jaiswal, director-general of police (DGP), Maharashtra.Maharashtra Police Manual deals with three broad categories of police work. The first volume deals with the administration of police force, the second maps out finance, supplies and office procedure, and the third define powers and duties of the police.The new police manual will have detailed protocols for dealing with victims and survivors of crimes against women. This is something that has not found a place in the official state police manual till date.With the changing nature of crime and community, the changed manual - if the officers involved are to be believed - will potentially bring about a change in the relationship with the police and the people they are sworn to protect.The manual was first published in 1959 under the title Bombay Police Manual.He said that a team led by Maharashtra Police Academy (MPA) director Aswati Dorje and former additional director general (ADG) training Sanjay Saxena was created to undertake the task. “The team wrote to the government which in-turn created a team of deputy secretaries - law, home, general administration department (GAD) - to gauge the potential of the proposal the police officers had made,” according to Jaiswal.“It was a year-long effort by various teams. The intensive work went on for about six months. We worked through holidays and weekends to make it happen as various documents were needed to be referred to,” said Dorje.“The manual requires to be based on the laws, rules, procedures, orders, circulars, guidelines from the government, manuals of other organisations and states, all of which required massive referencing and compilation of material. We made smaller teams to work on each of the three volumes and consulted with government functionaries, senior officers handling the particular specialised branches, lawyers and experts in each of the topics,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-manual-overhaul-close-to-completion-awaiting-govt-nod-dgp/story-Co6vJ4IBO0uZ7uJxaForDM.html
22-11-2020||Pune||Pune residents demand NIBM forest to be transformed into national urban forest||Citizens from NIBM, Salunke Vihar, Kondhwa, Mohammadwadi and Undri are demanding transformation of over 200 acre of NIBM reserve forest into National Urban Forest as part of the mission of the Union Environment Ministry to convert barren city forests into urban forests for citizens under integrated urban forest development programme. Currently , the said forest is in the middle of NIBM area where it is surrounded by residential buildings from all sides. The said forest area is located behind the NIBM institute is a vast expanse of rich and rare biodiversity protected under Reserve Forest Act. According to the citizens, urban forests play an important role in ecology of human habitats in many ways. The citizens of the area maintained that the constant inundation of their residential buildings downstream due to water flowing down from NIBM forest hill was causing several issues to the citizens like flooding of parking during monsoon.Daljeet Goraya, Member, NIBM citizens watch group said “ We have petitioned the ministry seeking conversion of the reserve forest into an urban forest for the citizens. This is one of the largest reserve forest in the country and it can be developed into state of the art urban forest cum garden for the citizens of the area and entire Pune. There is a growing understanding of the importance of urban forests in the citizens and NIBM forest has rich flora and fauna. We demand immediate construction of fencing wall around the forest and ensure that the forest is protected for the next generation. We have also requested the government to beautify and develop the forest with people’s participation ,” he said.Recently transferred additional principal chief conservator of forests (Pune division ) Vivek Khandekar who has overseen removal of encroachment in the NIBM forest area said “There were issues related to funds and we had received plan from the urban forest park development scheme on lines of Warje Urban Forest and we had readied plan to effect. We had also removed some encroachments in the forest area and I have now been transferred .” he said. It was during his tenure that the urban forest development plan was readied.Green activist Praveen Kumar Anand said “ Anand Van Mitra Mandal has taken a pledge to convert the 200 NIBM forest stretch into urban forest. We want to created nine more forests here in this vast expanse of forest land which will act as a green shield.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-residents-demand-nibm-forest-to-be-transformed-into-national-urban-forest/story-OOg69A5YHyh2NxtSPDh9TJ.html
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||Delhi woman held with 200 gram heroin in Chandigarh||A woman drug peddler from Delhi was arrested with 200 grams of heroin at a naka near Sector 39, Chandigarh Police said on Saturday. The accused has been identified as Nina, 40, who disclosed that she procured the contraband from an African national staying in Uttam Nagar, Delhi.The operation cell had set up a naka to check suspicious vehicles when Nina was spotted near the slip road between Furniture Market Chowk and Ziri Mandi Chowk on Friday evening. She tried to turn back on seeing the police team, but was apprehended. In another case, the operation cell arrested a Jind man with banned vials in Sector 40 on Friday. Identified as Sushil, 25, he was found carrying 23 vials of the opioid buprenorphine and 32 vials of pheniramine maleate, an anti-allergic drug which is addictive. In both cases, FIRs were registered under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act at the Sector-39 police station.Illicit liquor seized from van carrying fishThe same evening, police recovered 300 bottles of Indian-made foreign liquor from a refrigerated van meant for transporting fish to Himachal Pradesh at a naka near Kishangarh in Chandigarh. The bottles were hidden under the fish boxes. Van driver, Bharat, 23, of Sector 21, was arrested A case under the Excise Act was registered. Police said Bharat was earlier convicted for a vehicle theft that took place in 2014.Two drug suppliers arrestedMeanwhile, the Panchkula police have arrested two men for allegedly supplying drugs to a Zirakpur resident who was caught with 1.1 gram cocaine and a revolver near Mata Mansa Devi Temple in October.Accused Gautam Goyal identified Gurpreet Singh of Badal Colony in Zirakpur as the supplier. Gurpreet, who was lodged in the Sangrur jail, was brought on production warrants. He further revealed the name of Gurvinder Singh of Samrala in Ludhiana, who used to sell drugs in the area. He was arrested from New Chandigarh. Both have been sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/delhi-woman-held-with-200-gram-heroin-in-chandigarh/story-cftsMQWENo2soov1S6jNiO.html
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||Privatisation of electricity department in Chandigarh: RWA apex body to join powermen for protest on November 24||To protest against the privatisation of the UT electricity department, the Federation of Sector Welfare Associations Chandigarh (FOSWAC) will be joining the UT Powermen Union (UTPU) for a protest at the Transport Chowk in Sector 26 on Monday. FOSWAC chairman Baljinder Singh Bittu said, “Why privatise a department that is already in profit. A private company will further increase the power bills. This government has done nothing but charge taxes in one form or the other from the residents and has given us no improvement in the services that they provide.”General secretary of UTPU Gopal Dutt Joshi said the powermen were not sure if they will retain their jobs once the department is privatised: “We have over 20 years of work experience. The private companies are most likely to replace us with underpaid newcomers who will not provide the same services that we do.” ‘Will approach high court’Bittu added that after Monday, FOSWAC will hold another protest march most likely in Sector 17 along with other associations against the UT administration if their demands were not considered. He also said that FOSWAC will approach the Punjab and Haryana high court to take legal action against the government for privatising an essential commodity.The Union power ministry had asked the UT administration to privatise power distribution in the city. Nine firms including Adani and Tata have expressed interest in the bidding process.With privatisation, the department will become an autonomous body that will be divided into the State Transmission Utility (STU) and the State Load Dispatch Centre (SLDC). The STU will be responsible for smooth transmission of power and the SLDC will be the main body to ensure integrated operation of the power system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/privatisation-of-electricity-department-in-chandigarh-rwa-apex-body-to-join-powermen-for-protest-on-november-24/story-fWb0qubapcXter5hxSa4nK.html
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||Sector-42 lake in Chandigarh cleaned, sanitised after Chhath Puja||The four-day long Chhath Puja concluded after devotees prayed to the rising sun on Saturday morning.Even though the congregation at the lake this year was greatly reduced due to the pandemic, like previous years, garbage and other items were left behind, which had to be cleaned by the workers of the municipal corporation.The lake premises were also sanitised after a crowd of over 2,000 people had congregated here on Friday evening, and a smaller one on Saturday morning.The sanitation workers worked throughout the morning and by 12 noon, the lake was mostly cleaned. Some of the puja items such as diyas placed at the side of the lake had to be collected.Speaking about the provisions, Anil Kumar Dubey, the chairman of Purvanchal Sabha said, “There was lesser garbage this year as overall fewer people had come for Chhath Puja. Our association had been working on Friday evening as well to gather garbage side-by-side and to keep the premises clean.”Local area councillor Hardeep Singh said that the residents of Sector 42 had been informed to avoid coming to the lake for walks till Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sector-42-lake-in-chandigarh-cleaned-sanitised-after-chhath-puja/story-NVd30uYlUccLYryxgsRJuN.html
22-11-2020||City||Two Punjab men killed, two injured in SUV-cab crash in Zirakpur||Two men were killed while two others were critically injured after an SUV hit a taxi on the Patiala road near Nabha Sahib village in Zirakpur in the wee hours of Saturday. The deceased have been identified as Neeraj Sachdeva of Abohar and Akashdeep Singh of Gidderbaha. The injured are Ishant Madaan of Abohar and taxi driver Kanwarpal Singh. According to Neeraj’s uncle Mahinderpal Singh, Neeraj and his friend Ishant had hired the taxi — a Maruti Alto — for Chandigarh at 9pm on Friday. The third occupant was later identified as Akashdeep. On reaching Zirakpur around 1:30am, the driver gave an indicator to turn towards a filling station and was waiting for a clear passage, when a speeding Mahindra Scorpio hit a traffic police post and then the taxi, before dragging it over a few metres. The driver of the SUV, which had J&K registration number, fled leaving the vehicle behind. The four occupants of the taxi were rushed to a private hospital in Zirakpur, from where they were referred to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh. While Neeraj and Akashdeep succumbed to their injuries at GMCH, the driver and Ishant are undergoing treatment. Their condition is stated to be critical. A case has been registered under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code in Zirakpur. The SUV has been impounded and efforts are on to trace and arrest its driver, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-punjab-men-killed-two-injured-in-suv-cab-crash-in-zirakpur/story-qe3P2IyzaiNb9SN8nHkI3L.html
22-11-2020||Pune||Pune police go soft on mask violations||Even as people are coming out on city roads and public places in large number without following guidelines, the Pune police have reported fewer actions against those not wearing masks.As per data provided by Pune police crime branch, the number of mask violators has reduced in the city even as the rush of people has increased on roads due to Diwali in November as compared to September.The number of people not wearing masks was 65,038 in October as Pune police collected fines of Rs 3,99,91,150 from them while in November till 20, 26,676 were found not wearing a mask for which amount collected was Rs 1,32,54,200. In September, 81,777 were fined with Rs 3,99,91,150 recovered in fines form them.“The intention of collecting fine from people was to make people aware of the importance of wearing a mask. If you see the statistics, the number of fines has gone down as more people are now wearing a mask,” said Bachchan Singh, deputy commissioner of police, crime branch, Pune.Pune police and Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) are collecting Rs 500 from the people who are not wearing masks at public places.“During Diwali, the city roads were crowded and we have taken action accordingly. Now, there is more awareness among masses,” said Singh.On Friday, Pune city reported 335 new cases taking the total count to 176,708 and 16 deaths taking the death toll to 4,149.“Pune Police will continue taking action in the same manner in coming days as well,” added Singh.However, the shopkeepers at Laxmi road, have a different view. “During Diwali time not many police personnel were on the field for checking as compared to normal time. It was peak season time and checking was less,” said the owner of a saree shop.Same was observed by Omkar Paranjape, a regular at Fergusson College road. “Huge crowd of people and hardly police officials were seen and many street shop hawkers were not wearing a mask during the evening time,” he said.A shopkeeper on Kumthekar road on condition of anonymity said, “People wear masks and while talking remove it and hang it around their neck. We had to tell them to wear it properly,” he said.Vijay Kumbhar, right to information (RTI) activist, said, “When we talk about Pune city to some extent people are aware of wearing masks but in rural places near Pune, still people are not wearing masks and no one takes actions against them which need to be taken care off.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-cops-go-soft-on-mask-violations/story-GPangr6RyxSQ8lim6vCCtM.html
22-11-2020||City||Covid positive boy undergoes rare paediatric living donor small intestinal transplant||PUNE A private hospital in the city successfully operated one of the state’s first paediatric intestinal gangrene case caused due to Covid-19. The surgery was carried out on a nine-year-old boy from Maharashtra. According to doctors, the transplant, with the patient’s father being the donor, also highlighted the impact of the coronavirus on intestine which is a rare case. Doctors at Jupiter hospital carried the challenging surgery on the boy who had complained of severe abdominal pain in August 2020. After diagnosis, it was found that due to thrombosis and massive gangrene in his small intestine, a condition in which the blood supply to the intestine is lost, the intestine is dead. Immediate surgery was conducted to remove his intestines to avoid further spread. Post removal of the intestine, an antibodies test and bowel RT-PCR showed Covid-19 infection in the removed organ. Later, the family informed the hospital that the boy and his father had tested positive for Covid-19 with mild symptoms a month ago. Dr Gaurav Chaubal, chief multi-organ transplant surgeon, said, “The child was listed for a cadaveric small intestinal transplant and was on the waiting list for three months. During this time, the child was longing to eat and also started developing complications related to parental nutrition.” With no cadaveric organ offer insight, the prospects of a living donor small intestinal transplant were discussed with the family. On November 5, a team of surgeons performed the surgery, wherein 200 cm of intestine was carefully harvested and transplanted from the father to the child. The surgery lasted for eight hours. The donor has recovered completely. The child is recovering well and has started oral intake from day eight of the surgery. Dr Rajiv Soman, infectious disease specialist from the hospital, said, “Thrombosis and bowel perforation is well known in severe Covid-19. However, massive bowel gangrene is rare. Only one such case has been reported in Italy so far, with fatal outcome. In this case, apart from intestinal gangrene, there were many secondary infections in the abdominal area, making it a complicated one.” On losing his entire small bowel, before the transplant, the child was unable to eat and was put on artificial nutrition, also called parenteral nutrition. His condition was labile as there were high fluid losses and electrolyte disturbances. Aarti Gokhale, transplant coordinator of the Zonal Transplant Coordination Committee (ZTCC), said, “This is surely the first such surgery wherein a paediatric donor has received a small bowel transplant. Earlier, Pune had performed the small bowel transplant in adults but this is the first in the state in kids.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-positive-boy-undergoes-rare-paediatric-living-donor-small-intestinal-transplant/story-eXcRakLEk7xZD4i3yLqcMK.html
22-11-2020||City||Pune reports 913 fresh Covid cases, 12 deaths||Pune:The state health department reported over 913 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday and 12 deaths in 24 hours in Pune district. The district has reported 3.45 lakh Covid-19 cases of which 3.21 lakh have recovered, 7,311 have been reported dead and 17,048 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or in home-isolation. Pune city reported 456 new cases taking the total count to 1, 77,164 and eight deaths taking the death toll to 4,157 while the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 185 new cases taking the final count to 87,127 and one death with 1,242 as the death toll. Pune rural reported 272 new cases taking the final count to 81,372 and three deaths taking the death toll to 1,879, according to the state health department. The state health department reported that 4,088 patients were discharged on Saturday taking the final count to over 16.44 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 92.82 per cent. Also, 5,760 new cases in the state were reported on Monday taking the total to over 17.74 lakh. In addition, 62 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state taking the death toll to 47,578. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.62 per cent. Of the 1,01,20,470 laboratory samples, 17,74,455 have been tested positive (17.53%) for Covid-19 until today. Currently 5,22,819 people are in home quarantine and 4,569 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-reports-913-fresh-covid-cases-12-deaths/story-WYP2IGgcIUddqFypKeag1N.html
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||Contempt plea: Bailable warrants issued against former registrar of Panjab University||The Punjab and Haryana high court has issued bailable warrants against former Panjab University (PU) registrar and recently appointed vice-chancellor of Jagat Guru Nanak Dev Punjab State Open University, Karamjit Singh.The warrants were issued after no one appeared on his or PU’s behalf before the court on November 17 in a contempt matter moved by one Narinder Singh Gusain. The warrants have been issued for March 1.It was on September 10 that the high court had issued Singh a notice on a contempt plea that alleged that in 2019 the high court had directed the varsity to award one mark to Gusain for his work experience in recruitment for the post of clerk. However, the PU registrar had passed an order refusing to grant the same.In December 2019, the high court had disposed of Gusain’s plea observing that he was entitled to be given one mark for the work experience and had asked PU to comply with the order within four months. The recruitment had taken place in 2013 and Gusain got to know subsequently that he had not been given the said mark. Following this, he moved the high court in September 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/contempt-plea-bailable-warrants-issued-against-former-pu-registrar/story-vwW7nRbhHtL7VOnc4Taz2L.html
22-11-2020||City||Positivity rate remains below 10% despite rise in Covid-19 cases in Mumbai||In anticipation of a spike in recorded cases, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has increased testing to pre-Diwali levels. On Friday, an all-time high number of daily tests — 17,260 — were conducted for Covid-19 in Mumbai. Although more than 1,000 cases were recorded in a day for the fourth time this month, BMC said November’s positivity rate is below 10%, which indicates controlled spread. According to BMC, the number of tests conducted in the first 15 days of November, ahead of Diwali, had fallen drastically. BMC’s data shows that there was a 21% drop in the number of tests conducted between October 1-10 (1.41 lakh) and November 1-10 (1.11 lakh). However, the positivity rate in November is 6.54% compared to 13.91% in October and 14.30% in September.BMC said testing has been ramped up as the civic body anticipated a rise in cases following Diwali. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “We are increasing testing by undertaking drives to test bus drivers, shop owners and other citizens who came in contact with multiple people. We are also testing at over 200 free testing centres and due to this, the testing will go up.”Starting November 17, over 10,000 tests have been conducted daily in Mumbai, compared to 3,000 to 9,000 tests daily in the first 15 days of November. Dr Kedar Toraskar of Wockhardt Hospital, who is also a member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force, had earlier told HT that the task force has recommended either increasing or maintaining the number of tests conducted in Mumbai.City-based general physician, Dr Siddarth Paliwal said, “If we consider our surge was maximum in September and first half of October, now, post-Diwali, we should have [an] equal [number of] tests as we were having in September and first half of October.” He also said a balance must be maintained between tests using antigen and reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) methods. “If suddenly our reliance on antigen kits goes up, there is a possibility that positivity rate might go down,” he warned. BMC currently maintains a ratio of 60-40 or 70-30 in favour of the RT-PCR method. Overall, 17.39 lakh tests have been conducted in Mumbai. The overall positivity rate is 15.66%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/positivity-rate-remains-below-10-despite-rise-in-covid-19-cases-in-mumbai/story-p9cQkwlDSuZLUqBylmHecK.html
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh health teams told to trace at least 10 contacts of Covid patients||The Chandigarh health department has directed its ground staff to trace at least 10 contacts of Covid-19 patients to stop the chain of infection amid a steady rise in numbers in the city. The directions have been given on the basis of feedback received from rapid response teams constituted for contact tracing. Even a team of experts sent by the Centre in early September has found delay in contacting patients and subsequent contact tracing.Dr Amandeep Kang, director of health services and family welfare, Chandigarh, said: “Health officials will call Covid patients thrice within a week to give them enough time to think about where all they had been before testing positive. Contacts in those places will be considered, where the person spent considerable time and did not follow social distancing norms or ignored wearing a mask.” She said the exercise will be carried out as a counselling session, and not an inquiry.Officials said with curbs being lifted and more placed being opened, most people are unable to recall all the places they had visited, thus making the exercise more cumbersome. “There is also fatigue that has set in among both residents and officials. But to minimise the infection spread, tracing and testing of contacts is necessary,” said a senior official involved in the exercise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-health-teams-told-to-trace-at-least-10-contacts-of-covid-patients/story-kl6WEJjOb8r6D3x3h5bCPM.html
22-11-2020||Pune||Schools to remain shut in Pune till December 13||Following sharp reactions from parents and teachers, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has now rolled back its earlier decision to restart schools from November 23 and has now decided to defer it till December 13. The civic administration will review the situation and decide whether to open the campuses or not. The decision to hold reopening of the civic-run and private schools till December 13 was taken during a meeting on Saturday, the outcome of which was convened by mayor Murlidhar Mohol. PMC had earlier issued guidelines to start schools but has now revised the order for the same. “The civic body has now decided to revise its earlier decisions. PMC has issued fresh order on Saturday stating that civic-run, as well as private schools, will not open till December 13 when the administration will review the situation and decide whether to open the campuses or not. Pune is seeing a rise in cases and so it seems only logical to postpone the opening of schools,” said Mohol. He added that the decision was taken keeping in mind the health of the children. Earlier the civic body in its circular has stated that prior to the opening of schools, the teachers must be tested for Covid-19 and parents should give written consent for their respective kids to attend school. He said, “We got a very poor response from the parents and not even five per cent of the parents submitted the written response. Therefore we have decided to postpone the reopening of schools.” The decision was welcomed by many parents and other stakeholders. Manoj Deshpande, a city resident, said during the survey he conducted on parents readiness, 52 per cent said they were not sure about the decision. “We conducted a survey on parents readiness and 52% responded ‘not sure’ and 41% as ‘no’. The sample was 9th and 10th grades (123 size),” tweeted Deshpande. Meanwhile, schools from rural parts of Pune district will reopen on Monday as decided earlier. Ayush Prasad, Pune Zilla Parishad CEO, said the spread of the virus is very limited in rural parts. “We have conducted a test of teachers in which only two were found positive. Since the cases in rural parts are very limited, schools will reopen from November 23, as scheduled earlier,” said Prasad. Earlier on Monday, many had criticised civic administration’s haste to reopen schools from Monday. “Medical experts say that despite the corona, a large number of people do not have symptoms. In such a situation, how to constantly check the children or teachers? The big question can arise if the teacher is tested corona positive. If 50 per cent of the children are present, how will the parents plan transportation? How can we ensure that children keep a safe distance during 50 per cent attendance? Does the consent of the parents end the responsibility of the schools? The government has not given satisfactory answers to all these issues,” Mukund Kirdat, coordinator, Pune Parents United had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/schools-to-remain-shut-in-pune-till-december-13/story-6H7SDiHlCLWJujf6bV4RTL.html
22-11-2020||City||Lawyer bit by stray dog in Mullanpur society||A lawyer staying in Punjab IAS-PCS Officers’ Cooperative Housing Building Society, the Foothills, in Mullanpur was bitten by a stray dog while she was going out for her evening walk.Victim Harneet Pal said the dog attacked her from behind but she did not sustain any major injury. She said that there were about 70 stray dogs including puppies in the society and some of them had started attacking residents.The housing society spread over 100 acres is one of the posh localities in Mullanpur, but is now struggling with street dog menace.Society president Subodh Chandra Aggarwal said, “We are in talks with an NGO for the sterilisation of the stray dogs in the area.”Secretary BK Mehta added, “The stray dogs stay on plots where the construction workers are staying as they get regular food there.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lawyer-bit-by-stray-dog-in-mullanpur-society/story-PCLno5SV0Xy5PklFy96zzN.html
22-11-2020||City||Panchkula civil surgeon, in-charge of contact tracing test positive for Covid-19||Panchkula civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur and contact tracing in-charge Dr Mankirat are among 62 people who tested positive for Covid-19 in the district on Saturday.In the past three days, three senior officers of the UT administration — Chandigarh Housing Board chief executive officer Yashpal Garg and chief engineer Rajiv Singla besides tourism director RK Popli — and Mohali senior superintendent of police Satinder Singh have also contracted the virus.“Dr Mankirat and I are mildly symptomatic and are in home isolation. We will continue to fight Covid from our homes for the next few days,” said Dr Jasjeet Kaur.Dr Rajiv Narwal, nodal officer, Covid-19, said: “We have sanitised the entire office of civil surgeon, her vehicles and home. Also, a list is being prepared of all people the two doctors came in contact with. On Monday, sampling of all contacts will be done.”Dr Narwal said that from Monday onwards, the health department will start sampling people in all government offices. “There are over 75 government offices in Panchkula district, and we will cover five offices a day,” he said.As many as 165 health workers have tested positive in Panchkula to date. Out of 8,270 cases reported so far, 505 are still active. While, 7,644 (92.4%) patients have been cured, 121 have succumbed to the virus. 3 deaths each in Chandigarh, MohaliWhile Panchkula reported no casualty, Chandigarh and Mohali reported three deaths each due to the virus on Saturday. Those who died in Chandigarh have been identified as two women, aged 45 and 79, from Sectors 29 and 34, respectively, and a 61-year-old man from Maloya. The toll has reached 258.Meanwhile, 119 people tested positive in the UT, taking the total to 16,591, of which 1,135 cases are active.As many as 15,198 (91.6%) patients have been cured, including 102 discharged on Saturday.In Mohali district, 117 people tested positive, including 67 in Mohali city and 33 in Kharar. Of 14,300 cases so far, 1,265 remain active. While 12,769 (89.3%) patients have recovered, 266 have died in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-civil-surgeon-in-charge-of-contact-tracing-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-kd28VUzDdXcCAAkdQ89C2N.html
22-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports over 5,000 Covid-19 cases for 4th straight day||Maharashtra on Saturday recorded 5,760 Covid-19 cases, the fourth straight day of over 5,000 infections after averaging around 4,200 for the first 17 days of the month, pushing the count to 1,774,455. The active cases (people who are currently infected with Covid-19) slightly increased to 79,873. The state’s toll reached 46,573 as 62 casualties were reported. Of the total deaths, 35 were from the past 48 hours and 10 were from last week. The remaining 17 deaths were from the period before last week, health officials said.After recording fewer than 5,000 cases for nine consecutive days, Maharashtra is experiencing a slight increase in fresh cases in the past four days. Also read: Second Covid-19 wave likely to hit Maharashtra in JanuaryOn November 18, it recorded 5,011 cases, while on November 19 and 20, the cases reported were 5,535 and 5,640, respectively. With this, the total number of cases this month also rose to 93,821.The change has come against the backdrop of a concern that a surge in fresh cases may come by November-end or next month. The state government has already directed local authorities to be vigilant and prepared for a possible second wave.“The number of fresh cases has increased in the past four days, but the rise is minimal. It would be too early to draw any conclusion from these figures. We need to wait for at least eight-10 days to get an idea on where we are heading,” said a senior official, who did not want to be named.It was the second consecutive day Mumbai posted more than a thousand cases. The city continues to record most cases in the state with 1,093 cases reported on Saturday, taking the count to 274,579, of which active cases were 12,379. There were 17 deaths reported and the toll in the city has reached 10,656.Pune city recorded 456 cases, second-highest number of cases, pushing its case count to 177,164Nagpur city contributed the third-highest number of infections in the daily caseload, as it recorded 323 cases, taking its tally to 84,540.The state’s case fatality rate (CFR) is also not going down. On Saturday, it was recorded at 2.62%. It is at second position, after Punjab in the country, where the CFR was 3.15% (with 4,572 deaths) on Friday, according to information shared by the state medical education department“Because of awareness, people are coming forward and not wasting their time like they used to do earlier. This has led to early admission of patients to hospitals, hence, we are hoping that the CFR will improve soon,” said another official.The state has completed 101,20,470 Covid-19 tests with 84,805 tests conducted on Saturday. The positivity rate for the day was recorded at 6.79%, against the overall positivity rate of the state that stood at 17.53%.The number of recovered patients reached 1,647,004 with 4,088 recoveries recorded in the past 24 hours.The recovery rate was recorded at 92.82%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-over-5-000-covid-19-cases-for-4th-straight-day/story-yy9gdVbyrT09WxdmAtu4fP.html
22-11-2020||City||Delhi man booked for celebratory fire in Dera Bassi||A Delhi resident was booked for firing in the air at a marriage procession in Dera Bassi, the police said on Saturday.The accused identified as Bobby Luthra was part of a marriage procession that had come from Karnal and was moving towards a hotel in Dera Bassi. At some distance from the hotel, Luthra had fired in the air multiple times on Friday night, and investigations revealed that the bullets fired were blank.The case under Sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 336 (Act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code and under the Arms Act was registered on the complaint of a hotel manager, Sanjiv Kumar. No arrest has been made so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-man-booked-for-celebratory-fire-in-dera-bassi/story-3KZLll4fszwCZL3pef1chI.html
22-11-2020||Mumbai||Allow citizens to pray at mosque in Raj Bhavan: Raza Academy to Maharashtra Governor||After the Maharashtra government decided to open all the religious places, Islamic organisation Raza Academy has written a letter to Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, urging him to allow citizens to pray at the mosque inside Raj Bhavan. Raj Bhavan refused to comment on the issue. However, officials, on condition of anonymity, said there is no mosque inside Raj Bhavan, but one of the staff quarters has been kept open for prayers for the Muslim staff. Many outsiders, too, had started visiting the place to offer prayers on Friday, which led to crowding, so the staff did not allow outsiders to pray at the place this Friday, the officials said.After the lockdown was imposed on March 23, the place was closed. It was opened on November 20, the first Friday after all the religious places were allowed to open in the state. In its letter to the Governor, M Saeed Noori, secretary-general of Raza Academy, said, “Even though the entire country has opened up its religious places, Raj Bhavan employees refused to allow Muslims to offer the jumuah namaz (Friday prayer) in the mosque, with just five to seven people praying inside. We request you to immediately issue orders to the staff to allow the people of the locality to offer jumuah namaz as they used to do before the Covid-19 pandemic.” All the religious places in the state were allowed to reopen for devotees from November 16 after eight months. They were closed due to the lockdown imposed to control the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/allow-citizens-to-pray-at-mosque-in-raj-bhavan-raza-academy-to-maharashtra-governor/story-jYb8OypTGF1z3tLP02Y41M.html
22-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Florist, son die as bike rams into vehicle on WEH||A Malad-based flower businessman and his son died in a road accident on Western Express Highway near Vakola flyover after their bike crashed into a vehicle parked on the bridge on Saturday morning.According to police, the deceased Shrimani Mali, 80, and his son Ravi, 31, are residents of Shivaji Nagar in Malad (East). Kherwadi police have arrested driver of the parked vehicle, Mangeni Malhale. He had parked his pick-up van on Vakola bridge owing to some technical snag.A police officer said there were Malhale’s vehicle stopped working on the bridge, hence he parked the vehicle and went to look for a mechanic nearby when the incident took place.Police arrested him under sections 304(a) [causing death by negligence], 283 (danger or obstruction in public way or line of navigation) of the Indian Penal Code and section 181 of the Motor Vehicles Act. “Every morning, the deceased used to go to Dadar to purchase flowers. On Saturday, they were on their way around 6am when their bike crashed into the parked vehicle. Both of them were rushed to Sion hospital where they were declared dead on arrival.”Mali and his son used to run a flower business at Pathanwadi, Malad since the past 25 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-florist-son-die-as-bike-rams-into-vehicle-on-weh/story-IMiSTlsqLgNOm0OXH7hooK.html
22-11-2020||Mumbai||In case of peak, Mumbai’s health infrastructure can handle upto 17,000 symptomatic Covid-19 cases: Civic body||Anticipating a peak in Covid-19 cases during the festive season for the next few weeks, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said it is ready to handle around 16,000-17,000 symptomatic cases in the city. Symptomatic patients are the ones who need hospital beds, oxygen beds, or intensive care unit (ICU) beds, based on the severity of infection. Currently, Mumbai has 11,822 active cases, of which 26% are symptomatic, 66% are asymptomatic, and 8% are critical. Of the 17,100 Covid-19 beds in BMC hospitals, 4,944 (28%) are occupied. Moreover, Covid Care Centres, which are manned by doctors and nurses 24X7, are also used to treat mild symptomatic patients. There are 181 such facilities in the city with 23,806 beds. Of these, 23 centres with a bed capacity of 3,200 are active. The others are dormant and can be activated if need arises. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani, who is in-charge of BMC’s public health department, said, “We will be able to handle up to 17,000 active symptomatic cases at a time if a there is a peak in Mumbai’s cases. Over the past few months, we realised that there is a greater need for oxygen beds in comparison to ICUs and even ventilators. So, 50% of BMC’s hospital beds are oxygen beds.” There are 1,978 ICU beds in BMC-run hospitals, of which 830 are available, while in the case of oxygen beds, 5,866 of the total 8,423 are vacant. Currently, the city has 1,184 ventilator beds, of which 393 are available. “Once a patient is admitted to the hospital, the treatment protocol is decided and gets activated,” said Kakani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-health-infrastructure-can-handle-upto-17-000-symptomatic-cases-during-covid-19-peak-civic-body/story-DSWbEWsD7Gn6oYHJyjFHdL.html
22-11-2020||Mumbai||First phase of Patripool RoB girder launched in Kalyan||In a four-hour long mega block on the Kalyan-Dombivli rail route, the first phase of the open web girder for the new Patripool Rail Over Bridge (RoB), a part of the vital Kalyan-Shilphata stretch, was launched on Saturday.Out of the 76.67m-long girder, the 41m portion was launched while the remaining 35m will be launched on Sunday.Shashikant Sontakke, chief engineer, Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC), said, “We had planned to launch 52m of the girder but as per the mega block allowed and safety measures taken, we managed to complete the launching of 41m of the girder. The work was carried out with the help of 60 skilled labours and supervisors and 40 engineers and designers. The remaining work for 35m will be carried out on Sunday.”In the next mega block scheduled on November 28 and 29, the work of positioning of the girder will be completed, he said.Read more: Politics, for us, is only during the elections: Aaditya ThackerayThe entire launching work was captured through a drone camera at the site. In order to ensure the safety at the launching site and the smooth movement of traffic, a total of 300 police personnel from the Railway Protection Force, local police and traffic police were deployed at the spot and different parts of the city.For launching of the girder, the Central Railway (CR) has announced mega block from 10.15am to 2.15pm on Saturday. Followed by the work, the railway service on the route was resumed with an Ambernath local departing Kalyan station to CSMT at 2.15 pm.Throughout the mega block, the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Transport (KDMT) provided 25 additional buses and the state road transport provided 29 buses for the commuters. This helped commuters to connect within and out the city with ease.As per the KDMT, around 10,000 passengers took the buses on Saturday morning. KDMT members were deployed at the depots to guide the passengers to avoid violation of social distancing norms.“The civic bus service helped many to commute during the mega block. There was no crowding at the depot or inside the bus, which is appreciable,” said Sudesh Mahadik, 28, who took a civic bus from Kalyan ST depot to connect to Dombivli for work.The MSRDC, which started the work for the two-lane new bridge since December 2018, has claimed that it will try and finish the work at the earliest.“After the launching of the girder, the remaining work like building the concrete slab, pillar and other amenities will be undertaken. We have planned to finish the work with priority by December end,” added Sontakke.Auto drivers overcharge commuters Even after directions from the traffic police and auto rickshaw union to co-operate during the mega block period by not refusing a ride and overcharging, several auto drivers in the city had their way.For a trip from Kalyan to Bhiwandi, auto drivers charged ₹100 per seat as against the normal fare of ₹40. While they charged ₹100 for Kalyan to Dombivli, it was ₹200 for Kalyan to Thane and ₹400 for Kalyan to Ambernath for three on seat-sharing basis.“I wanted to go to Dombivli from Kalyan and I approached an auto rickshaw at the Kalyan station. The driver asked me to pay ₹100 initially before settling for ₹80. I refused to take the auto as the fare was still high,” said Saurabh Joshi, 40, a commuter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/first-phase-of-patripool-rob-girder-launched-in-kalyan/story-yZUv68DJC8h4gjqEbLh6tO.html
22-11-2020||City||Mohali district gets 8 Tandarust Punjab health centres||Eight Tandarust Punjab health centres were virtually inaugurated in Mohali by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday, informed deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan who joined the programme through videoconferencing from the District Administrative Complex.Dayalan said to provide quality healthcare services to patients especially in rural areas, the state government was converting all sub-centres into health and wellness centres christened as Tandarust Punjab sehat kendras in a phased manner.Three health and wellness centres in Gharuan and five in Dera Bassi including one each at Saneta, Kurdi, Garanga, Issapur, Dharamgarh, Jawarpur, Karala and Bhankarpur had been upgraded and renovated.“By December end, another 34 such centres will be ready,” he added. “Manned by community health officers, multi-purpose health workers and ASHA workers, the centres will provide 27 free medicines, six diagnostic tests and tele-consultation facilities. OPD services for hypertension, diabetes will also be extended,” said Dayalan.The DC added that these centres would also help combat the second wave of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-district-gets-8-tandarust-punjab-health-centres/story-fa3R4zq9loDMC0N2b0MagK.html
22-11-2020||Mumbai||Politics, for us, is only during the elections: Aaditya Thackeray||The Maharashtra Minister of Tourism and Environment, Aaditya Thackeray, took a dig at BJP, remarking that his Shiv Sena government indulges in politics only during the elections but after that, the focus is solely on development, unlike the opposition party.Thackeray was speaking at the launch of the Patripool girder in Kalyan on Saturday morning. Thackeray added that the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) has taken up several such developmental works like the Patripool RoB across the state.Thackeray said, “Patripool has been a major issue. However, now the work has been initiated after the mega blocks were permitted by the railway. Similarly, several such developmental works are undertaken across the state by the MVA,” said Thackeray.He added, “Politics is a part of everything. Politics, for us, is only during the elections, after which we focus on work. Other parties continue doing politics throughout.”While Shiv Sena MP Shrikant Shinde has been taking all the credit for the work of the Patripool bridge through his social media handles, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders have been slamming the state government and Shinde for delaying the project.The 104-year-old Patripool bridge was dismantled on November 18, 2018, following which there has been a demand to build the new bridge as it affected the traffic movement in Kalyan-Dombivli.BJP’s Mahila Aghadi Zilla president Rekha Chaudhary, who was at the launch, said, “The work of the bridge is carried out very slowly. People have been protesting against the delay. The entire credit for the push to the project goes to the central government. There are several other infrastructure projects like the Mankoli, Durgadi, Kopar bridge. The state government should emphasise on these projects.”Shinde, on the other hand, claimed that this is an important event for the city. He said, “The planning and procedure for the new bridge was initiated after the bridge was dismantled two years ago. This took time as we had to plan from the beginning and also redesign the plan due to a few hurdles. We had to get permissions from the railways and the local body. After that, the lockdown affected the work as workers were not available. However, we managed to speed up the work and now it is in its final stage,” added Shinde.Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) MLA Raju Patil, who reached the spot, was not allowed by the police.“I reached the spot to have a look at the girder launch. Police thought I arrived for a protest at the site. If I was protesting, I intimate about it in advance. Only by building the Patripool bridge, the traffic woes in the city won’t end. There are several other projects that need to be prioritised. The government and civic body has failed to do it. The 90-feet road connecting the Patripool bridge is still not constructed completely.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/politics-for-us-is-only-during-the-elections-aaditya-thackeray/story-sYvSLzoMRimYAU0qseWTJN.html
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||HT Chandigarh Our Take: A tenancy authority for Chandigarh||Given the large number of residential units rented out in Chandigarh, the administration appears to be on the right track by drawing up the draft Tenancy Act 2020, which has now been sent to the Centre for approval. The Act proposes to establish a framework for the regulation of tenancy matters (residential and commercial) and to balance the rights and responsibilities of landlords and tenants, including fast adjudication process for resolution of disputes. The key provision of the proposed Act is setting up of a rent authority which will have exclusive jurisdiction over tenancy issues. All rent agreements will have to be submitted to this authority instead of the sub-registrar’s office as is done now. The landowner and the tenant will have to separately file the particulars within a month of signing the agreement. The authority will adjudicate all disputes between a landlord and tenant instead of the civil courts. This is significant as the pendency rate is currently very high. The good thing is that appeals against authority’s orders will be made in the rent court, headed by a senior judicial officer, with cases to be disposed of within 60 days. Against a rent court order, an appeal can be filed with the rent tribunal. Lawyers’ bodies, it is learnt, have objected to the creation of the rent authority having exclusive adjudication powers over tenancy disputes and issues. They suggested that the tenancy issues be kept under the purview of civil courts only, sources have said. In response, the administration has said that the rent authority’s adjudication powers are necessitated as it would speed up the resolution of tenancy related disputes, and it is central to the creation of the new Tenancy Act. The Commercial Tenants’ Association in its objections to the draft Act had stated that the creation of a rent authority and rent court to be presided over by an executive officer was in contravention of the already existing procedure and adjudication of litigation. The proposed Act stipulates: “Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, in the areas to which this Act extends, only the rent court and no civil court shall have jurisdiction, to hear and decide the applications relating to disputes between landowner and tenant.” The proposals are prospective in nature and will cover tenancy agreements that have taken place after its implementation. To Let Does Chandigarh need a rent authority? The UT Administration has sent the draft Tenancy Act 2020 to the Centre for approval. Does Chandigarh need a rent authority? Send your responses with your photograph to Chandigarh@hindustantimes.com by November 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ht-chandigarh-our-take-a-tenancy-authority-for-chandigarh/story-FBNDWfCd1gJLIY6eaK0iDL.html
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||Roundabout: Love beneath the gentle shade of the chameli||Turning the 225 pages of the mint-fresh anthology of Great Indian Love Poems, I wonder where I should begin. The enticing flowery jacket of this collection described as a ‘ratnakosha’ has many delights to offer from ancient times to the present. Flipping the pages back and forth, my eyes suddenly stop at a poem, titled The Saviours, and heart and memory fill with soft fragrance. Exquisitely translated from Urdu into English by Pritish Nandy, it is the eternal romantic poem by the people’s poet Makhdoom Mohiuddin (1908-1969), a Marxist activist rebelling against the nizam of the erstwhile state of Hyderabad. Yes, the same poet whom late Irfaan Khan played with elan, I recall, while reading this translation by Nandy a long time ago probably in The Illustrated Weekly of India. But right now the original lyrics fill the senses: Ik chameli ke mandve tale. Maikade se zara door uss modh par, Do badan pyar ki aag mein jal gaye, Ik chameli ke mandve tale (Under the gentle shade of the chameli, at the crossing just beyond the tavern, the two of them, they were consumed by the fire of love).And so in the trance of the four-letter word one moves from one verse to the other put together with care by Abhay K (40). He has already brought out eight volumes of verse, a memoir and had earlier edited an anthology of Great Indian Poems, gleaned from different languages, once again by Bloomsbury. Talking about the recent labour of love, he says: “What makes Indian love poems different and unique from love poems written in other countries and civilisations? Blurring of boundaries of devotional and sensual love is one of the key dimensions of Indian love poetry where divine love transcends sensual love”. Elaborating on this thought, he quotes a verse by Akka Mahadevi, the 12th century poet of Kannada, who expresses love thus: “I am on fire with heartfelt desires, Lord cut through the greed in my heart, show your way out, Lord, white as jasmine”.Indian love poetry is indeed scented with chameli, motia, gulab and many other flowers, seasons, plants and pigments, mountains and rivers, the moon and the stars, winds and rain, thus making it a very part of nature and creation from where it stems. Interestingly, the poems written in Sanskrit outnumber the poems written in all the other languages of the subcontinent. And erotica and love are at their best is to be found in the Sanskrit poems. Kalidasa of the Meghdoot fame is one of the greatest apostles of love that ranges from the physical to the spiritual and Abhay translates his few delicious lines, thus: Craving sweet nectar, you kissed a freshly bloomed mango bud once, could you forget her bee, burying yourself in a lotus?The range of this anthology covers many centuries, many languages, many poets: all strung together in the beads of love. Many cherished poems spring out like flowers from the pages as sweet remembrance or a tug at the heart, be it Punjabi poet Amrita Pritam’s final love poem to her lover Imroz: I will meet you yet again. One of Kamla Das’s creations too finds its place in the anthology, in which she describes love as a losing battle: How can my love hold him when the other, Flaunts a gaudy lust and its lioness, To his beast? Men are worthless, to trap them, Use the cheapest bait of all but never Love, which in a woman must mean tears, And a silence in the blood.A large number of poems by contemporary poets are included in the volume and many of them for very good reading, more so in times when love is often lost in the hubbub of much else. The well-known poets in this section include Arvind Krishna Mehrotra, Ranjit Hoskote, AJ Thomas, Sudeep Sen, Nabina Das, Mamang Dai, Rochelle Potkar and Arundhathi Subramniam, of course, who says in her delightful poem Shorthand: The body speaks shorthand, coded yet blazingly simple, To hold each other all night, is all we want, and still we sit apart, tell stories, not trusting the only art, that matters right now — stenography.In shorthand: Here is a book which one would like to linger over slowly taking one poem at a time and savour the different textures, words and thoughts that lead to the many-splendoured thing called love. Of course, the summing up is done by the ghazal of the inimitable Mirza Ghalib, Hazaron khwaishein aisi: Thousands of desires, each one could have emptied my breath, So many of my wishes came through but in the end, so few!nirudutt@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/roundabout-love-beneath-the-gentle-shade-of-the-chameli/story-dxbTfBJ8jdjPuuDtBtRZXN.html
22-11-2020||Delhi||Door-to-door survey: Volunteers complain of residents misbehaving, RWAs say they weren’t consulted||Several volunteers carrying out the door-to-door Covid-19 survey in Delhi on Saturday said residents in a few localities “misbehaved” with them and did not answer their queries, prompting residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) to say that there was a lack of awareness about the survey and many volunteers were not carrying any identity proof or authorisation.The Delhi government on Friday started the door-to-door survey to screen people for Covid-19, encourage more testing, and to ascertain the number of high-risk individuals. The survey is expected to cover around 5.8 million people – more than one-fourth of Delhi’s total population of around 20 million.Also Read | ‘Covid-19 biggest challenge since World War 2’: PM Modi at G20 summitOn Day 2, the survey work was hit as volunteers faced problems of cooperation and mistrust. A volunteer, requesting anonymity, said residents of Greater Kailash-1 (GK-1) asked for proof that she was part of the survey -- she said she was not allowed to enter several households. “The government has not issued any identity card or document proof for the survey work. We were asked to produce one before entering any block but we could not. We had to complete 30 households on Tuesday but because of resistance from residents we could cover only 10 by 4pm,” she said.Around 9,500 teams of health officials and civic agency employees, other government employees, civil defence volunteers (CDVs), home guards, and government school teachers, are conducting the survey. Rajiv Kakria, member, RWA in GK-1, said, “How would anyone let a stranger in or respond to their queries relating to family details and medical history without them showing any identity proof or authorisation letter? I got calls from residents about the activity happening in the area. I then contacted a few government officials who assured us that the survey was government approved. It took a lot of time to resolve the issue.”But in south Delhi’s Navjeevan Vihar, the local RWA said it had received a communication from the district magistrate’s office regarding the survey a day before and they circulated the message to all residents. “We have requested the DM’s office to issue a letter or some form of ID to volunteers,” said Ruby Makhija, secretary, Navjeevan Vihar RWA. District officials, however, said they are involving resident bodies. A senior district official said, “On, Thursday SDMs held a video conferencing with the prominent RWAs, requesting their cooperation.”Sunil Kumar, a government school teacher conducting the survey work in localities around Rajauri Garden, said that the process went smooth for him on Saturday. “I did not encounter any misbehaviour. There are some people who are not cooperating but we are trying to convince them. The process would be smoother if we had some authorisation document with us,” he said. “The survey is going smoothly. We are monitoring day-to-day developments. We have sought cooperation from RWAs and other stakeholders and the response has been good,” said Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/door-to-door-survey-volunteers-complain-of-residents-misbehaving-rwas-say-they-weren-t-consulted/story-wUqVHeddrzIQNnuVaTaN6J.html
22-11-2020||Mumbai||Comedian Bharti Singh arrested by NCB, agency says she and her husband accepted consumption of cannabis||Comedian Bharti Singh was on Saturday arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) after being questioned by the agrncy in connection with drug-related probe.The agency said that 86.5 grammes of cannabis was recovered from Singh’s house when NCB sleuths conducted raid there. “Both Bharti and her husband Harsh Limbachiya accepted consumption of Ganja. While Bharti Singh has been arrested, the examination of Harsh Limbachiya is underway,” news agncy ANI quoted NCB officials as saying.The couple was question by the NCB on Saturday. A raid was conducted at her house in Mumbai by the NCB.Also Watch | Bollywood drugs case: Comedian Bharti Singh, husband at NCB office for quizzing The search was conducted as part of the ongoing probe by the NCB into alleged drug use in the entertainment industry, an official of the agency had said.Singh has appeared in many comedy and reality shows on TV. She has also hosted a few such shows.This is the latest in a series of raids conducted at residences of big names associated with Bollywood. Actor Arjun Rampal and film producer Firoz Nadiadwala were also raided by the agency earlier this month in connection with a drugs probe.The NCB launched an investigation into the consumption and possession of drugs by people in the Hindi film industry after it received official communication from the Enforcement Directorate (ED), in which there were various chats related to drug consumption, procurement, usage and transportation in connection with actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death.Rhea Chakraborty, Rajput’s girlfriend, was arrested on September 9 and subsequently released on bail by the bureau after she spent nearly a month in jail on charges of procuring drugs for him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ncb-arrests-comedian-bharti-singh-and-husband-after-couple-found-in-possession-of-cannabis/story-IGxhkAoySyosAWUgahT9ZJ.html
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chitkara University hosts leadership talk on Atmanirbhar Bharat||Eminent experts from the industry and government participated in a leadership talk on the theme ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ at Chitkara University on Saturday.The leadership talk was an outcome of Chitkara University’s focus on nation-building through knowledge dissemination in the backdrop of the Prime Minister’s nationwide call for building a self-reliant (atmanirbhar) nation.Top industry leaders were invited to lay out challenges and share a potential roadmap for creating a self-sufficient nation with respect to industrial output, skill enablement, and service sector growth. In the ‘leadership panel discussion’ leaders lay out challenges, opportunities and transformation, which they had envisaged and were already taking place. The panel also touched upon economic packages, and rules and policies rolled out to help people become self-reliant.  Representatives from diverse fields such as infrastructure, automobile, service sectors, industry associations and the ministry of electronics and information were part of the panel, which included Kone Elevator India Pvt Ltd managing director Amit Gossain, Sales, Smart Infrastructure, Siemens India vice-president AS Subramaniyan, Hyundai Motor India Ltd director Dr Ganesh Mani, Fuji Electric India Pvt Ltd managing director Sriram Ramakrishnan, NASSCOM Centre of Excellence (CoE) chief executive officer Sanjeev Malhotra, Meher Group managing director Mustafa Wajid, and ministry of electronics and information technology senior director Ajai Gaur. Panel members agreed that Atmanirbhar Bharat was a sure-shot game changer and will bring innumerable opportunities for both industries and citizens. The initiative will have far-reaching consequences on the higher education and skill development sectors, which were ripe with possibilities . University chancellor Ashok Chitkara said, “When India speaks of becoming self-reliant, it doesn’t advocate a self-centred system. In India’s self-reliance, there is a concern for the whole world’s happiness, cooperation and peace.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chitkara-university-hosts-leadership-talk-on-atmanirbhar-bharat/story-EdQ3aos8VyaHJAQm6njppO.html
22-11-2020||Gurugram||Man who jumped parole two years ago caught while visiting parents||A 36-year-old man who was convicted in two robberies and snatching cases, was arrested two years after he jumped parole, said Bhondsi prison officials.They identified the man by his first name as Sameer, a resident of Hathin in Palwal district of Haryana. Officials said they received information that he would be visiting his parents’ home there for two days, following which a team from Bhondsi jail arrived and arrested him on Tuesday.Harinder Singh, superintendent of Bhondsi jail, said that Sameer was sentenced to 10 years in prison by a district court in 2009. He was granted parole of four weeks in August 2018 and had to report back in September 2018. “We have informed the police and they are investigating whether he committed more crimes during his parole,” he said.Singh said Sameer was involved in 17 cases of robbery, snatching, attempt to murder, Arms Act and theft at Alwar in Rajasthan, Rewari, Nuh and in eight police stations of Gurugram. He and his gang would target areas such as Sector 29, Sector 40, DLF Phase 2, Sohna Road and Civil Lines.Officials said this was the first time in Haryana that jail authorities arrested an absconding inmate despite a case being registered at a police station after an inmate failed to honour their parole condition. Sameer was booked under was Section 224 (resistance or obstruction by a person to his lawful apprehension) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sohna police station.Singh said they had sent teams in plainclothes to Palwal on Tuesday. “He was sitting with his family when the team reached his home. He tried to flee but was caught by Mohammad Sazeed, deputy superintendent, and Shiv Kumar, assistant superintendent of prisons. The family members tried to help him but we had managed to get them off,” he said.Parole is the conditional release of prisoners before they complete their sentence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/man-who-jumped-parole-two-years-ago-caught-while-visiting-parents/story-5BonUyKXQpFmbkfSWgIGgP.html
22-11-2020||Delhi||Man held with 6.29 kg gold bars at New Delhi railway station||A 37-year-old man at the New Delhi railway station was arrested after he was found with around 6.29 kg gold bars, which he had hidden in a concealed pouch of his jacket, Delhi police said on Friday. Deputy commissioner of police (railways) Harendra Singh said the gold, which had the marking of IPMR, Gulf Gold Refinery and Valcambi Suisee (Switzerland), has been confiscated.The officer said that on Thursday, a police team was patrolling on platform 16 at the New Delhi Railway Station when police noticed a passenger behaving suspiciously. The Howrah Rajdhani Express train had just arrived then at around 10 am. “Police stopped him for questioning. He was found in possession of gold bars. Officers from customs were called to the spot and after a thorough search as per procedure, it revealed he was carrying gold bars in cloth pouches specially made in the inner jacket and the cloth belt. The confiscated gold had the marking of IPMR, Gulf Gold Refinery and Valcambi Suisee (Switzerland).”Police identified the man as Pravin Kumar Ambalal Khandelwal, a resident of Bhayandar in Maharashtra. Police said Khandelwal confessed he had received the gold from his accomplice in Kolkata and had boarded the train from Asansol, West Bengal. “He had to deliver the gold to the jewellers in Mumbai. To avoid detection at the airports, train was used us a mode of transport and to avoid metal detectors, Howrah Station was avoided,” Singh said adding the customs is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-held-with-6-29-kg-gold-bars-at-new-delhi-railway-station/story-7CKo0K50TrgELpZzNH22sO.html
